the president of dartmouth college on monday accused the review, a conservative off-campus weekly newspaper, of ``poisoning the intellectual environment of our campus.''
what the review has done on this campus has not been decent. what it has done has been irresponsible, mean-spirited, cruel and ugly,'' president james freedman said at a faculty meeting
he called staff members of the independent newspaper ``ideological provocateurs posing as journalists.''
chris whitman, editor of the review, did not immediately return a message for comment
the review has been at the center of controversy since it was founded in 1980
it has been attacked as anti-minority, anti-women and anti-homosexual and has been championed by such conservatives as william f. buckley jr. and former white house communications chief patrick buchanan
freedman's public criticism of the review, the strongest to date by any high-ranking dartmouth official, came weeks after three review staffers were suspended and a fourth was put on probation for their role in an angry confrontation with a black professor described by the review as incompetent
the college also announced monday that dean edward shanahan had denied the students' request for reconsideration of their cases
in addtion, review staffers in 1986 were involved in a nighttime sledgehammer attack on symbolic anti-apartheid shanties on the college green
freedman, who left the university of iowa to become president of the ivy league school eight months ago, said: ``it is time for me to speak out ... because i now see that the review is dangerously affecting _ in fact, poisoning _ the intellectual environment of our campus.''
the college, freedman added, ``must not stand by silently when a newspaper maliciously engages in bullying tactics that seem virtually designed to have the effect of discouraging women and members of minority groups from joining our faculty or enrolling as students.''
the college charged that the review has referred to homosexuals as ``fairies'' and written that ``some negroes prefer being slaves.''
freedman disputed claims that the review is under attack because it is politically conservative, and he insisted that issues posed by the review have ``nothing whatsoever to do with freedom of expression.''
he said that the review represents ``a perversely provocative style of journalism that vulgarizes responsible conservative thought and is, in fact, an affront to it.'' fear</head>
a chinese immigrant was sentenced monday to a year in prison for acting as the middleman in a missile-smuggling plot involving a high-ranking member of the chinese mission to the united nations
shang-yao chi, 65, pleaded guilty dec. 10 to conspiring to illegally export 10 tow ii missiles to china
defense attorney alan zegas said chi went along with the plot out of fear that his brother, an anti-communist like chi, would be harmed while in a chinese prison
chi was arrested in a customs service sting operation and charged with being a middleman between a government informant and the u.n. diplomat, who has since left the country, prosecutors said
u.s. district judge dickinson r. debevoise could have sentenced chi to five years in prison. but he gave a the year-and-a-day sentence because of what the government called his ``exemplary'' cooperation in the investigation
the u.s. government has taken no diplomatic action against mission officials, and the chinese government has denied any involvement in the plot
chi was born in china and lived in nationalist taiwan for 30 years before joining his daughter in new york city in 1979, zegas said. chi's father was killed during the cultural revolution by chinese authorities, the lawyer said
zegas said chi's brother was imprisoned because of his anti-communist sympathies. ``if (chi) didn't go through with the plan, he felt his brother would be murdered,'' zegas said after sentencing
a federal judge monday barred the boys clubs of america from adding ``and girls'' to its name pending the outcome of a lawsuit by the girls clubs of america
the girls clubs of america filed a trademark-infringement suit last month to prevent the boys clubs organization from renaming itself the boys and girls clubs of america
the boys clubs has said that the organization has about 300,000 girls among it 1.3 million members, and their parents are demanding the name change
u.s. district judge kenneth conboy granted the girls clubs of america request to block the national organization from changing its name for now, but he refused to issue a similar order against local boys club groups
margaret gates, national executive director of the girls clubs of america, said the girls clubs' identity and fund-raising are threatened by the boys clubs' name-change
she said monday that she was pleased with conboy's ruling but that local girls clubs will be encouraged to sue if the local boys clubs in their areas change their name
ms. gatessaid the girls clubs of america serves about 250,000 girls, and about 40,000 boys participate in its activities. update with scene inside hotel; subs 12th graf, ``the other ... with 2 grafs to update with nationalities of reporters, identities of detained opposition leaders, correct spelling to pintada, sted pintana; edits thruout to tighten.</note>
soldiers firing into the air burst into the capital's leading hotel and detained opposition leaders and foreign journalists after an anti-government demonstration was smashed by authorities
the military confiscated the film of foreign television crews at the marriott hotel, which has been used for weeks as an informal headquarters by reporters and leaders of the national civic crusade
opposition spokesmen said nearly 20 of their leaders were detained. eight foreign journalists, including richard cole of the associated press, were taken away and held for about three hours
the civic crusade, a leading anti-government coalition, staged the afternoon protest march in an attempt to force the ouster of panama's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega. five leaders of the march were arrested
the violence monday coincided with the beginning of the second week of a general strike that has closed down an estimated 90 percent of panama's industry and commerce
gunmen dressed in civilian clothes but believed to be members of the defense forces's state security force, and helmeted soldiers carrying assault rifles, swept into the marriott about three hours after the demonstration was put down
directors of the civic crusade had just begun a meeting in an office on the mezzanine floor when police and soldiers charged into the lobby, firing handguns and rifles into the air
the opposition leaders dashed toward elevators and stairways. but many were caught by the raiders, who sealed off the lobby and searched the building floor by floor
the soldiers then forced their way into temporary offices of nbc, cbs, abc and cnn, among others. they ordered employees out of the suites at gunpoint and searched the rooms, confiscating film of the earlier demonstration and other equipment
a police officer on the scene who declined to identify himself said about 40 people were taken away, including local and foreign journalists
cole, a reporter from the ap's miami bureau, and the seven other foreign reporters were released unharmed
we went there (to the hotel) to neutralize the crusade's center of operations,'' maj. felipe camargo later told cole and the other detained journalists
among the crusade leaders arrested was aurelio barria, owner of an import-export firm who helped found the movement 10 months ago. also taken were raul mendez and manuel burgos, both well-known opposition figures
the other detained foreign reporters were thomas haley, a u.s. photographer for a french photo agency; j.b. diedrich, a miami-based photographer for an independent u.s. photo agency; and five mexicans, abdiel vivancos of abc, alfredo gudinno of nbc, maria cortina of radio mexicana and jose manuel pintada and eduardo herrera of spanish television
cole said the reporters were packed in police vans and taken to state security headquarters. there, he said, authorities searched and interrogated them, photocopied their documents and notes and told to line up facing a wall
later the reporters were transferred to a baseball field where about 40 other people, at least two of whom appeared to have been beaten, were being processed by army officials
the foreign reporters were then separated from the other detainees and camargo told them their arrest was a mistake. they were set free
ed rabel, an nbc correspondent, said seven panamanian employees of the network were among those taken into custody
horst sicher, the manager of the hotel, said he had no notice of the raid
frankly, i can't do anything about it,'' he said, watching with chagrin as soldiers in combat gear rushed through his establishment
minutes after the assault, phone service at the hotel was cut
earlier monday, a crowd of about 10,000 cheering, singing anti-government demonstrators marched toward the central business district, ignoring an order to disperse. they had moved about half a mile when soldiers suddenly attacked
a water cannon sped through the line of march spraying people with a choking mixture of water and chemicals
behind the truck charged police and soldiers firing birdshot and beating people with 18-inch truncheons
reporters saw several people hit by shotgun pellets and at least two people trampled in the rush to escape police and soldiers. there was no official account of injuries or arrests from the demonstration, one of the largest in months
jose faundes, secretary of the panamanian human rights commission, identified the five detained march leaders as carlos gonzalez de la lastra, alberto aleman, roberto aleman, roberto roy and frank maurice
the united states has called for noriega's ouster since he was indicted in florida in february on drug-trafficking charges. the defense forces chief has said he is innocent
the reagan administration has also imposed economic sanctions on panama and supported efforts by former president eric arturo delvalle to freeze panama's deposits in u.s. banks
the cash-short government on monday paid its lowest-paid retired public servants living in panama city and colon, those whose semi-monthly pension benefits come to $150 or less
those living in other cities and other retirees were told they would be paid later in the week. there was no official estimate of how many got paid monday
banks were closed on march 3 after a run on deposits triggered by the dismissal of delvalle by the national assembly, dominated by noriega supporters. and recast. pick up 5th graf pvs, `such as ...'</note>
passengers apparently panicked at the sight of flames on the wing of a northwest airlines jet and evacuated the plane without waiting for instructions from the crew, officials said monday
the plane did not actually catch fire sunday night, but the incident closed detroit metropolitan airport for 20 minutes, and four passengers were hurt sliding down the emergency chutes, authorities said
i think the unfortunate thing here is that the passengers in confusion initiated the escape exit without being ordered to do so by the captain,'' faa administrator t. allan mcartor said. ``and of course we'd like to see that the captain be able to call the shots in this regard.''
the plane was carrying 144 passengers and seven crew members from san diego, calif
it appears at this time that it was a spontaneous evacuation (by passengers) at the time of the flash,'' said northwest william wren
wren described the fire as a flash caused by residual fuel. it occurred in the right wing and probably lasted only a second or less, he said. the plane returned to service monday, he added
such a flareup is not unheard of, and ``it's not as dangerous as one might think if handled properly,'' said mcartor, who happened to be in detroit on monday for a speech
wren said northwest had not interviewed crew members but that the passengers, rather than the crew, apparentlty initiated the evacuation
that needs to be the call of the captain,'' mcartor said. ``we simply would like the crew to be able to initiate that sequence of events.''
naturally we would like to find out more about this,'' he said
faa spokesman mort edelstein said the pilot was alerted about the flareup and triggered an automatic device that extinguished the flash
a 64-year-old woman whose name was not released was listed in good condition monday at william beaumont hospital in royal oak, suffering from trauma and knee and elbow injuries
the other injured passengers were treated at another hospital for cuts and bruises and released
passenger mike young of toledo said he popped open an emergency exit as panic spread through the plane, and he and his wife climbed onto the wing
we thought about jumping, but when the flames died down, we thought it might be too dangerous,'' young said
other passengers said flight attendants jumped up to help with the evacuation. ``they helped calm everyone down,'' carolyn reinhardt of marlton, n.j., told the news of detroit
three prison escapees including a triple murderer were captured sunday night in a stolen car after four days of freedom in which they found a gun and allegedly committed a robbery, authorities say
no one was injured when the car in which the three were riding was surrounded by law enforcement officers outside this town, said mason county sheriff's lt. howard armsfield. he said a handgun was stuffed under the seat of the car
the three escaped wednesday night from the washington corrections center in shelton, about 15 miles northwest of olympia in western washington, authorities said
they apparently had been hiding in a shed near a home about three miles from the prison, armsfield said
armed with a gun they found in the shed, the three confronted the people who lived in the house on sunday afternoon, robbed them of a few dollars and stole their auto, he said
armsfield said he did not have additional details of the robbery. mason county sheriff bob holter said earlier he believed the residents were unharmed
the convicts first drove off in a pickup truck, and abandoned it and another stolen car before seizing the car in which they were captured, armsfield said
one of the escapees, sean stevenson, 17, was convicted of murdering his mother, stepfather and sister. he went to prison june 20 on a sentence of life without possibility of parole
with him were gary curtis van winkle, 17, convicted of attempted murder and burglary, and patrick j. rice, 23, convicted of 10 counts of second-degree burglary and one count of taking a motor vehicle without permission
the three escaped after apparently scaling a chain link fence topped with three feet of razor-sharp ``ribbon wire'' at a point close to an unoccupied prison guard tower, said corrections department spokeswoman barbara lovelace. flash, sted fire, other details; no pickup.</note>
a northwest airlines jet was evacuated sunday night when residual fuel vapors briefly ignited, causing what witnesses thought to be a fire, authorities said
four passengers were injured slightly while evacuating the boeing 727 jetliner shortly after it landed at 8:20 p.m., and the incident forced the airport to close for about 20 minutes, according to northwest and airport spokesmen
flight 288, originating in san diego, calif., with 144 passengers and seven crew members aboard, landed routinely at metropolitan airport, northwest spokesman william wren said
residual fuel in the exhaust system of the auxiliary power unit produced a flash that caused evacuation of the aircraft as the aircraft awaited clearance to taxi to the terminal,'' wren said in a prepared statement
the flash was sighted at the plane's right wing, where the residual fuel is exhausted, wren said
mort edelstein, a spokesman for the federal aviation administration in chicago, said the flash was sighted by a controller in the airport tower, passengers aboard flight 288 and by people aboard another plane taxiing behind the northwest aircraft
the pilot of flight 288 was alerted and triggered an automatic device that extinguished the flash, edelstein said. by that time, he said, the plane had been evacuated and airport firefighters were summoned
but, edelstein said, ``by the time the fire department got there, there was no visible evidence of a fire.'' an initial faa examination of the plane revealed no burned parts or other signs of an actual fire, he said
the auxiliary power unit runs the aircraft's electrical, air conditioning and other systems while it is on the ground and operates separately from the engines, wren said
the four injured passengers were treated at annapolis hospital, mainly for cuts and bruises suffered while sliding down evacuation chutes, nursing supervisor barbara morrow said
dallas'' star larry hagman says that 10 years after the television series began, double-dealing oilman j.r. ewing still has a few years of treachery and lechery left
i would have thought by now `dallas' would have petered out somewhat. but i hope we get a couple more years out of it,'' hagman said in an article in this week's people magazine
i know a lot of tv actors get trapped in a hit show,'' said hagman, who first brought j.r. to life april 2, 1978, on cbs-tv. ``maybe i'm lazy, but i'm happy doing what i'm doing
but hagman, 56, said even j.r. can't live forever
sooner or later `dallas will ride off into the sunset, just like everything else. but whatever happens, i know what i want on j.r.'s tombstone. it should say: `here lies upright citizen j.r. ewing. this is the only deal he ever lost.'''
bernice a. king, daughter of slain civil rights leader martin luther king jr., has become the first of the third generation of kings licensed to preach at ebenezer baptist church
it almost makes you believe preaching is hereditary,'' said atlanta mayor andrew young, a congregational minister who worked with her father. ``so many of her mannerisms and so much of her style is so much like her daddy, it was a very emotional occasion for me.''
miss king's grandfather, the rev. martin luther king sr., was pastor of ebenezer for 44 years until his death in 1984. her grandmother, alberta williams king, was church organist until she was shot to death at the keyboard june 30, 1974
her father was associate pastor until he was assassinated in 1968. his funeral was at ebenezer
after her sermon sunday, which used the story of zaccheus to exhort the congregation to rise above the crowd, miss king, 25, was awarded a license to preach by ebenezer pastor joseph roberts
when she completes her five-year study program at emory university and is called to a particular ministry, miss king will be ordained as a minister and may perform all the sacraments of the church
opera star beverly sills says she became involved with the march of dimes after her own children suffered from birth defects and she wondered ``why them?''
in order to make progress we had to ask, `why them?''' ms. sills, who chairs the march of dimes' 50th anniversary celebration, told a nashville newspaper
ms. sills, now general director of the new york city opera, said in the sunday edition of the tennessean that she and her husband, peter greenough, never asked ``why me?''
`why me?' is a lot of self-pity. `why them?' is a genuine desire to see that it doesn't happen to others. it helps you concentrate and move on,'' she said
the couple's daughter, meredith greenough, 28, is deaf, and son, peter greenough jr., 26, is autistic, retarded and epileptic
steven tyler, lead singer for the rock group aerosmith, says he never realized his life would reflect his 1973 song lyrics: ``you got to lose to win.''
i didn't even know what i was writing at the time,'' tyler said of the song ``dream on'' in a newspaper interview published sunday
but it's true, you have to get on the bottom to appreciate what you've got,'' tyler told the tennessean
in the 1973 hit song, tyler sang:
i know nobody knows
where it comes or where it goes
i know everybody says
you got to lose to win.''
aerosmith's 1975 album ``toys in the attic'' sold four million copies and singles including ``walk this way'' and ``sweet emotion'' were hits. but the band's success led to a downward spiral that began with drugs and led to the group's disintegration, tyler said
the five original members reunited in 1984, and this year they staged a comeback with ``dude (looks like a lady)'' and three other top 10 singles on their ``permanent vacation'' album
billy carter, the outspoken younger brother of former president jimmy carter, says he has returned to religion and hasn't had a beer since 1979
carter, 51, was diagnosed in september as having pancreatic cancer, a disease fatal to more than 95 percent of its victims. his sister ruth and his father both died of pancreatic cancer
but carter remains hopeful after a bile-duct operation at emory university in atlanta and six weeks of radiation and chemotherapy
we'll know in a couple of months,'' he told people magazine in an article published this week. ``whatever is going to come is going to come.''
in the meantime, he spends his days at his home in plains, ga., and has resolved to just ``live a normal life and do what i want to do.'' he plays scrabble with his wife and bones up on the world almanac ``so my children will think i'm smart.''
lawmakers from areas where japanese imports threaten to cut into jobs are coming down with a case of the blue-collar blues over changes they say will water down their sweeping trade bill
i don't see why we should be pulling all the teeth out of our bill out of fear of a presidential veto,'' says rep. donald j. pease, d-ohio
the concerns are surfacing as a house-senate conference committee prepares to meet tuesday to begin thrashing out what lawmakers are calling the ``cosmic issues'' still remaining in the debate, such as retaliation against foreign trade barriers
the conference committee is seeking to reach a compromise between rival house and senate versions of the 1,000-page trade bill, a massive attempt to solve a massive problem _ record u.s. trade deficits and related layoffs in some u.s. industries
president reagan's repeated veto threats are raising anxieties on capitol hill and may have prompted efforts by senate conferees to tone down the measure in hope of winning administration support
some of the most stringent provisions, such as democratic presidential hopeful richard a. gephardt's plan for retaliation if japanese trade surpluses don't fall 10 percent per year, have long been opposed by the administration
reagan says they could lead to counterattacks on american farm goods and other exports, cost more jobs than they would save and hurt consumers by narrowing the choice of goods on the shelf and raising prices
some lawmakers from the nation's hard-hit heavy industrial belt, however, say senate attempts to minimize reagan's objections could throw away the best of a three-year effort to produce ``tough trade legislation.''
the conference on the trade bill is like a diet coke when you take away the sugar and you take away the caffeine and all you have left is the bubbles,'' says rep. frank guarini, d-n.j., a house conferee
i think the president and his people are not fools,'' says pease, also a conferee. ``they know that trade deficits are very large. they know that trade is a political issue this year, so i think the president is likely to sign a trade bill that we send him this year. he may grumble but he'll sign it.''
guarini points to a plan he devised under which the government would step up monitoring to find out what foreign companies are ``dumping'' products in the u.s. market at prices slashed below those charged to consumers at home. the practice is illegal under the general agreement on tariffs and trade
both house and senate versions of the bill contained a monitoring provision, but the latest senate proposal would wipe them both out
that's a strange way to compromise,'' says guarini
pease is smarting from a senate move to strike provisions designed to expand the definition of unfair trade practices by including such issues as foreign companies' and governments' denial of collective bargaining rights to their industrial workers
pease is especially concerned that the senate proposal would wipe out some causes of retaliatory action already appearing in u.s. trade law, among them denial of market access to american companies
other house conferees grumbling over the possibility of diluting the bill include reps. marty russo, d-ill., and ed jenkins, d-ga., the latter an outspoken champion of the hard-hit textile industry
senate finance committee members who drew up the proposals are understandably impatient with these complaints
we're trying to write a bill that's in the 20th century,'' says sen. max baucus, d-mont., ``we don't want a petrified bill stuck in the past.''
itemizing every possible unfair trade practice merely runs the risk of leaving something out and then having it used against american companies, baucus says. the problem of repeat dumping offenders is taken care of by other provisions of the bill, he adds
over the last few weeks, house and senate conferees have not been meeting face to face but instead communicating through messages sent back and forth between the two wings of the capitol
the meeting tuesday will be the first in-person confrontation and because of the friction between the two sides, it almost certainly will take place behind closed doors
we're getting down to the cosmic issues,'' rep. william frenzel, r-minn., told reporters. ``we have to do that face to face.'' nominee</head>
jesse jackson's win in michigan has sent a message to the democratic party that it can no longer ignore _ at the rate he's going, jackson just might wind up as its presidential nominee this fall
political analysts say jackson's almost 2-1 victory over erstwhile front-runner michael dukakis in saturday's michigan caucuses is a clear signal that the preacher-turned-politician is a very viable contender for the nomination
jackson, treated as an also-ran in 1984, has won in eight states so far this year _ michigan, alabama, georgia, louisiana, mississippi, virginia, south carolina, alaska _ and in puerto rico's non-binding contest
the string of victories is forcing the party to re-examine the theory that a black cannot be nominated for president in 1988
the democratic voters are sending a very strong message to the party,'' said ann lewis, a democratic strategist and informal adviser to the jackson campaign. ``the quality of leadership is something they like and admire. this is a referendum on him and a referendum he's winning.''
the campaign-watchers also said the michigan win could translate into victories in other high-stakes contests, including the new york primary on april 19
i don't believe dukakis can stop him,'' said david garth, a new york media consultant who is working for tennessee sen. albert gore jr.'s campaign, ``unless something different happens.''
new york, which has 255 delegates at stake, represents a serious challenge for dukakis, who has failed in the major industrial states of illinois and michigan
the stakes could not be more critical,'' said paul maslin, pollster for illinois sen. paul simon's campaign. ``he can't just finish second to jesse jackson. he can't say i'm the leading white candidate. it's not going to work this year
dukakis has got to win big to even say `this is the guy the party wants,''' garth said
a new york daily news poll published sunday showed dukakis favored by 45 percent of the 528 democrats surveyed to 29 percent for jackson. the poll, conducted between monday, march 21 and thursday, march 24, had a margin for error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points
however, new york gov. mario cuomo has said that if two or three candidates are left in the democratic race prior to the primary, jackson has a chance of winning
a poll by the marist college institute for public opinion found that 57 percent of 459 democratic voters surveyed in new york earlier this month gave jackson a favorable rating, to 30 percent unfavorable. in a survey by the same group in january, only 44 percent had given jackson a favorable rating while 41 percent rated him unfavorably
new york is a fairly volatile state,'' garth said. he noted thatg the state has a large jewish vote, a group that has been skeptical of jackson in the past
in the most recent marist college survey, 36 percent of the jewish voters gave jackson a favorable rating, an increase from 17 percent in january. forty-three percent gave jackson an unfavorable rating compared to 62 percent in january. the results had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
the numbers suggest jackson is mending fences with jews whom he offended in 1984
there are still some in the political establishment who think 1988 is an inevitable replay of 1984,'' ms. lewis said. but, she added, ``the day after michigan a new world has dawned.''
one aspect of supreme court justice anthony m. kennedy's past that senate investigators apparently missed was his high school absenteeism
kennedy, who joined the court feb. 18, ``confessed'' while discussing his childhood in sacramento, calif., during a recent interview with the court's ``docket sheet'' publication
my dad was a lawyer, a great lawyer and i wanted to follow him,'' the justice said. ``he was a sole practitioner and he used to take me with him to hear him try his cases. he didn't think school was very important; he would take me
even in high school, he'd say, `we have to go now, we're going for two weeks for a trial.' i would just leave school because he would insist that i go with him. i probably saw 10 trials before i was ever out of high school. i loved it.''
no word in yet on kennedy's truancy as a stanford undergraduate or as a harvard law student
efforts by the television networks to provide live coverage of the ceremony in which kennedy became the 104th justice in the court's history failed
despite allowing greater access to cameras in various public portions of the court building, and granting more on-camera interviews from their chambers than in past years, the justices apparently have drawn the line at the courtroom door
the court last week cited a lack of a quorum in refusing to kill a lawsuit stemming from an armed confrontation between indians and federal agents at wounded knee, s.d
four justices, including kennedy, disqualified themselves from the case, and the remaining five justices automatically upheld a lower court ruling that clears the way for a trial in which former federal and military officials are named as defendants
three members _ chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices antonin scalia and sandra day o'connor _ had disqualified themselves when the case was granted review, before kennedy joined the court. his disqualification came as something of a surprise
his office informed reporters that as a rule, kennedy will not explain such actions
during a recent question-and-answer session with george washington university law students, justice scalia proved a popular guest despite his reluctance to give substantive replies to several queries
asked why supreme court justices seem more hesitant to talk about substantive issues than lower court judges, scalia said justices are more likely to be quoted in the news media _ thus causing controversy
the nice thing about this job is i'm not running for anything,'' scalia added. ``there's nothing anybody can give me i don't already have.''
retired justice lewis f. powell, replaced by kennedy, has high praise for his successor
in a recent interview with the cleveland plain dealer, powell noted kennedy's long career as a federal appellate judge and added: ``i think he's better qualified than i am. i had none of that experience. that helps you tremendously here.''
powell was a longtime trial lawyer in richmond, va., before he joined the court in 1972
powell, although spending considerable time in richmond these days helping out the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals, still maintains an office in the supreme court's stately building on capitol hill
so does retired chief justice warren e. burger
but a little-noticed bill introduced in december by sen. patrick moynihan, d-n.y., would change that
the proposed legislation authorizes construction of a new judiciary building at the foot of capitol hill, on land currently used as a parking lot for senate employees
the building would house the administrative office of the u.s. courts, the federal judicial center, the judicial panel on multi-district litigation, the u.s. sentencing commission and offices for ``retired u.s. supreme court justices.''
the ``attack ads'' of super tuesday have given way to a gentler spring, but experts say the most pointed jabs of the presidential primary season will be back this fall _ with a new twist
history tells us that we're likely going to see democrats being quoted against the democratic nominee and republicans quoted against the republican nominee both in advertising and in speeches,'' says kathleen hall jamieson, author of two books on political campaigns and advertising. ``it's a classic move and this year both sides are vulnerable.''
the outbreak of tough television talk started in new hampshire, when sen. paul simon questioned rep. richard gephardt's consistency and vice president george bush dubbed senate gop leader bob dole ``senator straddle.''
the negativity was contagious. by super tuesday on march 8, almost all of the candidates had been both victims and perpetrators of attack ads by their intra-party rivals _ their determination to survive the 20 contests that day stronger than any long-term concerns about the fall
when the others keep attacking you and it's going to cost votes, there's no choice but to fire back and worry about the consequences at a later date,'' says dan payne, a media adviser to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
some people are lucky. bush's offhand remark in 1980 about ronald reagan's ``voodoo economics'' didn't keep him off the ticket and didn't keep the ticket from winning
but jamieson said that was because jimmy carter didn't use the remark effectively. ``it could have been much more damaging than it was, but the democrats didn't take advantage of it,'' she said
pre-convention squabbles have played a significant role in several recent elections. lyndon johnson, richard nixon and ronald reagan won in 1964, 1972 and 1980 at least partly because they reminded voters of what had been said about their opponents in contested primaries
in 1964, jamieson said, johnson reiterated the charges that george romney, nelson rockefeller and william scranton had made against barry goldwater. in 1972, nixon's most effective ads against george mcgovern ``simply repeated the attacks hubert humphrey made against mcgovern,'' she said
and in 1980, jamieson said, one reagan campaign ad showed sen. edward kennedy chanting something to the effect of ``no more high interest rates, no more high inflation, no more jimmy carter.''
it's an attractive strategy because it minimizes any backlash against the nominee. he can quote what others have said without going on the attack himself, remaining in more of what author stephen hess calls ``the presidential mode.''
once nominated, ``they want to be perceived more as statesmen than as politicians and it's less attractive to them to be in the mudslinging business,'' said hess, a senior fellow at the brookings institution and author of a book called ``the presidential campaign.''
thus nominee bush, if he felt so inclined, could undermine dukakis by citing gephardt's attacks on him as a tax-raiser and a city guy who thinks destitute farmers can get rich growing belgian endive
the democrats, for their part, have a wealth of material against bush, much of it compliments of dole and rep. jack kemp of new york. kemp went after the vice president on taxes and social security while dole ads questioned bush's leadership ability and his judgment in the iran-contra affair
the same issues also came up in debates. the democrats will have access to scenes of bush's pugnacious rivals demanding explanations of his iran-contra role and how he has distinguished himself in the past seven years
any front-runner right now that isn't collecting tapes of the debates is foolish. they're a gold mine,'' said jamieson
the ammunition provided by primary opponents can be especially useful in drawing disaffected voters who had supported someone other than their party nominee. ``it's a powerful reminder'' of what they initially disliked about the nominee and a strong inducement to cross party lines in the general election, jamieson said
there's no guarantee these tactics will work. if both sides point to what opponents said in a primary, the effect may be a wash. if the nominees borrow too liberally from the remarks of others, voters may end up confused by the cross fire
and then there are the tests of time and relevance. by the conventions this summer, will voters remember the dukakis campaign's 1987 ``attack video'' against sen. joseph biden? will they care about the gephardt ad accusing dukakis of smearing biden?
political analysts say it's unlikely. the high-water mark of negative advertising was probably reached on super tuesday and no one, they say, has come up with anything as potentially damaging as ``voodoo economics'' or ``where's the beef?'' walter mondale's 1984 question of gary hart
if it's not worse than voodoo economics, it probably doesn't hurt,'' said democratic consultant bob squier
squier and others pointed to the developing iran-contra situation as a bigger headache for bush than anything the democrats have said about each other thus far
and while it will be nice for the democrats to be able to quote dole, squier said they won't have to be nearly as circumspect
dole had to make his attack on a sitting vice president but he had to shoot around the president,'' he said. ``we democrats won't have that problem.''
sen. paul simon said all he expected in michigan's democratic presidential caucuses was a respectable showing
he got 2 percent. but aides put the best face on even that
they said the results, while far from what simon wanted, made his strategy of expending little effort in michigan and focusing on the wisconsin primary more important than ever
simon was saying after michigan what he's been saying for weeks now _ that the democratic race is so muddled that he's got as much right as anyone to hang in there
we're clearly headed toward a wide-open convention,'' simon said
jesse jackson's victory over massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in michigan increased simon's attractiveness as an alternative, said chris sautter, the illinois senator's wisconsin campaign coordinator
now, we're in a position where we can be considered a serious contender here,'' sautter said sunday. ``it underscores the whole idea of an open convention.''
simon acknowledges, though, that wisconsin's primary, a week from tuesday, is a key test
in a state like wisconsin, where politics is synonymous with the word `progressive,' we have the opportunity to communicate that the democrats don't have to settle for a weak alternative,'' campaign spokesman terry michael said. ``we need to make that case in wisconsin.''
what happens if simon loses?
we have to reassess at that point,'' michael said
even longtime supporters said simon must win in wisconsin or think seriously about abandoning his quest for the white house
the big questions are whether his campaign after wisconsin is credible and raising money,'' said rep. richard durbin, d-ill. ``if the answer to those two things is `yes,' he'll be pressing forward.''
simon's only victory so far was at home in the illinois primary
he has placed third, fourth or fifth in most other primaries and caucuses, sat out super tuesday races in 20 states and ranks fifth among five candidates in delegates to the democratic national convention in july
he's by no means out of it, and i'm sticking with him as long as he wants to stay in,'' said rep. lane evans, d-ill., voicing sentiments of aides speaking for reps. marcy kaptur, d-ohio, and stephen solarz, d-n.y
yet evans hedged when asked if he thinks simon still has a chance of becoming the democratic nominee
it's very hard to say what's going to happen,'' evans said. ``strange things happen occasionally at conventions.''
other allies, though, said they have counseled simon against hurting his chances for re-election to the senate by clinging to a hopeless cause
i think he will continue to look at it as long as he doesn't incur more debt,'' said sen. alan dixon, d-ill., one of those who urged simon to bypass the super tuesday states
`you don't want to have a big debt when you're looking at 1990,'' dixon said. ``i can't tell you what his present financial shape is. but it's hoped he can walk away from this thing pretty much as a wash.''
simon has repaid more than a half-million dollars' worth of bank loans and he expects to use 20 staff members and spend $100,000 for television advertising in the wisconsin campaign, spokesman michael said
california is in a broccoli race with other parts of the country where farmers seek crops more profitable than the traditional harvests of wheat, corn, cotton and soybeans
an agriculture department report by roberta cook of the university of california, davis, says cauliflower has joined broccoli as a favorite among the veggie expansionists
between 1978 and 1986, harvested acreage of broccoli increased by 90 percent, while the number of states producing for the fresh market grew from the traditional four (california, texas, oregon and arizona) to include new producers such as maine, north and south carolina, new york, illinois, virginia, oklahoma and colorado,'' she said
the expansion is explained by the rapidly growing popularity of fresh vegetables in the american diet and by the declining profitability of food and feed grains in the 1980s
unfortunately, the capacity of the fruit and vegetable industry to absorb the additional acreage is limited,'' ms. cook said
that is because there are more than 200 million acres in the united states used to produce grain, compared with only about 5 million acres of fruit and vegetables
consequently, while shifting 2.5 percent of grain acreage into fruits and vegetables would not solve the excess supply problem in grains, it would double fruit and vegetable acreage and devastate prices,'' she said. ``at the same time, other regions of the world, particularly mexico and the caribbean basin initiative countries are expanding vegetable exports to the united states.''
california remains the dominant broccoli producer, with its area increasing to 106,400 acres in 1986 from 64,400 in 1978. however, california's share of the total u.s. broccoli acreage declined from a high of 96 percent in 1979 to 82 percent in 1986
the california market share of broccoli production also dropped during the 1978-86 period from 96 percent to 91 percent
there has also been a rise in cauliflower production, with the harvested area rising 65 percent between 1978 and 1986, ms. cook said. fresh market cauliflower production increased even more, to more than 5.9 million hundredweight in 1986 from 1.85 million in 1978
california's market share of fresh market cauliflower increased to 79 percent of the total in 1986 from 74 percent in 1978
although california has a climatic advantage during portions of the year, the competition in other states during the summer and fall has become significant
the combined fall broccoli area in the midwest, south and east amounts to an estimated 10,000 acres, compared with 28,000 acres in california,'' ms. cook said. ``hence, this new broccoli acreage compares to 35 percent of california acreage when viewed on a seasonal basis.''
meanwhile, imports of fresh vegetables have increased sharply since 1978. despite the growth, however, she said broccoli imports still represent only about 1 percent of the total u.s. supply, while cauliflower imports make up about 2 percent of the supply
mexico is the leading source of fresh broccoli imports, and canada is the largest provider of imported cauliflower
however, both canada's and mexico's share of the import market has declined slightly while other exporting countries, including guatemala, jamaica, chile, belgium, france and israel have gained,'' ms. cook said
a four-year experiment to control houseflies with tiny parastic wasps and special traps is near an end, perhaps paving the way for use by consumers generally, says the agriculture department
richard miller of the department's agricultural research service said the traps were used last year by a laurel, md., resident, paul schwartz, whose home is next to a horse farm. flies bred in manure and straw bedding were a problem. it was impossible to eat outside because of the flies
last summer, the experimental traps reduced the flies by an estimated 90 percent, schwartz said
miller, whose work was reported recently by the agency, said houseflies can be major irritants in areas where many new houses are being built near farms. and they're a nuisance to farmers and livestock, too
the trap is painted white to attract the flies, and a sticky coating nabs them once they land. miller said that while there is interest in the pyramid traps, none is yet being produced commercially
miller said the tiny wasp, muscidifurax raptor, is a biological control alternative to chemical sprays. the wasps are found throughout the united states and are natural enemies of the flies, while being harmless to humans. the wasps lay eggs in the fly pupae, which are killed as the wasps develop
these parasites are reared by the thousands and released to maintain or augment natural (wasp) populations,'' miller said. ``in last year's test we increased the wasp populations up to tenfold.''
later, he said, traps were used to capture the surviving flies
a year-end review by the agriculture department shows 1987 production of red meat totaled 38.7 billion pounds, down 2 percent from 1986
production included: beef, 23.6 billion pounds, down 5 percent; veal, 429 million, down 18 percent; pork, 14.4 billion, up 2 percent; lamb and mutton, 316 million, down 6 percent
the national research council is out to prove the chinese proverb: ``give a man a fish and you feed him once; teach him how to fish and you feed him for life.''
the council has seized on the idea _ an oft-quoted aphorism in foreign aid circles _ and come up with a lot of ideas, from pedal-power fishing craft more efficient than rowboats to artificial mangrove branches made of aluminum wire bathed in concrete. the fake branches provide the kind of surface that baby oysters like to hang on, useful in places where cutting mangroves is illegal
the council has recently published a book-length manual of low-price fishing methods, called ``fishing technologies for developing countries.'' it's not for big commercial fleets but for traditional fishermen who account for a quarter of the world's catch, about 20 million tons a year. they provide most of the fish in africa and asia, but a much smaller proportion in latin america
an estimated 200 million people depend on them
first thing most fishermen need is a boat. the high quality hardwoods many peoples traditionally use have become dearer and harder to find. plywood is not too expensive, and plywood catamarans developed in western samoa have lasted almost a decade. plastic tubes and ferro-concrete are ugly, but cheap and durable
the japanese have found another use for six-inch plastic tubes. two of them, 30 inches long, are laid side by side with a two-inch concrete plug that bisects them: the result offers four fatal dens to unsuspecting octopi
in venezuela they make octopus pots from old rubber tires
a boat has to move. sailing has declined among third world fishermen in recent years, the council says, and instead there have been ideas for cheap fuel: alcohol made from cassava (manioc) in fiji, coconut oil for mixing with diesel fuel in the philippines. the coconut oil clogged the fuel filters, and the filipinos have been trying to use charcoal from coconut shells to make gas for fuel
several ideas, some more effective, have come from the philippines. the academy says a system for cultured mussels developed at sapian bay, on the island of panay, uses rope-webs floated from rafts instead of the more usual stakes driven into the mud. it raised mussel production to more than five times the old method
advanced technology need not be too expensive, the council points out. fish are sensitive to the temperature of the water, and move when it changes. a shift of one degree or even less can indicate a place where fish may cluster. ordinary thermometers are not sensitive enough, but a simple electronic thermometer can show differences of a tenth of a degree and cost less than $100
the federal reserve has been trying to keep the economic recovery alive following the october stock market collapse, but many economists believe it is starting to worry more about rising inflationary pressures
these analysts think the switch will mean that interest rates, including mortgage rates, will not fall further and actually will climb slightly in coming months
the central bank's top policy makers will meet behind closed doors tuesday to review monetary strategy. the decisions made by the federal open market committee will not be revealed until mid-may
while analysts are not looking for major policy changes to come out of the meeting, they said recent comments by federal reserve chairman alan greenspan indicate that the central bank has begun to worry once again about inflationary pressures
the central bank tries to balance the competing economic goals of supplying enough money to the financial system to keep the economy expanding while guarding against supplying so much money that inflation is rekindled
in congressional testimony earlier this month, greenspan said he was worried that inflationary bottlenecks could develop in u.s. industries later this year
greenspan said there were no signs of inflationary troubles at present, but that the central bank would act fast at the first sign that the economy was overheating. for the fed, fighting inflation means raising interest rates
before the oct. 19 collapse of stock prices, the fed had been tightening credit conditions out of fear that a weaker dollar would increase u.s. inflation
but following the record 508-point drop in stock prices, the central bank moved quickly to ease credit in order to keep the country out of a recession
analysts said they believed greenspan's recent comments were an indication the central bank is once again switching gears
i am not looking for any more interest rate declines. i think the fed is worried again about inflation,'' said david seiders, chief economist of the national association of home builders
mortgage rates, which hit a high of 11.58 percent immediately before the stock crash last october, dipped into single-digits earlier this year, falling to 9.84 percent in early february
but in recent weeks rates have been rising again, averaging 9.99 percent last week, according to a nationwide survey by the federal home loan mortgage corp
seiders predicted that mortgage rates could top 11 percent by the end of the year. other analysts agreed that a variety of interest rates would likely head higher in coming months, especially if economic growth rebounds
allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co., said he believed the central bank would make no outright change in policy at its march meeting but would stand ready to tighten credit conditions later in the year
if the economy picks up steam and produces inflationary pressures, i wouldn't rule out a tightening move later this spring,'' he said. ``the central bank is making people aware that if inflation does heat up, they would tighten.''
lyle gramley, chief economist for the mortgage bankers association, said he expected mortgage rates to fluctuate between 10 percent to 10.5 percent over the next two months as the fed watches for further indications of how the economy is performing
one key indicator the fed will be watching is the monthly unemployment report. the jobless rate dropped to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent in february and greenspan indicated that it was unlikely the rate could fall much farther without triggering inflationary pressures
if economic growth is too strong, the unemployment rate could drop down into a danger zone which would generate an upturn in wage increases,'' said gramley, a former member of the fed board. ``once you get that under way, it is very hard to stop and even harder to reverse. that is what you want to avoid if you can.''
some economists said that the fed would hold off making any major change in direction until late next month when the government releases its first estimate of overall economic growth, as measured by the gross national product, for the january-march quarter
roger brinner, an economist with data resources inc., said that if growth was really weak in the first quarter, the fed might be persuaded that a further dose of easing was needed, especially since this is a presidential election year
houston has suffered low oil prices, a troubled space program and the near-exodus of its pro football team. now it wants to avoid another hit: the departure of superstar superconductivity physicist paul chu
i think we need to be sure we don't drop the ball,'' says city councilman jim greenwood. ``it's probably more important to keep paul chu as it was to keep the houston oilers.''
superconductivity, the potential of some materials to carry electricity without energy loss, has become one of the hottest areas in science today. and chu, a 47-year-old university of houston physics professor, has become one of the hottest researchers in superconductivity
the research promises to spawn tremendous advances in industry, with applications in computers, transmission of electricity and transportation, although many observers feel it will be decades before any significant commercial products result
early last year, chu announced that his experiments with materials showed evidence of superconductivity at temperatures warmer than ever before achieved. the discovery brought energy-saving practical applications within closer range
the news spread quickly and made chu an overnight celebrity in scientific circles. job offers began rolling in. one university has promised him a $20 million research package if he moves there, said chu, who isn't naming the school
the rumors have prompted houston businessman tom wright to organize a letter-writing campaign asking small business owners to urge chu to stay
we should go out of our way to make sure he likes it here,'' wright said. ``wherever major discoveries are made, industry grows around it. ... in my mind, superconductivity will be bigger to this area than nasa ever was.''
chu says he has made no decision, but is considering an offer from the university of california-berkeley. on march 6, the san francisco examiner reported chu had accepted a teaching and research post there, and berkeley officials continue to claim chu has taken the job
we are expecting him to come to berkeley this fall,'' said geoffrey chew, berkeley's dean of physical sciences. ``he came here last week, and confirmed that he had accepted the offer.''
in recent weeks, chu has not responded to numerous interview requests. through his secretary, mike albert, he says he remains undecided
paul has been agonizing over this decision for about a year now,'' roy weinstein, dean of the university of houston college of natural sciences and mathematics, said last week
among the attractions of berkeley for chu are the university's prestige, the favorable california weather and the closer proximity to family members who live in california, weinstein said
since his major discovery, chu has been appointed to the newly created t.l.l. temple chair at the university of houston, funded by a $1.5 million endowment. his salary has been raised and he has been named director of the texas center of superconductivity at university of houston, a $30 million research unit to be built at the university
i think that the superconductivity center is more important to him than anything else,'' said university of houston president richard van horn. ``we have perhaps more people working in superconductivity than anywhere else.''
houston's relatively undiversified energy-based economy was hit hard by the 1986 fall of oil prices. and operations of the nation's space program, and the nearby johnson space center here, came to a virtual halt with the explosion of the space shuttle challenger
the city's confidence was further battered last year by the near departure of the houston oilers to jacksonville, fla. the team eventually signed a 10-year lease to remain in houston
weinstein says he believes chu will split his time between california and houston, but says the strain of such an arrangement may be difficult for the quiet researcher
it's a question of whether he can do it,'' weinstein said. ``he will have to confront it, test it, and see.''
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,622.71 points, up 301.99 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on monday
house speaker jim wright is pledging to work with the republican leadership to produce a humanitarian aid package for the contra rebels, saying the amount of money involved isn't ``a serious stumbling block.''
together, we'll work it out,'' the speaker said of his planned negotiations with house gop leader bob michel, r-ill
today's talks come in the wake of the preliminary cease-fire agreement last week between the contras and the sandinista government of nicaragua, which allows the rebels to remain armed and in the field while entering political talks with the government
earlier this year, house democrats beat back president reagan's request for a package of weapons and ammunition for the contras, saying it would interfere with the peace process. then, republicans sided with a few democratic opponents of any contra aid to defeat the house leadership's alternative plan for $30 million in strictly ``humanitarian'' assistance _ food, clothing and the like
as a result, u.s. aid to the rebels ended feb. 29. wright is still supporting humanitarian aid, and this time he wants to ensure gop backing for the proposal
the speaker, whose high-profile role in the central american peace process has upset some administration officials, declined in an interview sunday on nbc-tv's ``meet the press'' to specify the amount of humanitarian aid he envisions
i have one, but i'm going to be amenable enough to listen to bob michel and others. i don't think the dollar figure is a serious stumbling block,'' he said
the speaker did not express any opposition to a provision in the package guaranteeing a speedy vote on military aid if the peace process breaks down, but he said triggering such a vote should be a ``collaborative'' decision by both congress and the white house
last week, wright said the aid package should include food, clothing and medical assistance for the contras. also last week, michel said he had discussed a $48 million, one-year aid package that provided an expedited vote on further aid in june
wright, reminded of congress' refusal to send military aid to the rebels, was asked if the soviets should be required to end their support to the nicaraguan government
i think it's high time that we do sit down with the soviet union and hammer that out,'' wright said. ``i don't know any good reason why we shouldn't be doing that.''
wright was asked if he believed the nicaraguan government should be allowed to receive ``whatever foreign assistance ... it deems fit in its own interest'' in light of the regional peace accord that bars funds from foreign sources seeking to overthrow a government
i don't see anything wrong with their getting humanitarian assistance or economic assistance. god knows they need all the help they can get from every source with the state their economy is in,'' the speaker said
but i think it has to come to a point where there is a cessation of military weapons. ... and now that's up to the reagan administration to sit down and negotiate that.''
nicaraguan president daniel ortega, appearing on cbs-tv's ``face the nation,'' repeated his call for direct negotiations with the united states
we're ready to talk with the united states,'' ortega said
but assistant secretary of state elliott abrams, appearing on the same program, rejected the idea of direct talks with nicaragua
we don't need bilateral talks with the sandinistas,'' abrams said
he expressed skepticism that the nicaraguan government will hold to the agreement signed with the contras, saying, ``we've heard those promises before.''
abrams said congress had forced the agreement on the rebels, saying ``congress had just smashed them into a corner'' with the cutoff of military aid
contra leader adolfo calero, also appearing on the nbc program, said he believed he should be included in the wright-michel discussions
i feel that we should be invited by speaker wright to go to washington and participate,'' he said
___</head>
filing for personal bankruptcy was ``embarrassing,'' says famed heart surgeon dr. denton cooley, but it was the only solution for his financial troubles
the 67-year-old pioneer heart surgeon's career has been a success story. he was the first to implant an artificial heart and the first american to perform a heart transplant operation, among his 70,000 open-heart surgeries
but defeat entered cooley's life on jan. 4 when he filed under chapter 11 of federal bankruptcy law, his many real estate investments in houston victimized by a depressed oil economy
i think this is the first (professional) defeat that has come to me,'' he told the houston post in sunday's editions. ``it was embarrassing. ... there's sort of an indignity that goes with it.''
but i've always felt like i was a real competitor. i have participated in all sorts of sports and athletics in the past, and one of the things you learn on the playing field is how to take defeat as well as victory.''
cooley, founder of the texas heart institute in houston, said he's one of the few people to file a reorganization plan at the same time as a request for bankruptcy protection. that move will allow him to emerge from bankruptcy as early as april, he says
i want to carry on with my life,'' he said. were there</head>
michael dukakis was late for the final rally of his michigan caucus campaign, but his staff was still scrambling to fill a half-empty hall in the polish enclave of hamtramck
at the same time, miles away in flint, 40 people were turned away from the overflowing church where jesse jackson was speaking. so they gathered around a television station's truck to watch jackson on the monitors
campaign events are an uncertain barometer of election success, but in michigan, the developments on friday were an excellent forecaster of the results on saturday
dukakis had a difficult day _ a schedule snarled by logistical problems and a sometimes testy response from some spectators
in contrast, jackson was drawing substantial, enthusiastic crowds as he motored across the state
and on saturday, that enthusiasm turned into votes that gave jackson an overwhelming victory, crushing dukakis by nearly 2-1 in the big industrial state
i think the major factor was the level of intensity of jackson supporters and the lack of intensity of other supporters,'' michigan house speaker gary owen said
owen said he found ``an overwhelming lack of enthusiasm'' for everybody but jackson. owen supports tennessee sen. albert gore jr
as expected, jackson swept the black vote by margins of up to 15-1. but he did well in others parts of the state with small minority populations, winning 10 of the state's 18 congressional districts
jackson knows well the dubious reliability of rallies and town meetings as indicators of political success. he drew big crowds in 1984 and still finished third in the democratic presidential race that year
but in michigan this time, the indicators were right on the money
in some sense, it's a lot of poetry,'' jackson said in milwaukee late saturday. ``it's a lot of history. we also have the numbers, and it's a lot of reality.''
at the hamtramck event, the audience was no longer so small as to be embarrassing when dukakis arrived with detroit mayor coleman young, sen. don riegle and others. but at least a quarter of the crowd was made up of reporters and plainclothes policemen
earlier that day in detroit, two plainclothes policemen stopped a reporter and asked why a crowd had gathered down the street. told that jesse jackson was speaking, the two parked _ and went inside the union hall to listen
crowds generally waited patiently for jackson to appear. but in comstock park, the grumbling was evident when dukakis arrived about half an hour late due to logistical problems that wiped out many of his planned events
make them wait _ we did,'' yelled one older man as dukakis cut short his town meeting in the grand rapids suburb to hold a news conference and rush to a fund-raiser
speak english _ this is america,'' said another as dukakis spoke in greek and spanish with those in the uaw hall who addressed him in those languages
jackson worked this state hard, even delaying his departure from the state on saturday to motorcade and walk through mostly black neighborhoods, encouraging his supporters to turn out
dukakis spent less time in the state. he flew in monday night for a quick visit, held a pair of news conferences wednesday night and then muddled through the day friday
part of the difference in schedules came from dukakis' commitment to return to boston to work as governor, part from dukakis' greater attention to fund-raising and part from campaign judgments about allocating candidate's time among the various states
and when dukakis was in the state, he found himself explaining over and over again that he had not flip-flopped on the trade issue, that his backing for a trade bill by sen. don riegle of michigan was not just a political ploy. rep. richard gephardt grabbed the front pages by pounding away at dukakis on trade
it didn't help gephardt _ he finished a dismal third _ but the blows kept dukakis on the defensive
the messages from the two candidates were also substantively different. dukakis talked of competence and compassion, as his televisions ads emphasized balancing budgets and creating jobs
jackson hit over and over again at his theme of hope for those who are down, who are jobless, who are out of luck
in a state where the auto industry has put thousands out of work, jackson's more optimistic message was the stronger one _ as dukakis came close to admitting saturday night in defeat
the people of michigan have been through a very difficult time. there is great unhappiness, great concern, great uncertainty. there are laid-off workers. workers today who have jobs are worried they are going to be next,'' dukakis said. ``jesse has strong feelings about that _ as i do.''
dukakis relied on an impressive organization in michigan, as he has in other states, plus endorsements from young and riegle
jackson had a good organization himself in michigan and spent about $90,000 on paid media. but he couldn't resist a swipe at dukakis
it was the message of the soul and authenticity of jesse jackson versus money and technology _ and the people prevailed,'' jackson told supporters sunday at westchester county airport in new york
everybody won something in detroit,'' jackson said when the votes were counted. ``dukakis won mayor young's endorsement. i won the people's votes.''
michael dukakis gained and jesse jackson received a smaller boost as iowa democrats went through the latest step in their lengthy process of choosing democratic national convention delegates
richard gephardt, whose hopes had surged with a victory in last month's iowa precinct caucuses, faltered in the latest test following poor showings in other states
it confirms what's going on nationally,'' said bonnie campbell, iowa democratic chairwoman
party activists over the weekend held county caucuses where they elected delegates to congressional district conventions in may and the state convention next summer. at those meetings they will elect 52 of the state's 58 delegates to the democratic national convention in atlanta. the state has six ``super delegates,'' party leaders who automatically are delegates
with 97 of the state's 99 counties reporting results of their conventions, dukakis had 28.7 percent of the delegates to gephardt's 27.9 percent. illinois sen. paul simon was third with 26.4 percent, based on a strong showing in counties along the border of his home state
jackson pulled in 13.1 percent of the delegates, improving on his performance in last month's precinct caucuses, while 3.9 percent remained uncommitted
in last month's precinct caucuses, gephardt got 31 percent, simon 27 percent, dukakis 22 percent and jackson 9 percent
dukakis backers had been quietly lobbying supporters of other candidates to switch and unite behind a front-runner
i'm telling our people to treat everyone like you would your next date,'' said jerry crawford, a dukakis organizer. ``but for some people it isn't time to get engaged yet.''
the dukakis forces targeted backers of former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, who has dropped from the race, and succeeded in picking up support
it looks like those people who defected, dukakis picked up the lion's share,'' said ms. campbell. ``jackson picked up a few.''
party activists said gephardt was damaged by his poor performance in saturday's michigan caucuses
as word filtered out of gephardt's third-place michigan showing, some of his backers apparently decided not to make the effort to attend county conventions, many of which ran until the wee hours sunday morning
jesse jackson said he was looking at the votes, not the color of the voters, in his landslide victory over michael dukakis in the state's presidential caucuses
jackson's commanding 55 percent of the vote far outstripped the state's black population, which according to the 1980 census is 13 percent
as usual, jackson galvanized the black community, which responded with a highly organized get-out-the-vote effort for saturday's caucuses
that provided him with a solid core of support _ but he didn't stop there. campaigning in connecticut on sunday, jackson said his first concern is to ``count the votes, not the color.''
it's a campaign of growth, a campaign of hope,'' he said
mary holmes, deputy state coordinator for the jackson campaign, said, ``what feels so good is that it's a clear-cut victory. it's all ours. you want to talk about the popular vote? we won that. you want to talk about the majority of delegates? we won that too.''
holmes said the keys to the jackson victory were the campaign's plan to turn out the vote for the caucuses, and jackson himself. ``it's the effect he has on people who hear him,'' she said
her comments were echoed by michigan house speaker gary owen, who said ``the major factor was the level of intensity of jackson supporters and the lack of intensity of other supporters.''
owen, who supports tennessee sen. albert gore jr., said sunday that he had campaigned several days and found ``an overwhelming lack of enthusiasm'' for any of the candidates except jackson
i know there was excitement in seeing a presidential candidate and hearing a presidential candidate, but i never felt that degree of intensity among the crowds for those other candidates,'' he said
that intensity was reflected in the vote totals, where jackson buried dukakis with 107,689 votes or 55 percent to dukakis' 55,337 or 28 percent. missouri rep. richard gephardt came in third with 24,995 or 13 percent. illinois sen. paul simon had 4,069 or 2 percent; and gore had 3,818 or 2 percent
those totals represented 94 percent of the vote counted. the state democratic party said it would release final figures sometime today
the delegate projections from those results showed jackson with 74 of the state's 138 committed delegates, dukakis with 50, gephardt 11, and uncommitted 3
michigan also will send 12 uncommitted ``super delegates'' to the july convention in atlanta. they are gov. james blanchard and the 11 members of the democratic national committee
jackson particularly swamped dukakis in the predominantly black 1st and 13th congressional districts, which cover detroit. in the 1st, jackson had 25,416 compared with 1,809 for dukakis, while in the 13th he had 17,725 to dukakis's 1,539
however, if those figures are subtracted from the two candidates' totals, jackson still comes out ahead, 64,548 to 51,989
state rep. alma stallworth, a democrat from detroit, said she thinks those figures represent ``a lot of young people and new voters who got involved for the first time.''
stallworth said the highly organized jackson campaign also got a boost from black churches, which urged people to vote
but she pointed out that jackson also did well in mostly white districts covering the western, southern and eastern lower peninsula
state rep. ilona varga, who supports jackson, said he carried her district, which is only 26 percent black, by attracting white voters
i think it says something about our people. i think it says something about our country,'' she said
he was saying what people wanted to hear,'' said state sen. david holmes, d-detroit. ``it all boils down to bread-and-butter issues regardless of race, color or creed. he outworked, outtalked and outcampaigned the other candidates in all 18 congressional districts.''
zolton ferency, a former state democratic party chairman, said organized labor leaders liked gephardt's tough trade stand, but ``his campaign was dying. they didn't want to back a loser.''
dukakis, on the other hand, wasn't well-known in michigan and had to introduce himself to the state's democrats and then try to get them to vote for him, ferency said
dukakis, he added, wasn't ``the kind of candidate that can generate instant enthusiasm.''
maneka gandhi's goals include saving the bears, monkeys, donkeys, dogs, frogs, crocodiles and, she hopes, the country
the 31-year-old writer, former model and once and probably future candidate for parliament is the estranged sister-in-law of prime minister rajiv gandhi. she's also the daughter-in-law of the late prime minister indira gandhi and the widow of sanjay gandhi, who was groomed to become prime minister but died in a crash while stunt-flying a small plane
the political game is familiar, if not always comfortable, turf for maneka
so is a front lawn filled with 14 tail-thumping, tongue-lolling puppies and dogs, 13 of them rescued from the streets of new delhi and waiting for maneka to find homes for them. the 14th is a permanent resident, maneka's pedigreed bull mastiff sabra
in mid-march, maneka disbanded her own small political party and joined forces with the janata party, one of the largest of india's many opposition groups. she declared anew her determination to see rajiv ousted, calling him an ineffective leader and his congress party corrupt
within a week, newspapers were speculating maneka would run against her brother-in-law in the next parliamentary elections, scheduled to take place by early 1990
whether i stand for office is something that will be decided in a year or two,'' maneka says
i really think quite frankly that the time for little parties is past. we have a huge upsurge of opinion against the government, but because we are all separate, none of it has come into the mainstream opposition. it's gone to the lunatic fringe,'' she said during an interview in the one-story house where she lives with her 7-year-old son feroze
in the meantime, she is continuing her animal protection campaigns and describes her political outlook as similar to that of the environment-oriented ``greens'' parties of western europe
every time i do animal work, i lose votes. i'm in politics _ that's my main philosophy. i just don't believe you can isolate one form of service from the other,'' she said
speaking with the intensity and speed of a machine gun burst, in british-accented english that is the hallmark of economically comfortable, well-educated indians, maneka launched into precise examples:
we are killing 21 million frogs a year in india for standard experiments in our school laboratories. if i run a save-the-frogs campaign, it's not because one of them is going to turn into a prince in my hand. it's because the small farmer needs them. without frogs to eat the insects in his fields, he has to buy pesticides, which will probably give him cancer. so it's really a political decision, not an animal decision, the campaign for the saving of the frogs.''
as a young bride, maneka filled the role of adoring wife and daughter-in-law. but after sanjay was killed in 1980, maneka grew apart _ outspokenly apart _ from his iron-willed mother, prime minister indira gandhi
indira, in the meantime, had plucked sanjay's older brother rajiv out of his pilot's job with indian airlines and put him in the cockpit to succeed her in what is sometimes wryly referred to as ``the world's only democratically elected dynasty.''
in 1982, maneka was pitched out of indira's house with her son, two dogs and a heap of suitcases
she started her own party, the rashtriya sanjay manch, dedicated to perpetuating what it called the populist ideas of her dead husband
when indira gandhi was assassinated in 1984, rajiv became prime minister. two months later, he successfully defended his parliament seat in new elections, swamping a field of challengers
one of them was maneka
her party faded into the shadows, but her energetic espousal of causes didn't. much of it was channeled to the sanjay gandhi animal care center on the outskirts of the capital
the red sandstone clinic, staffed by two veterinarians and 11 helpers, is refuge for sick and injured animals brought by their owners or found in the streets
or dumped at maneka's house. in this way she has acquired, at least temporarily, hundreds of dogs, the occasional bullock, a peacock with a tumor and a white donkey with one eye sightlessly opaque and an oozing hole where the other had been
i went out to dinner and came back about 11:30 and found it tied to the gate, blinded, bloody,'' maneka said
the donkey went to the animal center. it will probably stay there indefinitely, like lakshmi, a one-eyed chestnut mare who arrived nearly seven years ago. the horse's right hind leg extends foward at an improbable but permanent angle, the result of violent dislocation
lakshmi, named for a hindu goddess, is one of maneka's favorites. ``she's my first. that's why we call her lakshmi. it means luck,'' maneka said as she led a tour of the clinic and grounds where 41 dogs were ensconced
she also serves as a free-lance consultant for wildlife sanctuaries throughout india, counseling warmer water for crocodiles penned in icy himalayan waters, trying to figure out why some monkeys at bangalore aren't breeding, and how to end the plight of the dancing bears
there are 10,000 bears in india who have been kidnapped from the himalayas,'' she said. ``they have their teeth pulled out, their nails pulled out. they're made to dance. their average lifespan is 42 years, but they die at 3.''
she has heard about a man who wants to donate land for an animal sanctuary, ``so maybe it's going to fit in with my bears. maybe we can use zoos as halfway houses, get the railroads to transport them, rehabilitate the bear handlers _ some can work in the sanctuary, line up businessmen to give the others jobs.''
in between politics and animal care, she writes a biweekly pet column for newspapers, has just completed a book on the origins of indian names and has promised two more, one of fairy tales, the other on the plants of india
the book of names, she said, was ``the kind of job i don't have any business undertaking, like most of the things i do. but if you wait for people? so i just sort of begin. every time i start something, it's always sort of off the beaten track.''
a first lady once criticized for extravagance got in a good-natured jab at her soviet counterpart's own fashionable ways when nancy reagan put on a surprise singing performance at the washington media's annual gridiron club dinner
mrs. reagan, dressed in a red formal gown, unexpectedly appeared on stage saturday night as a chorus of journalists was wrapping up its ribbing of key figures in the news, including the first family, the presidential candidates and jim and tammy bakker
the first lady received two standing ovations for her song, which included a verse about her meetings with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's wife, raisa, during the washington summit last december
to the tune of ``thanks for the memories,'' mrs. reagan sang, ``thanks for the memory, the soviet mona lisa, sometimes known as raisa, she said to me, `would you like to see my mastercard and visa?'''
president reagan, beaming at his wife's show-stopper, issued the challenge ``raisa, top that'' after mrs. reagan's song
it was all in good humor,'' mrs. reagan's press secretary elaine crispin said sunday. ``the whole gridiron is done in that spirit, and that's all that's intended.'' she said the words to mrs. reagan's song were written by former white house speech-writer landon parvin
although both mrs. reagan and mrs. gorbachev maintained that their relations during the december summit were warm, observers noticed a coolness between the two women
it was mrs. reagan's second appearance as a solo singer on the gridiron stage. in 1982, amidst criticism of her expensive tastes, she stepped out in an outlandish hawaiian print dress with polka dot sleeves and yellow galoshes and sang a self-effacing ``second hand clothes'' to the tune of ``second hand rose.''
mrs. reagan was an actress but has sung only occasionally
reagan, in his traditional gridiron response, poked fun at vice president george bush and bush's fellow republican presidential candidate pat robertson as well as rich republicans
before i refuse to take questions,'' reagan said, ``i have an opening statement. i thought nancy's performance was absolutely wonderful. raisa, top that.''
reagan later said if robertson becomes president, ``there'd be no more `hail to the chief.' it would be `when the saints go marching in.''
referring to the fact that bush was born in massachusetts, has family connections in connecticut, has been active in politics in texas, and spends time in maine, reagan said bush could win ``if he carries his own states.''
during the show, a chorus of washington journalists thanked reagan ``for the memories'' _ the memories ``of david stockman and jim watt, the iran-contra plot, of ollie and bill casey, the diversions you forgot.''
the tune lampooned former budget director david stockman, the late cia director casey, ex-interior secretary james watt and former white house aide oliver north
the 103-year-old club also presented a spoof to the tune of ``to all the girls i've loved before'' by show members playing former sen. gary hart and television evangelist jim bakker
here are the words mrs. reagan sang:
thanks for the memory, of all the times we had, the happy and the sad
looking back, don regan doesn't seem so bad
oh, it's been so swell
thanks for the memory, the soviet mona lisa, sometimes known as raisa, she said to me, `would you like to see my mastercard and visa?'
oh, it's been so swell
not all was happy, that's granted
the congress, it raved and ranted
the right wing became disenchanted
in spite of it all, we had a ball
thanks for the memory, of the whole press corps, at times i cursed and swore
you sometimes were a headache, but you never were a bore
so, thanks for the memory, it's time to say goodbye
oh, how the time does fly
ronny's loved these past eight years, and so i confess have i
thank you, bye bye.'' prices. pickup 4th graf pvs ``traders said...''</note>
the dollar fell sharply against the japanese yen in tokyo monday while stock prices rose
the dollar closed at 124.43 yen, down 1.31 yen from friday's close of 125.74 yen, after opening the day's session at 124.60
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which lost 305.99 points in saturday's half day of trading, rose 301.99 points, or 1.19 percent, and closed at 25,622.71
traders said the dollar continued to decline even after the bank of japan intervened in early trading by buying dollars to support the u.s. currency, said ken iio, a currency dealer with the bank of tokyo
the dollar's opening level was its lowest since jan. 5, when it began trading at 123.00 yen
on the stock market, dealers said the lower dollar did not affect prices because market participants were expecting the central bank to continue to prop up the u.s. currency. demonstration</head>
about 100 people threw stones and bottles that broke windows and smashed the front door of the iraqi embassy in an angry demonstration against chemical weapons attacks that killed more than 5,000 kurds last week
but local police said no one was arrested in sunday's incident
a supreme court ruling last week knocked down a rule that had kept all demonstrations, including peaceful ones, at least 500 feet away from foreign embassies. however, the court still allowed police to disperse groups congregating near embassies when they ``reasonably believe that a threat to the security or peace of the embassy is present.''
iran has said iraq used internationally banned poison gas bombs in a march 20 air raid that killed 5,000 kurdish villagers. a leader of kurdish rebels in the area of northeastern iraq occupied by iran said at least 50 other kurds were killed and scores wounded thursday when iraqi planes bombed seyo and senan villages nearby
iran's official islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, cyprus, said the iraqis used cyanide, mustard and other unidentified nerve gases in the attacks ``to prevent the people from joining iranian combatants.''
the attacks came in the latest confrontations of the 7{-year war between iran and iraq which began in september 1980. fighting has recently intensified in the kurdistan mountains for control of a strategic area east of the kirkuk oil fields, which produces more than half the oil that finances iraq's war effort
many kurds, a semi-nomadic sunni moslem people, have been fighting the baghdad government for years
a judge's decision to reunite two girls with their father three years after they watched him strangle their mother has touched off a new custody fight and public outrage against the judge
i guess the bottom line is whether or not it's ok to kill your wife in front of your children,'' says gene tranel of eldridge, iowa, brother of the 26-year-old victim, carol lutgen
tranel, who took in his nieces, tracy, 11, and dana, 10, while james lutgen served a 20-month prison term, is fighting to get them back
but lutgen's lawyer, william schirger, says the case has been blown out of proportion in this small mississippi river town
the kids are not in any danger. jim loves the girls and they love him. they asked the judge to let them live with him,'' schirger said
lutgen, 33, pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter for the dec. 21, 1984, death of his wife at the family home in tiny menominee, in the northwest corner of illinois
two original murder counts against lutgen were reduced after the court ruled his daughters were too young to testify as witnesses to their mother's death
the lutgens were on the verge of a breakup as the 1984 holiday season approached. ``she didn't love jim no more,'' recalled lutgen's mother, grace. ``they were separating the day after christmas. he was broken up about it.''
the couple's fatal battle was fueled by lutgen's belief that his wife was seeing another man, his mother said, although the fight was sparked by a disagreement over whether to take the girls shopping and skating
as the girls looked on, verbal attack became physical confrontation
i picked the girls up afterward and they told me ... they had seen part of the fight,'' mrs. lutgen said. ``they said they were pushing and grabbing each other around the neck.''
lutgen was released from prison in october 1986 and regained custody of his daughters last dec. 29
the jo daviess county judge who made the custody decision, eric demar of galena, has borne the brunt of the public outcry since lutgen regained his daughters
demar has been attacked by mail, over the telephone and in newspaper articles and editorials
a judge can't always make a popular decision and that certainly is the truth in this case,'' he said
the law and the facts in the case left me no choice,'' he added, noting that the u.s. supreme court has placed a high priority on parental rights in custody cases
lutgen, a cement finisher in the construction business, has not responded to requests for comment. but his mother says she believes there is no risk to the girls
i check on them several times a week. i'd never let anything happen to them. they love their dad,'' she said
lutgen has continued to have family troubles. his mother said he and the girls moved out of her house to one of his two brothers' homes after an argument with her last month
meanwhile, tranel has fought lutgen's request for custody of the girls. he filed a wrongful death lawsuit against his former brother-in-law and is appealing demar's custody decision
it seems to me to be so basically, morally wrong for the children to go back to their parent in a case like this,'' said tranel, who has visitation rights
is that person a fit and proper parent?'' tranel asked. ``how can you get your children back and go on like nothing happened?''
schirger countered that lutgen's criminal conviction did not strip him of his parental rights, and he has not been proved an unfit parent
chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca, who continues to disavow interest in the democratic party's presidential nomination, won the plurality of write-in votes cast in the michigan presidential primary
second place went to new york gov. mario cuomo, who also says he won't seek the party's nomination
other non-candidates and notables also got backing from write-ins
new jersey sen. bill bradley, who last week endorsed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, picked up at least seven votes
candidates who left the race early, arizona gov. bruce babbitt and deleware sen. joe biden, each pulled minor support from write-ins
so did candidates who battled for the nomination 16 years ago _ edmund muskie and george mcgovern
even republican sen. robert dole of kansas, whose bid for the gop nomination is hanging by a frayed thread, received one vote in the democratic caucuses
and, how about rock star ozzie osbourne? or maybe the road runner's arch enemy wile e. coyote?
they each got one vote. the road runner got no votes
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis holds a slim lead over jesse jackson but many likely democratic voters are undecided on a candidate going into wisconsin's april 5 presidential preference primary, a new poll indicates
the milwaukee sentinel, in results being released in today's editions, said the statewide public opinion poll conducted last week showed dukakis to be the choice of 28 percent of the likely democratic voters
jackson, winner of the michigan caucus vote saturday, was the choice of 25 percent, but another 25 percent of those likely to vote for a democrat in the primary were undecided
among other democratic candidates, illinois sen. paul simon had 9 percent, missouri rep. richard gephardt 7 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. 4 percent
on the republican side, vice president george bush was the choice of 62 percent of those likely to vote for a republican, while kansas sen. robert dole was the choice of 27 percent. the rev. pat robertson received 3 percent, and 7 percent were undecided
the sentinel said its telephone survey of 798 randomly-selected wisconsin adults was conducted march 17-22
among the sample of 158 people identified as likely to vote in the democratic primary, the margin of sampling error was plus or minus 7.9 percent
with the new york primary less than a month away, a recent poll shows massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and vice president george bush to be the clear favorites among democratic and republican voters across the state. the daily news poll, published sunday, had dukakis favored by 45 percent of the democrats surveyed. his closest rival was jesse jackson, preferred by 29 percent of the democrats
none of the three other active democratic candidates were favored by more than 6 percent of the voters who participated in the survey. missouri rep. richard gephardt was favored by 6 percent, illinois sen. paul simon by 5 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore by 5 percent
on the republican side, voters surveyed favored bush by 68 percent, kansas sen. bob dole by 23 percent and former television evangelist pat roberson by 4 percent
the poll, conducted for the daily news by chilton research services of radnor, pa., surveyed 528 democrats and 496 republicans who said they intended to vote in the primary. the poll was conducted between monday, march 21 and thursday, march 24 and has a margin for error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points
two hundred twenty-five democratic delegates and 136 gop delegates are at stake in the april 19 primary
if vice president george bush becomes the republican party's candidate for the presidency, he will have the support of pat robertson
robertson, a former television evangelist and current gop hopeful, also said over the weekend that if bush is elected, he most likely would not challenge him in 1992 if bush opted for a second term
it will all depend on what george bush does as president,'' robertson said in a news conference following a rally of his supporters. ``basically i would support the republican president. that would not be a wise thing _ to go against the president of your own party.''
but until the national convention, robertson said he is concentrating on his own campaign, a campaign he admits no longer is aimed at the white house but at the future
and if he is to survive, robertson told his supporters he must win his home state's upcoming caucuses
robertson placed third earlier this month behind bush and kansas sen. bob dole in virginia's non-binding primary. he also was third in his hometown of virginia beach
the punishment of fallen tv evangelist jimmy swaggart was left to his church's key governing body today, in an effort to settle a dispute between state and national leaders of the assemblies of god
the pentecostal denomination's 250-member general presbytery opens a two-day meeting, with a decision on swaggart's punishment expected tuesday afternoon, church spokeswoman juleen turnage said
the general presbytery will have the final say on swaggart's rehabilitation. swaggart has been linked to a prostitute, but the exact nature of his transgression has not been disclosed since he tearfully stepped down from his pulpit feb. 21
the louisiana presbytery of the assemblies of god had recommended that swaggart undergo two years of rehabilitation and be suspended from his baton rouge, la., pulpit for three months
but the executive presbytery, 13 men who serve as a national board of directors for the church, asked the state district to reconsider what some called an unprecedentedly lenient response to a minister's moral lapse
after gathering again on feb. 29 in a nine-hour session, the louisiana presbytery stood by its original decision. the general presbytery, whose members include representatives from each of the church's state districts, has been charged with resolving the conflict
reports circulated that swaggart would leave the assemblies of god if church officials suspended him from his pulpit for longer than three months. but a spokesman for swaggart's ministry said he has made no decision on how he might react to the national council's decision
mrs. turnage said she did not believe the general presbytery would be swayed by ``rumors heard through the media.''
church officials refused to comment on a newspaper report that a compromise proposal has been offered that would bar swaggart from preaching for one year, but would order him to give public testimony about his sin
the 10-page proposal, obtained sunday night by the springfield news-leader, was worked out by cliff jackson, a little rock, ark., lawyer and church member who said the plan has been endorsed by both swaggart and louisiana church leaders
swaggart, who addressed his congregation briefly in baton rouge on sunday as he has done several times since formally relinquishing the pulpit, is not expected to appear at today's meeting, mrs. turnage said
in response to reporters' shouted questions as he drove from the service, swaggart said he wasn't planning to leave the ministry, adding, ``why should i?''
the general presbytery is a court of last resort on ministerial credentials. a minister usually appeals to it after his course of rehabilitation has been set by the executive presbytery and a state council. the executive presbytery short-circuited that process when it decided march 3 to turn the swaggart case over to the larger body
the louisiana presbytery has close ties to swaggart's jimmy swaggart world ministries, a television-church-school complex based in baton rouge that broadcasts swaggart's fiery sermons to several countries. louisiana superintendent cecil janway, for example, sits on swaggart's board
jimmy swaggart world ministries took in an estimated $150 million in 1986. donations have fallen off since swaggart's confession, forcing the ministry to lay off about 100 people and suspend construction at the jimmy swaggart bible school
but swaggart seems undaunted and apparently is counting on the general presbytery to follow the louisiana district's recommendation that he be barred from the pulpit for only three months
swaggart told the congregation wednesday that he was going out of his mind but ``when i'm back in the pulpit on may 22, i'll be back in my mind.''
may 22 would be three months from the day swaggart confessed and voluntarily stepped down from his pulpit
the federal government estimates that between 1973 and 1985 more than 12.3 million cars, trucks, vans and motorcycles valued at $52 billion were stolen from americans
after recovery of about 65 percent of them, losses were estimated at $29 billion in 1985 dollars, the government said sunday
insurance payments reduced actual losses to vehicle owners to an estimated $16.1 billion, according to an analysis of the bureau of justice statistics national crime surveys for the the 13-year period
the number of thefts per 1,000 registered vehicles fell 33 percent over the surveyed period, from nine to just six, the bureau concluded in an analysis of its semiannual surveys of more than 40,000 households nationwide
in addition to the vehicle thefts during the period, there were an estimated 7 million attempted thefts, said bjs director steven schlesinger. about 64 percent of those were not reported to police, he said, and 13 percent of the actual vehicle thefts also went unreported
half of the thefts involved a loss of $2,455 or more before recoveries and insurance payments. about 10 percent involved losses of $10,000 or more
a survey of college presidents indicates women may have trouble combining marriage with a climb to the top of the academic ladder
in a survey released sunday by the american council on education, 90 percent of male college presidents but only 35 percent of the female presidents said they were married
excluding nuns, priests and other members of religious orders, it said, ``the difference ... narrows somewhat. among the lay presidents, 93 percent of men but 49 percent of women were married.''
the women presidents were more likely to be divorced _ 11 percent compared with 3 percent of the men
the council's report on its survey, called ``the american college president: a contemporary profile,'' concluded, ``the image of who shall occupy the chief executive office is clearly still a traditional one.''
the survey indicated the typical college president is white, male, married and 53 years old
western europe's top airline regulator is warning u.s. officials that there may be a sudden rise in fares in this country as a result of deregulation
frederick soerensen, head of the air transport division at the european commission, says u.s. deregulation has been in the main successful. but then he adds: ``when we see how, after the first few months of enthusiastic expansionism, the number of operational airlines is tending to shrink further and further, we may well wonder whether deregulation does not lead, in the end, to cartelization, and whether the tendency for fares to fall in the first few years may not suddenly go in reverse
what is more the united states has run into unexpected infrastructure problems and operating conditions are becoming difficult. i am thinking in particular of airport congestion at peak operating times.''
soerensen's criticism was in a paper he distributed during a visit to the united states last week
paul ridgeway's magic trick was a hit with his audience, but it was a bomb as far as police were concerned
ridgeway used the trick during his address on ``the impact of special events'' before public relations people at a downtown hotel. he had been invited by tom jardine, vice president of public relations for the carlson companies
the reason why tom gives me a nice introduction is that i have this dating book and it's really hot,'' ridgeway told the group as he opened a book and a flame magically shot out
the group laughed and ridgeway, a public relations consultant, finished his talk. but he left the book behind when he left the hotel thursday
a hotel employee called security guards when he opened the prop and saw wires and batteries. a guard took it to a basement office, checked it over and decided it was harmless
but hotel officials had second thoughts on friday and called police
there was a strange odor coming from it,'' said sgt. rick nelson of the bomb squad
nelson wrapped the book in a lead-lined blanket, drove it to the bomb squad's disposal range and blew it apart with a high-pressure water cannon
an irish firefighter says that after traveling to eight american cities named dublin on a three-week visit to the united states, he is ready to return to the dublin he knows best
seamus o'connor, station officer of the dublin, ireland, fire department and coordinator of the visit, wrapped up his tour with five other irish firefighters by shopping sunday afternoon in this columbus suburb
dublin, ohio, with a population of 14,000, has been a city since september and has planned a yearlong celebration. dublin, ireland, is marking its 1,000th birthday this year
o'connor, 44, said there are 16 cities named dublin in the united states, but ``four thousand miles is enough in one trip.''
maybe we'll visit the other dublins during our 2000th anniversary,'' he said
the firefighters have been to dublins in indiana, north carolina, maryland, pennsylvania, virginia, georgia, kentucky and ohio in an attempt to ``to share greetings of native irish with the offspring dublins,'' o'conner said
this is the biggest dublin we've been to in the united states and the most modern,'' o'connor said of the ohio city. ``but it's very irish-connected. they have many things planned around the irish, but i say `never enough.'''
jesse jackson's weekend victory in the michigan democratic presidential caucuses raised the stakes in wisconsin's april 5 primary
massachussets gov. michael s. dukakis will begin an ``aggressive campaign'' of television advertising in wisconsin tuesday and will be in the state thursday through april 5, said dukakis' wisconsin campaign manager, pat forciea
we feel this is a two-person race,'' forciea said
some of the dukakis advertising will be new, but he will not take on jackson in the commercials, forciea said
none of the ads are zapping anybody,'' he said
jackson edged dukakis in saturday's michigan caucuses for his first win in a major northern industrial state
jackson said he was confident he could follow michigan with another victory in wisconsin ``because i've stood here with the meat packers in cudahy, the auto workers in kenosha, and the paper workers in de pere.''
dukakis, who entered saturday's caucuses as the front-runner and ended in an almost 2-1 loss to jackson, refused to categorize the results as a significant setback
as i said in the beginning of this campaign, it's a marathon,'' dukakis said. ``you've asked me about inevitability. as i have said on more than one occasion, nothing is inevitable about anything in american politics
i hope when we finish up in california and new jersey, i have a lead i can take into the convention . . . and win the nomination.''
dukakis and jackson joined sen. albert gore jr., of tennesee, rep. richard gephardt, of missouri, and sen. paul simon, of illinois, at a democratic party fund-raising dinner in milwaukee saturday night
both dukakis and jackson left sunday for connecticut to lobby for last-minute support before that state's primary tuesday, while simon and gore remained in wisconsin
wisconsin democratic chairwoman suellen albrecht predicted nearly two-thirds of the wisconsin voters who go to the polls april 5 will vote for a democrat, giving the state its largest role in selecting a presidential nominee in 12 years
albrecht said wisconsin residents could expect to see ``full-blown'' campaigning efforts from all the remaining democratic candidates over the next 10 days
prior to the jefferson-jackson day dinner in milwaukee, all the candidates except jackson joined about 1,500 people in an afternoon labor rally and march to support nearly 600 marathon electric corp. shop workers represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers local 1791 who have been involved in a four-month fight over wage cuts in wausau
dukakis, gephardt, and simon walked behind a bright orange solidarity banner with the workers and their supporters
each candidate wore orange armbands saying ``solidarity local 1791'' as they sought the vote of laborers in wisconsin
you've got a fight on your hands, and i want you to know you've got friends across the state and across the nation and we're here,'' gore told a rally at a downtown parking lot before the march
jackson sent former new mexico gov. toney anaya to show his support
while the front-runners began planning strategy to capture delegates in the remaining states, gephardt prepared to meet with family and advisers to decide whether he would pull out of the race and run for re-election to congress
gephardt has canceled his wisconsin schedule and scheduled a news conference today where it is expected he will annouce he will file as a candidate for re-election by tuesday's deadline
gephardt had said he needed to do well in michigan to sustain a candidacy that took off in iowa but stumbled in the south on super tuesday. he finished a disappointing third
dukakis said the field of candidates probably would be narrowed again after wisconsin's primary. jackson declined to comment on whether a wisconsin victory would make him the front-runner. but jackson also said he had been the front-runner for a year
the average retail price of gasoline fell again during the past two weeks, although prices were still higher than a year ago, according to an industry survey
the price drop for all grades of gasoline was 0.78 cents a gallon, bringing the average price to 94.96 cents a gallon as of march 25, according to the lundberg survey of gasoline prices from stations around the united states
the average price is just over 1{ cents a gallon more than that of march 1987, and almost a nickel less than the march 1986 price when crude oil prices were crashing, analyst trilby lundberg said sunday
the average prices for self-service pumps were: regular unleaded, 85.55 cents a gallon; premium unleaded, $1.0083 cents a gallon; and regular leaded, 82.13 cents a gallon
for full-service pumps, regular unleaded was $1.1625 cents a gallon, premium unleaded $1.2653 cents a gallon and regular unleaded was $1.1202 cents
a contra rebel freed after more than four years in prison said he will rejoin the contras, who negotiated his release under an amnesty agreement with the leftist sandinista government
roberto amador was among 100 people who walked out of the zona franca jail on the outskirts of the capital sunday as a result of the agreement, part of a government-rebel cease-fire accord signed last week in sapoa
i will continue being a major in the fdn,'' amador said, referring to the contra military arm, the national democratic force, which will still be allowed to operate in designated cease-fire zones. sandinista and contra leaders were to meet in sapoa again today to determine where those zones will be located
when he was freed, amador received a hug from his wife, melba, who returned from miami on saturday with their two sons
it's a benediction from god that this happened,'' he said of his release. amador, 43, was captured on oct. 3, 1983, when sandinista troops shot down the dc-3 supply plane he was piloting for the contra rebels
two other captured crew members, jaime lau and wilfredo gutierrez, also were released sunday. but a fourth, miguel angel lopez, was not included on the list, said amador, who also was a major in the now-disbanded national guard of president anastasio somoza who was toppled in the 1979 sandinista revolution
gonzalo ramirez, president of the nicaraguan red cross, said on sunday that contra negotiators had asked for amador's freedom during last week's talks
isidora zapata, a mother of two, also left the prison sunday
i was condemned to 30 years in jail for counterrevolutionary activities,'' said mrs. zapata, the only woman among those released
i was jailed since april 16, 1982, and since then have seen my two children very little,'' she said. ``my husband died the same year i went to jail. i don't know what he died of.''
also among those released were 12 members of the independent liberal party and 12 from the social christian party
all were activists in our party and not contras, which they were accused of being,'' said eduardo coronado, an independent liberal
relatives embraced the prisoners as they left the jail, but there was a tinge of anxiety
they say i don't have anything to fear,'' said feliz pedro chavaria gomez, 32. ``i'm happy, but i hope it (the cease-fire) doesn't fail.'' he said he was arrested in 1980 and charged with being a counterrevolutionary
the prisoner release was the first step in an amnesty the government agreed to last week when it signed an accord with the u.s.-backed contra leadership that calls for a formal 60-day cease-fire to begin april 1
the amnesty law, passed saturday by the national assembly, could affect the fate of an estimated 3,300 politial prisoners
police riding herd on tens of thousands of youths who jammed this desert resort for spring break have made 140 arrests and issued 545 citations, but report the students are behaving fairly well
authorities say there have been no repeats of the rioting that occurred in 1986, when youths went on a downtown rampage, throwing beer bottles and tearing the clothes off young women
about 99 percent of those arrested were for public drunkenness,'' said police lt. lee weigel on sunday. ``but all in all, it appears as though the students are being pretty good.''
vacationing young people began invading this desert city 120 miles east of los angeles on friday, clogging the streets as they cruised and caroused. traffic was backed up for several miles on the roads entering palm springs on sunday
instead of rioting, huge crowds have flocked to ice cream and yogurt parlors as temperatures soared to 100 degrees, said police officer karen holtz
from friday through sunday, police issued 545 citations for misdemeanor offenses and made 140 arrests, weigel said
police prepared for the onslaught. the 82-officer palm springs force is working 12-hour shifts all week and being supplemented with officers from the california highway patrol and riverside county sheriff's deputies
officials were unable to estimate how many youths were in the city of 36,000 permanent residents because many visitors stayed in hotels outside the city, weigel said. picks up pvs 5th graf bgng ``abrams, the ....''</note>
the reagan administration is sending panamanians the blunt message that their nation's crisis will end if the military turns on gen. manuel antonio noriega
ultimately, i think it's going to have to be the (national) guard itself that gets rid of him,'' assistant secretary of state elliott abrams said sunday
abrams, appearing on cbs-tv's ``face the nation'' expressed hope that the military strongman would be forced out in ``a matter of days.''
noriega has been indicted by a u.s. federal grand jury on drug trafficking charges. the reagan administration has demanded that noriega step down and go into exile
the new york times, in today's editions, says administration officials considered forcible extradition of noriega to the united states
panamanian opposition leaders in washington said they understood from the administration and from leaders in latin america that the united states had considered seeking to have noriega arrested in costa rica, the newspaper said
the times also said the panamanian strongman had tried to arrange a visit to costa rica over the weekend. according to senior latin american diplomats, the times said, noriega wanted to discuss his political future with costa rica's president oscar arias sanchez and prime minister felipe gonzalez of spain
gonzalez was in costa rica over the weekend. spain has offered noriega asylum if the united states agrees not to ask madrid for his extradition
panamanian opposition leaders said arias rejected noriega's request for a meeting and also refused to see a top deputy of the general
abrams, the state department official in charge of central and latin american policy, acknowledged that he is surprised the military leader is still in power in the face of u.s. opposition and a general strike at home
i guessed wrong. i thought he'd be gone by now,'' abrams said. ``i think he's clinging at this point by his fingertips.''
abrams made the comments as he pointed out that noriega has not been able to pay his military supporters
on saturday, bankers rejected a panamanian government demand for $70 million in their vaults. the government's attempt to secure the funds came after it was unable to meet the 15,000-member military's payroll
noriega ordered a shake-up of his forces after a failed coup on march 16. over the weekend, he sent in troops and police to reopen panama city's flour mills in an attempt to break the general strike aimed at ousting the military leader
the panamanian government has been strapped for cash because of economic sanctions taken by the united states. u.s. military aid to panama was suspended by congress last year as the political situation began to deteriorate
abrams, however, said ``it's got to be the national guard itself'' that forces noriega out of power. ``he just won't leave. ... he doesn't care about panama. he doesn't care about the defense forces. he doesn't care about the economy. he doesn't care about the people.''
asked about any possible threat to u.s. citizens in the country, abrams said the united states intends to protect the 50,000 military people and civilians there
if there is a threat from gen. noriega, it won't last long,'' he said
abrams, speaking with reporters following his television appearance, was asked whether the united states would use its military to protect its interests in panama
we have an obligation to protect americans in panama, the bases, and a treaty right and obligation to protect the (panama) canal and we will do it,'' he responded
abrams repeated administration assertions that an offer from the dominican republic to give asylum to noriega is not good enough, and that it would be better if the military leader accepted a similar offer from spain
the way to end this crisis is to get him out of the country,'' abrams said
nicaraguan exiles and supporters prayed for peace in a special outdoors mass, but many worried that contra leaders had been too eager to sign a cease-fire agreement with the sandinistas
more than 300 people, palm fronds in hand, gathered in this nicaraguan enclave to pray in a special outdoors palm sunday mass
all the deaths were for nothing if they signed a treaty in just four hours,'' said segundo marenco, a member of the exile group that organized the mass. ``they haven't asked for the retirement of cuban troops from nicaragua. it's just another way to buy time for the sandinistas.''
we are looking for peace _ peace with freedom. the resistance is going to continue to resist until their rights are respected,'' said retired army gen. john singlaub, who has waged a public and private battle to keep the contras fighting
the gathering came a day after a handful of demonstrators _ one who punched contra official enrique sanchez in the mouth _ protested the cease-fire agreement outside a miami hotel where rebel leaders were holding closed-door meetings
the general feeling is confusion _ what will happen now in nicaragua,'' roberto serrano, an engineer who has worked as a wine importer since leaving his homeland, said at the mass. ``we have to wait and see.''
we want peace in nicaragua, but we don't believe we have enough guarantees to go back, for we believe the sandinistas don't like to be at peace inside nicaragua,'' exile eduardo salgado said
under the pact, which declares a cease-fire until june 1, the contras agreed not to accept any more u.s. military aid. in return, the sandinistas promised a gradual amnesty for contras and unrestricted freedom of expression that would allow them a role in nicaragua's political process
share prices dropped on the london stock exchange today morning as investors reacted to friday's plunge on wall street
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index fell 16.8 points, or 1 percent, to 1,751.1 by 11 a.m
shares prices fell despite a recovery in tokyo share prices earlier today
however, dealers said the london market didn't have much direction of its own, with little trading taking place ahead of the extended easter holiday weekend that will begin friday
major shares were down across the board, with some composite insurance stocks showing the only rise
the early trend followed the sharp fall in new york friday, where the dow jones industrial average fell 44.92 to 1,978.95, and gains in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei index rose 301.99 to 25,622.71
an off-duty police officer pleaded with his colleagues to kill him after he apparently fatally shot his 24-year-old wife, a sheriff's recruit, during a struggle over a gun, neighbors said
pablo j. agrio, 29, a four-year veteran of the san diego police department, was being held today without bail in the death of alma catalina, police said
he was booked for investigation of homicide, and the district attorney's office will decide today what charges to file, said police officer pete westrick. however, investigators believe the shooting was accidental, he said
april montera, a neighbor of agrio, said he greeted police in tears after they responded saturday night to an emergency call at the paradise hills condominium
he was waving his arms and telling the cops to shoot him,'' said mrs. montera
agrio told investigators that he and his wife exchanged blows during an argument, and then his wife seized the gun and pointed it at him, said sgt. anne o'dell, a police spokeswoman
during the struggle over the handgun, the weapon discharged and struck mrs. agrio in the head, killing her instantly,'' the sergeant said
the weapon may have been the officer's firearm, o'dell said
the couple's son, 18-month-old pablolita, apparently slept through the altercation, neighbors said
alma catalina, a recruit correctional officer at the san diego county sheriff's academy, was scheduled to graduate this spring
a moderate offshore earthquake rattled the hawaiian islands but caused no damage or injuries, authorities said
the temblor, measuring 5.5 on the richter scale of ground motion, struck at 5:33 p.m. sunday about 35 miles west of hawaii island. fifteen minutes later, an aftershock of 4.1 was recorded
a 5.2 earthquake hit in the same area two days earlier
the strength of sunday's quake was not great enough to generate a tsunami, or tidal wave, said richard sillcox of the pacific tsunami warning center
the temblor was unrelated to kilauea, the world's most active volcano, which has been in eruption on hawaii island since jan. 3, 1983, said tom wright, scientist in charge of the u.s. geological survey's hawaiian volcano observatory
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude. thus a reading of 5.5 reflects an earthquake 10 times stronger than one of 4.5
an earthquake of 5 can cause considerable damage in a populated area, while a 6 can cause severe damage. the san francisco earthquake of 1906, which occurred before the richter scale was devised, has been estimated at 8.3 on the richter scale
let us not make a mistake. let us not confuse ourselves. they have only signed a cease-fire.'' _ roman catholic cardinal miguel obando y bravo of nicaragua, commenting on the truce between the contras and the sandinistas
the democratic voters are sending a very strong message to the party. the quality of leadership is something they like and admire. this is a referendum on him and a referendum he's winning.'' _ ann lewis, a democratic strategist and informal adviser to the jesse jackson campaign, on jackson's michigan primary victory
i guess the bottom line is whether or not it's ok to kill your wife in front of your children.'' _ gene tranel of eldridge, iowa, brother of a 26-year-old woman killed by her husband, who has regained custody of his children
the chinese government today announced a major overhaul of its bureaucracy to streamline operations, eliminate 10,000 jobs and reduce its role in the direct management of the economy
song ping, state councillor and head of the communist party organization department, outlined proposals under which 14 ministries under the state council will be abolished, one redefined and 10 new ones set up
it will mean a net reduction of five state council organs from the current 45, song told a session of the national people's congress, china's parliament. the 10,000 staffers dropped from the payroll will be transferred to other jobs
the new bodies should be set up within three months after being approved during the current congressional session, but the process of making the state council more efficient and reducing overlapping will take time, song said
the functions of government offices and work methods cannot be changed all at once and a new work order cannot be established at once either,'' he said
song said the reorganization was transitional and will lay the groundwork for further restructuring of the state council, equivalent to china's cabinet
the reorganization will address such problems as too rigid micro-management and insufficient macro-control, overlapping functions, overstaffing, low working efficiency and lack of clarity about duties, the state councillor said
the reforms will reduce the staff directly under the state council from 50,000 to 40,000, he said
the government, as part of reforms to separate the functions of government and business, will no longer manage enterprises directly, as it has under soviet-style central planning, song said. instead, government organs will be responsible for general planning, finances, supervision and regulation
the current annual session of the congress, which convened last week, is also to pass a law guaranteeing the rights of factory managers to run their plants without undue interference from the government
the 10 new bodies to be created are the ministries of personnel, labor, materials, transportation, energy, construction, aeronautics and astronautics industry, water resources, machine building and electronics industry and the state planning commission
that commission, merging the current planning and economic commissions, is to be a powerful body in charge of formulating china's development strategies
song said the new commission will no longer engage in direct management of trade and industrial operations, as the two existing commissions do. the commission is expected to be headed by veteran economic expert and vice premier yao yilin, who heads the current state planning commission
the labor and personnel ministry will be split into two ministries, with the new labor ministry responsible for overseeing reforms in china's labor structure and the personnel ministry in charge of introducing a state civil servant system
the new transportation ministry will combine the ministries of railways and communications and the state air transport control administration
china's antiquated and overtaxed transportation system has come under strong criticism as a result of one air crash and four fatal train crashes this year, killing 277 people
song outlined the proposed energy ministry as encompassing the work of the ministries of coal industry, petroleum industry and nuclear industry
the official xinhua news agency will become a separate institution under the state council. previously it was an administrative organ listed as one of the 45 state council units, he said
he said the 10,000 people to be pared from state council payrolls will be transferred to units handling taxation, finance, prices, auditing, supervision, statistics and law enforcement. many will join companies and institutions engaged in information, consultancy and research, he said
transferring workers to companies will raise efficiency, eliminate bureaucracy and promote the introduction of a civil service system, song said
a six-week-old sedition trial in which white supremacists are accused of plotting to overthrow the government by force could go to the all-white jury this week if the defense completes its case
prosecutors contend the 13 defendants conspired to replace the federal government with an aryan nation. the defendants say the government is trying to silence its critics
the defense started presenting its case last week in the sixth week of the trial and several defendants plan to take the stand
prosecutors predicted when the trial began feb. 16 that they would spend two months and call 200 witnesses, but they rested monday after five weeks and 106 witnesses
u.s. district judge morris arnold has repeatedly reminded the jury, ``mere disagreement with the government is not seditious conspiracy.''
seditious conspiracy, he said, requires two or more persons to plot to bring down the government by actions that produce, or are likely to produce, imminent lawless action
the government contends the sedition defendants robbed, counterfeited, bombed and murdered, and witnesses have testified how money to do so was distributed
a key government witness, unindicted co-conspirator james ellison, led an arkansas white supremacist group _ the covenant, the sword and the arm of the lord _ until his arrest in 1985. he is serving 20 years in prison
ellison said defendant louis ray beam jr. called for war against the government, and that co-defendant robert edward miles provided him with a 30-gallon barrel of cyanide that could be used to poison the water of a large city like washington, d.c., or new york city
beam testified that the real issue in the trial was whether there would be liberty or tyranny. ``in america today, dissidents in some ways are treated as bad as dissidents in the soviet union,'' he said
miles says the government wants to silence him because he's a gadfly. ``sometimes the government gets out its flyswatter,'' miles said
of the 14 defendants originally charged, 10 were accused of seditious conspiracy; one was acquitted for lack of evidence. five defendants, including one of the sedition defendants, are accused of plotting to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent. two sedition defendants are accused of the interstate transportation of stolen money
two men stole a locomotive and took it on a three-mile joyride at speeds up to 50 mph before it derailed, chicago &amp; north western railroad officials said
no injuries were reported in the derailment late saturday on the city's north side, railroad spokesman fred bloedorn said
the unidentified men boarded the 1,500-horsepower, 112-ton freight locomotive at a rail yard and fled after a rail tower operator switched it to another rail yard and it jumped the tracks because of its speed, he said
the 25-year-old locomotive, valued at $100,000 to $150,000, was badly dented when it fell on its side, but crews were not immediately able to determine how much repairs will cost, he said
three prison escapees, including a triple murderer, were back in custody today after allegedly stealing three vehicles, robbing a family and stealing a handgun, authorities said
no injuries were reported in the crime spree sunday
sheriff's officers who had been on the lookout for the inmates since they escaped wednesday spotted them on u.s. 101 near shelton when their southbound car abruptly turned and headed north, said lt. howard armfield of the mason county sheriff's department
with officers in pursuit, the car veered off the highway and onto washington 3, where it was surrounded by five sheriff's vehicles just outside of shelton, about 15 miles northwest of olympia
the prisoners left the car peacefully with their hands behind their heads, leaving the stolen weapon stuffed under a car seat, armfield said
they didn't have anywhere to go and they knew it,'' he said. ``they apparently weren't out to hurt anybody. all they were out for was a ride.''
the inmates were taken to the county jail before being transferred back to the washington corrections center
it was real apparent they didn't have any outside help and they didn't have a plan,'' sheriff bob holter said. ``we didn't know they were still here.''
the men escaped wednesday night after apparently scaling a chain link fence topped with three feet of razor-sharp ``ribbon wire'' near an unoccupied guard tower, prison spokeswoman barbara lovelace said
the inmates hid in a shed near a family's home, armfield said. armed with a gun they found in the shed, they confronted the family, robbed them and stole their truck, he said. they later stole two other cars
the inmates likely will face first-degree escape charges, three counts each of grand theft and three counts each of armed robbery, armfield said
sean stevenson, 17, was convicted of two counts of first-degree murder and one count of aggravated first-degree murder in the deaths of his mother, stepfather and sister. he was serving a life term without possibility of parole
with him were gary curtis van winkle, 17, of seattle, convicted of attempted murder and burglary in king county and patrick j. rice, 23, of north bend, convicted of second-degree burglary and one count of taking a motor vehicle without permission.   
the motion picture industry has presented its scientific and technical academy awards to people who developed new devices or methods that helped improve filmmaking
the scientific and technical oscars were given to 15 recipients during a ceremony sunday night at the beverly hilton hotel. the 60th annual academy awards ceremony is april 11
the awards were given ``for devices, methods, formulas, discoveries or inventions of special and outstanding value to the arts and sciences of motion pictures and employed in the motion picture industry during the awards year,'' according to the academy of motion picture arts and science's board of governors
the selections were based on recommendations made by the academy's scientific or technical awards committee. winners received a statuette, plaque or certificate, depending on the award. previous awards can be upgraded, as three were this year, based on the impact the device has had on the industry since being introduced
the academy award of merit, which earns a statuette for achievements that have influenced and advanced filmmaking, was awarded this year to bernard kuhl and werner block, and to the osram gmbh research and development department
it was given for the invention and continuing improvement of the osram hmi light source for motion picture photography, which has become the standard for daylight illumination photography throughout the world. the recipients previously received a certificate, then a plaque, for the device
the scientific &amp; engineering award is a plaque given for achievements of high levels of engineering of importance to the progress of the industry. it was given this year to:
_willi burth and kinotone corp. for the invention and development of the non-rewind platter system
_montage group for the development, and ronald barker and chester schuler for the invention of the montage picture processor electronic film editing system
_colin mossman and rank film laboratories' development group for an automated handling system for improving the productivity of high-speed film processing
_two to eastman kodak co. for the development of high-speed daylight film, and for the development of high-speed film for traveling matte photography
_fritz gabriel bauer for the invention and development of the improved features of the moviecam camera system
_zoran perisic of courier films ltd. received an upgrading from a 1979 certificate for the zoptic dual-zoom front projection system
_carl zeiss co. also was upgraded from a prior certificate for the design and development of a series of super-speed lenses
the winners of the technical achievement awards receive a certificate for accomplishments that contribute to the progress of the industry. they were awarded to:
_ioan allen of dolby laboratories inc. for the cat.43 playback-only noise reduction unit
_john eppolito, wally gentleman, william mesa, les robley and geoff williamson for refinements to a dual-screen, front-projection image compositing system
_jan jacobsen for the application of a dual-screen, front projection system
_thaine morris and david pier for the development of the dsc spark devices for motion picture special effects
_tadeuz krzanowski of industrial light &amp; magic inc. for the development of the wire rig model support mechanism used to control the movements of miniatures in special effects
_dan norris and tim cook of norris film products for the development of a single-frame exposure system
the rev. jerry falwell has launched a petition drive to press for a presidential pardon for oliver north, saying the government is using the fired national security council aide as a scapegoat in the iran-contra affair
falwell announced the petition drive sunday to his congregation at thomas road baptist church
falwell said north, who was indicted earlier this month for his role in the iran-contra affair, was only following orders and trying to do what a ``spineless congress'' wouldn't do in central america
i decided we didn't have any hope with the independent counsel and the 250 staff members, who are being paid with millions of our tax dollars to hang this man, to imprison this man. we can't win there,'' falwell said, referring to special prosecutor lawrence e. walsh
we can't win in the congress,'' he said. ``we've long since abrogated a congress that has enough statesmen in it to make a difference. the majority of them are more committed to the next election than the next generation
but, we can appeal to the court of public opinion,'' falwell said. ``and i've decided to put together a national pardon petition to the president of the united states, and see if i could find 2 or 3 million people who would sign with me.''
falwell's petition says north, who just retired as a marine corps lieutenant colonel, fought communism in central america and in the process became the object of terrorist death threats
the least our country can do is to free him from the cloud of persecution that hangs over his head and that of his family,'' it says
falwell said he would deliver the signed list personally to reagan
in an interview following the church service, falwell said he expects critics to accuse him of once again using his position to influence governmental matters. he said, however, he is not acting in his capacity as the leader of the church or or the moral majority
i'm doing this only as a citizen who appreciates what this man has done for me and my children,'' he said. territory</head> iraqi jets, iranian rebels claim attack. updates with more details on ship attacks, kurd protests. pickup 16th graf pvs ``iran's prime...''; edits to trim.</note>
iran said today its revolutionary guards killed or wounded 300 iraqis in a battle in northeast iraq and now hold more than 500 square miles of the strategic kurdistan region
also today, iran attacked two supertankers in the persian gulf, setting them ablaze, and iraqi-backed rebels claimed several thousand of their fighters attacked iranian troops in southwest iran
iraq has admitted losing some territory in kurdistan. if the iranian claim is confirmed, it would mark iraq's biggest military setback in the 7{-year-old war since the iranians battled to within six miles of basra 13 months ago
iran said its troops in kurdistan were within three miles of a hydroelectric dam supplying most of the power for the region as well as electricity for baghdad, the iraqi capital. the fighting also was reportedly within 70 miles of oilfields producing more than half of iraq's total output, vital to the country's war effort
the official islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, said the iranians _ who have thrust into the kurdistan mountains in a 13-day-old offensive _ ``fiercely repelled'' a counter-attack by iraq's 5th army corps around lake darbandikhan during the night
amid another wave of iraqi air raids on towns in western iran, the iranians said their fighter planes shot down two iraqi warplanes in the kurdistan battle zone today
the iraqi-backed iranian rebels said their national liberation army launched a major offensive on a 14-mile front in iran's khuzestan province near the town of shush
the rebels claimed in a communique issued in baghdad that 15 brigades pushed across the border to drive iranian forces out of positions and were threatening a highway southwest of the garrison city of dezful
the communique reported heavy iranian casualties with ``a large number of tanks captured.'' there was no independent confirmation
the iranian rebels said the assault involved several thousand fighters and was the biggest it mounted since it launched a campaign against the iranian regime a year ago
in the gulf, iranian gunboats today attacked the 337,733-ton danish supertanker karama maersk off the southern emirate of sharjah, setting it on fire, gulf-based shipping executives reported
lloyd's shipping intelligence unit reported there were no casualties on the vessel
three hours later, the gunboats attacked the 219,287-ton norwegian-operated tanker golar kansai in the same area and set it ablaze, said the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity
it was not immediately known if there were any casualties aboard the norwegian tanker. salvage tugs went to aid the stricken vessels
also today, iran's official islamic republic news agency said two u.n. officials, dr. manuel carmona and james holger, arrived in tehran to probe iraq's alleged use of chemical weapons against three kurdish towns in iraq
the iranians claimed 5,000 iraqi kurds were killed and 5,000 injured two weeks ago when iraqi warplanes dropped cyanide and mustard gas bombs on the towns after they had been captured in the iranian offensive
the reported chemical attacks sparked protests in the west. in washington about 100 people stoned the iraqi embassy and about 50 kurds protested outside an iraqi mission in vienna on sunday
in london today, about 200 kurds ended a peaceful candelight vigil outside the u.s. embassy but refused to hand over a petition demanding u.s. action after embassy officials declined to meet with them
iranian prime minister hussein musavi was quoted today by irna as saying iran's offensive in iraq ``has brought the possibility of an iranian military victory and punishment of the aggressor closer.''
the agency quoted revolutionary guards minister mohsen rafiq-doust as saying in tehran after a cabinet meeting sunday that the iranians have overrun 540 square miles of iraqi territory
the iranians have pushed about 15 miles into the lake darbandikhan area, iranian communiques said. they claim to have killed or wounded nearly 13,500 iraqis, captured more than 5,000 and destroyed 225 tanks and armored vehicles in fighting since march 16
the iranians said they have seized the eastern and southern shores of lake darbandikhan, cutting off large number of iraqis
iran reported its troops were within three miles of the hydroelectric dam on the southern end of the 10-mile-long lake after capturing the shaakh shamshir heights overlooking the dam
iran said the front line lies 70 miles east of the kirkuk oilfields, which produce 1.5 million barrels of oil a day
twenty-six journalists were killed last year while covering the news, a jump of 11 over 1986, according to a report by a journalists' group. eleven of the deaths occurred in the philippines
the report released sunday by the committee to protect journalists also listed 59 assaults on journalists and more than 185 arrests or kidnappings of journalists
eleven journalists were forced to leave their own countries under threats, and 32 foreign journalists were expelled from the countries where they were working, the committee also said
these figures are a grim reminder that even in the midst of a worldwide communications revolution, some still feel the temptation to kill the messenger,'' said committee chairman josh friedman
in 1986, the committee documented the killings of 15 journalists, 56 assaults and more than 190 arrests or kidnappings. another 37 journalists were expelled, and eight left countries under threat
in the philippines, the committee said, most attacks against journalists ``took place within a series of retaliatory actions perpetrated by guerillas on one side, and military and paramilitary (or vigilante) personnel on the other.''
five of the 11 killed in the philippines, more than any other country, were killed aug. 27 by armed men who broke into a radio station. the victims reportedly had ties with an anti-communist radio commentator
the committee to protect journalists is a non-profit, non-partisan organization founded in 1981 by a group of american reporters and editors
an uneasy truce reigned between surfers and fishermen after the two sides fought over the right to use the waters around a popular jetty
the two groups hurled obscenities, bottles, lead sinkers and fists at each other friday after surfers accused fishermen of deliberately casting their hooks and lines too close to them
the brevard county sheriff's office broke up the fight and posted a deputy on the disputed jetty at sebastian inlet state recreational park, which lies about 80 miles southeast of orlando. there were no arrests
deputy jeff ludwig said fishermen often cast off the jetty's north railing while surfers frequently come within 10 years of the jetty. but ludwig reported no problems over the weekend as surfers stayed 40 yards north of the jetty while fishermen cast their lines mostly from the south side
it's probably because i'm standing here,'' ludwig said
tom cross, 32, a surfer from nearby melbourne beach, agreed
i think with that sheriff's deputy out there on the jetty, people are going to be a little more careful how they cast,'' cross said
fishermen claim the jetty is the best fishing spot around and say surfers can ride the waves elsewhere
people should show a little consideration for one another,'' said gary hoover, who admitted he intentionally hooked a surfer once for entering his fishing spot
it's ridiculous,'' said hoover, 27, of nearby satellite beach. ``you've only got how many miles of beach in florida and only a couple of spots where fishermen like to fish. i don't think they should be surfing this close to the jetty.'' `while pflug ...,' to correct that bullet was not removed from brain.</note>
jackie pflug suffered permanent brain damage when she was shot in the head and left for dead by arab terrorists during a 1985 airplane hijacking in malta. today, she's able to say she's glad it happened
it's ``not a hijacking story. it's a story of survival, of learning about yourself,'' said pflug, 32, whose brain injury impaired her ability to read, wiped out her short-term memory and caused epileptic seizures
in the 2{ years since the hijacking, pflug says she has learned to accept the fact that she lived while 59 other people, including four of the five hijackers, died. and she has learned to love her new self
now she is taking a year's leave of absence from her job teaching learning-disabled children and first-graders in nearby wayzata to tell her story on the lecture circuit
pflug, a teacher at the american school in cairo, where her husband, scott, also taught, was returning to cairo from athens when the egyptair jetliner was hijacked on nov. 24, 1985, just 15 minutes into the flight
the worst moment, pflug said, was the very first one
the man stood up with the gun and the grenades. he was grimacing and pulling at the grenades with his mouth and i had the realization that this was a hijacking and i thought, `we're going to blow up in the air,''' she said
after the plane landed, pflug was among two israelis and three americans who were tied and taken to the front of the plane one by one. they were each shot, and their bodies pushed out the door onto the pavement
pflug, one of two americans who survived the shootings, was hit in the back ot the head but the bullet failed to penetrate her skull. she lay still on the pavement for five hours before maltese workers were allowed to remove the bodies to the morgue, where workers turned her over and found she was alive
they started screaming, `she's alive.' i said, `are you the good guys or the bad guys?''' pflug recalled
while pflug underwent surgery in malta to have the bullet removed from her skull and bits of bone from her brain, egyptian commandos stormed the plane as hijackers tossed grenades at the passengers and the pilot killed the terrorist leader with a fire ax. when it was over, 59 people were dead
pflug was later transferred to a hospital in west germany, then came to minnesota, where her husband's parents live, for more treatment at university of minnesota hospital
i'm classified as severely disabled. it's a hidden handicap because i look so normal that people can't tell there's anything wrong with me. it appears as if i'm not listening,'' pflug told the star tribune of minneapolis
her epileptic seizures are controlled by medication and pflug is able to teach again, but her husband grades the papers because her reading ability is impaired
the psychological problems caused by the hijacking have been difficult to overcome, pflug said, but therapy has helped
pflug said not a day has gone by that she hasn't thought about the hijacking
i see a man who looks like one of the hijackers. or i hear a voice like one of the children on the plane. or i see a gun,'' said pflug. but those thoughts have been changing lately, partly the result of therapy, she said
i think about it, but it doesn't get under my skin in the same way. it doesn't control me. i control it,'' she said
now pflug wants to share her experiences with others in hopes that she can help them. ``i'd like to motivate people to take charge of their lives because life is just so wonderful. i know that now,'' she said
so yes, i am glad it happened. i know, that's a pretty bold thing to say. but you have to go through the bad part to get to the good.''
gunmen seriously wounded the mayor of a manila suburb and killed seven of his bodyguards today in the bloodiest attack in the capital blamed on communist rebels. gunmen also shot dead a businessman
police said mayor prospero oreta of suburban malabon suffered three gunshot wounds in the mouth, chest and arm but was out of danger after surgery. seven of his bodyguards died in the attack and another was in serious condition
the ambush occurred as military units in various parts of the country were on full alert in anticipation of stepped up rebel attacks marking tuesday's 19th founding anniversary of the now 24,000-member communist new people's army
seven hours after the ambush, three men in a car shot a businessman while he was driving in suburban quezon city, just north of manila, police said. the victim, who died at a hospital, was identified as francisco castro
police said they had no idea who his attackers were or what their motive was. but the victim's brother, jose castro, vice president of the manila chapter of the leftist people's party, told reporters he believed he was the real target
radio and newspaper reports said police manila had received a call from the alex boncayao brigade, the communist guerrilla unit operating in the manila area, claiming responsibility for the ambush on oreta. police declined to confirm the reports
armed forces spokesman col. oscar florendo confirmed such a call had been received, but added the army could not yet say if the guerrilla unit was behind the attack
the alex boncayao brigade has been blamed for the killings of more than 150 policemen and soldiers in daylight ambushes on manila's streets since last year. before today, the attacks have killed one or two people. the rebels had announced they would soon kill officials as well as police and soldiers
president corazon aquino said she was ``shocked and saddened by these acts of violence.''
i have always asked our people to resort to the ways of peace,'' she said in a statement. ``my hope is that as democracy in our country gains a strong foothold, violence and terror will gradually rescind.''
investigators said oreta and his party were riding in a van and a car to a flag-raising ceremony at the malabon town hall when six men waiting at an intersection opened fire with automatic weapons
cpl. mario odulio said the killers were armed with ak-47 and m-16 automatic assault rifles as well as 9-mm and .45-caliber pistols. police recovered more than 40 spent shells at the scene, odulio said. he said the killers escaped aboard a van and a jeep
police said they believed the killers belonged to the sparrow unit, an assassination squad of the new people's army, but were also looking into the possibility local politics was involved
malabon, a fishing community in manila's northern suburbs, was among the places where last january's local elections were hotly contested
oreta is a brother-in-law of rep. tessie oreta, younger sister of mrs. aquino's assassinated husband, former sen. benigno s. aquino jr
a man on trial for attempted capital murder and aggravated robbery fired his attorney because she wasn't making enough courtroom mistakes and took up his own defense, the lawyer said
jerome anthony johnson, 23, who studied criminal justice in college, fired yung-sung choe because she ``wasn't making enough `reversible errors''' that would help him get a new trial in an appeals court, ms. choe said friday
he said he planned it even before he was arrested,'' she said. ``he told people, `if they catch me, this is what i'm going to do.'''
johnson was sentenced friday to 47 years in prison, half what he could have received
it came out good then,'' johnson told ms. choe after state district judge frances maloney read the jury's verdict
johnson was charged with robbing a 53-year-old woman and her 80-year-old mother in november. neither woman was injured, but prosecutors said johnson accidentally shot an accomplice as he fired at one of the women
about noon wednesday, johnson interrupted ms. choe's cross-examination of a witness and asked maloney to allow him to represent himself
dressed in a suit, johnson questioned several witnesses and objected to actions by the prosecution before explaining to ms. choe what he planned
i couldn't let him commit fraud upon the court,'' ms. choe said. so she told the judge
maloney sent the jury out of the room and told johnson he couldn't make intentional mistakes to build grounds for an appeal
i explained to him that normally a person could not deliberately make an error and then profit by that error,'' maloney said. ``after explaining all that, i said, `do you understand?' and he wouldn't answer me.''
for the next day and a half, johnson stayed silent and allowed the prosecution to proceed with no interuptions. when the verdict came in, johnson was happy and the court reporter congratulated him
weird things happen,'' maloney said. ``that's why there are courts, i guess.'' cq in 9th graf.</note>
in a pittsburgh boardinghouse in 1911, the children and grandchildren of slavery grapple with a world that won't let them forget the past and denies them the future
it is the setting for ``joe turner's come and gone,'' august wilson's heartfelt and haunting tale of a church deacon's obsessive search for his missing wife as well as for his identity as a black man
the play, which opened sunday at broadway's ethel barrymore theater, is wilson's third work to arrive in new york since 1984. following ``ma rainey's black bottom'' and ``fences,'' it reaffirms and enlarges his reputation as a major american playwright
joe turner'' is wilson's most ambitious play. in it, he blends african mysticism with compelling, naturalistic drama. the production, beautifully directed by lloyd richards, is rich in poetry, humor and an almost visionary sense of time, place and character
the story unfolds slowly. wilson weaves his spell gradually. it's his steady accumulation of detail that fascinates and finally mesmerizes
some memorable figures live in this homey boardinghouse, run by seth holly, an ambitious entrepreneur, and his hard-working, good-natured wife, bertha. the audience gets to know them all. in this play, more so than in ``ma rainey'' or ``fences,'' even the minor characters have lives of their own
chief among the boardinghouse inhabitants is bynum walker, a self-styled ``conjurin' man'' who believes in incantations, the beneficial effects of roots and herbs, blood sacrifice and voodoo. he is a link to a black man's african past, although his magic has been americanized. bynum sacrifices the neighbor's pigeons and uses weeds from seth's garden as healing herbs
also living in the house is jeremy furlow, a hot-headed young man, recently arrived from the south and not yet aware that things won't be much different up north. he takes up with mattie campbell, a frail woman who visits the voodoo man for help in finding her lost mate and decides to stay instead. she stands in contrast to another resident, molly cunningham, a resolutely realistic woman who knows she can't expect much out of life
into the lives of these transients comes a strange, menacing man wearing a long black coat and traveling with his young daughter. herald loomis is looking for his wife, martha. the couple was separated years earlier when loomis was forced into a chain gang by the infamous, real-life bounty hunter, joe turner
loomis believes his wife is in the pittsburgh area. with the help of bynum and a white traveling salesman named rutherford selig, he intends to find her
the deacon, described aptly by bynum as ``a man in search of his own song,'' is the play's most disturbing character. it's his story that brings each of the play's two acts to dramatic conclusions. at the end of act 1, the stage erupts in a joyous religious dance called a ``juba.'' during this mystical and spiritual frenzy, loomis has visions of the not-so-distant past, a time of slavery and ``bones walking on water.''
it's not until the second act that loomis finally confronts his wife and then slashes himself with a knife to exorcise the ghosts of long ago. it's not a sacrifice but rather a cleansing, enabling loomis to face the future. whether he and his wife will be able to pick up the pieces of their severed marriage is unclear but at least they will be able to try
richards, who also directed ``fences'' and ``ma rainey,'' gets some fine ensemble work out of his large cast. particularly impressive are delroy lindo as the tormented deacon, ed hall as the homespun magic man and mel winkler as the exasperated boardinghouse owner. wilson has also written a tender, funny scene for two children, and richards has coaxed two beautiful performances from richard parnell habersham and jamila perry
the warm, solid boardinghouse setting by scott bradley is capped by a splendid rooftop view of pittsburgh and a bridge spanning the entire stage. it's an evocative reminder that most of the people in this home are travelers, displaced from the south and still not comfortable in the north
joe turner's come and gone'' is one more piece in the mosaic wilson is creating about black life in 20th century america, one play for each decade. ``fences'' is set in the 1950s, while ``ma rainey'' takes place in the 1920s. ``joe turner'' may be set even further in the past, but it is a play that resonates with such feeling that it leaps across the years to speak powerfully and movingly to today
among other critics, frank rich of the new york times said that wilson ``has once again shown us how in another man's freedom we find our own.'' the play is wilson's ``most profound and theatrically adventurous telling of his story to date,'' rich wrote
here is a lovely, moving play that carries you with it like a matchbox on a flood,'' wrote clive barnes of the new york post
linda winer of new york newsday was equally impressed. ``joe turner'' is august wilson's ``best play yet _ which means it's a stunner,'' she wrote. the play has ``a breadth that connects the dots of neglected history into a picture we will never forget again.''
but howard kissel of the daily news said while there are ``scenes of great power,'' ``you feel that in his eagerness to envision a place where reconcilations abound, wilson has minimized the conflict the characters and the period require.'' charges ^eds: corrects dateline to baton rouge, where arrested occurred.</head>
howard rollins jr., co-star of the nbc series ``heat of the night,'' was arrested on drug and traffic charges after being stopped for going more than 100 mph on an interstate, authorities said
a state trooper who stopped the actor early sunday said he found two bags of a rock-like substance suspected of being cocaine in rollins' coat pockets. rollins' blood alcohol level also was above the legal limit for intoxication, according to a breath test, he said
the actor was charged with possessing cocaine, first-offense drunken driving and speeding, and was released on $5,000 bond
there was no answer to a telephone call to rollins' room at the hammond holiday inn
rollins, who co-starred as chief of detectives virgil tibbs in the two-hour television remake of ``heat of the night'' and in a six-part series of the same name, had a commission as a sheriff's deputy, said senior trooper allen coburn, who arrested the actor
he had a badge holder with a livingston parish sheriff's office badge and a full commission from the sheriff,'' coburn said. ``he didn't say anything about it, but he made sure i saw it while he was getting his driver's license.''
rollins, 37, of baltimore, told police he was in hammond to make a movie. ``heat of the night'' was filmed in hammond
coburn said he spotted rollins' car traveling east on interstate 12 at a little over 100 mph. rollins pulled his car to the side of the interstate and offered no resistance, coburn said
he took his coat off while doing the sobriety test. after the test, i picked up the coat, checked the pockets for weapons and found two bags of suspected cocaine,'' coburn said. each bag appeared to hold about one-eighth of an ounce of a rock-like substance, he said
coburn said a breath test indicated that rollins' blood alcohol level was 0.15 percent. the law sets intoxication as 0.10 percent or more
rollins' court date probably will be set in six to eight weeks
in addition to ``heat of the night,'' in which carroll o'connor co-stars, rollins' films include ``ragtime'' in 1981, in which he was nominated for an academy award for best supporting actor, and ``a soldier's story'' in 1984
in 1985, rollins starred as a ruthless cocaine dealer in the television movie ``the children of times square.''
bison roam a grassy prairie on a new postal card being issued today in buffalo, wyoming, the u.s. postal service reports
the card will be the first to carry the new 15-cent postage rate for cards, which takes effect sunday
it is the first in a new ``america the beautiful'' series of postal cards being issued by the postal service. the design of bison with mountains in the background was adapted from a painting by bart forbes of dallas. to delete superfluous word.</note>
when he was down and out, on the heels of the donna rice scandal, gary hart quit the democratic campaign and, in practically the same breath, made the case for something called ``national service.''
i would say to the young people of this country, the torch of idealism burns bright in your hearts,'' said hart. ``it should lead you to public service and national service. it should lead you to want to make this country better.''
that was may 1987. on feb. 29, 1988, hart was back in the race but as evidenced at the polls, no one was really listening
and so the call for ``national service'' was hardly a burning issue when sen. sam nunn addressed the democratic leadership council in williamsburg, va. _ and urged the setting up of a ``citizens corps'' to perform voluntary national service
the plan could well emerge as a cornerstone of the democratic presidential campaign, the 1988 version of john kennedy's 1960 call to create a peace corps to perform good work overseas
it's a ``something for something'' approach to government
young people would commit themselves to public service _ be it military service or civilian social service _ in return for living expenses plus a $10,000-a-year voucher. ``like the g.i. bill,'' nunn said, the benefits could be used to cover school costs, vocational training or a home-ownership subsidy
the proposal is not new to the presidential campaign. not only was it one of hart's cornerstone ``new ideas,'' but paul simon and bruce babbitt also embraced the concept in their campaigns, and on the republican side, alexander haig jr. proposed such a program before he dropped out
hart, babbitt, simon, nunn and haig. all well and good. but the proposal won't go anywhere unless one of the nominees adopts it as his own and the democratic leadership council has laid considerable groundwork
the dlc is the group of moderate democrats who helped dream up the southern regional primaries and hoped the 1988 process would swing the democratic party into the political center
i am convinced that national service can revitalize the spirit of civic responsibility and enterprise that built this nation and remains its greatest strength,'' nunn said
among the goals of the dlc program, nunn said, are:
_to increase the number of military volunteers and help remedy ``some of our most urgent social problems, like widespread illiteracy and inadequate child care and health care.''
_``offer a decentralized and non-bureaucratic way to deliver human services to needy citizens.''
_``the dlc plan would link federal student aid to national service,'' he said, contending the program thus would be a ``road to opportunity and upward mobility for our young people.''
anticipating the first question about such a plan, nunn added, ``such a program, of course, won't be free. nothing worthwhile ever is
i believe, however, that a large portion of the costs of this program (estimated in some quarters at $6 billion a year) can be financed by shifting federal funds already being expended on student aid.'' in the long run, he said, ``the program, like the g.i. bill, will return huge revenues to the treasury because every additional college graduate in america will earn $640,000 more over their working life as compared to someone who doesn't go to college.''
nunn's concept and the idealistic appeal from hart recall kennedy's peace corps, an enduring element of his legacy even 25 years after his death
editor's note: jonathan wolman is the ap's assistant bureau chief in washington. case.</note>
police in west germany and switzerland have arrested 11 people suspected of spying for the soviet union, authorities said today
german federal prosecutor kurt rebmann said 10 people were taken into custody in west germany last week. in switzerland, the swiss federal prosecutor's office said today a foreigner had been arrested last wednesday
rebmann said six of the 10 suspects captured in west germany remained in jail today, including two teachers, three engineers and a businessman
swiss prosecutors said they had launched a criminal probe into activities of the arrested foreigner, an engineer living in zurich. the suspect was arrested on a tip from west germany, prosecutors said, declining to disclose his name or nationality
rebmann called the arrests ``a heavy blow against the kgb,'' the kremlin's main intelligence agency
speaking at a news conference, he said the west german arrests occurred wednesday and thursday in police raids on 33 different locations. a total of 169 police carried out the raids, rebmann said
two of the suspects _ identified only as doctors _ were freed shortly after police took them into custody, he said. two other suspects were freed in the following days, but the investigation against the four was continuing, he said
rebmann said three of the jailed suspects were soviet emigres, but none were soviet citizens
he said the arrests marked ``an important penetration of the kgb spy network in west germany.''
rebmann also said a government secretary arrested march 18 on suspicion of spying had been working for the kgb. it was the first time the woman, elke falk, was linked to the soviets
ms. falk worked in federal ministries for several years and had access to secret information
gerhard boeden, president of the federal ministry for the protection of the constitution _ the west german counter-intelligence agency _ said west german intelligence officials had developed new ways to uncover east bloc spies. he refused to elaborate
west german authorities identified 15 communist agents between august and december 1985. some were arrested, others escaped
rebmann identified the six jailed suspects as 44-year-old businessman helmut stefan kolasch; a colombian engineer identified by rebmann only as ``amaya;'' peter friesen, a 33-year-old engineer; george bender, 37, also an engineer; shimon or, a 48-year-old teacher; and another teacher, edmund neufert, 37
friesen, bender and neufert are soviet emigres, rebmann said. all six suspects had been living in west germany, he said
kolasch allegedly gave the kgb technological secrets about nato's tornado and jaeger warplanes while working for firms dealing with the aircraft, rebmann said
kolasch has been working for the kgb since 1971, rebmann said
rebmann said amaya also handed over unidentified technical documents, friesen spied on west german political parties, bender reported to the kgb about an electronics concern he worked for and neufert spied on students while teaching russian at the foreign ministry's language-training office
rebmann said or ``reported (to the kgb) on his own life and work,'' but he did not provide details
the suspects apparently were operating individually, rebmann said
demonstrators angered by reported iraqi chemical weapons attacks on kurds forced their way into the iraqi embassy in vienna today, smashing windows and pushing around embassy workers. police said 64 protesters were arrested
six shots were fired, but police said no injuries were reported
as many as 70 people took part in the demonstration, which began at 10:20 a.m., police and demonstrators said. the arrests ended the protest two hours later
a demonstrator told austrian radio a delegation wanted to speak to iraqi officials to protest the use of chemical weapons in the iran-iraq war
iran said last week that the iraqi air force dropped cyanide and mustard gas bombs on three kurdish towns in iraq, killing 5,000 kurds and injuring 5,000 other people. the attacks on the towns, which had been captured in an iranian offensive, occurred march 16 and 17
police said some demonstrators forced their way into the building and ``shoved'' embassy personnel, but embassy security guards forced the protesters out of the building
the demonstrator, who was not identified, told austrian radio that a man with a machine gun, apparently an embassy security guard, fired shots into the streets from inside the embassy building
police said at least six shots had been fired inside the building
demonstrators smashed windows at the embassy, police and demonstrators said
the iraqi embassy refused to comment on the incident
in london, meanwhile, hundreds of kurds protesting iraq's alleged use of chemical weapons held a vigil outside the u.s. embassy but left today without delivering their petition. the chemical attacks also sparked protests in washington on sunday in which about 100 people stoned the iraqi embassy
two u.n. officials reportedly arrived in tehran today to investigate the attacks on the kurdish towns
about 220 of the 500 kurds who marched through central london late sunday spent the night outside the grosvenor square embassy, scotland yard reported. both the march and the candlelight vigil were peaceful
an iraqi embassy press officer in london said the kurds refused to give their petition to an official who met them this morning
the demonstrators wanted to engage in a dialogue with somebody rather than just have somebody passively received a petition,'' the press officer said, speaking on the condition of anonymity
he said there was no one available at the embassy to speak with the kurds ``so they refused to hand in their petition.''
scotland yard reported the demonstrators arrived at the embassy about 2:30 a.m. after a three-hour march and rally. the embassy said they left about 11 a.m
the demonstrators said many of them had lost relatives in chemical weapons attacks. forces</head> up 4th graf, `police and soldiers ...' edits to tighten. march scheduled to begin at 3 p.m. est.</note>
the mayors of panama city and its largest suburb today threatened to crack down on a mass demonstration aimed at ousting gen. manuel antonio noriega and ending the worst crisis in the nation's history
in a communique published in this morning's state-run newspapers, the mayors said they had instructed ``competent authorities'' to enforce a ban on public demonstrations
those authorities are the police and soldiers commanded by noriega
but opposition leaders said they would proceed with plans for the afternoon protest march and called the ban illegal
the protest march comes at the start of the second week of a general strike that has shut down an estimated 90 percent of the nation's industry and commerce, further aggravating a critical cash shortage
on palm sunday, roman catholic church leaders said government authorities ``fear this explosion of sentiments'' and appealed to both sides to show restraint. the church leaders said in a statement they would send observers to today's march in panama city to try to keep the peace
police and soldiers, under noriega who heads the 15,000-member defense forces, have suppressed recent demonstrations with tear gas and shotguns
also sunday, the social security institute said it will pay its 55,000 retirees up to $150 of their semi-monthly pension benefits this week. they had threatened to join today's march if they didn't receive their payments
last week, the government was without money to pay the members of the defense forces and faces another $33 million payroll for its 130,000 civilian employees this week, raising the possibility of intensified protests
in washington, elliott abrams, the assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, predicted on sunday that many of the marchers will be ``members of the families of the defense forces.''
the government on sunday expelled a reporter for the french news agency agence france press because his visa had been issued a panamanian consular official in washington loyal to deposed president eric arturo delvalle
opposition figures crticized the government for its planned crackdown on the demonstration
peaceful protest is a right written in the constitution,'' opposition leader jose faundes said sunday. ``it is above any decree, any law.''
we hope they realize they cannot repress the will of the people,'' said aurelio barria, a leader of the national civic crusade, a coalition of more than 200 business, professional, labor and student groups. ``this will be a physical expression of protest against noriega.''
the crusade said the march would begin in front of the church of don bosco near the center of panama city and proceed to a park about half a mile away
the latest government crisis began last month when the noriega controlled leislative assembly deposed delvalle after he tried to fire noriega
noriega had recently been indicted in florida on drug trafficking charges
the united states responded to delvalle's ouster by freezing panamanian assets in the united states and reiterating its support for delvalle as the chief executive. president reagan has also called on noriega to resign
there were violent demonstrations 12 days ago after the goverment was unable to meet payrolls and a small group of disenchanted defense forces officers staged an unsuccessful coup against noriega
in its toughest action, soldiers loyal to noriega seized two major flour mills saturday, including a plant owned by the general mills corp., and confiscated 1.3 million pounds of ground wheat and corn valued at $227,500
owners of the mills had responded to a government announcement of its plan to confiscate their plants by saying they would instead donate their entire stocks of flour to the catholic church's food program for the poor
the church quickly thanked the mills ``for such a humanitarian gesture,'' but soldiers seized the plants and moved the flour to government warehouses before it could be delivered to caritas, the church's welfare agency
also saturday, soldiers reopened panama city's balboa port, where workers had built barricades during their strike that began march 13. the port is at the pacific entrance of the panama canal, which continues to operate normally
a rain storm whipped through central argentina, killing at least 21 people and forcing 59,000 to leave their homes, civil defense officials said today
at least 11 children drowned as floodwaters in some low-lying areas near buenos aires reached up to six feet. several other people were electrocuted while crossing flooded streets where live electrical wires had fallen, authorities said
authorities said the storm, which lasted for four days, ended today
among the hardest hit areas were quilmes, avellaneda and lomas de zamora south of buenos aires. horse-drawn carts, makeshift rafts and boats were used to evacuate residents. some people took refuge on the roofs of their homes, officials said
evacuees were taken to emergency shelters in churches, schools, sports clubs and office buildings. health authorities have warned of a possible outbreak of hepatitis following the storm
gov. buddy roemer says the unprecedented authority given him by the legislature to repair the state's finances will be tempered by compassion and his awareness that lawmakers are looking over his shoulder
budget officials worked through the weekend to come up with a list of proposed cuts to present to roemer today after the legislature wound up a special session by approving the emergency bills. the governor was expected to sign the package today
the budgetary authority is aimed at meeting a fiscal crisis which threatens to bankrupt the state
in addition to giving roemer power to cut entire state programs and close institutions through june 30, the end of the fiscal year, lawmakers granted the administration the right to raise fees for state services without public hearings or legislative oversight
after lawmakers finished work saturday, roemer said the temporary budget authority will be tempered ``by my compassion and good sense that they (legislators) will be coming back in three and a half weeks to look over my shoulder.''
the governor said he was aiming for $50 million in spending cuts for the remaining quarter of the fiscal year and $22 million in fee increases
the rest of the $200 million deficit expected this fiscal year will be met by issuing short-term bonds or delaying payments for services rendered to the state, roemer said. he also said layoffs of an undetermined number of state employees would be needed
over a full year, the spending cuts would total about $200 million if the legislature did not change them during its regular session beginning in april, while the fee hikes would bring in about $88 million, he said
those are the targets. i don't know if i will be able to reach either,'' he said
commissioner of administration brian kendrick said budget officials worked through the weekend to come up with the list of proposed cuts
kendrick also said work would begin on the new louisiana recovery corp., created by the legislature to govern a statewide taxing district that could impose up to a 1 percent sales tax. the tax would finance the issuance of bonds that would pay off the state's $1.3 billion long-term debt
the administration-dominated commission cannot issue bonds or impose the levy until the legislature drops the same amount from the current 4-cent state sales tax
the administration will ask the louisiana supreme court to rule on the consitutionality of the commission. if it does not pass legal muster, the state will use short-term bonds to finance the debt, kendrick said
those are the only two ways out,'' he said
the supreme court today refused to hear an appeal by former new york city political boss meade esposito, who sought to prevent public disclosure of certain court documents
the justices, without comment, let stand a ruling challenged by esposito, the former brooklyn democratic boss convicted of giving illegal gratuities to rep. mario biaggi, d-n.y
esposito sought to conceal information contained in pretrial requests he and biaggi made to suppress wiretap evidence obtained by federal law enforcement officials
the new york times, the new york daily news and the associated press asked that the information be made public
the 2nd u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled in favor of the news organizations in january
the appeals court said revealing the information, with some deletions made by a federal judge, would not violate esposito's privacy rights
esposito was convicted last sept. 22 of giving, and biaggi of accepting, illegally gratuities in the form of free vacations
in a separate prosecution, biaggi is on trial in new york city with six others accused of turning the wedtech corporation into a racketeering enterprise that paid millions of dollars in bribes to get government contracts
in the appeal acted on today, esposito said allowing public disclosure of the documents from the biaggi-esposito case would have an unconstitutional chilling effect on all defendants
it could prevent defendants from making pretrial motions to suppress evidence for fear that information contained in the motions would be made public, esposito said
the case is esposito vs. new york times, 87-1319
the supreme court today refused to revive a $300 million copyright-infringement lawsuit against the creators and marketers of trivial pursuit, a popular board game
the court, without comment, rejected arguments by the author of several encyclopedias on trivia that many of the questions contained in the board game infringed on his copyright works
trivial pursuit, a game utilizing question-and-answer cards, was conceived in 1979 by chris haney and scott abbot, who along with john haney developed the concept
in 1981, the three joined with ed werner in forming a canadian corporation, horn abbott ltd., to market the game. abbot and chris haney assigned their rights to the corporation, and horn abbot lt. obtained a canadian copyright in the game
in late 1982, horn abbot contracted with selchow &amp; righter co. to distribute the game in the united states, and by the end of 1984 sales had reached $256 million
fred worth, a california resident who had authored two volumes of ``the complete unabridged super trivia encyclopedia,'' sued the two corporations and the four canadians behind horn abbot in late 1984
his lawsuit alleged that the genus, silver screen and baby boomer editions of trivial pursuit _ each containing 6,000 questions and answers _ were guilty of copyright infringement
for example, worth contended that 1,675 of the genus edition's 6,000 questions were taken from his first encyclopedia volume
the trivial pursuit creators did not deny consulting worth's books in developing the board game, but they said his books were among numerous reference sources used
a federal trial judge in los angeles, upheld by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals last september, threw out the suit
the appeals court ruled that there was no ``substantial similarity'' between worth's books and the trivial pursuit question-and-answer cards
the case is worth vs. selchow &amp; righter co., 87-1268
floodwaters burst through dikes on the danube river and the rhine river was rising fast today as hundred of people were evacuated from their homes
emergency workers were working to strengthen the earthen dikes along the danube. the rhine was rising about an inch an hour in some locations today, threatening homes and businesses in cologne, bonn and other communities
major rivers across west germany have been flooding for about two weeks but heavy rains over the weekend worsened the situation
the rising rhine forced authorites to close parts of a highway between mainz and koblenz and disrupted trains in the area
officials said about 1,400 people were evacuated sunday night and early today after the danube burst through several dikes near regensburg, about 45 miles north of munich
hundreds of cows, pigs and other farm animals were also taken to higher ground to escape rising waters, authorities added
hans voggenreiter, spokesman for the rescue operation, said it was the worst flooding in the area since 1920
people were evacuated with rowboats and powerboats,'' said voggenreiter. ``most of them were taken in by relatives and friends. the rest are being cared for in schools and public auditoriums.''
floodwaters had also entered parts of regensburg itself, as well as sections of passau, 80 miles to the east
officials said flooding along the neckar and mosel rivers was receding, but the rhine continued to climb
riverside sidewalks and some streets in bonn, the federal capital, had disappeared beneath the water
residents of large villas that line the rhine in the bonn district of bad godesberg, home to many embassies and ambassadors' residents, were using pumps to dry out their flooded cellars
groundwater is coming through (cellar) seams all over the city,'' said an emergency official who asked not to be identified. ``but we're keeping our cool.'' ...,' with hatcher a candidate in forsyth county, not robeson.</note>
community leaders appealed for calm after the slaying of an activist who had sought to become the first indian judge in racially tense robeson county, but two other candidates reported receiving death threats
julian pierce, 42, was killed in his home early saturday by three shotgun blasts fired at point-blank range, in what authorities called the first assassination of a candidate for political office in the state. no arrests have been made
since the killing, pierce's opponent in the judgeship race and a friend of pierce running for office in forsyth county have reported receiving death threats, the charlotte observer said today
the rev. joy johnson of the first baptist church said sunday he hoped the crime could be solved ``before the heat rises and before there is a war.''
we've had a calm night and day, but it will take at least a few more days until the tension is out of the air,'' said johnson, who along with other community leaders appealed to residents on sunday to avoid violence. ``anything could spark something. i hope that doesn't happen.''
pierce, a lawyer, was running for a superior court judgeship in robeson county, where few indians hold office or work in law enforcement, despite a population that is 37 percent indian
he was alone saturday morning in his brick ranch house, which is flanked by farmland and another small house, authorities said
the best we can establish, he got home shortly after midnight, he undressed and went to bed,'' said robeson county sheriff hubert stone. ``then someone came to the back door, knocking. pierce slipped on a pair of jeans and went to the door. when he got to the door, the person either shot through the window or stuck the gun through the window and shot pierce in the chest
as pierce turned, he was then shot in the lower left side. pierce fell to the floor,'' the sheriff said
it just looked like he was actually assassinated,'' he said
earl moore, who said he had known pierce for 15 years, said the candidate ``knew that something could happen'' to him. moore said he knew of a threat against pierce, but said he would talk only to federal officials in washington, not to county, state or federal officials in north carolina
jim hatcher, a friend of pierce who is running for a seat on the board of county commissioners in forsyth county, across the state around winston-salem, told the observer that he received an anonymous telephone call late sunday in which someone said ``get out of town.''
i plan to talk to gov. martin,'' he said. ``the people are wanting to talk, but they're scared. either martin's going to do something, or else.''
hatcher is the uncle of eddie hatcher, who, with timothy jacobs, took over the robesonian newspaper in lumberton on feb. 1 to protest alleged government corruption in robeson county
lumberton police said they began guarding district attorney joe freeman britt's home sunday after he reported receiving threats. britt, who was running against pierce, and his family were in seclusion under police protection
pierce grew up in neighboring hoke county and worked in a virginia shipyard after graduating from college. he returned to north carolina and attended north carolina central university law school, then worked for the u.s. securities and exchange commission from 1976 to 1978
he moved to robeson county to serve as the first director of lumbee river legal services, representing those too poor to afford lawyers and practicing public interest law
he was an easygoing guy. he never had no problem with anyone that i heard tell of. people liked him,'' stone said
pierce's supporters said they might try to field another candidate in the upcoming primary
the question is whether or not that will be allowed, under the general statutes,'' said sam kerns of pembroke. ``we'll be meeting again ... but i really don't think that it may be possible, according to the law.''
pierce's campaign manager, harvey goodwin, said supporters are considering a request for a special session of the state legislature to consider postponing the judicial race
britt, a white, has been district attorney in the county for 14 years. but pierce was considered the leader in the race because of a controversial vote by indians earlier this month to consolidate the county's five school systems, which are divided largely along racial lines
the election was to be decided may 3, the date of the democratic primary, since no republicans were in the race
the judgeship pierce had sought was created to help ensure that minorities would have an opportunity to elect a judge. the legislature gave the county its own judicial district, separating it from adjoining scotland county
indian leaders met sunday but would not allow reporters to attend. a meeting saturday resulted in a request to state officials to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate pierce's death
robeson county, which borders on south carolina, is also 37 percent white and 26 percent black. it is one of the state's poorest counties, and has long been torn by racial animosity
activism, particularly by lumbees, has thrived since november 1986, when a sheriff's deputy fatally shot an unarmed lumbee
anger at what the indians call corrupt local government and entrenched racism boiled over feb. 1, in the hostage-taking at the robesonian newspaper
pierce's killing ``makes me think there's no hope for the indians,'' said one lumbee, janice locklear. ``i'm so mad i could fight.'' statements by south african military. no pickup.</note>
the south african army today raided a house on the outskirts of the capital, killing four residents who were burned beyond recognition after an hour-long gunbattle
south africa, which claims that neighboring botswana harbors guerrillas hostile to pretoria, called the victims terrorists. it said it was responsible for the attack in a statement issued by its defense force in pretoria
the office of president quett masire of botswana said four people died _ a south african man, two batswana women, and a third unidentified woman. the botswana press association quoted deputy police commissioner norman moleboge as saying residents reported all the occupants of the house were batswana
the president's statement said all were sleeping when the south africans attacked in the township of phiring, known locally as tsholofelo. the community lies two miles from the center of the capital of gaborone, a border city
the office of the president strongly condemns this dastardly attack and murder of innocent people in botswana by the south african army,'' said botswana's statement. ``the office of the president once again reiterates botswana's belief that south africa's problems cannot be resolved by attacking neighboring countries such as botswana and strongly urges the south african government to engage in meaningful negotiations with the genuine leadership of the oppressed majority in that country.''
south africa's government and economy are controlled by 5 million whites. the country's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs under a system of racial segregation known as apartheid
pretoria has issued several threats against botswana in recent months, accusing it of harboring african national congress guerrillas bent on ending white domination in south africa
the botswana government says it supports the group's goals and allows its representatives in the country. but botswana says it does not let the group launch attacks into south africa from botswana
the south african military statement said today's raid was a follow-up to a shootout near the south africa-botswana border friday. in that attack, the military said soldiers killed three suspected terrorists in a running battle near a farm and captured rifles, machine pistols and hand grenades
the operation had not previously been reported
in today's shootout, neighbors said they heard sporadic automatic gunfire, and possibly grenades, for an hour. two witnesses reported that the attackers left in a helicopter
moleboge was quoted as saying four people were shot, then set afire by the attackers, and that gasoline containers were found at the scene. the botswana press association said it was believed an explosion may have been caused by a gas cylinder in the house, which was destroyed
the south africans gave no details on how the occupants of the house died
col. moammar gadhafi said today he is withdrawing libyan troops from the egyptian border and promised libya would not use force to undermine the egyptian state
if carried out, the libyan leader's decision would represent an unprecedented conciliatory move. gadhafi began feuding with egypt about 15 years ago
gadhafi's announcement followed a series of smaller-scale reciprocal goodwill gestures between the two countries in recent weeks
gadhafi made the announcement in a speech at a former british base at the mediterranean city of tobruk near the egyptian border. the speech, broadcast live by libyan television and monitored in london, was delivered at a ceremony marking the 18th anniversary of britain's evacuation of military bases in libya
in another departure from long-standing hostile policy toward cairo, gadhafi said libya would not use force to overthrow president hosni mubarak's government or get it to renounce its 1979 peace treaty with israel. the treaty was among numerous sore spots in egyptian-libyan friction
the speech contained one anti-egyptian barb, however, with gadhafi charging that egypt ``abandoned'' the arab world when it signed the american-mediated camp david agreements with israel
i hereby declare the withdrawal of all military troops from along the libyan-egyptian artificial borders,'' gadhafi said
i want to emphasize to the egyptian people and army that the libyan eastern military zone (along the border) will finally be abolished.''
gadhafi did not say how many troops libya has along the border. neither did he specify a time frame for the pullback
the egyptian-libyan feud began in 1972 when cairo rejected gadhafi's bid for immediate merger of the two countries
egypt blamed gadhafi for a series of bombings in cairo and other cities in 1975 and 1976, and the two countries fought a five-day border war in july 1977. the political tension deepened when egypt since the peace treaty with israel and moved closer to the united states
gadhafi, who overthrew the libyan monarchy in a military coup in 1969, offered to let egypt verify the troop withdrawal
if egypt wants to ascertain this, it will be able to observe, and we accept any verification commission or any observer or monitor who would be satisfied that this region is completely evacuated by military forces,'' he said
the libyan leader said his forces will be withdrawn ``without us asking for anything in return from the egyptian side.''
the supreme court today agreed to hear the appeal of a convicted killer who said his rights were violated when he was denied an opportunity to talk to his lawyer during a trial recess
the court said it will review a ruling that denied a new trial to the south carolina man
the defendant, donald ray perry, was convicted of murder, kidnapping and criminal sexual assault in the killing of mary heimberger, whose body was found on march 7, 1981, in a wooded area in richland county, s.c. he was sentenced to life in prison
perry confessed to police that he had shot the victim, but said it was an accident
ms. heimberger had been raped, shot in both kneecaps and fatally shot in the chest
during a 15-minute trial recess while perry was testifying, his lawyer sought to speak to him to advise him about his rights on cross-examination. but the judge refused to allow them to talk
perry filed a federal court appeal in 1985 and a judge ruled that his rights were violated. the judge said denying perry the right to talk to his laywer during a recess, no matter how brief, is grounds for throwing out the conviction
but the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals reinstated the conviction in november
not every limitation of the relationship between a defendant and his attorney violates the defendant's right to counsel,'' the appeals court said
the appeals court said barring a defendant from meeting with his lawyer during a brief trial recess is not automatic grounds for declaring a new trial. there must be evidence that the denial prejudiced the case against the defendant, the appeals court said
the appeals court relied in part on two supreme court rulings in 1984 that reinstated criminal convictions of two defendants who said they were denied effective legal assistance at their trials
the high court said a claim of ineffective representation must be examined in the context of whether the trial produced a just result
the appeals court said that standard also should apply to perry's claim
it would make little sense to maintain a per se (automatic) rule of reversal for a brief restriction on consultation, but to inquire into prejudice if perry had been represented incompetently throughout,'' the appeals court said
to reverse automatically a conviction because of an absence of consultation during one brief, fortuitous recess in a trial which spanned nearly two weeks would be to confer a benefit upon a criminal defendant who may not deserve it,'' the appeals court added
it also said, ``the evidence against perry was overwhelming,'' and there was no indication that denying him the chance to confer with his lawyer prior to cross-examination altered his testimony significantly
it would be wrong to exalt technical perfection at the expense of our society's legitimate and weighty interest in punishing offenders,'' the appeals court said
the case is perry vs. leeke, 87-6325, nagorno-karabakh. picks up 3rd graf, `pravda said ...' edits to tighten.</note>
a general strike today slowed transportation and closed most factories in the largest city in a region that armenians want to unite with their republic, a witness said
the director of the only hotel in stepanakert said all but essential services were shut down today because of a strike
the bread factory and the milk factory are working. the others are not working. everyone is sitting at home,'' the director of the karabakh hotel said in a telephone interview. he said he was an ethnic armenian but refused to give his name
about 30 percent of stepanakert's public transport was shut down, he said. communist party representatives in the city called workers to meetings at factories today and urged them to return to work tuesday, he said
stepanakert is the largest city in nagorno-karabakh, a mainly armenian region in the republic of azerbaijan which activists are seeking to unite with armenia. at least 32 people have died in ethnic violence between armenians and azeris since protests began in february
armenian activists have said a general strike began wednesday in parts of nagorno-karabakh
pravda, the communist party daily, reported today the strikes and unrest in azerbaijan have disrupted the economy and cost the region millions of dollars in lost revenues
the communist party daily said action by armenianis has ``aggravated the economic situation not only in the autonomous region but also, partly, in the entire republic.''

pravda said the auto and trucking industries alone lost about $6.5 million in january and february. the railway industry lost about $360,000
the article gave little indication about how the money was lost but quoted a railway official in azerbaijan as saying freight cars had not been unloaded
the official, garik sarkisyan, was quoted by pravda as saying the situation was ``bad'' and ``loss of time and money has become the usual thing.''
pravda said yerevan, the capital of the armenian republic, was ``relatively calm'' with no incidents over the weekend ``connected with national relations.''
moscow dissidents, in telephone contact during the weekend with armenian sources, described yerevan as ``a dead city,'' with people staying off the streets to protest a government crackdown on public demonstrations
the official press acknowledged that most businesses were closed in stepanakert, the main city of nagorno-karabakh, over the weekend, but gave no information on the situation this morning
according to various reports from dissident and official sources over the weekend, the general strike appeared to have taken place in stepanakert, but in other areas most businesses were open
an administrator of the yerevan hotel, who spoke on condition of anonymnity, said the city's businesses were open today. other calls to yerevan did not go through
western reporters have been barred from the region, and telephone service has been largely cut off
the presidium of the supreme soviet, including soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and other members of the top leadership, called last week for improvement of social and economic conditions in the contested area, but it did not deal directly with the annexation issue
activists interpreted that as a rejection of their demands and called for a general strike
tass said today the communist party central committee and government's council of ministers approved plans for construction of more schools _ including armenian schools _ in nagorno-karabakh and other regions of azerbaijain where ethnic armenians live
a prostitute who says she posed naked for evangelist jimmy swaggart will show those poses in the july issue of penthouse magazine, a spokeswoman for the publication said today
from what i understand, the photographs will recreate the precise poses and actions that jimmy swaggart paid for during the long affair,'' said leslie jay, vice president and director of public relations for the magazine
i also understand that the interview will review every episode in the relationship that ruined this most powerful tv preacher in the world,'' she said in a telephone interview from her new york office
jay said she had not seen the interview or the pictures
swaggart stepped down from the pulpit feb. 21 after tearfully confessing to an unspecified sin against his wife, family and church
church leaders have said he was photographed with a reputed prostitute outside a seedy new orleans motel. debra murphree says she is the woman in those photographs
jay said she did not know how much murphree was paid or about the editorial deliberations behind penthouse's decision to use the photographs and interview
the national enquirer decided last month not to use an interview with murphree after she failed a lie detector test. she told new orleans television station wvue she failed the test because she had taken drugs the day before
paul levy, the enquirer's senior editor, said murphree's companion, john martinez, 28, offered her story to the enquirer for $100,000. martinez has said he also tried to peddle the story to people magazine and abc-tv's nightline
murphree, also known as debra arleen hedge, has three children living with her parents in indiana and an arrest record in florida, tennessee and louisiana, mainly involving prostitution charges
real estate magnate donald trump, the new owner of the plaza hotel, says he plans to make the fifth avenue landmark even posher in an effort to make it the second five-star hotel in manhattan
he vowed that the plaza, already the city's most famous hotel, would become the most luxurious hotel in the world under the supervision of his wife, ivana. the hotel is a four-star establishment
the only manhattan hotel with the distinction of having five stars is the carlyle hotel, at madison avenue and 76th street
built in 1907 in the style of a french chateau, the plaza has been cited by the city's landmarks preservation commission as a ``superb example of the elegance and opulence that characterized the period just before world war i.''
the hotel, with its famed public spaces and its commanding site overlooking central park, has become one of new york's most recognizable buildings through its frequent movie appearances, including a starring role in ``plaza suite.'' more recently, the plaza provided an upscale encampment for ``crocodile dundee.''
but it has lost some of its luster under a succession of owners in recent years and is in the midst of a major renovation
its latest owners were texas financier robert bass and the japanese-based aoki corp., which bought it last october from westin hotels
trump, when he announced announced saturday that he had purchased the plaza hotel for $390 million, said he would not change its name. ``it's got the most important name in the world, and it's going to remain that way,'' he said
trump lives just two blocks from the plaza at his trump tower high-rise apartment building. he won out in a bidding contest against two other manhattan developers, philip pilevsky and arthur cohen, who wanted to convert part of the hotel into cooperative apartments
room rates at the plaza start at $195 a night. trump said he hoped to lure some year-round guests to the hotel at rental rates of $400,000 to $500,000 a year
a 24-hour general strike today shut factories, airports and banks across portugal as hundreds of thousands of workers staged the biggest industrial action in the country's history to protest government labor reforms
the communist and socialist labor federations, united for the first time, claimed the strike was a victory for the unions over the center-right government of prime minister anibal cavaco silva
cavaco silva, whose social democrats hold a solid parliamentary majority, said the strike would not cause him to alter a single line of a government bill that would make it easier for businesses to fire workers. he said the legislation is crucial to attracting investment in portugal and modernizing the economy
labor leaders said 85 percent of union members supported the strike
the government cannot act as if were deaf, dumb and blind in the face of this massive protest,'' said manuel carvalho da silva, a leader of the communist-dominated general confederation of portuguese workers
but the government said in a statement ``the country is working normally apart from the transport sector where there have been some clear cases of sabotage.'' the labor ministry said unions were exaggerating the extent of support for the strike
twenty-two in-coming flights and 29 departures were cancelled at lisbon airport and many other international flights were diverted, officials said
most flights of the state-owned airline tap-air portugal were cancelled at oporto airport in the north and faro in the south
state-owned public transport companies were hit hardest by the strike. train services were paralyzed across the country. bus, trams, subway and ferry services were reduced to skeleton services required under strike law
police said two shots were fired at a private bus in the northern city of porto. no one was injured. traffic was not heavily congested in most cities as many workers stayed home, police said
the government says existing labor legislation, passed in the wake of a leftist military coup that returned portugal to democracy in 1975, is so protective that it is almost impossible for companies to dismiss workers
cavaco silva says this deters investors and is prejudicial to workers because it encourages companies to hire them on short-term contracts, use child labor and keep wages low
the government says the new legislation will still provide greater protection than workers enjoy in any other west european country or the united states
unions and the leading socialist opposition party say the legislation will give managers the power to fire workers ``whenever and `whyever' they like.''
the supreme court today turned away an unusual copyright dispute that pitted the easter seal society against playboy enterprises
the justices, over one dissenting vote, rejected arguments that playboy illegally used materials intended for an easter seal telethon in a pornographic movie
justice byron r. white voted to hear arguments in the case but four votes are needed to grant such review
new orleans musician and entertainer ronnie kole, acting on behalf of the easter seal society, contracted with public television station wyes in 1982 to make a videotape of a staged mardi gras-style parade and dixieland jam session
the videotape was edited into a 16-minute version for the society's national telethon for crippled children, and was broadcast march 28, 1982
a year later, wyes broadcasting director julius cain received a telephone call from john thompson, a canadian television producer who requested videotape of a mardi gras parade
cain, unaware of thompson's exact intentions, provided an unedited copy of the easter seal tape. portions of the tape were incorporated into a movie entitled ``candy, the stripper,'' a sexually explicit film carried on cable television's playboy channel
some viewers in the new orleans area who had taken part in the staged mardis gras parade, upon seeing themselves in the pornographic movie, complained that their privacy rights were invaded
the easter seal society then sued playboy enterprises, wyes, a canadian film producer and others _ accusing them of copyright violations
the society said it, and not wyes, owns the copyright on the videotape
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled against the society last april. the appeals court said congress in 1976 narrowed the copyright protection for those who hire others to produce original works
because wyes was an independent contractor, the easter seal society was not the sole ``author'' of the mardi gras videotape, the appeals court said
wyes did not simply set up one camera on a tripod, turn it on and sit down to watch'' the staged parade and dixieland performance, the appeals court continued. ``instead, it worked cooperatively and dynamically with the performers to create the tape.''
reagan administration lawyers, asked by the high court last november for their views, said the 5th circuit court's interpretation of copyright law's work-made-for-hire provisions differs from those of other appeals courts. but they said ``the present case is not an appropriate vehicle for resolving the conflict in the circuits.''
in another copyright case, the court refused to revive a $300 million copyright-infringement lawsuit against the creators and marketers of trivial pursuit, a popular board game
the court, without comment, rejected arguments by the author of several encyclopedias on trivia that many of the questions contained in the board game infringed on his copyright works
in other action, the court:
_ agreed to hear the appeal of a convicted killer who said his rights were violated when he was denied an opportunity to talk to his lawyer during a trial recess
the court said it will review a ruling that denied a new trial to the south carolina man
_ refused to hear an appeal by former new york city political boss meade esposito, who sought to prevent public disclosure of certain court documents
the justices, without comment, let stand a ruling challenged by esposito, the former brooklyn democratic boss convicted of giving illegal gratuities to rep. mario biaggi, d-n.y
the copyright dispute case is easter seal society vs. playboy enterprises, 87-482. picking up 9th graf pvs, `in court ....' deletes last two grafs to tighten.</note>
baby m is happy and secure with her father and his wife and shows no more attachment to the surrogate mother who refused to surrender her than she does to her babysitter, the toddler's father testified today
william stern, testifying at a court hearing over visitation rights for surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould, said he believes his daughter should not be allowed to see mrs. whitehead-gould for several years
mrs. whitehead-gould, who agreed to bear the child under a $10,000 contract with stern, currently is allowed to see the child once a week for two hours under supervision
the visitation fight is the final legal phase of the court battle involving baby m, now melissa stern, who turned 2 sunday. the court hearing was ordered in a landmark ruling by the new jersey supreme court overturning surrogacy for pay
both sides in the dispute strongly disagree over what would be in the best interest of the girl, with the key issue centering on whether continued contact with mrs. whitehead-gould would be harmful or healthy
the child, conceived by artificial insemination using stern's sperm, lives with stern and his wife, elizabeth, in their tenafly home
stern likened melissa to a young sapling that has to put down its roots
if anything is done to interrupt her putting down those roots, i'm afraid melissa does not have much of a future,'' he said during a half-hour of testimony
melissa calls him ``dada,'' and his wife, ``mama,'' he noted
stern acknowledged under cross-examination by mrs. whitehead-gould's attorney, joel siegal, that melissa appeared to be suffering no ill effects from her visits with mrs. whitehead-gould, and he said he would be willing to try to work out a visitation arrangement if the court ordered one
the critical thing is that these adults can get on with their lives, put the conflicts of the past behind them and support one another,'' said dr. david brodzinsky, who acted as a court-appointed psychologist in the widely publicized 1986 trial that marked the first court ruling on a surrogacy contract
the judge in that trial barred mrs. whitehead-gould from seeing melissa, but on feb. 3 the state supreme court declared surrogacy for pay illegal and restored mrs. whitehead-gould's parental rights, while granting custody to the sterns
the supreme court, in ordering today's visitation hearing, made no specific recommendations on visitation and gave the lower court the ``broadest powers'' to resolve the issue
mental health experts who have examined melissa say she appears to be unaffected by the legal storm around her. she was described as friendly with adults, while being more attached to stern than to her mother
in court papers filed last week, mrs. whitehead-gould says she wants liberal, unsupervised visitation. the sterns are seeking a halt to visitation for several years
the session before superior court judge birger m. sween is expected to last about three days. the high court ruled that the issue of visitation must be resolved by early may
in court papers, mrs. whitehead-gould says she wants visitation immediately expanded to eight hours twice a week, unsupervised at her home in east brunswick. she says she wants the visits eventually to include half the summer and some holidays
mrs. whitehead-gould has fashioned an excellent relationship with melissa and is devoted to promoting an even more flourishing and productive relationship,'' according to papers filed by her attorney, harold cassidy
but the sterns' attorney, gary skoloff, argues in court papers that no contact would be better for the child because mrs. whitehead-gould does not offer a healthy environment for her, particularly in the last year since the mother became pregnant out of wedlock, divorced her former husband and married wall street accountant dean gould
skoloff did not spell out in the court papers how long contact should be discontinued. in an interview, he said ``as long as possible,'' and mrs. whitehead-gould's attorneys say the sterns are seeking a six-year moratorium on visits
mrs. whitehead-gould's attorneys see her divorce and remarriage in a positive light, arguing that she has a more stable relationship and financially secure lifestyle. one passenger admitted to hospital.</note>
a northwest airlines jet was evacuated when fuel vapors briefly ignited, sparking what passengers thought was a fire and closing the airport for 20 minutes, authorities said. four people were slightly injured
flight 288, originating in san diego with 144 passengers and seven crew members aboard, landed safely at 8:20 p.m. sunday at metropolitan airport in romulus, about 20 miles west of detroit
as the boeing 727 waited for clearance to taxi to its gate, residual fuel in the exhaust system of the auxiliary power unit sparked a ``flash'' on the plane's right wing, northwest spokesman william wren said
it was immediately extinguished without damage to the plane, wren said
the flash was seen by a controller in the airport tower, passengers aboard flight 288 and by people aboard another plane taxiing behind it, said mort edelstein, a spokesman for the federal aviation administration in chicago
i saw a flash and i looked down and i felt heat on my face, and i looked out and there's a big flame on my window and all i could see was red,'' northwest passenger mike soderling of san diego told radio station wcxi
this lady next to me was screaming `fire, fire,''' soderling said. ``my first reaction was to get my luggage, but then i threw it down and ran to the door.''
the pilot triggered an automatic device that extinguished the flash, but by that time, the plane had been evacuated and airport firefighters were summoned, edelstein said
an initial faa examination of the plane revealed no burned parts or other signs of an actual fire, he said. northwest officials stressed that no fire had occurred
three of the injured passengers suffered minor cuts and bruises while sliding down evacuation chutes, annapolis hospital nursing supervisor mary smith said. none was admitted. the fourth passenger, a 64-year-old woman, was in good condition today at william beaumont hospital in royal oak, suffering from trauma and knee and elbow injuries, said hospital spokeswoman carol jonson
the auxiliary power unit runs the aircraft's electrical, air conditioning and other systems while it is on the ground and operates separately from the engines, wren said
edelstein said the plane will remain grounded while faa investigators examine it further
the city of chicago has agreed to pay more than $9 million in back-pay awards to settle a discrimination case involving 729 women, blacks and hispanics on the chicago police force, the justice department announced today
the proposed consent decree, filed in u.s. district court in chicago, would require the city to establish an interest-bearing back-pay fund of $9.2 million for reimbursements of awards to discrimination victims. the city also would adjust seniority dates for those victims
the decree would resolve an employment-discrimination suit filed in 1973 alleging a pattern and practice of discrimination by chicago in police department hiring and promotion. a federal judge in january 1976 found the city in violation of title vii of the civil rights act of 1964
the consent decree covers:
_233 women on the 1972 policewoman eligibility list who were subsequently hired or reclassified as police officers and who successfully completed their probationary period; and women who were employed before march 24, 1972, as policewomen or matrons and subsequently were reclassified as police officers
_455 black and hispanic men who applied for the 1968 or 1971 patrolman eligibility lists and were hired from march 24, 1972, to dec. 31, 1978, as patrolmen or police officers from those lists, and who successfully completed their probationary period
_the first three women promoted to sergeant after march 24, 1972, who served as policewomen or matrons in 1968 or before that time
_the first 38 black and hispanic men who applied for promotion to sergeant in 1968 and who were promoted to that rank from march 24, 1972, to dec, 31, 1973
the proposed decree was filed in court friday
a man demanding the return of his adopted daughter fired into a group of people getting out of a church school van, hitting the girl's biological mother and seriously wounding her cousin
the fort worth police department issued a warrant for the arrest of ollie thomas, 74, on two counts of attempted murder, spokesman tom wayne said sunday. police said he remained at large today
bridgett shirley, 14, was in serious condition today in an intensive care unit after undergoing 3{ hours of surgery for a gunshot wound to the lower back, hospital spokesmen said
the shooting took place at 9 a.m. sunday outside samaritan church of god in christ, police said
van passengers told police a man with a gun stopped the van during its pick-up route and told them he was looking for his 16-year-old adopted daughter, carmel shirley, who had left home a few weeks ago
when the van arrived at the church, the same gunman was waiting
he was just hollering `i want my baby,''' said earnestine shirley, 33, who is carmel's mother and bridgett's aunt. ``he was talking about killing up the whole family.''
the crowd of about 15 to 20 scattered as the man started shooting, witnesses said
one bullet pierced earnestine shirley's elbow and another struck bridgett. the gunman fired several times at laura shirley, bridgett's mother, but never wounded her
carmel shirley had planned to arrive at the church later and wasn't with the other members of her family
earnestine shirley was treated for the elbow wound and released from hospital. laura shirley was treated for knee scrapes and released
according to the fort worth star-telegram, earnestine shirley said she became pregnant at 14 and six years later asked an older couple to temporarily take care of her child. later she learned the couple adopted the girl, she said
but three weeks ago, she said carmel, now 16, returned to her alleging that thomas, her adoptive father, had mistreated her since she was 8
the supreme court today refused to disqualify a bankruptcy judge from presiding over a georgia case in which he ordered the winning side to ghostwrite opinions he then signed
the justices, without comment, let stand a ruling that the judge's actions, while ill-advised, did not violate the losing side's rights
the case involves bankruptcy proceedings begun in 1975 in which colony square co., a developer, was ordered to surrender ownership of a $200 million real estate development in atlanta to the prudential insurance co. of america
the insurance company was the developer's chief creditor
bankruptcy court judge hugh robinson, after a hearing in the dispute on june 22, 1984, telephoned prudential lawyer francis m. bird jr. later that day and told him he intended to rule in favor of the insurance firm
robinson outlined what he intended to say in his ruling and asked bird to prepare the order
after some minor typographical corrections, the judge signed the order drafted by bird
lawyers for colony square were not told of the conversation between robinson and bird, or that the judge's order was written by prudential's attorney
robinson's orders were ghostwritten on two subsequent occasions when he denied a requem and thereby leads to stronger, sounder judicial rulings.''
but the appeals court said colony square's due-process rights were not violated because robinson already had decided the case before asking for bird's help, and because colony square had ample opportunity to argue its side before robinson and before the federal judge that reviewed the case
robinson's ``actions in preparing these orders have little to recommend them,'' the appeals court said. but the process ``did not prejudice (colony square) and was not fundamentally unfair.''
the supreme court is reviewing a related issue in a louisiana dispute over ownership of a hospital corporation. in that case, the justices have agreed to decide whether federal judges may be disqualified from presiding in cases when they are unaware they have a connection to the case that presents a possible conflict of interest. a decision is expected by july
the case acted on today is colony square vs. prudential insurance co., 87-1299
independent counsel lawrence walsh has reached agreement with israel after year-long negotiations for its cooperation in his investigation of the iran-contra affair, both sides announced today
under the accord, israel has given walsh the historical and financial chronologies covering its role in the shipment of u.s. weapons to iran in 1985 and 1986, said an israeli official
he (walsh) will get what he wants without us having to give up what we wanted,'' said the official, speaking on condition he not be named
israel had sought immunity from prosecution for the four key israeli players in the arms sales, profits from which were diverted to the contra rebels in nicaragua
two former white house aides and two u.s. businessmen have been indicted in the united states for conspiracy to defraud the government in the funds' diversion
israel also gave walsh written answers to questions posed by the congressional investigators who received the israeli chronologies last summer, said the official
the government of the state of israel and the office of the independent counsel have signed an agreement covering the cooperation of the government of israel in the iran-contra investigation,'' walsh's office said in a prepared statement
walsh's spokesman, jim wieghart, and israeli embassy spokesman yossi gal said the terms of the agreement are confidential
israel had turned over the chronologies to the congressional iran-contra committees but refused to give them to walsh pending his promise to refrain from prosecuting the four israelis involved in the affair
negotiations with walsh were further complicated when he subpoenaed the four israelis: former foreign ministry director david kimche, former counter-terrorism adviser amiram nir, businessman yaakov nimrodi and his u.s.-born associate, al schwimmer
in asking for immunity, israel contended that the four acted at the request of the israeli government and therefore were not accountable as individuals
two senior israeli officials held talks with walsh's office 10 days ago to wind up the negotiations, which have been going on since early 1987. the israeli government approved the accord, said the israeli official
the negotiations were difficult,'' said wieghart. ``israel is a sovereign state with certain national security interests, which they have to defend. we recognized that, but on the other hand, we had our needs in this investigation,'' he said
a 21-year-old man killed five people and then took his own life, leaving a letter confessing to the crimes, a newspaper reported monday
the bodies of a woman, her two teen-age daughters, and her 77-year-old mother were found at the home of the man, identified only as jiri z., according to the daily newspaper prace. a 56-year-old man also was found murdered at his own home 25 miles east of prague
the murderer committed suicide with a stolen hunting rifle, the newspaper said
the newspaper said jealousy appeared to be the motive, but gave no other details
a group of intellectuals has called for an end to one-party government in this communist state in the first such written statement by an official body, newspapers reported monday
the group, charged with outlining proposed changes in yugoslavia's constitution, asked sunday for an ``abolition of the monopolistic rule'' of the communist party, according to the state-run borba lectuals called for ``putting the party into a competitive position with other (parties).''
the statement by the unions of serbian writers, philosophers and sociologists was adopted at daily. the intela meeting of the writers on sunday
several leading intellectuals in serbia, the largest republic, and slovenia, the most economically developed region, have made recent appeals for political pluralism. they have said it is a precondition for overcoming the country's worst economic and political crisis in history
in addition to rising ethnic tensions, yugoslavia is faced with a $20 billion foreign debt, 170 percent inflation, dropping living standards and growing labor unrest
the statement also called for changes in the constitution to allow more human rights and abolish laws permitting prosecution of dissidents, the newspapers reported
a 15-year-old boy fell 20 feet to his death after he climbed up from under the safety bar on a carnival ride called the orbiter, an official said
demetrick welch of lauderhill fell when he either tried to get out of his seat or change seats with his sister, broward county sheriff's spokesman al gordon said sunday
the ride, owned by crown amusements of apollo beach, is designed to keep passengers in their seats with centrifugal force. it has several arms, each holding three two-seat buckets. each bucket has a safety bar that locks across riders
crown amusements ride superintendent don bodami told deputies that no riders had been injured since the orbiter was purchased new in 1985. each ride is checked daily, and the orbiter passed a state safety inspection last week, he said
the government of saudi arabia has given $200,000 to children's hospital as a ``thank you'' for treating five children of the royal family in recent months
the youngsters are children of members of the saudi arabian royal family who are in the diplomatic corps in the united states, said sheila delaney, spokeswoman for the hospital
allen peckham, head of development at the hospital, said the donation was made wednesday at a ceremony at the saudi arabian embassy in washington
officials said the money will be added to a five-year, $40 million fund to help pay for a new 10-story, 271-bed hospital building and a 13-story research facility
the president pardoned and freed a human rights activist monday who had been held for 13 months
the release of lance sera muwanga, 43, was announced in a letter from president yoweri museveni to the uganda human rights activists. muwanga is secretary-general of that group
after he was freed, muwanga appealed for release of hundreds of other people he said were held as political detainees in uganda. he also pledged to carry on fighting for human rights in the east african nation
the president's letter said the activist had been pardoned on humanitarian grounds. muwanga has been under guard in a kampala hospital for several weeks for treatment of cancer of the lymph glands
muwanga said he has never been given a reason for his detention. he was arrested feb. 25, 1987, two weeks after he accused museveni's troops of torturing and killing civilians in northern uganda, where the government is fighting an insurgency
the voice of thumper, the bunny who befriended bambi in the disney film ``bambi,'' has been found in a mountainside village
peter behn played thumper in the animated film, first released during world war ii. his voice was preserved on film in the disney studio vaults in burbank, calif., but behn was forgotten until a few months ago
as disney was preparing to release ``bambi'' again, word eventually reached behn that disney was looking for the voice of thumper
behn, 53, has been living in vermont since 1964, selling real estate and designing and building homes
as a boy, behn brought the lovable character to life. he only vaguely remembers going to the disney studios with his father, who produced films for howard hughes. behn's father thought he would be good for the voice of bambi
but casting him as thumper was smart, said howard green, the publicist who started the search for behn
it is considered one of the absolute best voices we have done here,'' he said
joni mitchell says she never made a record with commercial success a prime motive
i'm a composer, not a pop star that can be decorated into fashion,'' she said in a recent interview, talking about her move from pop to jazz after her 1974 blockbuster album ``court and spark.''
i was never comfortable with all the attention i received as a result of the success of `court and spark,''' she said. ``i never courted that kind of fame because i'm a back-bush canadian and was raised to believe that if you stick your head up, it will probably get knocked off.''
but mitchell, 44, is now out with a new album _ an upbeat pop record called ``chalk mark in a rain storm.'' it features eight songs with guest artists don henley, tom petty, willie nelson, peter gabriel, wendy &amp; lisa and billy idol
is the star quotient a calculated move at commercial success?
james taylor and crosby, stills, nash &amp; young were around when i made my early records and i put them to work,'' she said. ``i recorded some of this album at peter gabriel's studio and he dropped by one day so i put him to work. i met wendy &amp; lisa through prince, who'd been inviting me to a lot of things
what i did do here that i've never done before was seek out singers i didn't know because i thought they were suited to songs _ billy idol and willie nelson fall into this category.''
tom selleck popped out at his first at bat, and his ``magnum, p.i.'' team went on to do something his television character seldom does _ lose
it's life or death. there may be no tomorrow,'' selleck said before sunday's baseball game in which he played shortstop dressed in a detroit tigers uniform. his tv character, private investigator thomas magnum, often wears a tigers cap
selleck's team, which included co-star roger mosley, played its traditional rival, the columbia inn round table all-stars, composed of members of the news and sports media, to benefit athletics at the university of hawaii
the crowd at the university's rainbow stadium was treated to more than just a good game. there was a bench-clearing brawl that included the use of a break-away baseball bat
the all-star team won the game, 8-7
actor howard rollins jr. has been charged with possessing cocaine, first-offense drunken driving and speeding, authorities said
the co-star of nbc's ``heat of the night'' was released on $5,000 bond
senior trooper allen coburn, who stopped rollins early sunday, said he found two bags of a rock-like substance suspected of being cocaine in rollins' coat pockets
there was no answer to a telephone call to rollins' motel room
rollins, who co-starred as chief of detectives virgil tibbs in the television remake of ``heat of the night'' and in a six-part series of the same name, had a commission as a sheriff's deputy, coburn said
he had a badge holder with a livingston parish sheriff's office badge and a full commission from the sheriff,'' coburn said. ``he didn't say anything about it, but he made sure i saw it while he was getting his driver's license.''
rollins, 37, of baltimore, told police he was in hammond to make a movie. ``heat of the night'' was filmed in hammond
coburn said he spotted rollins' car on interstate 12, going a little more than 100 mph. coburn said a breath test indicated that rollins' blood alcohol level was 0.15 percent. the law sets intoxication as 0.10 percent or more
rollins' court date probably will be set in six to eight weeks
if his collaborators have their way, peter falk may pull a crumpled raincoat from the back of a costume closet and return to prime-time television as the endearing, bumbling lt. columbo
plans to revive ``columbo,'' with steven spielberg directing the first new episode, were disclosed over the weekend by the series' co-creator, william link
the whole thing hinges on peter's approval,'' link said saturday during a tribute to the show at the county museum of art. ``with peter doing his first `columbo' in 10 years and steven spielberg directing, i think a few people might watch.''
link said the show would resurface on abc if falk, 60, ``who never ages and looks great,'' agrees. falk resisted earlier efforts to revive the role
columbo'' ran from 1971 to 1978 on nbc in a rotating format with two other series. spielberg directed the first episode of the original ``columbo'' when he was 19. details of rockies snow storm.</note>
snow showers were scattered over the eastern great lakes region today, while a strong storm system over the northern and central plains brought a return of winter weather to the northern rockies
meanwhile, springlike thunderstorms developed sunday over the high plains of texas and across south dakota in the warmer air ahead of the storm system
wind gusts of 60 mph were clocked sunday night in the northern mountain ranges and mojave area of california
strong winds also hit the plains, gusting to 61 mph late sunday evening at goodland, kan., and to 59 mph at la junta, colo., as colder air poured into the region. warm, southerly winds ahead of the cold front gusted to 63 mph at gage, okla., and to 62 mph at garden city, kan
temperatures across much of western nebraska, northeast colorado and northwest kansas plummeted 25 to 40 degrees in a six-hour period late sunday. readings ranged from the low 30s to upper 40s early today
in the rocky mountain states, up to a foot of snow fell in some areas. a rancher in central montana reported drifts of 1 to 3 feet, and nearly 270 miles of interstate 15 were covered with snow, from butte to the canadian border. interstate 90 had blowing snow east of bozeman and near livingston
in colorado, the mercury plunged after a weekend of unseasonably warm weather in the 70s and 80s and snow fell in many areas. snowmass, winter park and vail ski areas all received 8 inches of snowfall overnight, while 6 inches was reported at aspen
snowfall and slippery roads were blamed for a traffic death west of golden today when a tanker truck slid off a highway, killing the driver
winter storm watches covered southeast wyoming, western nebraska and northwest kansas today and tonight
the storms over texas on sunday evening were accompanied by 1{-inch diamter hail near cotton center, while hail an inch in diameter fell at tulia
rain also fell in sections of the dakotas, while snowshowers were scattered from western nebraska into the central colorado rockies
skies were clear early today across the southeast
many sections of the west and plains enjoyed unseasonably high temperatures again sunday, with records broken in numerous cities. denver warmed to 78, breaking the 76-degree mark set in 1986. goodland, kan., hit 87, besting the 78-degree record of 1971. grand island, neb., reached 81, topping the 78 mark of 1905. tucson, ariz., reached 94, beating the 92 mark set in 1986
the forecast today called for showers and thunderstorms from the southern plains to the upper mississippi valley, with severe thunderstorms possible across parts of western and northern texas into western and central oklahoma; snow over the rockies and in the western portions of the northern and central plains; rain in western washington and oregon; a few morning flurries over northern maine; and windy conditions in the great plains and the southwest
highs were expected to be in the 30s or 40s from new england across the northern great lakes, northern minnesota, the dakotas, western portions of the central plains, the rockies and intermountain west to washington state; the 70s in coastal california; and the 70s or 80s from the southern atlantic states across the tennessee, lower ohio and lower mississippi valleys, missouri, the southern plains and southern new mexico to the desert southwest. elsewhere, readings will be in the 50s or 60s
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 1 degree at yellowstone park, wyo., to 78 at phoenix, ariz
other reports:
_east: atlanta 52 fair; boston 37 partly cloudy; buffalo 32 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 46 fair; cincinnati 33 fair; cleveland 27 fair; detroit 30 partly cloudy; miami 73 fair; new york 42 windy; philadelphia 42 cloudy; pittsburgh 30 fair; portland, maine 37 cloudy; washington 40 fair
_central: bismarck 40 cloudy; chicago 42 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 68 cloudy; denver 37 dust; des moines 62 windy; indianapolis 36 fair; kansas city 63 windy; minneapolis-st. paul 45 windy; nashville 41 fair; new orleans 55 fair; st. louis 54 partly cloudy
_west: albuquerque 56 partly cloudy; anchorage 27 cloudy; las vegas 57 windy; los angeles 60 fair; phoenix 76 fair; salt lake city 34 partly cloudy; san diego 62 cloudy; san francisco 58 windy; seattle 37 fair
_canada: toronto 28 fair
the wife of a washington surgeon died monday after collapsing at a reprise performance of the news media's annual gridiron club show
cleda giffin, 68, wife of dr. herbert giffin, suffered a heart attack while seated in the audience of the production sunday and was rushed to george washington university hospital
according to friends, the show was mrs. giffin's first outing in sometime after a serious illness
more than a century after union and confederate soldiers spilled blood over stretches of land from pennsylvania to virginia, a group is battling developers for the real estate
the association for the preservation of civil war sites was organized last summer to buy land or development rights of battlefields unprotected by the national park service or other organizations
all of us have watched over the past couple of years as a tremendous amount of historic ground has disappeared,'' said gary w. gallagher, a penn state university history professor who is president of the organization
if something isn't done in the next five years, it'll be too late,'' he said
gallagher said the organization has 500 members and has raised more than $10,000. the organization received tax-exempt status last month and plans to begin soliciting members this spring, he said
urban sprawl from the civil war capitals of washington and richmond, va., has engulfed many battlefields and threatens others
a large mall has been planned for an important part of the manassas battlefield in northern virginia, where the second battle of bull run was fought
annie snyder, who lives on a 180-acre farm adjacent to the battlefield, earlier this year organized a group called save the battlefield coalition to fight the mall
also, five parcels of land on the cedar creek battlefield, near winchester, va., are for sale
one of the cedar creek sites has already been targeted as a light industrial park, and it will be a light industrial park unless someone buys that ground before the end of the year,'' he said
many of the former battlefields are farm or pasture land. encroaching development has raised real estate prices and taxes, according to gallagher
it's difficult to go to a land owner who hasn't been able to make it as a farmer and has just been offered $2 million for his land. how do you convince that person not to take the $2 million and run?'' he said
gallagher said the formation of the group was prompted last summer by a developers who slipped bulldozers onto northern virginia's chantilly battlefield in the middle of the night
initially, the developers had agreed to delay any excavation until historical surveying could be conducted, according to gallagher. only five acres were preserved to commemorate the battle, he said
the national park service owns and maintains several civil war battlefields, including sites in gettysburg, antietam, monassas, fredericksburg, appomatox and richmond
many others remain unprotected, gallagher said
among them are sites in the shenandoah valley, where confederate general stonewall jackson staged his 1862 campaign, and at brandy station, in north-central virginia, the site of the largest cavalry battle in the western hemisphere, gallagher said
gallagher said the organization plans to buy land or development rights and turn the property over to historical societies or government organizations to manage
we're not talking about buying thousands and thousands of acres. we know some growth is inevitable. we just think there has to be some balance between growth and preserving a part of our past,'' he said
charles willeford, whose detective novels featured miami homicide detective hoke moseley, died of a heart attack at his south miami home. he was 69
willeford, who died sunday, had spent decades writing everything from paperback fiction to poetry to an autobiographical account of war
i was taken with his dark humor. i almost had a guilty enjoyment of it,'' said jared kieling, a senior editor with st. martin's press, publisher of the first three moseley books. ``there was an outrageousness that stood out from the commonplace books in the category.''
willeford's most recent book, ``the way we die now,'' was published this month by random house. he wrote 13 novels before the moseley series, which also included ``miami blues,'' ``new hope for the dead'' and `sideswipe.''
survivors include his wife, betsy willeford, and stepson stephen hooker of new orleans
a late winter blizzard paralyzed dozens of cities and towns in western canada on monday, closing major highways and stranding more than 1,000 motorists
the storm began sunday and travelers were forced to seek overnight shelter in school gyms and hockey rinks along the trans-canada highway east of the olympic city of calgary and along highway 2 from calgary to edmonton
when the blizzard struck calgary international airport on sunday, more than 120 passengers on an air canada jet spent seven hours on the runway, unable to take off. visibility was too poor for the crew to get the plane back to the terminal building a few hundred yards away
most of us just slept and we had our breakfast on the plane,'' said one passenger, spiro plagakis, an engineer from montreal
the wet snow toppled power lines, leaving many communities without electricity or telephone service
the town of camrose, 42 miles southeast of edmonton, got more than 20 inches of snow. 3rd graf pvs ``they are part...''</note>
about 800 american soldiers deployed in honduras in a show of force against nicaragua left today aboard seven c-141 cargo planes bound for the united states
the soldiers from the 82nd airborne division were whistling and shouting as they boarded the planes, the first of the american contingent to leave honduras
this is nice, it's beautiful,'' said sgt. elliott cook, 22, of miami, when he saw the planes to carry him and his fellow soldiers home. ``i am happy to go home because nothing happened.''
outside the palmerola air base, about 200 hondurans demonstrated their support for the americans
they carried signs saying, ``thanks for having helped us maintain our liberty'' and ``unity makes for democracy, thanks for being here.''
the paratroopers were scheduled for an airdrop into their home base of fort bragg, n.c
they are part of a force rushed to honduras for 11 days of training exercises to flex u.s. military muscles after a reported incursion by about 2,000 nicaraguan troops chasing u.s.-supported contra rebels
i'm sure they'll be home for a late dinner at least,'' maj. gary hovatter, the u.s. military public affairs officer at this base 40 miles northwest of the honduran capital of tegucigalpa, said sunday. he said the soldiers would probably parachute into fort bragg at about 5 p.m. est today
it's great to be going home,'' said sgt. dale taylor, 22, of red springs, n.c. ``it's going to be a sis-boom-bah occasion. they're going to have a band and our families will be there.''
president reagan ordered 3,200 paratroopers and light infantry to honduras on march 17 and 18. honduran president jose azcona hoyo asked for a show of force against after the reported incursion
nicaragua denied the report and claimed the united states was preparing to invade or using the deployment as a cover for providing equipment to the contras. u.s. officials have said the troops are taking back all the equipment they brought with them, including tanks and aircraft
first they'll have to go through a complete inventory of property to make sure they can account for all the equipment they brought,'' hovatter said
in addition to the 82nd airborne, the reinforcements include soldiers from the 7th light infantry in fort ord, calif. all are expected home by wednesday
the presence of the reinforcements, which raised u.s. strength in honduras to more than 6,000, alarmed the region and raised the already high level of tension. tensions eased when the contras and the sandinistas signed a broad cease-fire accord last week after three days of talks in sapoa, nicaragua
the u.s. troops never saw action, but the honduran president said all along he expected them to back him up if the sandinistas didn't withdraw
by late last week, honduran officials said the nicaraguan troops were back on their own side of the border
capt. steve walker, 30, of new milford, n.j., said he thinks the strong u.s. presence helped bring about the cease-fire
the nicaraguans did cease action and they did withdraw and they did sit down and start negotiation with the contras without any shots being fired,'' he said. ``it was an effective display of resolve.'' party</head>
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ an opposition party leader was arrested and two americans were under house detention today in connection with an explosion at a bridge in port-au-prince, party officials said
joseph douze, second in command of the centrist christian democratic party, was arrested saturday and charged in connection with last week's blast under the croix des bouquets bridge. the explosion tuesday caused no damage or injuries, party leader sylvio claude confirmed
claude said douze, a medical doctor with dual haitian and american citizenship, had been planted in the party by the government. douze, who had served as the party's provisional vice president, was expelled, claude said
douze was filmed by the state television station saturday night during a search of his home by soldiers
the americans, nancy horn, of wells tannley, pa., and james gunnels, of macon, ga., told the associated press in a telephone interview that they were friends of douze's and were staying at his home in thomassin, outside port-au-prince, at the time of his arrest
horn identified herself as an associate of douze and said she had been in haiti since 1967. gunnels said he was a businessman visiting the country
the officer in charge of the search of douze's home said on state television sunday the two americans ``have a certain responsibility in the affair.'' the officer did not elaborate
u.s. embassy spokesman jeffrey lite said u.s. consular officials had been in contact with horn and gunnels and that he did not know if they would be formally arrested although they had been barred from leaving the house
horn and gunnels said they did not know anything about the bombing
i know nothing about this affair,'' gunnels said. ``i was just a guest in his home for a few days.''
the two said they had been treated well by the army
horn said douze was in his mid-40s and of haitian origin and had lived several years in the united states during the duvalier dictatorship, which lasted from 1957 to 1986
claude accused the government of president leslie manigat of planting members in his party to try to discredit and destroy it. claude, a protestant pastor, was one of the four most popular presidential candidates in the nov. 29 elections suspended because of widespread violence
the state-run television nationale reported sunday that douze was arrested for possession of detonators, wiring for explosives, a remote control detonating device, ammunition and clips for automatic assault rifles
on wednesday the christian democratic party's head of security, jocelin brochard, a former army corporal, and two women were arrested in connection with the bombing of the bridge. several sticks of dynamite, two assault rifles and a large bag of marijuana were found stashed on the roof of the women's home in the port-au-prince slum of bel-air
brochard said on state televison last week that douze supplied the weapons
claude denied knowing that brochard or douze were involved in the bombing, but said some members of the party who have advocated violence have been expelled in the past
it wasn't quite gold at the end of the rainbow, but one amateur sleuth didn't complain about his jackpot
dale mcrae struck silver _ or, more accurately, a laminated card declaring him the winner of a treasure hunt _ at the base of a telephone pole guy wire at katherine drive and monroe avenue on friday
i reached down at the base of the guy wire, and there it was,'' mcrae said. ``i didn't even look. i just knew that was it.''
joe cramer, who owns a car care shop in this grand rapids suburb, each year offers a prize of silver to the first person to solve a complicated riddle. cramer issued a 77-word riddle on nov. 20 to start the latest hunt and gave short clues on the 20th of each following month
the original riddle mentioned a large woman singer _ maybe kate smith? and monroe came from the mention ``first'' (mono) and ``caviar'' (roe)
mcrae recognized in the final clue a mathematical formula for calculating the sides of a triangle, and the riddle suggested looking for a ``little support.'' he spied the triangular shape of the wire and the pole, and the prize was his
mcrae's wife, kathy, said their home is too small to properly display the silver serving tray, engraved cup and silver coins they won, but she added, ``someday we'll have a big house, and then we'll really be able to enjoy it.''
beach-goers seeking to escape the city found something unexpected: a quarter-mile-long swath of sand imprinted with a cityscape of los angeles by a 14-ton concrete roller
i like it, but i think it is a bit crazy,'' said sandra soderberg, 20, a tourist from sweden who witnessed the progression sunday of the ``santa monica art tool.''
with a $60,000 commission from the seaside city, the national endowment for the arts and another non-profit arts group, artist carl cheng crafted his unusual device to bring art to the masses
designs carved into the surface of the roller left _ for the moment at least _ two-inch-tall sand replicas of such city scenes as the memorial coliseum and a traffic-choked freeway
i like going to the general public and making a project interesting to them, not just the art collectors, said cheng, 46, of los angeles
initial reviews were favorable
it's wonderful,'' said paul schneider, 47, of los angeles. ``i like the fact that the city is putting its money into art that can be appreciated by thousands of people. it's art that is also an event.''
cheng's work is the second commissioned for santa monica beaches as part of a 10-piece ``natural elements sculpture park.''
the roller will go on permanent display near the santa monica pier. clarifying that a sexual encounter that turned rough was part of chambers' story before his plea.</note>
jurors in the robert chambers murder trial said today that the jury, though bogged down in circumstantial evidence, could have reached a verdict
i feel very firmly that we could have reached a verdict,'' said juror cole wallace, interviewed on abc's ``good morning america'' program
we never reached a dead end,'' said juror mike ognibene, interviewed on the same program. ``we were judging with a circumstantial case and there was a great deal of discretion involved in reaching the decision.''
chambers agreed to plead guilty last friday to first-degree manslaughter and an unrelated burglary charge to end his trial on murder charges in the death of jennifer dawn levin during a central park tryst. the agreement followed nine days of deliberations and both the prosecution and defense feared a hung jury
as part of the plea bargain, chambers, who had maintained since his arrest that he killed miss levin accidentally during a sexual encounter that turned rough, acknowledged he intended to hurt the 18-year-old woman the night of her death
chambers entered the rikers island jail saturday to await sentencing april 15. he faces a five-to-15-year prison term for killing miss levin under the bargain
we were shocked that that's how it ended,'' juror ginny hoesl said of the plea bargain in an interview on ``cbs this morning.'' she said chambers would have been convicted, but it was impossible to say on what charge
betsy shankin, a friend of jennifer levin's, said on the same program that she would have preferred a jury verdict, but was satisfied that chambers had to admit his guilt as part of his plea. she wished for a longer sentence, however, saying, ``i don't think it will ever be enough for him.''
on sunday, monsignor thomas leonard, who helped counsel chambers after his arrest, said chambers would issue a statement soon about the killing
i think that ... he will make some sort of statement of how sorry he is for the trouble this has caused the levin family and for his own family,'' he said
in a separate development, chambers' lawyer, jack litman, ridiculed allegations by assistant district attorney linda fairstein that his client forged $7,000 worth of stolen checks in october and used some of it to buy drugs
the scandalous claims by the prosecutors are made in an obvious attempt to save face for having allowed robert chambers to receive a sentence in the range of reckless manslaughter when they proclaimed from the rooftop that robert chambers intentionally murdered jennifer levin,'' he said saturday
fairstein said she didn't want to provoke a mistrial by making the allegation public earlier
as part of the plea bargain, chambers is immune from prosecution from any other past crimes
prosecutors had said that the burglary to which chambers pleaded guilty was committed to support his cocaine habit, for which he was institutionalized twice
here, at a glance, are highlights of actions taken monday by the supreme court

easter seal-playboy

the court turned away an unusual copyright dispute that pitted the easter seal society against playboy enterprises
the justices, over one dissenting vote, rejected arguments that playboy illegally used materials intended for an easter seal telethon in a pornographic movie
the case is easter seal society vs. playboy enterprises, 87-482

trivial pursuit

the court refused to revive a $300 million copyright-infringement lawsuit against the creators and marketers of trivial pursuit, a popular board game
the court, without comment, rejected arguments by the author of several encyclopedias on trivia that many of the questions contained in the board game infringed on his copyright works
the case is worth vs. selchow &amp; righter co., 87-1268

recess

the court agreed to hear the appeal of a convicted killer who said his rights were violated when he was denied an opportunity to talk to his lawyer during a trial recess
the court said it will review a ruling that denied a new trial to the south carolina man
the case is perry vs. leeke, 87-6325

meade esposito

the court refused to hear an appeal by former new york city political boss meade esposito, who sought to prevent public disclosure of certain court documents
the justices, without comment, let stand a ruling challenged by esposito, the former brooklyn democratic boss convicted of giving illegal gratuities to rep. mario biaggi, d-n.y
the case is esposito vs. new york times, 87-1319

ghostwriting

the court refused to disqualify a bankruptcy judge from presiding over a georgia case in which he ordered the winning side to ghostwrite opinions he then signed
the justices, without comment, let stand a ruling that the judge's actions, while ill-advised, did not violate the losing side's rights
the case is colony square vs. prudential insurance co., 87-1299
senate democrats failed again today to end debate on a bill that would require the government to notify 100,000 to 300,000 workers a year that they risk cancer and other disabling diseases from exposure to toxic substances on the job
senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., said a fourth attempt at ending what some proponents of the legislation have branded as a republican filibuster will be made tuesday. two attempts last week failed
byrd indicated, however, that tomorrow's move could be the last effort to force a final senate vote on the house-passed bill if its sponsors cannot muster the 60 votes necessary to limit further debate to 30 hours
unlike ending a filibuster, passage of a bill requires only a simple majority _ 51 votes if all 100 senators are present
the 41-44 vote today to cut off debate indicated that sens. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, and edward m. kennedy, d-mass., the chief authors of the bill, had picked up only slight support by exempting farm workers and companies with less than 100 full-time employees
metzenbaum and hatch mustered 33 votes last week for ending a threat by sens. orrin hatch, r-utah, and dan quayle, r-ind., to prolong the debate indefinitely and prevent the senate from moving on to other measures
a few southern democrats and liberal republicans who had voted with hatch and quayle last week voted with metzenbaum and kennedy today
the bill would establish a panel of experts to identify the most hazardous substances in workplaces and the groups of employees most susceptible to disabling diseases because of exposure to them
the national institute of occupational safety and health would be required to notify 100,000 to 300,000 of those workers every year at an annual cost of $25 million
employers then would be required to finance medical monitoring program for them at a cost of up to $250 each annually
if, as a result of the monitoring, a physician recommends transferring an employee to less hazardous work, employers would have to pay the same level of wages and benefits to the worker in the new job. in the event no other job is available, the employee would be entitled to full wages and benefits for up to a year after leaving a job
a court sentenced a south african to prison for 50 years after he was convicted of spying for the pretoria government
isiah moyo, 32, of johannesburg, was found guilty of gathering classified information on zambian strategic installations and the guerrilla-backed african national congress headquarters in lusaka
moyo, who is black, is a former soldier in the south african military
he had pleaded innocent to the charges. but the high court commissioner rejected his defense that police and the anc had framed him
the anc says its goals, which can only be achieved by the overthrow of the white government in south africa, are for one-man, one-vote in a unitary state
voters in two southern mississippi congressional districts will select nominees tuesday for seats that trent lott and wayne dowdy gave up to run for the u.s. senate
the runoff elections in the 4th and 5th districts are necessary because no candidate received a majority in the primaries on super tuesday
in the 4th district that has been represented by dowdy, a democrat, since 1981, the democratic runoff pits brad pigott, a 33-year-old jackson attorney, against political newcomer mike parker, 38, of brookhaven. thomas collins iii, the executive director of the mississippi veterans home purchase board, faces 30-year-old jackson attorney andy taggart on the gop side
polls show both races very close
in the 5th district, state sen. gene taylor of bay st. louis tests glenn white of hattiesburg, while 43-year-old sheriff larkin smith of gulfport and hattiesburg businessman george robert hall, 57, face off in the republican runoff
a recent poll showed smith with a decided edge, while the democatic race was rated a toss-up
lott, a republican, was first elected from the 5th district in 1972. press and details of the order. picks up 14th graf, `also today .. .'</note>
the israeli army will close off the entire west bank and gaza strip for three days in expectation of major demonstrations called by the plo to mark a palestinian anniversary, the army announced today
in the occupied gaza strip, palestinian residents will be confined to their homes for three day, the army said. in the west bank, palestinian residents will be restricted to their cities and villages
arabs will be prevented from entering the area from israel but the 65,000 jewish settlers living in the territories will be allowed to travel freely, the army spokesman said
maj. gen. ephraim lapid said the army also would bar palestinians from leaving the west bank via the two bridges across the jordan river. incoming traffic from jordan would be permitted, he said
u.n. figures say 119 arabs have been killed since unrest began in the occupied territories dec. 8. one israeli soldier has been killed
lapid said only pool press coverage will be allowed during the three-day period. reporters will be accompanied by a military spokesman, the official said
the purpose is to keep the territories quiet. it is not directed specifically against the press, but we don't want to give the people of the areas any reason for causing disturbances,'' said a senior defense official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the measures were to take effect at 1 a.m. tuesday on the west bank and 10 p.m. tonight in the gaza strip. five-hour nightly curfews are already in effect in gaza
israel's 24-member cabinet authorized the measures in its weekly session sunday, israeli officials said
the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the move was calculated to lessen tensions wednesday, when palestinians will mark land day, the 12th anniversary of a 1976 clash between israeli soldiers and arabs over the confiscation of arab land. six arabs were killed
underground leaflets signed by the plo have called for major demonstrations throughout israel and the occupied territories to mark the occasion, a traditional time of unrest in recent years
israeli officials have maintained press coverage, especially the presence of television cameras, has incited palestinians to stage violent protests that might otherwise not have taken place
robert slater, head of the foreign press association in israel, sharply protested the action and said the group was considering legal action
we reject this as we have for the last four months,'' slater told the associated press. ``the foreign press stands united in its determination to cover this story in person and wherever the story takes us.''
also today, prime minister yitzhak shamir sharply protested a meeting between u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz and two arab-americans tied to the plo
a 19-year-old palestinian, meanwhile, died of wounds he suffered during a clash sunday in the west bank village of salfit. hussein kamel odeh died of a gunshot wound to the heart, israel radio and the arab-owned palestine press service said
the army said villagers attacked troops who came to rescue a tour bus that mistakenly entered the village
but 10 american and european academics on the bus denied the army report and said troops used their presence as a pretext to raid the village. another 14-year-old arab boy also died in the clash
also today, plo chief yasser arafat's chief spokesman was quoted as saying shultz will have more meetings with plo-affiliated officials, possibly when the secretary of state visits the middle east beginning april 3
shultz met in washington on saturday with edward said and ibrahim abu lughod, both american citizens and members of the palestine national council, the parliament-in-exile of the palestine liberation organization
israel has always refused to negotiate with the plo and israeli officials contend the shultz meeting violated a longstanding u.s. commitment not to deal with the plo
shamir's criticism of shultz's meeting speech came a day after ministers of the center-left labor party told a stormy cabinet meeting visit that israel must adopt a u.s. peace plan if it hopes to end violence in the occupied lands
before his visit to the united states last week, shamir had blocked any debate on the peace plan which involves israel giving land to the palestinians in exchange for peace
the state department, which has restricted american travel to the west bank and gaza, today said it regretted israel's decision to seal off the territories for three days in expectation of major demonstrations called by the palestine liberation organization
spokesman charles e. redman said the israeli move would have an impact on commerce, visits between family members and the press
both israelis and arabs will be prevented from entering the two areas. the only exception will be the 65,000 jewish settlers who live in the territories
a total of 119 palestinian arabs and an israeli soldier have died since violent protests broke out dec. 9. the state department, citing ``continuing disturbances,'' last friday advised u.s. citizens to avoid travel to the areas until further notice
the warning also could have an impact on tourism and business, especially during holy week
redman reaffirmed, meanwhile, that u.s. policy prohibits dealing with the plo as well as negotiating or recognizing the group until it accepts israel's right to exist and disavows terrorism
the spokesman said secretary of state george p. shultz's meeting here saturday with two american members of the palestine national council did not conflict with the 13-year-old policy
the council considers itself the legislative arm of the palestinian nationalist movement. one of the two palestinians, edward said, said he informed plo chairman yasser arafat before he and ibrahim abu-lughod met with shultz
redman said that the plo and the council were not ``synonymous'' and that ``our restrictions on dealing with the plo remain as always.''
shultz will go to the middle east on sunday for five days of talks with arab and israeli leaders on his proposal to open negotiations by may 1
he will make stops in israel, jordan, syria, egypt and saudi arabia
shultz presented his proposal to arab and israeli leaders four weeks ago
and asked for a reply by mid-march. so far, only egypt has endorsed his plan
trumpeter al hirt was released from the hospital monday after a four-day stay for treatment of a hand and arm ailment, officials said
he had been treated by dr. michael debakey for an acute infection of the right hand and arm, which is his playing hand,'' said methodist hospital spokeswoman brenda blake. ``the outlook is excellent.''
hirt, 65, flew to houston on thursday from his home in new orleans so he could be treated by debakey, a friend
hirt said his doctors believed the problem may be related to his trumpet playing and a growth that developed on a finger of his right hand after 59 years of playing
hirt canceled an appearance thursday in new orleans and a weekend gig in fairfield, conn., so he could be treated
president reagan and his wife, nancy, have signed a three-year lease on a $2.5 million estate in the bel air section of los angeles to live in after they leave the white house next january, the white hose said today
elaine crispen, mrs. reagan's press secretary, said the reagans signed the lease and mailed it within the last 10 days. the lease gives them an option to purchase the house and its 1\ acres of grounds
the amount of the lease payments was not disclosed
a group of about 20 friends of the reagans set up a firm called wall management services and purchased the estate on aug. 21, 1986, saying they did so with the understanding they would be reimbursed by the reagans
the estate includes a secluded house with 6,500 feet of living space and a pool. it was purchased from a 90-year-old woman who at the time of the purchase still lived in the house
at the time of the purchase, mrs. crispen said the reagans had not yet chosen a home and might decide to purchase a different one
she said today the investors had purchased the home as an option for the reagans and ``it is one they have decided on.''
the house on monday approved a bill that would make it easier for a parent to recover a child who is abducted and taken to a foreign country, often by the other parent
the measure, passed by voice vote and sent to the senate, would enable the u.s. government to implement an international treaty intended to overcome complex, time-consuming legal issues blocking the prompt return of abducted children from a foreign country
the united states signed the treaty in 1981. although it was approved by the senate in october 1986, the united states has not ratified the pact because the state department said implementing legislation was needed first
the treaty provides for the prompt return of children abducted from their country or wrongfully kept in a foreign country, and provides for visitation rights across international borders
the bill provides for accelerated procedures by the courts of nine foreign countries that have ratified the treaty for returning abducted children to their u.s. parents
the bill would direct state courts, when petitioned by foreign parents, to order children returned to their habitual residence abroad, even if there is no legal order establishing custody
washington _ the supreme court on monday refused to rule that playboy enterprises violated federal copyright law when it used material intended for an easter seal telethon in a pornographic movie
the justices, over one dissenting vote, rejected an attempt by the easter seal society to collect damages from playboy
in other matters, the court:
_agreed to hear the appeal of a convicted south carolina killer who says his rights were violated when he was forbidden to talk to his lawyer during a trial recess
_agreed to study a challenge to the way webster county, w.va., assesses real estate for property tax purposes. the county's policy of reassessing recently sold property at half the sale price means some land is assessed 6,500 percent higher than similar property
_refused to revive a $300 million copyright-infringement lawsuit against the creators and marketers of trivial pursuit, a popular board game. the justices rejected arguments by the author of several encyclopedias on triva that many of the questions contained in the game infringed on his copyright works
_refused to hear an appeal by former new york city political boss meade esposito, convicted of giving illegal gratuties to rep. mario biaggi, r-n.y., that sought to prevent public disclosure of certain court documents in the case
the easter seal society vs. playboy case dates back to 1982, when new orleans musician and entertainer ronnie kole, acting on behalf of the society, contracted with public television station wyes to make a videotape of a staged mardi gras-style parade and dixieland jam session
the videotape was edited into a 16-minute version for the society's national telethon for crippled children, and was broadcast march 28, 1982
a year later, wyes provided an unedited copy of the easter seal tape to a television producer. portions of the tape were incorporated into a movie entitled ``candy, the stripper,'' a sexually explicit film carried on cable television's playboy channel
some viewers in the new orleans area who had taken part in the staged mardis gras parade, seeing themselves in the pornographic movie, complained. the society then sued playboy enterprises, wyes, and others _ accusing them of copyright violations
the society said it, and not wyes, owns the copyright on the videotape
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled against the society last april. the appeals court said congress in 1976 limited the copyright protection for those who hire others to produce original works
only justice byron r. white voted monday to hear arguments in the case. four votes were needed to grant review to the society's appeal. prosecutor, picking up 5th graf pvs, `today, the ....'</note>
gov. evan mecham today lashed out at the prosecutor at his impeachment trial for comparing his use of a protocol fund to a bank official's embezzling money
i resent so highly the word embezzlement in my presence,'' the first-term republican governor told prosecutor william french as french and presiding officer frank gordon jr. tried to silence him
i'm insulted by it,'' mecham said. ``i have seen no other witness who has been insulted as i have been.''
however, gordon admonished mecham against making his statement without being asked a question, saying, ``i hope, sir, that you believe that the rules are for you as well as everybody else.''
mecham, testifying as the impeachment trial entered its second month, said he never tried to hide an $80,000 loan from the governor's protocol fund to his auto dealership from the public or from other business creditors
the arizona senate is hearing evidence on three charges to determine whether the first-term republican should be removed from office
mecham argued that the loan was legitimate, saying, ``a loan is one thing and an expenditure is much, much different.'' he contended he also could have legally borrowed the money to buy himself a car, and he also could have loaned the money to his wife as long as she paid it back
french asked mecham whether a bank officer could avoid embezzlement charges if he borrowed bank funds, as long as he paid it back. that question led to the governor's outburst
the governor also testified today that he thought somebody must have been monitoring his telephone calls for the prosecutor to learn that he phoned a witness
but french said that the witness told a member of the prosecution staff about the call
mecham's former chief of staff, jim colter, initially testified about the matter tuesday. when he returned to the stand the next morning, he testified under questioning from french that he had gotten a call on his answering machine from the governor saying ``that i had done a good job or something to that effect.''
today, the governor said, ``there was no intention to contact jim,'' adding that he was ``shocked'' that french found out about the call
the governor said he had made the call to inquire about colter's health and to say he looked well
somebody had to be monitoring my phone calls to ever know that. ... i couldn't figure out any other reason, mr. french, that you would'' know about the call, said mecham, who once said he feared laser beams were being used to eavesdrop on his office
that's just an assumption on my part,'' the governor added
french then asked the governor if he would be surprised if colter had told a member of french's staff about the call
yes, that would surprise me, but if you tell me that i'll accept it,'' the governor said
the senate already has heard testimony on a charge that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
the third impeachment charge accuses him of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan. the governor also faces an april 21 criminal trial on six felony counts related to the loan
the senate could decide this week to vote on the first two allegations without hearing the third. a conviction would automatically remove mecham from office, although the trial could continue on the third charge to decide if the governor should be barred from holding future public office
the senate last week dropped a proposal to allow a vote after the first count, and some senators predicted the same would happen this week
i imagine there will be more votes for it, but i doubt there will be enough,'' majority leader bob usdane said sunday. he added there is a chance the trial might not end before a may 17 recall election as some senators want
fellow republican sen. greg lunn said senators should hear all the evidence before voting whether to convict mecham
however, minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, said sunday there was a danger that hearing testimony in the senate on the $350,000 loan charge might make it impossible to empanel an impartial jury in criminal court. in that case, he said, ``we look pretty bad.''
a two-thirds senate margin would be required to change the rules and allow an early vote
on friday, mecham testified that he was told by fund-raiser bill long he could spend the protocol fund ```for any damn thing you want' _ those are his words _ `except you can't spend it for politics or for personal living expenses.'''
long submitted an affidavit friday contending that he never intended to turn the inaugural proceeds into state funds and that he believed they were being turned over to mecham for his personal use
the prosecution contends the protocol fund, created with proceeds from inaugural fund-raising events, became public money when it was turned over to the governor's office. mecham pontiac needed the $80,000 loan to meet its july payroll, according to prosecution testimony
however, the defense contends mecham pontiac was in good shape and that the protocol fund was private money that mecham could use as he saw fit, except for personal living expenses or to retire his campaign debt
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham, who is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades
a bus carrying 62 people fell into a ravine monday, killing 25 and injuring 37, according to a news report
the accident involving the state government-owned bus occured at 2:40 a.m. in western maharashtra state about 19 miles northeast of bombay, the united news of india said
the bus was bound from nasik to virar, a northern bombay suburb, the news agency said. picking up 3rd graf pvs, `the powell ....'</note>
they groan and squeak, lurch forward and rock backward, but as the quaint little cable cars on powell street turned 100 today they're being celebrated by thousands of adoring fans
costumed characters, including one portraying cable car inventor andrew s. hallidie, rode 14 cars decorated like floats as perennial bell-ringing champion carl payne rang out dixieland melodies and a navy jazz band led the way
it's great to be part of this celebration. it's really special,'' payne said, adding optimistically, ``i'm hoping to be here at the 200-year mark.''
a $40-a-plate luncheon to raise money for the homeless was scheduled after the parade, along with the release of 15,000 balloons and the serving of a giant birthday cake cut into 1,000 pieces
the powell street line, though younger than its sister line on california street, whose centennial 15 years ago set off a wild two-week bash, is longer and more picturesque, earning a special place in the hearts of san franciscans and millions of tourists
folks sometimes help push the trolleys at the turnaround on powell and market, getting a hands-on sense of history on a moving national landmark as the cars climb past union square and chinatown to fisherman's wharf, with a view of alcatraz as a bonus
presidents and movie stars have rumbled up and down powell during the past century, enjoying breathtaking vistas on some of the city's steepest slopes
there were spectacular accidents and annoying breakdowns, but most of the time the trolleys kept rolling, clickety clack at 9{ mph, on millions of trips through fog and earthquakes in a constantly changing city
today the two powell street lines carry about 41,000 passengers a day on 3{-mile rides that take about 25 minutes each
you could have seen a lot of change from these cars over the past 100 years,'' says gripman phillip shaw, who's plied powell for 26 years. ``only the hills stay the same.''
if you close your eyelids halfway and tune out most of the noise except for the bell and the wheels, you can almost imagine yourself riding along in the 1800s,'' says jeffery fleischmann, a visitor from dallas
powell street is where perennial bell-ringing champ carl payne, another 26-year veteran, chimes through town, delighting riders with his melodies and stories
at night, when fog creeps over the city, there isn't a more soulful sound than the muffled peals of a cable car bell
being on a cable car, you're back in history and it shows you how good people had it back then,'' payne says
south african soldiers raided a house on the outskirts of this border capital early monday, killing a man and three women during an hour-long gun battle
the south african defense force claimed responsibility in a statement issued in pretoria 10 hours after the attack ended about 2 a.m
it described the victims as ``terrorists'' of the african national congress, the main guerrilla group fighting white domination in south africa
both the united states and javier perez de cuellar, the u.n. secretary-general, condemned the raid. state department spokesman charles redman said: ``it appears the south african authorities made no attempt to seek the cooperation of the botswana authorities in dealing with the alleged security threat.''
in gaborone, president quett masire's office said the man was south african, two women were botswanans and the third woman had not been identified
according to the statement, all were sleeping when the south africans attacked at 1 a.m. in an area of the phiring suburb called tsholofelo
the office of the president strongly condemns this dastardly attack and murder of innocent people in botswana by the south african army,'' it said. ``south africa's problems cannot be resolved by attacking neighboring countries such as botswana.''
botswana ``strongly urges the south african government to engage in meaningful negotiations with the genuine leadership of the oppressed majority in that country,'' the statement said
south africa's 5 million whites control the government and economy, and the 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs
the statement from the south african military called the raid a follow-up to a shootout near the border with botswana on friday, which had not been reported previously. in that attack soldiers killed ``three suspected terrorists'' in a running battle near a farm, capturing rifles, machine pistols and hand grenades, the statement said
following up on intelligence gathered during friday's operation, an element of the defense force killed four more terrorists ... on the northern outskirts of gaborone early today,'' it said
monday's raid provides ``further evidence that anc terrorists, originating from zambia and zimbabwe, use botswana as a transit route to infiltrate into south africa,'' it said
defense minister magnas malan said the ``pre-emptive'' raid ``resulted in the prevention of killings and maimings of innocent people at a later stage.''
a dispatch from the botswana press association quoted norman moleboge, the deputy police commissioner, as saying the four victims were shot and set afire, and gasoline containers were found at the scene. it said an explosion may have been caused by a gas cylinder in the house
neighbors said they heard sporadic fire from automatic weapons, and possibly grenade explosions. they reported seeing people flee in a vehicle and others run into the bush. two said the raiders left in a helicopter
one witness said a woman ran from the house and sought shelter in his home
south africa has issued several threats to botswana in the past few months, accusing it of harboring african national congress guerrillas
masire's government supports anc goals and allows its representatives in the country, but says it does not permit guerrillas to attack south africa from botswana's territory
the south african military has raided alleged guerrilla hideouts in botswana several times in recent years. one person was killed in an attack in may 1986 and a raid in june 1985 left 15 dead
singer dennis day is out of the intensive care unit at the hospital where he was admitted earlier this month with a head injury, but remains in serious condition, a spokesman said monday
day's ``vital signs are stable and he is showing some response to visitors and members of his family. he is not speaking, but he is improved,'' said armen markarian, spokesman for st. john's hospital
day, 71, was hospitalized march 9 after falling at his bel-air home. he underwent immediate surgery to relieve pressure on his brain; a second operation for the same problem was performed march 19
day was diagnosed last july as suffering from amyotropic lateral sclerosis. the progressive nerve disorder, also known as lou gehrig's disease, causes a loss of muscle control
day, who was born eugene denis mcnulty in new york city, began his career with comedian jack benny in 1939. an accomplished tenor, day played the innocent foil to benny's character on television and radio, breaking into song to counter benny's anger or tricking him into letting him sing
three cabinet officers unveiled a guide to workplace literacy monday that includes tips for businesses to learn just how well or poorly their workers read
the three officials _ labor secretary ann mclaughlin, education secretary william j. bennett and commerce secretary c. william verity _ all agreed that bolstering the basic skills of workers is essentially to maintaining a strong economy
the education and labor departments published the 50-page guidebook, ``the bottom line, basic skills in the workplace.''
it was verity who provided the most gripping example of problems which companies face with illiteracy in the workforce
basic workplace literacy is an absolute necessity if we are to increase our productivity, remain competitive in the global marketplace and continue to be a world leader,'' verity said
he said he had learned of one company that wanted to hire 100 people for two shifts at a new, state-of-the-art plant, but had trouble finding workers capable of performing fifth-grade math and seventh-grade in english
verity, who declined to identify the company, said, ``a test was given to 480 people who applied, and only 49 of them passed.'' the company offered to send those who flunked to an eight-week remedial course at a community college, and 50 of the 100 people who took the course passed the company's test on a second try
verity said the real problem is that schools should be improved so that all high school graduates ``at least have the equivalent of a seventh-grade education in english and a fifth-grade education in math, which is sort of the norm for getting a job in industry. hopefully, as time goes on, those levels will rise and we'll have a much better workforce coming out of the school system.''
the bottom line'' guidebook outlines how to identify employees' basic skills and how to improve them. it spells out how to conduct a ``literacy audit'' to determine what skills a worker needs to carry out a given task, and offers suggestions of actual programs that have proven successful
mclaughlin said 75 percent of the u.s. workforce for the year 2000 are already out of school. ``many of these workers are ill-prepared to deal with rapidly changing technology because they lack adequate basic skills,'' she said. ``clearly, business must take a lead role in remedying the basic skills gap for these workers.''
she cited estimates that up to 23 million american adults lack the basic skills needed to hold a job
bennett said, ``unfortunately, there are still too many people who graduate from our high schools with a diploma, but without the necessary skills.''
our job doesn't stop with the schools. and that's where this book comes in,'' said bennett
mclaughlin said it was ``an interesting liaison'' between the three cabinet officers. but noting that it was their first joint appearance, she said, ``maybe we're not quite getting the act together.''
bennett quipped, ``it's our first, but not our last. peter, paul and mary, look out.''
single copies of ``the bottom line'' are available free by writing:
the bottom line, division of adult education, department of education, 400 maryland ave. s.w., reporters bldg., room 522, washington, d.c., 20202. or by writing: employment and training administration, department of labor, 200 constitution ave. n.w., room s2307, washington, d.c. 20210
jesse jackson says he can win wisconsin's pivotal democratic primary ``because i've stood here with the meat packers in cudahy, the auto workers in kenosha and the paper workers in de pere.''
from iowa's bankrupt farmers to laid-off appliance workers in illinois, jackson has stood side-by-side with the nation's displaced and disaffected and in the process forged a winning coalition
jackson's campaign for ``economic justice'' has touched a chord and it may be enough to deliver another victory over michael dukakis in wisconsin next tuesday, aides to both candidates said monday
support from blue-collar workers is crucial to jackson's chances in wisconsin since jackson's core black constituency makes up only 3 percent of the state's population. jackson consistently carries about 10 percent of the white vote, but has moved beyond that in some states, notably in heavily-white vermont earlier this month and on saturday in michigan, where he won some predominantly white areas on top of black detroit wards
tony tsakakis, a national campaign aide to massachusetts gov. dukakis, said wisconsin is a two-man race. even though he feels dukakis will win, tsakakis said he could not rule out a jackson victory
it's going to be the reverand and us through the convention,'' said tsakakis
bob burns, a member of jackson's national staff working in wisconsin, said jackson would rely heavily on labor support in a push to win wisconsin
in every race where we have competed, we felt we would come in no. 1 or no. 2 and wisconsin is no different,'' burns said
both men referred to a milwaukee sentinel poll released monday that showed dukakis leading jackson 28 percent to 25 percent among likely democratic voters
the poll was conducted march 17-22, before jackson's weekend win in michigan
it is not a measure of our new-found momentum as our rock-bottom strength,'' burns said
even republican gov. tommy thompson, a supporter of vice president george bush, said monday if he were a democrat, he would vote for jackson
under wisconsin's open primary, thompson legally could take a democratic ballot, but does not plan to do so
just because he is a democrat doesn't mean i can't like him,'' said thompson, who joined jackson earlier this month in kenosha to protest plans by chrysler corp. to close an auto plant there, a move that will throw 5,500 people out of work
it is those auto workers in kenosha, strikers at the patrick cudahy meat packing plant in cudahy and striking paper workers in de pere that jackson is depending on to help him carry wisconsin, as he has done in other states
the day after super tuesday, jackson was in the chicago suburbs of cicero where workers were worried about the planned closing of a general electric plant thtat makes hotpoint refrigerators. jackson was met under dreary, damp skies by a rally of about 200 people, organized by the sheet metal workers union. they carried signs that said, ``jesse, help us save our jobs,'' and ``unemployment, made by ge.''
workers said they believed jackson would make a difference for them
nothing has changed here. i've been working here 23 years. i believe jackson would make a change,'' said mack fundes
phil haney, a kenosha auto worker who came to milwaukee on saturday to see jackson, said he felt the same way
he's been on the picket lines,'' haney said
haney said if jackson were president, he would expect him to push for legislation to promote more business investment at home and help for workers displaced by plant closings and new technologies. search resuming today. corrects spelling of last name from trenkel to trenkle throughout.</note>
a father who gave up his life preserver to save his son's life after their boat overturned and filled with water in the swift sandy river was still missing today and presumed drowned
george earl trenkle, 40, of blackfoot, idaho, tossed a seat cushion to his son, george edward trenkle, 18, after they and a third man hit a log and were thrown from their boat into the frigid water saturday, multnomah county sheriff's deputy bob boertien said
the younger trenkle said sunday that he tried to throw the cushion to his father after reaching safety, but he didn't have the strength
i threw the thing to him, but i was so tired, it really didn't go that far,'' trenkle said
i could just see his head as he went around a bend,'' he added. ``i yelled, `dad!' a couple of times, and he said he would be ok.''
the third man in the boat, roland parkhurst, 40, of nearby gresham, was a paraplegic and was wearing a life jacket. witnesses pulled the younger trenkle and parkhurst from the river
the pair were taken to a hospital in gresham, where they were treated and released. the boat was found overturned and washed ashore about a half-mile downstream from where it hit a submerged log that almost destroyed its bow
a search for the elder trenkle resumed late this morning
we were floating down river; my dad was rowing. we just got started, and he was having trouble rowing. he was kind of new at it,'' trenkle said sunday in a telephone interview with the oregonian newspaper from his uncle's house in salem
after the boat overturned, trenkle said he managed to climb on top of it at one point. his father had hold of the boat, and parkhurst held his foot as they tried to make it to shore
then we hit the rapids, and we all separated from the boat,'' trenkle said
i was under water for quite a while.'' then, he said, his father pulled him up to the surface and gave him a seat cushion that he had found
trenkle, a high school senior, said his father worked as a fire boss for the u.s. bureau of land management, and was in portland for a business meeting. he said his father and parkhurst had known each other since high school
police in west germany and switzerland seized 11 people suspected of spying for the soviet union in a crackdown that was termed a major blow to the kgb, authorities said monday
interior minister friedrich zimmermann said the arrests showed that soviet bloc spy networks were redoubling undercover work in the west, despite improved superpower relations
west germany's counterintelligence agents ``have dealt a serious blow to eastern espionage agencies,'' zimmermann said in a statement
the large number of arrests confirms that instead of refraining from activating agents in a time of political detente (between east and west), the east bloc is intensifying the illegal activities of its operatives,'' he added
security sources said the arrests were made during a series of police raids last week. federal prosecutor kurt rebmann said they marked ``an important penetration of the kgb spy network'' in west germany
an foreign engineer living in zurich was arrested wednesday on a tip from west germany, swiss prosecutors said. they did not disclose his name or nationality but said they had launched a criminal investigation into his activities
spy scandals and arrests are frequent in west germany, a front-line nato ally and one of western europe's most technologically advanced nations
in the last major espionage scandal, 15 communist agents were arrested or disappeared between august and december 1985
rebmann said 10 people were taken into custody wednesday and thursday as part of a nationwide crackdown against espionage targets. the raids were carried out by 169 police officers in 33 locations, according to rebmann
he said six of the 10 taken into custody remained in jail on monday, and that investigations were continuing against the four who were released
in addition, inquiries were under way against 14 other espionage suspects, for a total of 24 separate investigations, the prosecutor said. he declined to say how many of the cases were likely to result in charges
he said those in custody included two teachers, three engineers and a businessman, all of whom are suspected of working for the kgb. three were soviet emigres living in west germany
one suspect, businessman helmut stefan kolasch, is believed to have worked for the kgb since 1971, rebmann said. kolasch, 44, allegedly gave the kgb technological secrets about nato's tornado and jaeger warplanes while working for firms dealing with the aircraft, he said
rebmann identified the other jailed suspects as peter friesen, 33, an engineer; george bender, 37, also an engineer; shimon or, 48, a teacher; edmund neufert, 37, another teacher. another suspect, a colombian engineer, was identified by rebmann only as ``amaya.''
the prosecutor said all six were living in west germany
rebmann said amaya also handed over unidentified technical documents to the kgb; friesen spied on west german political parties, bender reported to the kgb about a ``large electronics concern'' he worked for, and neufert spied on students while teaching russian at the foreign ministry's language-training office
rebmann said or ``reported (to the kgb) on his own life and work,'' but he did not provide details
none of the suspected spies apparently knew one another and were operating individually, the prosecutor told reporters
the police raids followed the march 18 arrest of a government secretary who was also suspected of having worked for the kgb. elke falk worked in several government ministries in the past decade and had access to classified information
one of amedeo modigliani's last paintings sold for a record $9 million monday at an auction of impressionist and modern art
the oil painting, which set a record for the italian artist, portrayed greek composer marios vavoglis and was completed in january 1920, days before modigliana died in paris at age 36
an anonymous buyer purchased the simple painting, called ``portrait of mario,'' which had been put on the auction block by an anonymous owner, christie's said
it had been estimated to sell for $3.7 million to $4.65 million. the previous record price for a modigliani was $7.62 million, set in november for a portrait called ``the beautiful roman.''
works by pierre auguste renoir, camille pissaro, alfred sisley, wassily kandinsky, paul klee, salvador dali, marc chagall and joan miro, among others, were also for sale at the christie's auction
producer lee guber, who helped bring broadway entertainment to theaters and concert halls throughout the country, has died of brain cancer. he was 67
guber, who died at his manhattan home sunday, produced nearly a dozen shows on broadway, including productions of ``the king and i,'' ``fiddler on the roof,'' ``gypsy,'' ``i do! i do!'' and ``how to succeed in business without really trying.''
he also headed a suburban entertainment chain that included the westbury music fair on long island, the valley forge music fair outside philadelphia, the shady grove music theater outside washington and the painters mill music fair in the suburbs of baltimore
guber and his partner, shelly gross, booked such entertainers as judy garland, jack benny, sammy davis jr., liberace and stevie wonder. they also brought productions of broadway musicals to suburban theaters
guber's last production, however, was one of several flops in his career. ``rags,'' a $5 million musical about immigrants, ran on broadway for only four performances before closing in august 1986
guber was born in philadelphia and met gross at central high school there. with a third partner, frank ford, they began their theatrical career in 1955 with productions at the valley forge theater in devon, pa
married three times, guber divorced his second wife, broadcaster barbara walters, in 1976 after a 13-year marriage
he is survived by his third wife, lois wyse, whom he married in 1982, as well as by three children from his prior marriages, two stepchildren, a sister, a brother and eight grandchildren
funeral services are planned wednesday at temple emanu-el in manhattan
thousands of armenians in a disputed region of the caucasus stayed away from factories and schools monday to protest the kremlin's refusal to make the area part of the armenian republic
groups of young men blocked pedestrians and busloads of workers from reporting to their jobs in stepanakert, the main city of the nagorno-karabakh region, the government newspaper izvestia reported. it said authorities used mobile loudspeakers and leaflets to urge an end to the strike
the state-controlled media said the ethnic unrest was damaging the region's economy
about three-quarters of the 157,000 residents of nagorno-karabakh, which has been part of neighboring azerbaijan since 1923, are ethnic armenians
the official radio in baku, capital of azerbaijan, said ``extremely fanatical elements'' incited disturbances saturday evening in nagorno-karabakh
it did not describe the disturbances or say exactly where they occurred in the disputed territory. the british broadcasting corp. monitored the broadcast in london
sporadic strikes and protests have been reported in nagorno-karabakh since feb. 13. the latest labor trouble is said to have begun wednesday after moscow refused armenian demands to annex the region, about the size of delaware
in a telephone conversation, the manager of stepanakert's only hotel, the karabakh, said all but essential services were halted
the bread and milk plants are working. the others are not. everyone is sitting at home,'' he said
about 30 percent of public transport was shut down in stepanakert, a city of about 33,000, the manager reported. he described himself as an ethnic armenian but would not give his name
an izvestia dispatch from stepanakert said workers stayed away from factories producing silk, shoes and electronic goods, students boycotted the teachers' college and mothers kept their children home from kindergarten
azeris, the dominant ethnic group in azerbaijan, also were caught up in the trouble, it said
ethnic azeri workers arrived at the entrances to their businesses but ... announced: unless the armenians come, we will not work,'' izvestia reported
communist party officials in stepanakert called workers to weekend meetings and urged them to resume their jobs, the government paper said. appeals distributed by leaflets and broadcasts monday said the city owed the government seven million rubles ($11.2 million) in lost revenue
the hotel manager said party meetings continued monday. he predicted the strike would end tuesday but sergei grigoryants, a moscow human rights activist who is half armenian, said it was scheduled to run through friday
pravda, the national party daily, said monday the ``difficult state of affairs'' in nagorno-karabakh had damaged the economy of azerbaijan as a whole
losses to the automotive and transport industries were the equivalent of about $2.4 million in february and march, and the railway industry lost about $120,000, the paper said
it revealed little about how the money was lost but quoted a railway official in azerbaijan as saying freight cars had not been unloaded. the official, garik sarkisyan, said the situation was ``thoroughly bad'' and ``loss of time and money has become the usual thing.''
there were no strikes or protests monday in yerevan, capital of armenia, according to an armenian interior ministry official, a hotel executive and armenian nationalist hovik vassilian, all interviewed by telephone
izvestia said, however, that at least one yerevan factory was having trouble getting supplies from sumgait, a city in azerbaijan on the caspian sea north of baku where at least 32 people were killed in ethnic riots feb. 28
a van-assembly plant in yerevan sent trucks to sumgait for side windows but were not allowed into the city. izvestia said. it did not make clear who barred the truck or why
moscow dissidents in touch with armenian sources over the weekend described yerevan as ``a dead city.'' people stayed home to protest a crackdown on demonstrations that had been planned for saturday, they said
on wednesday, the government announced a plan for improving social and economic conditions in nagorno-karabakh, but it does not include annexation to armenia
on monday, pravda said the improvements hinge on whether the strike ends
any most realistic and well-considered program cannot be implemented if people do not come to feel a high personal responsibility for the destiny and development of the area and do not get down to work,'' it said. ``the machine tools should not stay idle, railway cars should continue to be unloaded and field work should go on.''
the state department criticized israel on monday for sealing off the west bank and gaza for three days in expectation of major demonstrations called by the palestine liberation organization
we regret the decision because of the impact it will have on commerce, on visits with family members and the press,'' spokesman charles e. redman said
last friday, the department advised u.s. citizens to avoid travel to the areas because of continuing disturbances. this also was likely to affect local business because tourists are attracted to the west bank during holy week
israel's decision will keep israelis and arabs from entering the territories. the only exceptions will be the 65,000 jewish settlers who live there among 1.5 million palestinian arabs
a total of 119 palestinians and an israeli soldier have died since violent protests broke out in the west bank and gaza on dec. 9. secretary of state george p. shultz will launch a new drive in jerusalem on sunday to hold negotiations for palestinian self-rule beginning may 1
he plans two stops in israel and in jordan, the two key countries, and also stops in syria, saudi arabia and egypt. spokesman redman said shultz would like to meet with palestinians while he is in the region
on tuesday, he is scheduled to meet here with representatives of the arab league, which is a group of the 21 arab countries and the plo
shultz will leave washington on thursday and spend more than two days in rome meeting with italian officials and attending religious services
redman reaffirmed, meanwhile, that u.s. policy prohibits ``dealing'' with the plo as well as negotiating or recognizing the group until it accepts israel's right to exist and disavows terrorism
the spokesman said shultz's meeting here saturday with two american members of the palestine national council did not conflict with the 13-year-old policy, which also was written into law in 1984
the council considers itself the legislative arm of the palestinian nationalist movement. one of the two palestinian-americans, edward said, said he informed plo chairman yasser arafat before he and ibrahim abu-lughod met with shultz, and arafat approved
israel protested the meeting
redman said the plo and the council were not ``synonymous'' and that ``our restrictions on dealing with the plo remain as always.''
the spokesman said shultz's meeting with said and abu-lughod, who are university professors, was ``not a negotiating format.''
shultz presented his proposal for negotiations to arab and israeli leaders four weeks ago and asked for a reply by mid-march. so far, only egypt has endorsed his plan
still, redman said the proposal was ``under serious and active consideration by the parties.'' he said shultz would emphasize the plan was a fair and balanced approach to the 40-year arab-israeli dispute
nobody has said no,'' redman said. ``we are going to continue to work on this proposal to see if we can't get something going.''
asked about a report that shultz would take with him an invitation to a united nations conference on the middle east to begin april 15, the spokesman said: ``it sounds pretty flaky.''
the pentagon, breaking its normal silence about ship movements, said monday the helicopter carrier uss okinawa would begin a transit of the panama canal on tuesday
the defense department described the movement in a statement as ``routine'' and something ``which has been planned for several months.''
the pentagon said the statement was issued in hopes of avoiding rumors and speculation in panama about the carrier's presence in the waterway
the reagan administration has been applying economic pressure in hopes of ousting strongman gen. manuel a. noriega, but has made clear it is not taking any military moves against the general
the okinawa is steaming through the canal on the last leg of an around-the-world journey that saw it deploy in the persian gulf to support mine-sweeping operations. the carrier dropped off its mine-sweeping helicopters earlier this month in norfolk, va., and is now destined for its home port in san diego
president reagan and his wife have decided on a los angeles home to live in after the president leaves office in january but will lease, rather than buy, the $2.5 million estate, the white house said monday
elaine crispen, press secretary to first lady nancy reagan, said the reagans signed a lease and mailed it within the last 10 days. the estate in the luxurious bel air district is owned by wall management services, a group of about 20 friends of the reagans who bought it with them in mind
the three-year agreement gives the reagans the option to renew the lease or purchase the property. the estate includes 1\ acres of grounds and a secluded house with 6,500 feet of living space and a pool
wall management bought the estate on aug. 21, 1986, from a 90-year-old woman who the investors said would lease it back from them until the reagans were ready for it
mrs. crispen said the previous owner has since died
the spokeswoman said she did not know the amount of the lease payments. she said the lease agreement was worked out by the reagans' lawyers, the white house counsel's office and the office of government ethics
the reagans' money is in a blind trust
the reagans lived in pacific palisades, in the western part of los angeles, before his election as president. that house has since been sold
they own a century-old, spanish-style adobe house of five rooms and 1,500 square feet at rancho del cielo, their ranch on a 2,250-foot-high mountaintop 30 miles northwest of santa barbara
the soviet union has stepped up its aerial reconnaissance patrols along the entire asian coastline and is becoming more aggressive in sending up fighters to meet american patrol planes, the head of the u.s. pacific fleet said monday
while it is difficult to know for sure, the increased activity may reflect the aftermath of the mathias rust affair, in which a west german teen-ager managed to fly a small plane past soviet air defenses to moscow's red square, said adm. david e. jeremiah
rust's success prompted a shake-up of the soviet military hierarchy
the four-star admiral, who took command of the pacific fleet last october, also confirmed previous reports that the united states would conduct naval exercises off the korean peninsula during this summer's olympic games
he also argued that congress, in debating whether some older navy carriers should be retired soon, should not disturb the current practice of basing a carrier in japan. and he declared the most important concern of military commanders in the pacific to be the situation in the philippines and continued access to u.s. bases there
the 54-year-old jeremiah met for more than 45 minutes with pentagon reporters monday to discuss developments within a military theater that is by far the navy's largest _ stretching from the west coast to africa
jeremiah said the soviets had become much more aggressive in recent months in meeting u.s. aircraft over the pacific, particularly in scrambling mig-23 jet fighters out of a base in cam rahn bay, vietnam, and from soviet bases above the sea of japan
i think you're seeing a pattern that reflects the rust incident,'' jeremiah continued
that's what the reaction is. the soviets (military) obviously got jacked around pretty hard after that penetration of their air space. the soviet aviation forces ... have been much more aggressive in reconnaissance flights around the sea of japan and offshore off japan, some of them over north korea and down to cam rahn bay and into the south china sea
the activity rate is higher than it was in times past,'' he said
addressing the large russian naval base at cam rahn bay, jeremiah said the soviets did not appear to be engaged in any major construction projects at the moment. but he added the base is now substantially larger than when it was used by the united states during the vietnam war
the admiral refused to offer many details on u.s. plans for naval exercises during the summer olympics, beyond saying the aircraft carrier midway and a battle group would maintain ``a fairly continuous presence through the period.''
pentagon sources disclosed last month the exercises would be staged to let north korea know ``that we're watching them'' and nothing should be done to disrupt the olympic games in south korea
jeremiah described the midway, the only u.s. aircraft carrier based outside the united states, as an essential part of america's forward defenses in that part of the world
while the midway itself has become the object of proposed budget cuts, it would ``absolutely'' have to be replaced with another carrier, he said
if anything is done to change the composition of the carrier force, then this country should be careful to do it in a prudent way that allows us to get all of the pieces put together in sequence so that we don't disturb relationships with our host nations,'' jeremiah added. in 4th graf pvs, on the; note 5th graf pvs, bush's one-time, embargoed for release at 4 p.m. est</note>
rep. richard gephardt quit the democratic presidential race today, a victim of mounting losses in the seven weeks since he won the lead-off iowa caucuses. rival jesse jackson, on the rise with a victory in michigan, said he expects the party to embrace him as its nominee if he wins the most pre-convention delegates
gephardt, who declared his candidacy in february 1987 and actually began campaigning more than a year earlier, said at a capitol hill news conference, ``it's time to end a presidential campaign.''
he said he would file for re-election to his house seat on tuesday ``to continue my fight for the people whose concerns have been at the heart of this campaign.''
the missouri congressman noted that it is often said that an opera isn't over ``until the fat lady sings.'' referring to his distant third-place finish in the michigan caucuses, he said, ``last saturday in michigan, i think i heard her walking to the microphone.''
he ranked fourth among the democratic contenders in delegates to the national convention
on the eve of tuesday's connecticut primary, vice president george bush, who grew up in that state and is heavily favored to win, set off today on a three-day wisconsin campaign swing

bush's one-time foe, jack kemp, endorsed the vice president, saying ``george bush is going to be the nominee of the republican party and he has earned that nomination.'' kemp said the gop must rally around bush to avoid a democratic win in november, which he said would lead to a decline ``every bit as steep and severe as under jimmy carter.''

bush, the overwhelming gop front-runner, wasn't likely to run into either of his remaining rivals in wisconsin, which holds its primary a week from tuesday. bob dole, who has all but conceded the nomination, was in washington today, giving a speech on the future of the republican party. and pat robertson was taking a week-long vacation
jackson, on abc-tv's ``good morning america,'' said today, ``if at the end of california, we have the most popular votes and the most delegate votes, becoming the nominee is logical and proper.''
he questioned the idea that party leaders might ignore his delegate strength at the convention and give the nomination to another democratic candidate
they would not have given me the nomination; i would have earned it from the people,'' jackson said. ``there is no small group. no electoral college that can give. ... if so, why even have a primary? why not just let the small group choose candidates in the first place?
i don't believe in collecting a group of favorite sons, and then selecting one, the people elect what's left,'' he said
jackson said if he wins the nomination through the democratic process, ``i expect the party to embrace me and to embrace those principles.''
rival michael dukakis was seeking to come back with a win on his new england home turf. jackson was campaigning in connecticut again today. but dukakis, the governor of neighboring massachusetts, has won every state in new england so far and was expected to do well in the state
with returns from 94 percent of the voting sites in michigan, jackson had 55 percent to 28 percent for dukakis. gephardt had 13 percent; sen. paul simon had 2 percent, as did sen. albert gore jr. the remaining returns were expected later today
the michigan victory put jackson within striking distance of dukakis in the national delegate count, although the massachusetts governor still clung to a narrow lead. the latest ap delegate count put dukakis at 603.55 to jackson's 597.55. tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 362.8, sen. paul simon 171.5, gephardt 167 and uncommitted 362.6
some of the democratic candidates were gathering for a forum in new york tonight. but dukakis was not expected, and gephardt might not be a candidate by then
dukakis, who before michigan had been seeking to position himself as the inevitable democratic nominee, was talking instead about a long fight to the finish
this race is only half over,'' he said sunday at a greek festival in new haven. ``anyone that thinks that this race is over or even that it's narrowed down to a two-person or a three-person race doesn't understand the unpredictability of american politics. ... there are no front-runners.''
that was fine by gore and simon. the tennessee senator was in connecticut on sunday, suggesting dukakis' disappointing finish kept the race ``wide open'' _ to his benefit
we're building momentum steadily. ... we're gaining speed,'' gore said after a speech at an italian-american club in the industrial city of derby. ``this race has a long way to go. it is wide open, even more so after the results in michigan.''
simon also suggested _ as he has for some time _ that the race was still fluid, and no nominee would emerge before the democratic national convention in july. the illinois senator, who came away with only 2 percent of the vote in michigan, has said he needs a strong showing in wisconsin to carry on
a statewide poll in today's milwaukee sentinel suggested jackson and dukakis were in a dead heat in the state
another poll suggested dukakis was the clear favorite in new york, which holds its primary on april 19
the weekend wasn't a complete loss for dukakis. he won precinct caucuses in north dakota, and he edged out gephardt in iowa's county conventions, the latest step in that state's complicated delegate-selection process
police arrested 60 people monday during a demonstration in which protesters tried to force their way into the iraqi embassy and hurled stones through the windows
the crowd was protesting iraq's alleged use of chemical weapons in kurdish regions in its 7{-year-old war with iran
interior minister karl blecha met with the iraqi ambassador, wahbi a. razak al-qaraguli, and expressed the government's regrets, said karl newole, spokesman for the minister
protesters and police said shots were fired when some in the crowd tried to force their way into the embassy. police spokesman martin muellgassner said no one was injured
muellgassner said it was not clear who fired or what kind of weapon was used. he reported four to six shots, fired inside the building
on austrian radio, a protester who was not identified said an embassy employee fired into the street with an automatic weapon
a statement from a group of kurdish groups, carried by the austria press agency, protested the shooting. it said a delegation of demonstrators had wanted to enter the embassy to protest ``the massacre of kurds in iraq.''
iran accused iran last week of dropping cyanide and mustard gas bombs march 16 and 17 on three kurdish towns in iraq that killed 5,000 people and wounded 5,000. the towns had been captured in an iranian offensive
one of monday's demonstrators told austrian radio a delegation of three or four people had wanted to present a protest to embassy officials. the kurdish statement said the shots were fired as the delegation tried to enter the building
people gathered outside the embassy at 10:20 a.m. in a heavy rain. some carried posters saying, ``stop the massacre,'' or ``freedom for kurds.''
muellgassner said the crowd surged toward the embassy and five to 10 people pushed through the door, but embassy personnel managed to force them back. the four policemen regularly posted at the embassy were outside, he said
newole said the iraqi ambassador asked blecha for increased protection and blecha said an investigation would be conducted to determine whether it was necessary
according to police, protesters threw stones through the windows after the shots were fired. a demonstrator interviewed by austrian radio said the crowd began the protest ``with peaceful intentions.''
demonstrators said about 70 people took part, but some fled when shots were fired
some of the kurds allegedly wounded in the iraqi attacks were expected in vienna on tuesday for medical treatment. they originially were to have arrived monday and there was no explanation for the delay
richard gephardt, who fell short of the ``michigan miracle'' he needed to revive his candidacy, quit the race for the democratic nomination today but said ``our effort was not in vain.''
departing at an announcement on capitol hill, gephardt continued the populist, anti-establishment flavor that he used on the stump
i believe that our effort was not in vain _ that we challenged the democratic party and and called it back to its central role as an agent of fundamental change,'' he said
gephardt also updated the line that became the populist slogan of his campaign, ``it's your fight too.''
whether the issue is trade or social security, contra aid or the environment, tax justice or corporate responsibility, your fight will always be my fight too,'' gephardt said
gephardt's candidacy limped out of the south on super tuesday three weeks ago, having never received the beneficial momentum he had expected from iowa
gephardt had looked to michigan's caucuses last saturday, figuring that auto-industry state would provide a most receptive ear for his call for trade retaliation against countries that don't open markets to u.s. products
he asked for a ``michigan miracle.'' instead he got a distant third place finish behind jesse jackson and michael dukakis
it's been said the opera isn't over until the fat lady sings,'' gephardt said. ``last saturday in michigan i think i heard her walking to the microphone.''
gephardt's campaign blossomed in the lead-off delegate event, iowa's caucuses, where his tough talk on trade caught on with the state's democrats. he won again in south dakota, but on super tuesday he failed to win anywhere other than his home state of missouri
gephardt said he would file for re-election to his house seat from missouri. ``i hope to carry their cause as a member of congress, and tomorrow i'm filing for re-election,'' he said
aides said gephardt did not intend to try to preserve the delegates he had already won as a bloc by continuing his campaign in a suspended state
he spent sunday at home in seclusion at his suburban virginia with family and advisers. aides were silent about what went on, but as early as last week they had said privately that he would drop out if he didn't make a strong showing in michigan's democratic caucuses. he finished a distant third in saturday's contest
going into michigan, gephardt indicated it was a do-or-die state for him, but said he believed his prospects were good. michigan is an industrial and union state that offered as receptive an audience for his tough talk on trade as gephardt was likely to find anywhere
gephardt's last campaign speech was in milwaukee, before wisconsin democrats who vote next tuesday. he delivered it as the size of his michigan defeat was becoming clear
all things considered, i'd rather be back in des moines,'' said gephardt, who won iowa's lead-off caucuses but was unable to convert that into victories in other states aside from his own missouri and in south dakota
even in iowa, gephardt's candidacy was slipping away
at county conventions there over the weekend, follow-ups to the precinct caucuses in february, gephardt lost supporters to dukakis, and jesse jackson gained ground as well
i think people see that gephardt is pretty much out of it,'' said tom mann, a state senator from des moines who backed jackson
gephardt had won 167 delegates through 31 contests, falling behind even sen. paul simon, who was not a factor on super tuesday and only stayed in the race because he won his home state of illinois
his delegates, where people have actually been selected to fill those slots, would become free to do as they wished if gephardt pulled out of the race. in states where no people had been selected yet to fill delegate slots won by gephardt, his delegate share would be reallocated among the other candidates depending on state rules
gephardt surged to the top of the democratic field in iowa with savvy television ads and a tough, pointed campaign message blaming unfair trade practices for much of the nation's economic difficulty
but his win in the iowa caucuses feb. 8 didn't provide the ``bounce'' that he hoped for in the states that followed
gephardt got very little momentum out of iowa,'' said democratic party professional elaine kamarck. pat robertson's surprise second-place finish over george bush on the republican side dominated the news
gephardt lost everywhere on super tuesday except for a homes-state win in missouri. he was pounded across the south in a withering crossfire of negative television ads by both dukakis and sen. albert gore jr
gephardt delivered strongly stated populist, anti-establishment themes. but his message had a fundamental negativism to it _ at every speech he declared that america was ``in decline.''
his depiction of himself as battling the establishment also brought an undercutting skepticism from those who knew him as the consummate washington insider. some critics called his message ``pseudo-populism.''
when he tried to resuscitate his campaign in the northern industrial states, organized labor did not provide backing. a day before michigan's caucuses, he asked uaw members at a rally in flint to deliver a ``michigan miracle.''
but the uaw in michigan was splintered, with many of the rank-and-file members backing jackson. when uaw president owen bieber appeared with gephardt two days before that state's caucuses, his unwillingness to offer an endorsement underscored gephardt's problem
gephardt formally declared his candidacy on feb. 23, 1987, but he had begun campaigning more than a year earlier
state and local governments increasingly are considering whether men and women should be paid the same for jobs that are different but of similar value to an employer, according to a private study released monday
the survey by the national committee on pay equity said more than 1,500 local governments, school districts and community colleges have taken steps to identify or eliminate race or sex bias in the wages of civil service employees
cities, counties and school districts in 24 states and the district of columbia have taken some action to address the issue of pay equity, the report said
americans are rejecting compensation systems that unfairly penalize women and people of color,'' eileen m. stein, chairwoman of the washington-based coalition of women's, labor and civil rights groups, said in a statement accompanying the report
it is indisputable that pay equity is taking hold at the local and state levels,'' she said. ``employer by employer, jurisdiction by jurisdiction, race and sex discrimination will be removed as wage determinants.''
pay equity, also known as comparable worth, is the concept of paying men and women similar wages for different jobs judged to be of equal value to an employer. supporters of the concept say action is needed to offset historical discrimination that has depressed wages in job fields dominated by women, such as teaching, nursing and clerical work
opponents say it is impossible to compare jobs as disparate as, say, nursing and truck driving
stein pointed to recent victories for pay equity proponents, such as the $35 million decision by the city of san francisco last march to give 12,000 city and school employees raises of $750 to $2,000 a year over two years
the city acted after its civil service commission found that female and minority municipal workers were paid an average of 42 percent less than their male counterparts in similar jobs
the year before, washington state adjusted the wages of about 35,000 state workers in a program that could cost about $482 million through 1992
stein also said los angeles, chicago, seattle, colorado springs, colo.; west hartford, conn.; ann arbor, mich.; spokane, wash.; sioux city, iowa; palo alto, calif.; long beach, calif.; green bay, wis.; virginia beach, va.; and burlington, vt., have made pay equity adjustments
pay equity proponents in congress have been unsuccesful so far in attempts to pass legislation requiring the government to study its wage and job classification systems for possible discrimination
to date, no federal appeals court has ruled that employers must pay similar salaries to workers in jobs of comparable worth although some employers are undertaking such salary revisions on their own
graffiti will remain on the walls of a synagogue through passover as a reminder that anti-jewish attitudes remain widespread, a rabbi said
some of the red scrawling at temple beth-el was partially erased sunday, but some will remain through the holiday, which begins friday and marks jewish deliverance from slavery, said rabbi alan cohen
meanwhile, police have assigned an investigator to the vandalism at temple beth-el and temple beth david in palm beach gardens, but there were no leads and no arrests, sgt. michael fulk said monday. the temples were defaced over the weekend
acts of vandalism against jews, their institutions and property rose nationally in 1987 but declined in florida and palm beach county, according to the anti-defamation league, which monitors racist incidents. sixteen anti-semitic acts were reported in palm beach county last year, down from 17 the year before
more than a million workers halted public transport and closed many businesses monday in a 24-hour general strike against a government labor proposal
the walkout also disrupted international flights, closed banks and brought factories to a standstill. union leaders said the strike, aimed at a bill which they say would give employers too much power to fire workers, was the country's biggest ever
jose torres couto, head of the socialist-led general workers' union, said between 1.75 million and 2 million workers went on strike. his union called the walkout
the labor ministry said the figures were exaggerated
prime minister anibal cavaco silva said most of the country went to work as normal with the exception of the state-owned public transport sector, where union militancy is high
the general workers' union is dominant among white-collar workers. the communist cgtp, stongest among blue-collar workers, supported the strike, the first time it has backed industrial action by the socialist union
opposition parties do not have the strength to defeat the government's labor bill in parliament. but union leaders have expressed the hope that president mario soares will veto it
soares, whose election two years ago was strongly supported by the unions, could use his veto to delay the legislation but could not overturn it altogether. he has not said what he will do
however, the prime minister said monday his social democrat center-right government won't change a word of the bill. threat</head>
supporters of a bill to warn as many as 300,000 workers a year that they risk cancer or other diseases from job exposure to toxic chemicals failed monday on a third attempt to stop a republican filibuster
sens. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, and edward m. kennedy, d-mass., the chief sponsors of the union-sought legislation, mustered only 41 of the 60 votes needed to end debate and force a vote on the measure itself
the bill is aimed at addressing what the national institute of occupational safety and health estimates is one in every four americans who has been exposed to carcinogens at work, most of them unaware of it
this bill is about people getting cancer in the workplace and learning about it too late to do anything about it,'' metzenbaum said. ``the american cancer society estimates we can save 250,000 lives in the next 10 years by implementing it.''
a fourth and possibly final attempt at ending the filibuster is scheduled tuesday. supporters of the bill believe if they get another 14 or 15 votes then, they can prevent senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., from giving up on the effort to win its passage this year
a virtually identical measure was passed by the house on a 225-186 vote last november. administration officials have said they would urge president reagan to veto if it reaches his desk
although the filibuster primarily is the work of republican sens. orrin hatch of utah and dan quayle of indiana, a small group of southern democrats who want to avoid a showdown vote are helping keep it alive
metzenbaum and kennedy were able to get just 33 votes last week for ending the filibuster. at least one southern democrat and a few liberal republicans who had voted with hatch and quayle last week voted with metzenbaum and kennedy on monday
the bill would establish a panel of seven scientific experts to identify the most hazardous substances in workplaces and the groups of employees most susceptible to disabling diseases because of exposure to them
the national institute of occupational safety and health would be required to notify between 100,000 and 300,000 of those workers every year at an annual cost of $25 million. employers then would be required to finance medical monitoring programs for them at a cost of up to $250 each annually
if a physician recommends transferring a monitored employee to less hazardous work, he or she would have to be paid the same level of wages and benefits to them in the new job. if no other job is available, the employee is entitled to full wages for up to a year after leaving work
in addition to unions, the bill is supported by public health groups, the chemical and electronic industries and several major companies, most of which have instituted such notification programs on their own
however, it is opposed by small businesses and large trade associations such as the national association of manufacturers and the u.s. chamber of commerce, which claim the bill would expose companies to liability suits from current and former employees
if this bill passes, there is going to be a liability crisis in this country like we've never seen before,'' hatch said. ``you're going to have billions and billions of dollars in lawsuits.''
sinhalese extremists threw three bombs into a city council building in the southern town of matara on monday, injuring nine councilors, police said
a police statement issued in colombo said the attack was launched by youths riding motor cycles in matara, about 88 miles south of the capital
nine council men were wounded, including four of them seriously, the statement said. the victims belonged to different political parties, including the governing united national party
the attack was carried out by six members of the outlawed peoples' liberation front, an ultra-nationalist sinhalese group, the statement said. the group has vowed to kill anyone who supports an indian-sponsored peace accord signed in july. the accord aimed at ending the tamil ethnic conflict
sinhalese extremists claim the accord gives too many concessions to the tamils
the peoples' front has killed more than 220 people in the past five months, according to official statements made last week. many of the victims have been members of the majority sinhalese community, who have supported the accord or not expressed opposition to it
meanwhile, residents in the eastern town of batticaloa said in telephone interviews that tension was increasing in the east after tamil youth looted and burned 25 moslem-owned shops on saturday in kalmunai. most of the moslem shops closed down after the arson attacks
a roman catholic priest, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: ``the whole area is very tense after the attack. large contingents of indian troops backed by helicopters are all over the place.''
more than 50,000 indian peacekeeing troops are in the eastern and northern sri lanka to disarm tamil militants who oppose the peace pact. they have been battling the rebels since last october
moslem leaders, including moslem religious affairs minister mohamed haniffa mohamed, have claimed that indian troops were responsible for the attack on the shops on saturday
sources in the government said that mohamed and three other moslem lawmakers told the high-level national security meeting that indian peacekeeping troops were involved
the attack took place after the troops had cordoned off the area and imposed a curfew, the lawmakers told the meeting, according to the sources
tamils make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people, most of whom are sinhalese. tamils say they are discriminated against by the sinhalese, who control the government and the military
tamil militants are fighting for a separate homeland in the northern and eastern provinces where most of the tamils live
foreign visitors attracted by the weak dollar and the slick ``miami vice'' image are producing double-digit increases at southern florida tourist attractions for the first time in years
it's like a language school outside my office,'' said michael finley, superintendent of everglades national park. ``i'm hearing french, german, japanese everywhere.''
a total of 306,202 visitors came to the park in january and february, an increase of 43 percent from the 213,384 who came in the same months last year
lion country safari, the palm beach county big-game preserve and amusement park, shows a 25 percent boost over last year
we were so busy over the washington birthday weekend, i stood out all afternoon directing traffic,'' said lion country marketing director brian osborne. ``we had a 4-mile-long line of traffic in the park.''
ocean world, where fort lauderdale visitors can pet dolphins and watch sharks feed, reports 18 percent more visitors this season
south florida tourist officials are unable to estimate the total number of foreign tourists, but international traffic at miami international airport was 786,951 passengers in january, up 9 percent over january 1987's total
we're something different than they've got back home in europe and japan,'' said jerome scherr, president of miami's parrot jungle, where attendance was up 16 percent from january to january. ``we're subtropical _ palm trees and glamour.''
nigel and rosy collins visited miami's seaquarium from london
everything is so warm, so clean, so new, so cheap,'' collins said, as his wife chimed in, ``and you've got don johnson.''
they expected their weeklong trip to south florida and orlando to cost barely half of what they would have paid two years ago because of the dollar's decline against foreign currencies
`you have a truly unique place,'' said klaus mueller, a german who was bird watching at everglades national park. ``everybody in the world knows about the everglades.''
businesses that thrive on tourism expect the boom to continue as long as the dollar is low
the english should be here big in april,'' scherr said. south americans will then travel north to avoid winter, and europeans will keep coming
finley expects europeans to generate 80 percent of the business at flamingo lodge at the southern tip of the park in the mosquito-swarming months of july and august
meanwhile, the traditional spring break market that put fort lauderdale on the map is in decline. broward county tourism officials had been expecting 200,000 vacationing collegians but said sunday they now expect only 110,000 to 180,000 _ the smallest crowd this decade
prime minister margaret thatcher said monday she sees no signs that president reagan is becoming a lame duck
the british leader told the british broadcasting corp. in a radio interview that the president is ``cantering up to a very strong finish.''
i mean, there's no sign of slowing down at all. if anything, it's a very, very strong finish,'' she said
asked whether she will consider herself leader of the western world while a new u.s. president settles in, mrs. thatcher said there ``can be no substitute for american leadership _ there just can't.''
they're strong, they're enterprising, they somehow keep that country going through difficulties with elections,'' she said
jesse jackson poked fun at his better-financed democratic presidential rivals on monday and urged voters to catch the ``fever of hope'' and join his own rising white house campaign
jackson, who scored a landslide victory over michael dukakis in the michigan caucuses on saturday, is far behind in the polls in advance of tuesday's contest in connecticut
but he is in a neck-and-neck race with dukakis in the associated press national delegate count, and has received more votes in the primary contests to date than any of his rivals
he said his campaign lacks the financial ``big boulders'' that some of his opponents can claim
i have little rocks,'' he said. ``but i throw them straight.''
we have the most gold and silver medals'' in the primaries and caucuses so far, jackson proclaimed. ``we can win.''
he said his campaign has a ``small budget, a strong message and a clear vision.''
jackson began his day by making it clear that he expects the party to nominate him if he winds up the primary season with the most delegates and the most votes
becoming the nominee is logical and proper'' if he achieves those goals, he said in an interview on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
he questioned the idea that party leaders _ many of whom view him as a sure loser in a general election campaign _ might turn to another contender
they would not have given me the nomination. i would have earned it from the people,'' he said
i don't believe in collecting a group of favorite sons, and then selecting one, the people elect what's left,'' he added
jackson did not address the issue of democratic party acceptance as he closed out his low-budget, high-energy connecticut campaign
but in stops in middletown, at a crime and drug-ridden area of waterbury and a well-attended outdoor rally in hartford, he managed to ridicule better-financed opponents
we don't have no rolls royces and no big stretch limousines on the road to the white house. we're walking but we know the road better,'' he said
in another jab, he said, ``we're not getting endorsements from the top down. we're getting votes from the bottom up.''
jackson stressed his message that the powerless can gain power if they have hope
he said people in wheelchairs, the homeless and others who come to hear him ``have the fever of hope.''
there's nothing more powerful in the world than the people whose hope has been raised.''
in his stop in the mt. olive church of god and christ in waterbury, jackson drew his loudest cheers when he condemned drug use. ``we the people must say down with dope and up with hope,'' he said
the nation's commercial nuclear power plants reported 2,810 accidents in 1987, about the same number as for a slightly smaller number of plants the previous year, a group critical of the industry said monday
the corresponding figure for 1986 was 2,836. at the end of last year, there were 105 nuclear plants in commercial operation against 99 at the same point a year earlier
the report was issued by the critical mass energy project of public citizen, a group founded with the help of ralph nader. the project publishes a compilation of nuclear regulatory commission reports annually, this year on the ninth anniversary of the accident at the three mile island plant in pennsylvania
the findings of this study suggest that the lesson of three mile island has been forgotten by the nuclear industry and its friendly watchdog,'' the nrc, said kenneth boley, one of the authors of the report
the report said 1987 figures could rise slightly as additional reports come in from the plants
the commission imposed fines against utilities in 46 instances, compared with 50 in 1986
the report said notable events of 1987 included:
_the closure of the peach bottom plant of philadelphia electric co. for regular sleeping on duty by plant operators in a management culture that the institute of nuclear power operations, an industry group, called ``an embarrassment to the utility and the nation.''
_the nrc's proposal of an $80,000 fine for a supervisor's instruction to tie two valves open in violation of regulations at the oyster creek plant of jersey central power &amp; light co
_the firing of five employees by detroit edison co. for their involvement in an incident in which a trainee operator failed to notify his supervisor for two hours when reactor water temperature reached a certain point
scott peters of the u.s. council for energy awareness, a pro-nuclear trade group, said he had not seen this year's report but, ``if it's anything like past years it just distorts numbers to make the situation seem worse than it really is.''
peters said industry performance improved by several measures
he said reactors were available to generate power 61.8 percent of the time last year, compared with 60.3 percent in 1986; unplanned automatic shutdowns fell from 3.9 per reactor to 2.7; unplanned activation of other safety systems fell from 1.2 per reactor to 0.9; and average radiation exposure per employee fell from 622 millirems at boiling water reactors to 521 and from 397 millirems at pressurized water reactors to 368
a chest x-ray may be as much as 25 millirems and typical background exposure in the united states is about 100 millrems per year. the nrc permits civilian reactor employees to be exposed to 5,000 millirems per year
nrc spokesman frank ingraham declined comment because he said the criticam mass report had not reached the commission
mayor carroll thomas said monday he will try to resolve squabbling between two groups of rescuers by appointing a citizens' committee to review proposals for a television movie about jessica mcclure's rescue from an abandoned well
the rescuers formed two associations, one of mostly municipal workers and another of volunteers, to negotiate rights to the dramatic story of the toddler's rescue after 58 hours in the well last fall
the other two committees have indicated that they will yield to (the citizens' committee's) decision,'' thomas said. ``both groups have been saying they want what's best for the community.''
thomas said he hoped to established the five-member committee in the next few days
one group, of more than 30 volunteers, is committed to a movie deal with los angeles producer larry spivey, president of highland communications group inc. kragg robinson, that association's president, said members have signed a contract for an initial $200,000 plus future payments to be divided among the members
the competing 11-member group has not made a deal with a producer, but says it doesn't want to work with spivey
spivey said monday he would talk to the citizens' panel about his contract with the volunteers, but added that the group was not released from its commitment
thomas said the citizens' committee would not give spivey's plans preference over other proposals
jessica turned 2 years old on saturday
her family's attorney, darrell smith, said the family won't stand in the way of a movie being made, but the girl's parents have not taken sides in the dispute
israel has handed over classified documents to independent counsel lawrence walsh for his iran-contra investigation under a cooperation agreement reached after year-long negotiations, an israeli official said monday
in return, walsh apparently agreed to revoke the subpoenas he issued to four israelis who arranged the 1985 and 1986 shipment of u.s.-made anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles to iran, the official and a u.s. lawyer indicated
he will get what he wants without us having to give up what we wanted,'' said the israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity
melvin rishe, a lawyer representing the israeli government, said ``we have reached terms of how we would proceed, making litigation unnecessary.''
israel's government wanted the subpoenas dropped, contending that all four israelis were acting under its orders and thus were immune from prosecution and questioning by u.s. officials
the agreement with walsh is ``on a government-to-government'' basis, according to israeli embassy spokesman yossi gal, which means any questions for the four must be channeled through official israeli representatives
walsh and the israeli embassy issued brief statements announcing the cooperation agreement, but said the contents will remain classified
the government of the state of israel and the office of the independent counsel have signed an agreement covering the cooperation of the government of israel in the iran-contra investigation,'' walsh said in a prepared statement
independent counsel walsh expressed satisfaction with the agreement and said his office looks forward to continued cooperation with the state of israel,'' the statement said. the israeli statement was almost identical
the documents handed over to walsh include detailed financial and historical chronologies prepared by israel for the congressional iran-contra committees last summer, said the israeli official
when israel gave the chronologies to congress, it stipulated that walsh be denied access to the documents because of his refusal to grant immunity to the four israelis
along with the documents, walsh has also been given written answers to the questions posed last year by the congressional investigators with regard to the chronologies, the official said
the documents are expected to help walsh answer some of his questions about israel's swiss bank account, which handled the funds for the shipments to iran
walsh wanted the information to help him corroborate his case against former white house aides oliver north and john poindexter, as well as businessmen richard secord and his partner albert hakim. all four have been indicted on charges of defrauding the u.s. government through the arms sales and the diversion of profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
last year, walsh subpoenaed israeli businessmen yaakov nimrodi and al schwimmer, as well as former foreign ministry director david kimche and government counter-terrorism adviser amiram nir. nir resigned from his post last week
the agreement was finalized 10 days ago by two senior government representatives who held talks in washington with walsh and his staff. the israeli government approved the accord, the israeli official said
the negotiations were difficult,'' said walsh spokesman jim wieghart. ``israel is a sovereign state with certain national security interests, which they have to defend. we recognized that, but on the other hand, we had our needs in this investigation,'' he said
biddy mason, a former slave who became a wealthy landowner and co-founder of the city's first black church, won recognition from civic officials 97 years after her death
she is an example of the courage of black women in the early days of this city,'' mayor tom bradley said during a palm sunday service at mrs. mason's gravesite. ``our young people need to know about her.''
the philanthropist, who helped found the first african methodist episcopal church and the city's first elementary school for black children, was buried in an unmarked grave and nearly forgotten after her death in 1891
bradley and about 3,000 members of the church unveiled a tombstone hailing mrs. mason as a humanitarian
mrs. mason was born a slave in mississippi in 1818 and, with her three daughters, became the property of a mormon family that moved to utah. she and her family later walked to california, where she won her freedom in 1856
a midwife by trade, mrs. mason accumulated vast amounts of land, often as payment from clients
when i was going through school, we never talked about biddy,'' said linda cox, a mason descendant. but her 9-year-old daughter, cheryl, came home from school one day recently and said: ``mommy, part of our family is in the history books,'' mrs. cox said
interest rates on short-term treasury securities were mixed in monday's auction, with the rates on three-month bills declining while rates on six-month bills increased
the treasury department sold $6.4 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.69 percent, down from 5.76 percent last week. another $6.4 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 6.0 percent, up from 5.96 percent last week
the rates on three-month bills were the lowest since they averaged 5.65 percent on march 14. the six-month rate was the highest since these bills averaged 6.03 percent on feb. 16
the new discount rates understate the actual return to investors _ 5.85 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,856.20 and 6.27 percent for a six-month bill selling for $9,696.70
in a separate report, the federal reserve said the average yield for one-year treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages, rose to 6.77 percent last week from 6.63 percent the previous week
jury selection began monday in the political extortion trial of sam steiger, an ex-congressman and former aide to gov. evan mecham
steiger, 59, was charged last fall with one count of theft by extortion, accused of trying to influence the vote of a member of the state board of pardons and paroles
judge ronald s. reinstein of maricopa county superior court told prospective jurors that the trial probably would last until mid-april
steiger is accused of having told parole board member ronald d. johnson in an oct. 1 telephone conversation that unless he voted against a motion that day seeking the resignation of parole board executive director patricia costello, he would lose his position on the parole board or as a part-time justice of the peace
johnson voted with three other board members to oust ms. costello, who had steiger's and mecham's backing, and she stepped down that day
the next day, steiger allegedly sent johnson a letter saying johnson's permission to serve as a part-time justice of the peace was revoked and also that he could be fired from the parole board if he defied the order
a key to the prosecution's case will be three tape recordings of telephone converstations with steiger. reinstein ruled last week that prosecutor michael cudahy, an assistant state attorney general, could use the tapes
defense attorney thomas karas had argued against their admissibility, saying that they were secretly taped in calls to steiger at his home in prescott and therefore violated his privacy
steiger, who was paid more than $77,000 a year as a special assistant to mecham until his resignation nov. 9, faces two to five years in prison if convicted of the class four felony
until he resigned about a month after his october indictment, he served as one of several top aides to mecham, who took office in january 1987. editing throughout to shorten.</note>
an angry and bitter william stern testified monday that baby m should be kept from her biological mother for several years to protect the child from emotional harm and exploitation
stern, testifying in what is expected to be the final legal chapter of the 2-year-old dispute, characterized surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould as untrustworthy and capable of undermining his relationship with the child, legally known as melissa stern
mary beth will do anything and say anything to get her way,'' stern said in 2{ hours of emotional testimony that ended with him crying
the hearing, expected to last several days, was ordered by the new jersey supreme court in its landmark feb. 3 decision that declared surrogacy-for-pay illegal and restored mrs. whitehead-gould's parental rights, but left intact a judge's order awarding custody of the child to the sterns
stern and his wife, elizabeth, of tenafly, decided to have a child through a surrogate mother because they feared mrs. stern, 42, who suffers from a mild form of multiple sclerosis, would suffer complications during pregnancy
mrs. stern testified the possibility of both sides cooperating in the future was remote
we don't share common values with mary beth, we don't think about things in the same way and we don't react to situations in the same way,'' mrs. stern testified. ``we are poles apart.''
the sterns are seeking to cut off contact between melissa and mrs. whitehead-gould, perhaps until the child's 10th birthday. mrs. whitehead-gould now visits the child once a week for two hours under supervision at a children's social services center
mrs. whitehead-gould is seeking two, eight-hour weekly visits at her home, later expanded to include weekends, half the summer and some holidays. she was accompanied to court by her second husband, wall street accountant dean gould, with whom she is expecting a child
the sterns agreed to pay $10,000 to mrs. whitehead-gould to bear them a child and mrs. whitehead-gould was artificially inseminated with stern's sperm
after the baby was born _ she turned 2 on sunday _ mrs. whitehead-gould changed her mind and refused to surrender the child
in testimony monday, stern said melissa should be protected, likening her to a sapling that needs to secure its roots
if anything is done to interrupt those roots, i'm afraid melissa does not have much of a future,'' said stern, a biochemist
he said that immediate contact with mrs. whitehead-gould could ``force melissa into the situation where she would have to choose between us.''
stern said he and his wife have formed a warm, loving relationship with melissa. and his wife testified, `to precious little melissa, i know i'm her mother.''
under two hours of cross-examination by mrs. whitehead-gould's attorney, joel siegal, stern said he feared she would exploit the child by writing a book that could lead to a photo of melissa on the book jacket, a film, a videocassette and even a promotional tour for the book
but stern acknowledged that melissa does not seem to have been harmed so far by her contact with mrs. whitehead-gould
his testimony ended with questions from the judge on what religion the child would be exposed to. stern, who is jewish and whose relatives other than his parents all died in the holocaust, broke into tears. he drank a cup of water and composed himself, saying he expected to expose the child to a unitarian church. mrs. stern is not jewish
the drug enforcement administration on monday tested 75 headquarters employees for drugs, marking the start of random drug testing procedures covering all 5,000 of the agency's workers
the dea has been testing agent trainees for drugs since june 1986
the agency has 2,800 agents and 2,200 support personnel
agents found to be using drugs illegally will be dismissed. non-agents in less sensitive positions may face suspension or reprimands for first-time offenses, said dea deputy administrator thomas c. kelly
the agency's office of professional responsibility will conduct inquiries when test results suggest show drug use
all 650 tests administered to the agency's trainees since mid-1986 have failed to turn up any evidence of illegal drug use. color, include gephardt withdrawal, comment, local gop appearance. picks up 13th graf pvs, bgng: reagan's visit</note>
president reagan said monday the american public won't accept trade restrictions and retaliation against foreign manufacturers
reagan, promoting his free-trade stance even in the face of mounting u.s. trade imbalances, warned that a trade bill under consideration in congress could weaken international trading systems and ``require the president to start trade wars.''
i'll veto if i must,'' reagan told reynolds metals co. workers on the eve of a crucial house-senate conference committee meeting on the bill
reagan long has advocated a policy of free trade and fair trade. at the same time, he has resisted protectionist legislation, even as the merchandise trade deficit climbed to a record $171.22 billion in 1987
but in his remarks monday, reagan said the legislation pending in congress would destroy progress that u.s. companies like reynolds have made
the reality is that manufacturing exports are surging and manufacturing productivity is at an all-time high, and rising rapidly,'' reagan said
they've got a trade bill before congress that could squelch productivity, destroy american competitiveness and make all their doomsday myths a reality,'' he said, noting that his critics have been ``predicting economic disaster,'' although the economy is in the 64th month of recovery from the recession of 1981-82
i think the american people have decided that one great depression is enough, and they aren't going to give the trade demagogues a second chance,'' reagan said
protectionism isn't just bad economics _ it's bad politics,'' the president said
he pointed to the march 8 super tuesday presidential delegate selection contests and said ``those who had predicted that protectionism would be embraced in the south were proven wrong.''
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., who did poorly in the march 8 delegate selection contests throughout the south, had made the nation's trade woes an important part of his campaign. gephardt announced monday he was ending his bid for the democratic presidential nomination
a half-dozen demonstrators protesting u.s. policy in central america greeted reagan outside the reynolds plant. when he arrived in the plant's parking lot, he was cheered by several hundred employees and family members, many of whom waved small american flags
during his tour of the facility, the president walked past huge rolls of aluminum, bound up in spools like thread. at one point, he put on safety glasses and sat down at a console that operated an aluminum processing machine by remote control
reynolds is the world's leading producer of aluminum foil and foil packaging. the company, which operates 55 plants in this country and has operations in 18 others, also has experimented in new products, such as a resealable can that retains carbonation
reagan told a group of workers: ``you're performing miracles. you make me proud.''
during a forum that reagan attended, william o. bourke, reynolds' president and chief executive officer, told the president, ``the time has come for the united states to announce to everyone: ladies and gentlemen, we are back in the export business.''
the president also attended a $2,500-a-couple gop fund-raiser at a surburban hotel. michael salster, a party spokesman, said the president's appearance would add more than $50,000 for the party's coffers
reagan's visit took place as a house-senate conference committee prepared to meet tuesday to work out compromises in their widely varying versions of a 1,000-page trade bill
reagan objects to many provisions in the trade bill, including an amendment named for gephardt that would require the president to reduce ``excess and unwarranted'' surpluses run up by japan and a few other countries in trade with the united states. if negotiations failed, the president would be required to use import curbs to lower the surpluses at a 10 percent annual rate
the president could waive such action if he found it contrary to the national economic interest or if the offending country were wrestling with serious debt. but critics say the plan is a long step toward protectionism and invites retaliation against u.s. industries
in his speech, reagan said the bill's mandatory retaliation provisions could ``require me and future presidents to take actions that would be in direct violation'' of the general agreement on tariffs and trades
you may have been reading lately that the trade bill is making good progress _ that a lot of protectionist provisions have been jettisoned,'' he said. ``and there is some truth to that. but there's a long way to go before the legislation does more good than harm to the u.s. economy.''
only wholesale elimination of the objectionable provisions will produce a bill i can sign,'' the president said. ``i won't let them destroy the american growth economy. but i'd rather work with congress to bring about not just an `acceptable' bill, but one that genuinely improves our current law.''
reagan made no mention of the united states' status as the world's largest debtor nation _ it was the world's largest creditor when he took office _ and instead pointed to figures showing last year's gross national product growth as being 4 percent
the u.s. merchandise trade deficit in 1987 totaled $171.22 billion, a record. the trade deficit was $12.44 billion in january
the january report represented a slight setback after two consecutive monthly improvements and reclaimed some of the gains won from surging exports at the end of 1987. ^police break up anti-noriega protest</head>
police and soldiers using shotguns, rubber truncheons and tear gas broke up a march monday by thousands of opponents of panama's strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
meanwhile, a general strike that has closed down an estimated 90 percent of panama's industry and commerce entered its second week
ignoring an order to disperse, a crowd of more than 10,000 cheering people began walking toward the capital's central business district monday afternoon
minutes later, a tanker truck equipped with a turret over the cab sped through the line of march, spraying hundreds of people with a choking mixture of water and chemicals that sent them fleeing into side streets
behind the truck charged police and soldiers firing birdshot and beating people with 18-inch-long rubber truncheons
as people fled the scene in panic, they left central avenue littered with their shoes. reporters saw at least two people trampled in the rush, including a woman who suffered a compound leg fracture
before the march began, lt. col. virgilio mirones of the panama defense forces urged the protesters to disperse
we don't want to fight with the panamanian people,'' the officer said through a megaphone. ``we want to fight the united states.''
but the swelling crowd jeered at him, shouting, ``join us, join us'' and ``noriega must go.''
the united states has called for noriega's ouster since he was indicted in florida in february on drug-trafficking charges. the defense forces chief has said he is innocent
the reagan administration has also imposed a number of economic sanctions on panama and supported efforts by former president eric arturo delvalle to freeze panama's deposits in u.s. banks
monday's demonstration was one of the largest in months. like others, it was smashed with drill-like precision. an hour after it ended, squads of soldiers had occupied every major intersection and most streets in the city
the mayors of panama city and one of its largest, poorer suburbs had warned protesters not to violate a ban on demonstrations that ``subvert public order.''
in a communique published in state-run newspapers on monday, the mayors said the ban imposed oct. 19, 1987 was still in effect
the papers also carried a statement from the principal pro-government political party calling for a protest rally in front of the u.s. embassy later monday
the rule seems to apply to one (protest) but not the other,'' said jose faundes, the secretary of the panamanian human rights commission
since the last major demonstration on march 16, soldiers in full combat gear have patrolled the streets
the cash-short government issued checks monday to its lowest-paid retired public servants living in panama city and colon, those whose semi-monthly pension benefits come to $150 or less
those living in other cities and retirees whose benefits total more than $150 every two weeks were told they would be paid later in the week
many, however, were skeptical, noting that government offices normally closed during the end of holy week. even some who got paid were less than happy
things in panama are not good,'' said mariela sanchez, a former government secretary who received her full $36 pension check. ``we have some money today, but what about next time?''
an estimated 55,000 people normally receive government pensions, but there was no official estimate of how many got paid monday
the 15,000 members of panama's defense forces did not receive their wages last week and the government apparently doesn't have the cash to meet a $33 million payroll for some 130,000 civilian workers later this week
the government earlier had indicated it would make at least partial payments to all of its retirees, but that plan apparently was put aside
banks were closed on march 3 after a run on deposits triggered by the dismissal of delvalle by the national assembly, dominated by noriega supporters
attorneys for delvalle, who still is recognized by the reagan administration as panama's president, managed to freeze millions of dollars in government funds on deposit in u.s. banks
the civilian chief of state hand-picked by noriega, manuel solis palma, told delegates at a ``solidarity with panama'' conference monday that washington's actions constituted a ``total, brutal and shameless aggression.''
this treacherous attack is not only an attack on our country, but on all the small and humble countries of the world,'' solis palma told the representatives of populist or leftist political parties from about 20 nations
wyatt earp is causing a ruckus in his hometown six decades after his death, as politicians and descendants of the legendary lawman quarrel over where he was born
small-town politics is fueling the dispute, with both sides lining up support from elderly cousins of earp, a survivor of the 1881 gunfight at the o.k. corral
this is a political vendetta against me,'' said robert matson, a former city council member whose successor has contested the pedigree of a house matson and his wife, melba, own and operate as the wyatt earp birthplace and museum in this town of 10,700
shortly after george morris, 45, took over matson's council seat earlier this year, he spearheaded a move to change the site's billing
the sign that proclaimed the house earp's birthplace was ordered changed to simply say, ``wyatt earp museum.''
i think it's a super idea to promote a wyatt earp museum,'' morris said. ``but i don't want to see history passed down that's wrong. i consider myself a historian and i've researched it along with some other people and we can shoot too many holes in the matsons' theory.''
matson, a 61-year-old school teacher, contends the move to discredit the building's history was prompted by less-than-pure motives
george morris is a former sixth-grade student of mine. he's got a house on the national historic register and maybe he doesn't want us to get ours on it. why he's led such an active opposition to us is mysterious to me.''
morris dismisses the accusation, saying he has ``no reason to have any grudges against the matsons.''
neither side has positive proof
there are no county records, photos or deeds to pinpoint the spot where virginia earp gave birth to her fourth child, wyatt, on march 19, 1848
the matsons have lined up several earp cousins to defend their claim that earp was born in the small, two-story frame house they bought for $4,000 in 1986 in this wind-blown prairie town, 16 miles east of the mississippi river and about 190 miles north of st. louis
morris has countered with earps of his own, as well as a monmouth college professor and a local newspaperman. his side contends the matsons' house didn't exist at the time of earp's birth, and that he was born either in the family homestead nearly a mile away or in a different house a couple blocks away
effie earp cramer, 81, one of the matsons' supporters, blames the controversy on a reporter who was preparing a story on the matson house as the earp birthplace in 1956. when he got scooped by a rival, she says, he wrote a story saying the birthplace was two blocks away
but weldon earp, 76, said he's ``seen research that shows the house where wyatt was born was moved from its original location two or three times.''
earp was a peace officer in the wild west. in 1879, he went to the booming silver camp in tombstone, ariz., and became a deputy sheriff of pima county. later, he served as a deputy u.s. marshal and rode stagecoaches to guard express shipments
in 1881, he and two of his brothers took part in the famous battle of the o.k. corral against the clanton gang
thousands of meter readers, cashiers and other utility employees are looking out for the welfare of many of illinois' 1.8 million senior citizens by volunteering in a program called ``gatekeeper.''
many are isolated and there's no support system around to notice if they are having problems. gatekeepers can link them into the aging network,'' said jeanne blackman, consumer advocate at the department of aging, which runs the community-service program
the backbone of the system is utility-company workers _ cashiers, customer service representatives, maintenance crews and meter readers
we teach them how to recognize signs that an older person needs help and give them the telephone numbers to make anonymous calls to local agencies or the state department of aging,'' said department spokeswoman jan costello
the result?
when an illinois power co. worker noticed rags were being used to plug holes in the windows of a madison county home, he alerted social workers
the residents were provided with a heater and blankets, with follow-up under a weatherization program
bill mcpherrin of galesburg, a 22-year ip veteran, became an active gatekeeper the first day he learned of the program
i thought there was a terrific need for it. we're in people's homes and we see all types of living conditions,'' mcpherrin said
illinois power, northern illlinois gas co., central illinois public service co. and several rural electric cooperatives participate in the program, and more than 6,000 utility workers have been trained to notice signs of trouble
we feel it has worked exceptionally well,'' ms. costello said. ``it's an easy program to operate and very cost-effective.''
state officials have asked illinois bell and springfield's municipally owned utility to participate and are awaiting responses
officials want to work any kinks out of the program before extending it to commonwealth edison co., the state's largest electrical utility, which serves 3 million northern illinois customers, ms. blackman said
all 2,600 cips employees are being trained as gatekeepers, said spokesman ed mcdowell, adding the utility views the program as a way to promote good will
it's a win-win situation from our company's perspective,'' he said. ``we see it as an opportunity to help cips customers and get information (about government sevices) that is useful in our own lives
we are the eyes and ears for government agencies.''
gatekeepers have been operating since last fall in some areas of illinois. similar programs are in place in more than half of the other states, said don kent, a washington spokesman for the u.s. administration on aging
the first female member of the friars club of beverly hills filed a sex discrimination complaint monday because she is being denied use of its health club
obviously, such second-class citizenship within the club could deter many women from joining,'' said attorney gloria allred, noting she pays the same dues as male club members
the fight for women's equality will not end until women are permitted both in the board rooms and the steam rooms,'' she said
the state board of equalization can disallow business tax expenses at private clubs that discriminate under a rule that took effect jan. 1. equalization board member conway collis said he wanted to inspect the friars club facilities this week
when allred became the friars' first female dues-paying member in its 32-year history in may, she was greeted warmly by comedian and friars president milton berle. frank sinatra and dean martin are also members, and president reagan is a past president
the friars club is primarily a theatrical social club
in january, allred asked friars officials about arrangements for women wishing to use the sauna, steam room and whirlpool. there are four women in the club, but allred is the only one who wants to use the health club
there is no legal requirement on the part of the club to afford you the use of the health club facilities,'' friars club legal chairman william sarnoff said in a letter of reply
there was no immediate comment from the friars club on monday, and a message was left for sarnoff at club
china announced monday a major reorganization of its top bureaucracy to cut the state's role in direct management of the economy, eliminate 10,000 jobs and modernize operations
state councillor song ping, head of the communist party organization department, said 14 ministries under the state council will be abolished, one will be reorganized, and 10 new ministries will be set up
the state council is equivalent to china's cabinet
song told a meeting of the national people's congress, china's legislature, that the reorganization will mean a net reduction of five organs under the state council, and is to be accomplished within three months of approval by the present session of the congress
the reorganization will lay the groundwork for further restructuring of the state council, song said
he said the government will no longer manage enterprises directly, as it has under soviet-style central planning. government departments instead will be responsible for general planning, finances, supervision and regulation
the changes, according to song, will be aimed at overcoming such problems as inefficiency, overstaffing, overlapping functions, overly rigid low-level management, insufficient overall control and lack of clarity about duties
he said the the staff directly under the state council will be reduced from 50,000 to 40,000
the 10,000 people to be pared from state council payrolls will be transferred to units handling taxation, finance, prices, auditing, supervision, statistics and law enforcement. many will join companies and institutions engaged in information, consultancy and research, he said
the national people's congress, which convened last week, is also to pass a law guaranteeing the rights of factory managers to run their plants without undue interference from the government
the 10 new units to be created are the ministries of personnel, labor, materials, transportation, energy, construction, aeronautics and astronautics industry, water resources, machine building and electronics and the state planning commission
the planning commission will be comprised of the present planning and economic commissions. song said the commission will be in charge of formulating china's economic and social development strategies and will no longer be involved in direct management of trade and industrial operations
economic expert yao yilin, vice premier and head of the present state planning commission, is expected to head the new, more powerful commission
the labor and personnel ministry will be split into two ministries, with the new personnel ministry in charge of introducing a civil servant system
the new transportation ministry will combine the ministries of railways and communications and the state air transport control administration
the proposed energy ministry was described by song as a superbody encompassing the work of the ministries of the coal industry, petroleum industry and nuclear industry
xinhua news agency, the state news agency, will become a separate institution under the state council. bodyguards</head>
suspected communist rebels on monday attacked a mayor who is related to president corazon aquino, killing seven of his bodyguards and wounding him, police said
it was the bloodiest attack in the capital area since guerrillas took up arms against the government 19 years ago
mayor prospero oreta of suburban malabon suffered three gunshot wounds in the mouth, chest and arm, police said. he was reported to be out of danger after surgery
oreta, 45, is a brother-in-law of rep. tessie oreta, sister of mrs. aquino's assassinated husband, former sen. benigno s. aquino jr
hours after the attack on oreta, assassins shot dead the brother of a prominent leftist politician. the leader said he may have been the intended target
also monday, communist rebels killed a bus driver and wounded his wife in suburban pasay city, authorities said
the killings occurred as military units around the country were on full alert in anticipation of stepped-up rebel attacks marking tuesday's 19th anniversary of the 24,000-member new people's army. the group is the military wing of the communist party of the philippines
communist rebels have been blamed for killing more than 150 policemen and soldiers in the manila area since last year. the rebels recently announced plans to intensify the killings, which in the past have been limited to one or two victims at a time
mrs. aquino, in a statement, said she was dismayed by monday's violence
i have always asked our people to resort to the ways of peace,'' she said. ``my hope is that as democracy in our country gains a strong foothold, violence and terror will gradually rescind.''
oreta and his bodyguards were attacked as they traveled in two cars bound for a flag-raising ceremony at malabon town hall two miles away. police cpl. mario odulio said oreta's ambushers used ak-47 and m-16 automatic assault rifles as well as 9mm and .45-caliber pistols. they escaped in a van and a jeep
local news reports said that shortly after the ambush, a man called manila police to claim responsibility on behalf of the alex boncayao brigade, the leftist rebel unit operating in the capital. but armed forces spokesman col. oscar florendo said police had not established the call's authenticity
florendo said the military was investigating whether the ambush on oreta was in retaliation for the slaying of leftist youth leader lean alejandro in september. he lost to mrs. oreta in a hotly contested congressional race last year, and leftist groups had linked the oreta family to his murder. the oretas had denied any connection
seven hours after the oreta ambush, three men in a car shot and killed the brother of jose castro, vice president of the manila chapter of the leftist people's party. he said he may have been the intended victim, and he added he had received death threats since alejandro's death
thousands of cable car fans cheered monday as a parade of the cars, decorated like floats with balloons, daffodils and streamers, proudly lurched along powell street in celebration of the line's 100th birthday
costumed characters portraying cable car inventor andrew s. hallidie and other historical figures rode the 14 cars in the parade under arches of balloons strung across powell
west german tourist manfred himpil climbed aboard a cable car for the first time
they're wonderful, really wonderful, just marvelous,'' he said. ``when the streets end in the heavens, then comes another view.''
mayor art agnos proclaimed the day ``freidel klussmann day'' in honor of the late neighborhood activist who helped save the cable cars from bus advocates in the 1940s
they're out of doors and they're open-air seating, and i love the history behind them,'' said san franciscan gail hansell, 26, watching the parade atop a hill with a dramatic view of downtown san francisco and the bay on a warm, windy morning
they're romantic as well because they are old and they are a tradition. they are a beautiful way to see the city,'' said hansell
police chief frank jordan estimated the crowd at the parade at nearly 3,000
the powell street line, which began service in 1888, carries about 41,000 passengers a day on 3{-mile panoramic rides over hills with views of alcatraz, fisherman's wharf, chinatown, union square and market street
powell street also is the line where operator carl payne has delighted visitors for 26 years with his cable car bell-ringing, livening the foggy evenings with cheery melodies
it's great to be part of this celebration. it's really special,'' payne said, adding jokingly, ``i'm hoping to be here at the 200-year mark.''
the powell street line, which like all cable cars is owned by the san francisco municipal railway, was built by the ferries &amp; cliff house railroad co. and became part of the city's united railways system in 1902
most of the tracks were destroyed in the great earthquake and fire on april 18, 1906, but since electric streetcars could not climb powell street, the united railways restored enough of the track to use 27 of the powell cars unharmed in the fire
a navy jazz band led the procession, while gripman payne, the nine-time champion bell ringer, clanged dixieland melodies in the lead car
in their heyday, cable cars operated along eight lines. the only survivors today are the the century-old powell street line, a newer powell line that branches onto another street, and their sister california street line, whose 100th anniversary 15 years ago set off a two-week party
the rattle-trap cars, propelled by a cable under the street, rumble along at 9{ mph and lack the comfortable seats and space of modern buses. but they were saved in the 1940s after a campaign by klussmann, and a court once declared illegal a 1956 attempt to radically modernize the cars. in 1964, they were named the united states' first moving national historical landmark. party</head>
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ an opposition leader was arrested in connection with an explosion at a bridge and two americans staying with him are under house arrest, according to party and other reports monday
joseph douze, second in command of the centrist christian democratic party, was arrested saturday and charged in the explosion march 22 under the croix des bouquets bridge, party leader sylvio claude said. the blast caused no damage or injuries
claude said douze, a physician with dual haitian and american citizenship, had been planted in the party by the government and he had been expelled
douze, provisional vice president of the party, was shown on government television saturday night during an army search of his home
nancy horn of wells tannery, pa., and james gunnels of macon, ga., told the associated press by telephone they were friends of douze's staying at his home in thomassin, outside port-au-prince
ms. horn said she was an associate of douze and had been in haiti since 1967. gunnels said he was a visiting businessman
the officer who directed the search of douze's home said on television sunday the americans ``have a certain responsibility in the affair,'' but did not elaborate
u.s. embassy spokesman jeffrey lite said consular officials had been in contact with the americans. lite said they were forbidden to leave the house, but he did not know whether they would be formally arrested
anaise chavenet, spokeswoman for the information ministry, told the ap the americans were under surveillance, not house arrest, while the army investigates whether they were involved in the bombing
both americans denied knowledge of the explosion
i know nothing about this affair,'' gunnels said. ``i was just a guest in his home for a few days.''
according to ms. horn, douze is in his mid-40s and spent several years in the united states during the duvalier family dictatorship, which lasted from 1957 to february 1986
claude accused president leslie manigat's government of planting people in his party with instructions to discredit and destroy it. claude, a protestant clergymen, was one of the four most popular presidential candidates in nov. 29 elections that were suspended because of violence
in its report sunday, television nationale said douze was arrested for possession of detonators, wiring for explosives, a remote control detonating device and automatic rifles
jocelin brochard, a former army corporal and the christian democrats head of security, and two women were arrested last wednesday in connection with the bridge explosion
several sticks of dynamite, two assault rifles and a large bag of marijuana were found on the roof of the women's home in bel-air, a port-au-prince slum, police said
brochard said on state televison that douze supplied the weapons
claude denied knowing brochard or douze were involved in the bombing, and said some party members who advocated violence had been expelled in the past
a kansas firm has been licensed to market a genetically engineered vaccine to control pseudorabies in swine, a contagious disease that can be deadly to newborn pigs, the agriculture department said monday
the vaccine will be marketed by syntrovet inc., lenexa, kan., said james w. glosser, administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service. he said the new vaccine is the third live genetically engineered product licensed by the department for pseudorabies vaccination
we have concluded the new vaccine is both safe and effective,'' glosser said. ``our scientists have reviewed and analyzed the procedures used to develop the vaccine, its biological and safety characteristics, and the safety and effectiveness data gathered during field trials in three states.''
further, he said, an environmental assessment concluded that use of the vaccine would have ``no significant impact on the human environment.''
during field trials, the new vaccine was administered to more than 400 swine, including baby pigs, weaned pigs and sows,'' glosser said. ``no adverse reactions were noted.''
pseudorabies, also known as aujesky's disease or mad itch, does not affect humans. although the disease caused an estimated $22 million in losses to the swine industry last year, it is not a public health problem, he said
a suspect in the slayings of five people in a supermarket last year turned himself in to federal marshals monday, authorities said
donnie blankenship entered the u.s. marshal's office in the federal courthouse at midday and said he wanted to have his bond lifted, assistant u.s. attorney frederick buckles said
blankenship was jailed a short time later, buckles said
police began searching for blankenship on friday after a grand jury indicted him and another man on five counts of murder each in the slayings at a national supermarket on the city's north side sept. 4
one suspect, marvin jennings, 27, of overland, was arrested friday. blankenship, 26, of hanley hills, had last been seen friday night in north st. louis
investigators believe two men entered the supermarket after it closed, possibly by posing as a cleaning crew. a security guard was taken by surprise and killed. six other employees were ordered to lie on the floor and were shot in the back of the head. two people survived
until about two weeks ago, blankenship had been jailed since november on a charge of felony possession of a firearm, a .38-caliber revolver believed to be the one taken from the security guard during the robbery, buckles said. buckles said blankenship had previously been convicted of assaulting a postal service employee
blankenship was in custody on the weapons charges until about two weeks ago, when he used his aunt's house to make a $10,000 bond and was released, police said
blankenship was arrested after police found the revolver in the trunk of a car that had been stopped for speeding. the driver of the vehicle said he had bought the gun from blankenship, his nephew, in late september, police said
house speaker jim wright said monday he was unaware that his friend and adviser, richard pena, had tried to sell weapons to the contras through former white house aide lt. col. oliver l. north's secret contra aid operation
i don't know a thing in the world about that,'' wright, d-texas, said when asked by reporters about an arms-sale offer made by pena in august 1986, three months before disclosure of the iran-contra weapons and money affair shut down the north network
wright said if pena was involved in such activity, it was ``at a time when he wasn't directly working with me.''
the speaker has a record of opposition to u.s. military aid to the contra rebels tyring to overthrow the nicaraguan government. he also has been active in working toward a negotiated peace in nicaragua
in an aug. 15, 1986, letter, pena wrote to a front company set up by north's associate, richard miller, offering to procure grenades, bombs, mines and boots from two south american companies
the letter went to world affairs counselors, a cayman islands front company formed by miller and his partner, frank gomez, to handle their contra transactions for north
wright said he first learned of the matter when contacted last week by the associated press, which obtained a copy of pena's letter
he said he knew of no activity by pena that was ``unethical or illegal or at all dishonest.''
he said pena was a friend and ``very knowledgeable person'' whose spanish speaking ability has helped wright pick up conversational details the speaker sometimes misses regarding central american issues
pena has been one of wright's advisers on central america over the past several years and as recently as january was the texas democrat's paid emissary to the region as the warring factions wrangled over starting cease-fire talks, wright aide marshall lynam said. he said pena was on the speaker's payroll for a few days on each of three occasions
pena now works for a lobbying firm, cassidy and associates. his office said he was on vacation and had not checked in for messages as of monday
pena was deposed by the congressional committees investigating the secret sale of u.s. weapons to iran and the diversion of funds to the contras. pena told investigators he contacted miller in hopes of making a deal for part of the $70 million in renewed contra military aid that congress approved in the fall of 1986, according to a capitol hill source who read pena's deposition
the source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the deposition contained no mention of wright or north. pena said he knew miller was involved with the contras
pena indicated to investigators that he thought he could offer the contras a better deal than they would get through other u.s. purchasing routes, the source said
it was unclear why pena would have gone to miller, a non-government businessman, and the cayman company to arrange the deal rather than through u.s. government channels
pena worked as a house foreign affairs committee staff consultant from august 1982 to november 1985, a job for which wright recommended him
one former staff member for the congressional iran-contra investigating committees said the committee staff decided not to pursue the pena matter because it appeared to be an isolated incident, rather than an integral part of the north network
miller pleaded guilty in the iran-contra case, along with conservative fund-raiser carl ``spitz'' channell, to conspiring with north to defraud the government by raising money through a tax-exempt foundation to purchase weapons for the contras
miller worked with north, then a national security council aide, raising private money to help the contras during the congressional ban on u.s. aid
miller's company, international business communications, routed nearly $3 million through the caymans, which was disbursed at north's direction to the rebel effort, the iran-contra committees' report said
north has been charged along with president reagan's former national security adviser, rear adm. john m. poindexter, and two other men with conspiring to defraud the united states of $17 million in iran arms sale proceeds and for operating a secret contra assistance program during the aid ban
the chairman of the alabama democratic party said monday he is exploring the possibility of forming a southern group of uncommitted delegates to endorse an ``electable'' presidential candidate
we've got to keep one eye, if not two eyes, on the november general election,'' said john baker of montgomery. ``i'm tired of the democratic party having a ticket that can't carry but one or two states. i'm embarrassed by losing four out of the last five elections.''
the party chairman hopes to find 50 to 100 southern ``super delegates'' who are interested in making a joint endorsement. unlike delegates elected in the super tuesday primary, the party officials and others dubbed super delegates are not committed to a particular candidate
baker sent letters to alabama's 12 super delegates and to 13 southern party chairman to see if they were interested in trying to make a joint endorsement
it's possible this group could make a commitment at the same time. that would be a tremendous boost to someone,'' baker said. but it's too early at this point to say which of the democratic candidates might be electable in november, he added
the lead-off presidential caucuses received twice as much television coverage as all 20 super tuesday contests this year on network evening newscasts, a media analyst says
robert lichter, co-director of the center for media and public affairs, said the super tuesday primaries and caucuses also got short shrift compared to the new hampshire primary on feb. 16
iowans chose 89 gop and democratic delegates in their feb. 8 caucuses, which were the subject of 105 stories, lichter said. in new hampshire only 40 delegates were chosen, and more than 80 stories were aired
super tuesday, by contrast, had 2,056 delegates at stake but the three major networks ran only 53 stories, lichter said
lichter labeled super tuesday a failure because it failed to shift the focus of attention to the south. ``the media shined a 1,000-watt spotlight on the early primaries and a one-watt flashlight on super tuesday,'' he said
one of the costliest crop pests of farmers and home gardeners may one day be curbed by a natural enemy, a microscopic killer worm that searches the soil for the corn rootworm, the agriculture department said monday
the tiny worm, or nematode, is called steinernema feltiae. after infecting the rootworm, the nematode releases a bacterium that kills the pest. then, said usda entomologist jan j. jackson, the nematode uses the larva's body as a place to reproduce while it feasts on bacteria and larva tissue
about 10 days later, hundreds of new nematodes emerge and start searching for more rootworms
that gives you an advantage over chemical controls,'' he said in a report by the department's agricultural research service. ``a chemical just sits there and waits for the rootworm to come to it. the nematode doesn't wait.''
but jackson found that the nematodes don't persist in the ground long enough to eliminate a rootworm infestation. in one field trial where he works at the department's northern grain insects research laboratory in brookings, s.d., jackson applied 100,000 nematodes to the base of each of several corn plants, reducing rootworm damage by 11 percent
jackson said that is not an acceptable level of control, but he expects further research could lead to protection as good as from chemical insecticides. a separate test with a chemical reduced root damage by 44 percent
rootworm larvae destroy corn roots, and adults feed on the leaves, tassels and ears. jackson said u.s. corn producers spend nearly $350 million a year to fight the rootworms. nematodes probably could be produced at about the same cost, without the risk of chemical injury to farmers and the environment. up 7th pvs `in washington'</note>
the israeli army on monday imposed its broadest restrictions yet on the 1.5 million palestinians in the occupied territories, sealing the regions for three days to combat a plo day of protest
army spokesmen said journalists were being barred from the territories, where 119 palestinians and an israeli soldier have been killed in nearly four months of violence
it is the first such ban since israel captured the west bank and gaza strip from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
under the orders, the 650,000 palestinians in gaza cannot leave their homes and the 850,000 in the west bank will be confined to their villages and towns, the army said
the 65,000 jewish settlers who in the occupied lands will be permitted to move freely
an army statement said the three-day shutdown began at 10 p.m. monday in the gaza strip and 1 a.m. tuesday in the west bank
a military source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said telephone links to the gaza strip also were cut for the three days
another rule bars palestinians from crossing the two bridges over the jordan river, the army said, but incoming traffic from jordan will be permitted. about 110,000 arabs who work in israel will not be able to leave the territories
in washington, the state department criticized israel for sealing off the territories
we regret the decision because of the impact it wll have on commerce, on visits with family members and the press,'' spokesman charles e. redman said
on friday, the department advised u.s. citizens to avoid travel to the areas because of continuing disturbances
the closure followed a mass arrest campaign aimed at preventing violence wednesday, when palestinians mark land day, the 12th anniversary of a 1976 clash between soldiers and arabs over the confiscation of arab land. six palestinians were killed
the palestine liberation organization has ordered widespread protests against israeli troops and jewish settlers
israel's ability to deal with expected unrest on land day is viewed as a major test of the military's muscle to quell the uprising that began dec. 8
the closure ``stems first from our desire to tell the arabs `you decided on land day, so let's have a confrontation. we'll see who wins,''' defense minister yitzhak rabin said on israel radio. ``remember, we have not exhausted every means of control at our disposal.''
rabin said the measures also were taken to prevent arabs from the occupied territories from inciting violence among arabs who live in israel
robert slater, president of the foreign press association, condemned the restrictions and said the group was considering legal action. he said the association had rejected an army offer to allow a media pool into the territories accompanied by a military spokesman
pools are meant for when there is no room for huge numbers of people and there is obviously plenty of room for everybody in the territories,'' said slater, of time magazine
israel's 24-member cabinet authorized the measures during its weekly session sunday, israeli officials said
the purpose is to keep the territories quiet. it is not directed specifically against the press, but we don't want to give the people of the areas any reason for causing disturbances,'' said a senior defense ministry official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
in addition to the new measures, troops have arrested about 550 arabs since saturday, including at least 75 overnight monday in the dheishe refugee camp near bethlehem and the jabaliya camp in gaza, the arab-owned palestine press service said
police spokeswoman ruth lessinger said security was also increased in arab areas of israel, with traffic police summoned for riot duty, all police vacations canceled and 12-hour work days ordered for officers
she said 4,000 extra police would be ready for mobilization wednesday and could be taken by helicopter to trouble spots
left-wing legislator gadi yatziv of mapam said the restrictions were ``the first significant victory of the uprising.''
the arabs have managed to force us to take undemocratic measures and the message we will convey on land day will be more negative than anything else,'' yatziv said on the radio
on the political front, prime minister yitzhak shamir sharply protested a meeting between secretary of state george p. shultz and two arab-americans linked to the plo
we see as very grave the attempts of the americans to initiate contacts with plo members,'' shamir said in an address to israel's 120-member parliament
shultz met saturday with edward said and ibrahim abu lughod, who are u.s. citizens and members of the palestine national council, the plo's parliament-in-exile
a 19-year-old palestinian, meanwhile, died of a gunshot wound to the heart suffered during a clash sunday in the west bank village of salfit, israel radio and the palestine press service said
the senate on monday approved a resolution authorizing the reagan administration to implement the proposed compact of free association between the united states and the pacific trust territory of palau
the voice-vote action sent the measure to the house, where similar legislation has been stalled by an investigation by the interior committee into allegations of governmental corruption in palau
the senate resolution would permit the compact, which would end 40 years of u.s. trusteeship over palau, to be implemented so long as there is no pending legal challenge to a plebescite last summer in the islands
palauan dissidents have talked of filing a court suit challenging the legality of the plebescite in which a majority of voters approved amending their constitution to drop its prohibition against nuclear weapons in palau
leaders of the interior committee have sent congressional investigators to palau to probe allegations that senior palau officials may be involved with the smuggling of southeast asia heroin into the united states
the investigators also are looking into reports that palau officials have have received unjustified payments from a british company that built a power plant for the palau government
the administration, which sees palau as a militarily strategic area, has been pressing congress to allow it to implement the compact so it can get the united nations to cancel the trusteeship imposed after world war ii
under the proposed compact, the united states would handle military and diplomatic affairs for palau, whose ailing economy would get some $428 million in u.s. aid in the first 15 years of the 50-year pact
a federal judge refused monday to stop next sunday's hike in postal rates, ruling he lacked jurisdiction to order the postal service to delay the increase for two months
u.s. district judge charles r. richey ruled that he did not have jurisdiction to rule on a request by trade groups representing mail-order and direct-mail firms for an injunction delaying the imposition of the new postal rates until june 4
but richey said the trade groups could take their complaint to the u.s. circuit court of appeals here
the plaintiffs, including the mail order association of america, the third class mail association and the magazine publishers association, contended that any increase before june 4 was illegal
the suit charged that the postal rate commission calculated the rate hike to take effect on that date and that the postal service lacked authority to charge higher rates before then
the postal service will raise an extra $700 million by raising rates in april instead of june, the lawsuit said
on sunday, the cost of first-class stamps will increase from 22 cents to 25 cents with corresponding hikes for second, third and fourth-class mail. official'. deletes last graf pvs to conform.</note>
the u.s. navy confiscated film from a member of a pentagon news pool in the persian gulf for security reasons, but the pentagon said monday afternoon it was being returned
thomas salyer, a photographer for united press international, said intelligence officers refused to return 36 of 61 negatives he took of an abandoned iranian gunboat seized thursday by the guided missile frigate reuben james in the strait of hormuz
it was the first known confiscation of material from a pool member
u.s. officials had directed earlier that some portions of tape taken by an nbc cameraman in the pool be blocked out. the team later was allowed to dub a version of its own tape with those portions excluded
in washington, the pentagon released a statement monday from the u.s. central command saying salyer's film was being returned
three rolls of film were developed and half of the exposures were withheld from the upi photographer by navy officials after a determination was made at the scene that the information revealed in the film was classified,'' it said
in retrospect, the decision to classify the film was overly cautious. officers at the u.s. central command reviewed the list of materials found on the boat, and have have found no sensitive materials to warrant continued withholding of the film.''
the official concern in both cases was over showing certain artillery shells found in the boat, the serial numbers on its gun _ a 25mm anti-aircraft weapon _ and a large box that was sealed but believed to contain ammunition
the wooden box was not opened aboard the reuben james, and u.s. officers refused to speculate on what it contained
standing rules governing the pentagon news pools provide that all written, audio and pictorial material must be cleared for security by u.s. officials at the department of defense before it can be released and distributed generally to media being served by the pool
this material is scrutinized at the operational level, such as aboard ships, but is not censored. if there is a question concerning security, it is referred to the department of defense
although the system has been in effect for several years, the persian gulf is the first place it has been used for coverage of real military operations rather than maneuvers and exercises
since the news pools were instituted for the gulf in july, there have been several cases in which pool escort officers alerted defense department officials to a potental security problem in written news copy, but in all cases it was cleared by the pentagon as written
the pentagon also has not objected to any audio, video or photo reports obtained by the pool journalists
salyer said he was asked to submit his film for examination by intelligence experts aboard the uss coronado, command ship of the joint task force middle east and its gulf-based component, the middle east force
he said that after three officers had spent several hours examining it, he was told some of the film would be kept because when blown up to larger size it revealed the serial numbers of the gun, or disclosed other valuable intelligence data
salyer, noting that he had earlier been allowed to ship some other film of the boat and the nighttime operation to recover it, said he thought the officers ``overreacted'' in confiscating the second batch of pictures
he said the navy also seemed to be imposing a ``double standard'' on him that didn't apply to others
we were all told in advance that the boat material would be subjected to security review,'' salyer said. ``after looking at the film, they said i could have only a part of it back and i could appeal through the freedom of information act for the rest of it.''
experienced pool participants could recall no previous occasion when any news material was confiscated
maj. barry willey, a public affairs officer assigned to the pool from the u.s. central command headquarters in tampa, fla., said he also did not recall a precedent
willey said the decision to withhold the film was made here because there was no way to get it to the pentagon for review ``in a timely manner.''
ten american and european academics on monday disputed the army account of an incident involving the visitors' tour bus that led to a clash in which israeli soldiers fatally shot two palestinians
the version released by the army spokesman is, to put it mildly, a gross distortion,'' said zachary lockman, who teaches middle east history at harvard university
we're quite concerned about our trip being used as a pretext for what followed,'' he told a news conference about the incident sunday
an army spokesman said sunday that soldiers went to the rescue of an israeli tour bus under attack in the arab town of salfit, 20 miles north of jerusalem
he said the bus driver mistakenly entered salfit, and palestinans stoned the vehicle and then attacked soldiers sent to the scene. the soldiers responded with gunfire that killed two palestinians, he said
on monday, an army spokeswoman said soldiers entered the town becaue of reports of a hijacked bus
they quickly discovered there was nothing wrong and began to withdraw, when the soldiers were attacked by a large group of hundreds of arabs throwing bottles, pieces of metal and concrete blocks,'' said the spokeswoman, who was not identified in line with military regulations
lockman, joined by other other professors at the news conference, said the vehicle was clearly marked as a bus from bir zeit university, an arab institution. he said their group had gone to salfit to talk with palestinians
he said villagers greeted them warmly and the town was peaceful throughout the 30- to 45-minute stay
lockman, who speaks hebrew, said he overheard an army officer at a checkpoint tell his commanding officer by radio ``that we (the tour group) had not been under any threat whatsoever.'' he said an army helicopter flew over salfit during the group's visit
he added that as the bus left the area it went by a force of soldiers heading toward the town
jack taft, a lecturer in peace and conflict studies at the university of california at berkeley, noted that the army frequently bars reporters from scenes of conflict
i think that's the central point,'' he said. ``the army as the sole source of information can fabricate any story it likes.''
u.n.-sponsored afghanistan talks resumed monday, after a weekend recess and word that moscow remains unyielding in the dispute over foreign arms supplies to parties in the conflict
pakistan's chief negotiator said the question of ``symmetry'' _ simultaneous cessation of soviet military aid to the kabul government and u.s. aid to the moslem guerrillas fighting it _ was the final unresolved issue
acting foreign minister zain noorani said that, for ``the united states and pakistan (it) is of major concern.''
it is outside the formal scope of the indirect geneva talks between islamabad and kabul, but the superpowers are the designated guarantors of any peace settlement. the united states has said it will accept that role only if there is a ``balance of obligations.''
speaking to reporters before a formal session with u.n. mediator diego cordovez, noorani said the moment moscow agrees on a symmetrical cutoff of arms aid, ``my pen is with me and i will sign.''
over the weekend, noorani met with special soviet envoy nikolay kozyrev, who has been following the talks from the wings since the latest round began march 2
sources close to the pakistani delegation said kozyrev made clear that moscow remains firm on the arms cutoff. secretary of state george p. shultz, meeting last week with soviet foreign minister a. eduard shevardnadze in washington, indicated flexibility in the u.s. stand
shultz suggested the superpowers agree at least on a temporary freeze or ``something close to it.'' but shevardnadze ruled out symmetry. the soviets reject the u.s. symmetry demand as amounting to interference with relations between two states, noting that moscow and kabul are bound by international treaties
kozyrev reportedly suggested pakistan go ahead and sign the three main accords without waiting for u.s. and soviet agreement on the fourth, spelling out the superpower guarantees
shevardnadze struck that note last week at a washington news conference when he said the ``afghan question can be resolved without u.s. guarantees.''
the text of the peace package, said to comprise about 25 typewritten pages, has been translated and scrutinized by legal experts. noorani says he considers the documents complete. afghanistan was reported still opposed to having the text refer to ``international boundaries'' because of what it considers a border dispute dating to pakistan's independence
sources close to the talks, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they were confident that question could be settled
government, business and labor have agreed to hold the line on wages and prices and extend an inflation-fighting program through may
the so-called economic solidarity pact has been in effect since december and president miguel de la madrid said it seems to be stemming inflation, which hit a record annual rate 159.2 percent last year
de la madrid and representatives of business and labor signed the extension in a ceremony at the presidential palace sunday. he said mexico may soon be able to get inflation down to about 2 percent a month, according to a statement from the presidential office
at the signing ceremony, the president said more must be done to solve mexico's economic problems. besides inflation, those include high unemployment and the second-highest foreign debt in the developing world, $105 billion
there should be satisfaction with what has been achieved so far, but at the same time there should be a recognition that the work ahead will be difficult and complex,'' he said
under the extended agreement, the value of the peso _ 2,280 to the dollar _ and the minimum daily wage of 8,000 pesos, or about $3.50, will remain steady through may
de la madrid's government agreed not to raise the price of goods and services it provides or controls through through that period, and business leaders said they would keep prices steady
the bank of mexico, the nation's central bank, said it would lower interest rates on several financial instruments
last week, the president said a ``minority'' in the private sector had violated the pact. on sunday, he urged violators to follow the example of the vast majority of businesses in honoring the anti-inflation program
gunmen believed to be sikh radicals killed at least 18 people in attacks within a 20-mile radius of amritsar, the sikh holy city, police said monday
they said victims sunday included four members of a hindu family killed in their home and a sikh policeman visiting a village for his sister's wedding
the constable's uncle also was killed
attacks by militants have taken 550 lives so far this year. at least 1,000 people were killed in 1987 by sikhs fighting for an independent homeland in punjab, the only province of india where members of the sect form a majority
most victims have been hindus and moderate sikhs who oppose the militants
police said men with automatic rifles killed four members of a hindu family in manowal, a village 20 miles west of amritsar. a neighbor who came when he heard gunfire also was killed
others slain included seven employees of a brick kiln _ four hindus and three sikhs _ and two sikh members of the marxist communist party
bodies of two other men killed were not identified
officials said they did not know the motives for the killings
sikhs account for 2 percent of india's 800 million people, the vast majority of whom are hindus
amritsar is home to the sect's main shrine, the golden temple, and the center of the militant movement for a separate sikh nation in the northern province, india's most productive agricultural region. sunday</head>
a cold front raced across the rockies and plains states monday, bringing cold and snow to an area that had basked in springlike weather over the weekend. a blizzard hit parts of montana
the temperature early monday afternoon plunged to 33 degrees in pueblo, colo., where a day earlier it had reached 85 degrees. similar bone-chilling drops were reported across a wide region
a blizzard raged across parts of montana during the morning hours. strong winds produced subzero wind-chill readings and poor visibility
before moving out by midday, the storm system also covered roads with ice and left 2 inches of wind-whipped snow in much of utah. a rash of accidents, including a fatal car-train collision, was blamed on the storm there
snow and gusty winds were also reported as far east as the central plains. a high wind warning was posted in the mountains of new mexico, and wind advisories were posted in some texas mountain passes and the mountains of southern california
an advisory for snow was posted for the northern and central mountains and the northeastern plains of colorado, and a winter storm watch was been posted through tuesday morning for northwestern kansas
farther south, the front created some fears of severe thunderstorms and possible tornadoes in parts of southeastern kansas, oklahoma and west-central texas
in northern and central minnesota, the precipitation took the form of a mixture of rain, freezing drizzle and snow, while showers and thunderstorms were numerous across southern wisconsin, northern and central illinois, and northeastern missouri, and from southwestern iowa to north-central texas
heavier rainfall totals for the six-hour period ending at 1 p.m. est included 0.89 inch at rockford, ill.; 0.85 inch at peoria, ill.; 0.56 inch at madison, wis.; 0.48 inch at dubuque, iowa, and moline, ill., and 0.47 inch at cedar rapids, iowa
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 18 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 92 degrees at mcallen, texas. the early morning low for the nation was zero at yellowstone park
the forecast for tuesday called for showers and thunderstorms in the southern and central plains and the mississippi valley to the great lakes, with snow in parts of northern minnesota and upper michigan. rain showers, with snow in the higher elevations, also were forecast across the pacific northwest into the northern rockies
temperatures in the 30s and 40s were forecast from the northern and central rockies through the northern and central plains to upper michigan, and across northern new england; in the 70s in southern california and southern arizona, and from the rio grande valley of texas to the southern and mid-atlantic coast states; in the 80s in south-central texas and across the florida peninsula, and in the 50s and 60s in most of the rest of the nation. with u.n. activity. picks up 18th graf pvs, in the ... with minor editing to trim</note>
iran said monday its revolutionary guards repulsed an iraqi counterattack in their drive into kurdistan and now hold more than 540 square miles of the strategic region in northeast iraq
iranian gunboats attacked two supertankers in the persian gulf, setting them ablaze. and iraqi-backed opponents of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini claimed several thousand of their fighters overran iranian positions in southwest iran
iraq, which has admitted it has lost ground in the mountainous northeast, vowed to ``destroy the iranian aggressors with all available means.''
baghdad's official news agency said the iraqis fired three long-range missiles into the holy city of qom, 100 miles south of tehran, while warplanes bombed four iranian towns to avenge ``iranian attacks on our cities and border.''
qom is the seat of iran's religious hierarchy and crucible of khomeini's 1979 islamic revolution
tehran radio said 11 civilians were killed in the missile attacks and the air raids on dezful, ilam, borujerd and kuhdasht
iran said its artillery hammered ``military and industrial targets'' in the southern city of basra, shelled daily for more than a month, and five other border towns
if the iranian claim of a major advance into kurdistan is true, it would mark iraq's worst military setback since the iranians fought to within six miles of basra a year ago. iran still occupies land east of the battered city
the iraqi army's al-qadessiyah daily, heightening the belief that the iranians have made gains, exhorted soldiers to ``pour your rage and fire on the heads of the persians who have gone too far.''
the official islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, said the iranians ``fiercely repelled'' a counterattack by iraq's 5th army corps around lake darbandikhan before dawn monday
it gave no indication of further iranian advances in the 13-day-old val-fajr-10 offensive
but it quoted revolutionary guards minister mohsen rafiq-doust as saying in tehran on sunday night that his men have overrun 540 square miles of kurdistan
irna also reported that iranian jet fighters shot down two iraqi warplanes in the battle zone monday
iraqi-backed iranian rebels said their national liberation army launched a major offensive on a 14-mile front in iran's oil-rich southwestern khuzestan province near the town of shush
the rebels claimed in a communique that 15 brigades of its fighters pushed into khuzestan to drive iranians out of positions and threaten a key highway southwest of the garrison city of dezful
it reported heavy iranian casualties with ``a large number of tanks captured.''
irna said iraqi soldiers and ``counterrevolutionaries,'' a usual reference by the iranian media to the rebels, launched a ``futile infiltration attempt'' that was repulsed by the iranian forces. it said 1,000 attackers were killed or wounded
at the united nations on monday, iraq condemned the world body's sending a team to look into iranian charges of chemical warfare and asked it to instead investigate what it said was iranian torture of iraqi pows
in a letter to u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar, foreign minister tariq aziz of iraq said the united nations was ignoring iran's own use of chemical arms and letting iran drag its feet in implementing a cease-fire
in the persian gulf, the u.s. navy completed its 18th escort mission of the year. two kuwaiti tankers reached international waters off kuwait after steaming northbound from the strait of hormuz, the pentagon announced in washington
the united states placed 11 kuwaiti tankers last year under the u.s. flag to protect them against iranian attack
iran attacks neutral shipping in the gulf to retaliate for iraqi raids on its oil intallations
iranian gunboats monday attacked the 337,733-ton danish supertanker karama maersk off the southern emirate of sharjah, setting it on fire, shipping executives reported
three hours later, gunboats attacked the 219,287-ton norwegian-operated tanker golar kansai in the same area and set it ablaze, the officials reported
no casualties were reported on either ship
tehran communiques said the iranians have pushed about 15 miles into northeast iraq and seized the eastern and southern shores of lake darbabdikhan
they were reported to be within 3 miles of an important hydroelectric dam on the southern end of the 10-mile-long lake
the facility supplies most of the power for the region and baghdad, 120 miles to the southwest
richard gephardt quit the democratic presidential race monday, saying ``we lost, no question about that,'' but declaring his party can win the white house in the fall only by picking up his populist economic themes
gephardt, whose campaign faltered after his initial win in iowa's caucuses on feb. 8, said he would file for re-election to his house seat from missouri
i believe that our effort was not in vain _ that we challenged the democratic party and called it back to its central role as an agent of fundamental change,'' gephardt said at an emotional capitol hill news conference packed with journalists and supporters, including many of his house colleagues
gephardt had appealed to workers, farmers and the downtrodden with his theme of ``it's your fight, too.'' he said his drive had brought other candidates closer to his positions on trade and farm policy and would result in a nominee committed to fight for economic justice
that was our message and that is our victory. now that message belongs to all the democratic party. i am convinced that it is ... the only way for us to win in 1988 and beyond,'' gephardt said as his wife clasped her hands and fought back tears
the missouri congressman, also accompanied by his three children, quipped, ``i haven't seen a crowd this large in a long, long time,'' after entering the ornate caucus room and giving a thumbs-up sign to his supporters
gephardt predicted a democratic nominee would be chosen from among those now running but refused to throw his support to anyone. he said he might make an endorsement at a later time
gephardt's withdrawal left jesse jackson just ahead of dukakis in the ap delegate count
most of gephardt's delegates were shifted into the uncommitted category with his withdrawal. but missouri party rules mandate that the at-large and public official delegates are redivided among the active candidates when a contender drops out. that gave jackson at least six more delegates
jackson now has 606.55, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis 605.55, tennessee sen. albert gore jr. 362.8, sen. paul simon 168.5 and uncommitted 515.6, according to the ap count
asked to comment on jackson's candidacy, gephardt replied, ``i believe jesse jackson can be nominated and i think he can be elected.'' he turned down a chance to give advice to the party's other front-runner, dukakis, with whom he had engaged in sharp exchanges of negative tv ads
michael dukakis has sure done a lot better than i did,'' gephardt said. ``i don't think it's my place to tell him what to do.''
gephardt attributed his failed candidacy to a lack of money and said that when he was able to get his ideas across, ``we did connect.'' but he added, ``i have no alibis. we lost, no question about that.''
gephardt's wins in iowa, south dakota and his home state were buried by disappointing showings in more than two dozen other states _ including michigan, where he had said he needed a ``michigan miracle'' last saturday to revive his campaign
with his tough trade stance, the six-term congressman might have been expected to do well in a state heavy with unions and automakers. but he failed to win labor backing and finished a distant third in the michigan caucuses, behind jackson and dukakis
gephardt, a consensus builder in the house, found a niche in the presidential race as an anti-establishment populist. he had a well-honed message and an aggressive television campaign
but gephardt, 47, was hampered by a chronic shortage of cash and by continuing skepticism about his populist challenge to ``the apostles of the status quo.''
as chairman of the house democratic caucus, gephardt was hardly a stranger to the establishment he so bitterly attacked during his campaign. he was also vulnerable because of switches over the years on issues ranging from abortion to reaganomics
the well-heeled dukakis ran pointed television ads, one showing a man flip-flopping through the air and the other a list of gephardt's corporate contributors. sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee not only attacked gephardt on his changes of heart, but adopted his same populist theme
after michigan, gephardt had only 167 delegates _ less than one-third the totals amassed by dukakis and jackson and fewer than even sen. paul simon of illinois, who didn't compete on super tuesday
last year, gephardt's poll showings in iowa had been in the single digits until after christmas, when he began running tv ads. among them was his famous ``hyundai'' spot alleging that a $10,000 chrysler k-car would cost $48,000 in korea because of trade tariffs
trade experts challenged the accuracy of the ad, but that didn't dilute its impact in iowa. the tv drive, combined with the grass-roots network gephardt had doggedly built over two years, propelled him to victory in the feb. 8 caucuses
later that month, gephardt won the south dakota primary largely on the strength of an ad charging that dukakis was ``one of the biggest tax-raisers in massachusetts history and saying dukakis' idea of helping farmers was telling them to grow belgian endive
gephardt formally declared his candidacy on feb. 23, 1987, but he had begun campaigning more than a year earlier. his last campaign speech was in milwaukee, before wisconsin democrats whose primary is tuesday. ``all things considered,'' he told them, ``i'd rather be back in des moines.''
gov. buddy roemer on monday signed legislation giving him unprecedented authority to cut spending and raise fees to lift louisiana out of a fiscal crisis blamed on the sagging oil and gas industry
roemer, who took office march 15, said his first round of spending reductions would include layoffs. administration spokeswoman sidney coffee said the cuts would not be announced before tuesday
the legislation was adopted in a special five-day session completed saturday
after lawmakers finished their work, roemer said the temporary authority will be tempered ``by my compassion and good sense that they (legislators) will be coming back in three and a half weeks to look over my shoulder.''
in addition to power to cut entire programs and close institutions through june 30, the administration also won the right to raise fees without public hearings or legislative oversight
the governor said he was aiming for $50 million in spending cuts for the remaining quarter of the fiscal year and $22 million in fee increases
commissioner of administration brian kendrick said budget officials worked through the weekend to come up with a list of proposed cuts to present to roemer late monday. ``we're moving as fast as we can,'' he said
kendrick also said work would begin on the new louisiana recovery district, a commission created by the legislature to impose up to a 1 percent sales tax to finance bonds that would pay off the state's $1.3 billion long-term debt
the commission cannot issue bonds or impose the 1 percent levy until the legislature drops the same amount from the current four-cent state sales tax
the commission was set up to get around a provision in the louisiana constitution barring use of an existing source of revenue to pay off a deficit. it also enables the governor to get around a requirement that tax increases receive the two-thirds approval of the legislature
the administration will ask the louisiana supreme court to rule on the constitutionality of the plan. if it does not pass legal muster, the state will use short-term bonds to finance the debt, kendrick said
kendrick also said the short-term notes would be used to help overcome the $200 million cash shortfall remaining for the rest of the fiscal year ending june 30
col. moammar gadhafi said monday he is withdrawing libyan forces from the border with egypt but he did not specify a time frame for the pullback
such a move would represent a conciliatory gesture unprecedented since gadhafi's feud with egypt began 16 years ago
the libyan leader's announcement in this mediterranean city 75 miles west of the egyptian border followed a series of goodwill gestures made by both countries in recent weeks
gadhafi did not say how many troops libya has along the border
i want to emphasize to the egyptian people and army that the libyan eastern military zone (beside the border) will finally be abolished,'' gadhafi told a crowd of 2,500 gathered in tobruk, once a key british base
the ceremony marked the 18th anniversary of britain's evacuation of its military bases in libya
gadhafi said the border forces would be withdrawn ``without us asking for anything in return from the egyptian side,'' and he offered to let egypt verify the withdrawal
gadhafi, who wore a bright red jumpsuit, paused repeatedly during his 1{-hour speech as the crowd chanted ``long live the revolution!'' and anti-american slogans
gadhafi also said libya would not use force to undermine egyptian president hosni mubarak's government or to pressure it to renounce the 1979 peace treaty with israel. egypt is the only arab country to have diplomatic relations with the jewish state
but gadhafi did say monday that egypt had ``abandoned'' the arab world when the late president anwar sadat signed the u.s.-mediated camp david peace pact with israel
western and african diplomatic observers in libya called gadhafi's overtures an enormous change, but said they had been expected
they said monday's announcement reflected gadhafi's confidence in his position at home
in his speech, gadhafi also discussed civil rights in libya. he said arrests should only be made through court order. critics say that under the current system, some libyans are arbitrarily arrested by revolutionary committees
in the past month, gadhafi has made several moves to increase human rights, including releasing inmates at a political prison and calling for the abolition of the death penalty
the egyptian-libyan feud began in 1972 when cairo rejected gadhafi's bid to merge the two countries
egypt blamed gadhafi for a series of terrorist bombings in cairo and other cities in 1975 and 1976, and the two countries fought a five-day border war in july 1977. both have maintained large military forces beside the frontier
gadhafi has ruled libya since a military coup in 1969 overthrew the monarchy
the government said monday it has asked the united states about a missing scientist said to have gone to america with documents about a taiwanese program for developing nuclear weapons
the foreign ministry statement was the first public acknowledgment that taiwan was in touch with washington about the case of col. chang hsien-yi, 45, deputy director of the nuclear energy research center at the military-run chungshan institute of science and technology. he disappeared in january
because many people believe col. chang is in the united states this ministry has contacted the american institute in taiwan several times on this event,'' the statement said
it said american agency told the ministry it had no information on chang's whereabouts but was investigating. the institute oversees u.s. interests in taiwan since diplomatic ties were cut in 1979, when the united states recognized the mainland chinese government in beijing
taiwan newspapers, citing sources they did not identify, claimed chang worked for the cia and fled to the united states with secret information about plans to develop nuclear weapons on taiwan
in recent weeks, officials have repeated taiwan's position that it has not developed nuclear weapons. they say they do not know chang's whereabouts and are investigating his disappearance. update with bush comments</note>
george bush on monday picked up the endorsement of rep. jack kemp, who said of the vice president: ``he's earned it.''
the new york congressman, who withdrew from the race earlier this month after disappointing showings in gop contests, said his endorsement of bush was ``unequivocal'' and that he would vigorously campaign for him
bush said the endorsement ``means a lot to me'' and called his former rival ``a rising star in the republican party nationally.''
kemp, appearing with bush at a news conference as the vice president began a three-day campaign sweep through wisconsin, told reporters that the subject of a possible vice presidential bid did not come up in his talks with bush
bush, asked whether he had considered extending an invitation to kemp to join him on a national ticket, said such speculation was premature
it's too early to get into the vice presidency question,'' bush said. commenting on his recent wins in republican primary races, bush said ``the numbers are strong.''
however, turning to the subject of sen. bob dole's campaign, the vice president said he did not want to say anything that might be construed as an effort to pressure dole to formally withdraw
i'm just going to keep on campaigning. each person has to make that decision on his own,'' bush said
however, kemp said that recent remarks by dole, including a speech earlier monday in washington, during which he thanked his supporters, appeared tantamount to a withdrawal from the race
he talked in such a way to acknowledge his campaign has come to a close,'' kemp said. dole had said last friday that bush's nomination now seemed a ``foregone conclusion.''
later, bush told an invitation-only rally in a high school in cedarburg, wis., that ``i don't put too much stock in the polls, but they do look good.''
still, he told his audience, ``i will not project an arrogance, i will not project overconfidence.''
he said kemp's endorsement was ``good, because what we want to do is to have this party unified, together, so we can whip the democrats.''
one of the best things that happened to me was getting my brains kicked out in iowa,'' bush added. ``everybody had me dead and buried. we were resurrected right there in new hampshire. so people say now things are going pretty well for you, and they are.''
kemp said that at the time he entered the gop race, ``i believed i was the best candidate for republican conservatives. the voters believed otherwise.''
turning to the democratic race, bush expressed admiration for the growing strength of jesse jackson
the man's racking up delegates, and that's how you get elected,'' bush said. ``what he has done is very admirable. he hung in there. he's doing very well by taking his case out to the people.''
bush said that despite the numbers on the republican side, he wasn't taking anything for granted
i don't want to project that it's all over,'' he said
kemp told the news conference: ``the time has come for all republicans to unite behind this man who has been a fine and loyal vice president.''
as one involved in the friendly competition, he's earned it,'' kemp said. then, turning to bush, kemp said: ``you can count on jack kemp in '88.'' suggesting senate call the trial without hearing third charge, senate leaders' response. no pickup.</note>
an angry gov. evan mecham took offense during his impeachment trial monday at a prosecutor's comparing his actions to embezzlement
i resent so highly the word embezzlement in my presence. i'm insulted by it,'' mecham declared, ignoring orders by arizona chief justice frank gordon to refrain from commenting beyond answering questions
gordon, who already had ruled the question irrelevant, admonished mecham again, telling him, ``i hope you believe the rules are for you, sir, as well as everybody else.''
mecham responded hotly, ``i have seen no witness who has been insulted as i have been.''
the outburst came after house prosecutor william french tried to compare mecham's loan of $80,000 to mecham's auto dealership from a protocol fund to a bank officer ``borrowing'' money from a bank vault and later replacing it
that doesn't make the bank official any less guilty of embezzlement, does it?'' said french, citing mecham's repeated references to the fact that his dealership paid back the loan with interest
defense attorney jerris leonard objected, and gordon sustained the objection
mecham, who began his second round of testimony friday and completed it monday, is charged with misusing state funds by loaning the $80,000 to mecham pontiac. the charge is the second of three against him
as he left the stand, he suggested the senate drop the third count _ that he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan _ and judge him right away on the first two
in response to a question from a senator on how he thought they should proceed, mecham said he wouldn't mind if they decided to ``call this game at the end of six innings'' and forget the last charge
he cited the effect of the hearing on his april 21 criminal trial on charges of concealing the campaign loan
outside the senate chamber, majority leader robert usdane, who like mecham is a republican, said the chances of dropping the third count were ``about as good as me going out and jumping off the highest building i can find.''
he called the loan concealment charge ``one of the most serious allegations that was made by the house.''
mecham also asked that the senate at least postpone hearing the third count until after his trial. but minority leader alan stephens said that's as likely as ``as jimmy carter being elected president of the united states again.''
in his testimony monday, mecham maintained the loan was secure with his company and a good investment for the money, which originally raised by his inaugural committee
french, in a series of hypothetical questions, suggested mecham felt the money belonged to him, not the state
could you have used the $80,000 to put a swimming pool and tennis court in the back yard of your house?'' he asked mecham
i probably could have done it if i'd invited all of the legislators and cabinet officers to swim once a month,'' mecham said with a smile. he then added, ``i shouldn't jest with you on these ridiculous questions.''
however, he conceded that under his theory he could have loaned the money to his wife for whatever she wanted to spend it on as long as it was paid back with interest
mecham also testified he could not recall whether his then-chief of staff, jim colter, or anyone else advised that the loan was politically unwise
we're all good monday morning quarterbacks,'' said mecham, ``and everybody decided it was a stupid thing to do after the fact.''
the protocol fund was set up after a state law barred use of the funds to pay off mecham's campaign debts. the prosecution claims the money became a public fund for state promotion. mecham claims it remained private for use at his discretion
the 63-year-old mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, in previous testimony denied a charge that he tried to thwart investigation of an alleged death threat on a grand jury witness
besides the impeachment and criminal trials, mecham also faces a recall election may 17
in other developments monday, jury selection began in the political extortion trial of sam steiger, an ex-congressman and former mecham aide. he resigned after being charged with trying to influence the vote of a member of the state board of pardons and paroles. day</note>
progress toward solving the dispute over participation of u.s. contractors in japanese construction projects was reported monday night as the two governments scheduled a third day of negotiations
u.s. deputy trade representative michael b. smith and ichiro ozawa, deputy chief secretary of prime minister noboru takeshita's cabinet, agreed to meet again tuesday after sessions last friday night and most of monday
there has been significant progress but we do not yet have an agreement,'' said smith's spokeswoman, kelly winkler. both smith and ozawa planned to consult their governments before tuesday's talk, she said. the japanese embassy said the talks were marked by both progress and continung problems
ozawa arrived last week and started formal negotiations friday in hope of averting further u.s. reprisals for exclusion of american builders from the multibillion-dollar japanese public works boom
congress late last year barred japanese firms from u.s. federally-funded public works because of lack of reciprocal access for american companies. during his white house visit in january, takeshita promised to seek a solution but negotiations on both sides of the pacific failed to produce it. the united states was reported on the verge of initiating a formal unfair trade action
ms. winkler said monday's progress came both in defining the japanese public works projects to which u.s. bids would be admitted and in clarifying the bidding procedure
a brother of former president chun doo-hwan has been summoned for questioning tuesday about a multimillion-dollar scandal in a semiofficial development agency he once headed, prosecutors reported
kang won-il, the prosecutor in charge of the case, and his assistants said monday that chun kyung-hwan, 46, and three of his aides were to be questioned about the alleged embezzlement of up to $14 million from the seemaul (new community) development program
kang said investigators have uncovered evidence linking chun kyung-hwan, a younger brother of the ex-president, with $9.3 million of the funds
opposition leaders have called for investigations of other members of the chun family
saemaul was founded in 1971 to promote urban and rural development. chun kyung-hwan, appointed by his brother, headed the agency from 1981 to 1987
he has been accused of using his position to obtain donations, sell influence and divert government funds to invest in profit-oriented projects
prosecutors said that last week investigators found about a dozen secret bank accounts the younger chun used under false names
scores of government officials have been questioned in the case, but prosecutors said most would face minor reprimands and not criminal prosecution
opposition leader kim young-sam demanded monday that the investigation be expanded to cover all allegations of corruption involving the administration of ex-president chun. he was in office from 1980 until last month when roh tae-woo was inaugurated after winning the presidential election in december
the administration should not be allowed to terminate the investigation of chun kyung-hwan's scandals,'' kim said in announcing his candidacy for next month's national assembly elections
protests about the saemaul case intensified after chun kyung-hwan, using a false name, flew to osaka, japan, on march 18. he returned to korea two days later for questioning
the government probe of the scandal is seen by some political observers as part of an effort by roh to discredit the former president and his supporters, who allegedly were attempting to maintain power within the government
roh, a former general who helped put chun in power with military backing, promised during the presidential election campaign to root out official corruption. brother</head> accounts of resignation. pick up 5th graf pvs: caracol had said...</note>
attorney general alfredo gutierrez marquez resigned after it was reported cocaine traffickers used an airfield at his brother's ranch, a source at the president's office said monday
the source, speaking with the condition he not be identified, said president virgilio barco accepted the resignation
radio stations rcn, caracol and todelar had earlier reported the attorney general's resignation
both the president's press office and attorney general's office had declined comment when asked about a report sunday night by the intervision television news program. the report said a 5,000-foot runway used by drug traffickers was owned by libardo gutierrez marquez, the attorney general's brother
the source in the president's office told the associated press late monday that in his letter of resignation, the attorney general said his brother did own a farm that news reports said had a runway used by drug smugglers
caracol had said earlier the attorney general resigned shortly after a confiscated drug plane was stolen march 1 from a military air base and landed at the runway, but the later radio reports said he quit on monday
the government of colombia has been at virtual war with drug traffickers, who have killed a justice minister, an attorney general, several judges, two newspaper editors and scores of policemen and soldiers
intervision said the runway in question was used by planes belonging to pablo escobar, branded as a leader of the medellin cartel
the cartel smuggles most of the cocaine reaching the united states, according to the u.s. drug enforcement administration
the united states asked for extradition of escobar and four other men named as members of the medellin cartel. medellin, a city in northwest colombia, is where most of colombia's purported drug traffickers live
the runway is on a farm near medellin next to property belonging to escobar, intervision said
the army last year seized a twin-engine propeller plane, an aerocommander, used for drug trafficking. the plane was stolen from an air force base on march 1 and landed at the runway owned by the attorney general's brother, intervision said
it said the air force tracked the plane by radar and strafed it, other aircraft and hangars. two days later, army bulldozers destroyed the runway
news media have said the attorney general suggested that the government try to reach a truce with drug traffickers
last month, at a dinner with foreign correspondents, gutierrez was asked if he thought the government should try to reach a truce with the drug traffickers
gutierrez said that would be up to the president and that his job is to follow the president's orders
the president says the government will not surrender in its war on drug trafficking
in a raid last week on a country estate owned by escobar, the army said it found tape recordings linking drug dealers with someone close to the attorney general's office. the army gave no details
the escobar home was one of five homes belonging to drug trafficking suspects where the army in the last two months found arsenals that include u.s. military assault rifles, submachine guns, shotguns, pistols, ammunition, hand grenades, stolen license plates and army and police uniforms
two of the homes were raided sunday, the army said in a news release
a group calling itself the organization of arab guerrilla cells claimed responsibility monday for a gun and grenade attack which badly injured an italian pilot at bombay airport in india last week
we claim responsibility for the attack launched against a group of zionist pilots working at the italian airline (alitalia) at bombay airport,'' said a typewritten statement from the previously unknown group, dated march 26
the arabic-language statement was received monday by reuters news agency through a courier service in mostly moslem west beirut
last friday, an arabic-speaking man who gave his name as abbas mohammed ali shahadi shot and seriously wounded an alitalia pilot aboard an airport bus
bombay police said the gun jammed after three or four shots and shahadi jumped off the bus and tossed two grenades at two off-duty policemen. the grenades failed to explode and the two officers chased shahadi and caught him
the italian embassy in new delhi said police had not determined the gunman's nationality or motive. police said he gave them only his hame and no identity papers were found on him
the attack was in retaliation for the frantic campaign waged by the zionists and imperialists against the arab nation,'' the statement said
the breakaway palestinian faction, fatah-revolutionary council, hinted last month it would retaliate for a life sentence passed by an italian court on its leader, the notorious abu nidal, in absentia
abu nidal, whose real name is sabri al-banna, and a top aide were convicted of a 1985 terrorist massacre at a rome airport. the lone survivor of the four-man attack, the only defendant in custody, was jailed for 30 years
a judge made creative use of the state's victims compensation law monday and ordered a heroin dealer with extensive real estate holdings to pay $2 million in restitution toward drug rehabilitation programs
supreme court justice lewis douglass said he reached the figure by multiplying the cost of drug rehabilitation by the number of addicts agapito lopez could have supplied with the six ounces of heroin seized when he was arrested
douglass said in a telephone interview he believed it was the first time a state law allowing restitution for crime victims was used in a drug case
defense attorney frank ortiz said he would appeal the order. he argued that when legislators approved the restitution law, they were thinking of crimes in which there is a specific victim, like robbery or rape
he also argued that the law requires a hearing to be held for any payment more than $10,000
lopez, 44, was convicted in 1987 of drug sale and possession. he is serving a 25-year-to-life sentence imposed by douglass last year
according to the judge's calculations, if the six ounces that were seized when lopez was arrested in 1985 had made it to the street, and each addict bought 20 bags of heroin, the six ounces would have gone to about 900 addicts
douglass said he contacted drug rehabilitation agencies to find what the cost of the least expensive treatment would be and was told it was $2,400 annually for outpatient care
he said he will ask mayor edward i. koch to designate a drug rehabilitation agency to receive the money
lopez sold 2,200 bags of heroin to an undercover officer for $26,000 and was arrested after the officer arranged for another sale, according to nancy young, a spokesman for brooklyn district attorney elizabeth holtzman
at that time, officers confiscated the six ounces of heroin and seized $440,000 in cash from his apartment
young said lopez owned at least three houses in two boroughs of new york city and a car dealership and other real estate in puerto rico
he also had bank accounts with $60,000. the district attorney's office will seize the assets needed to meet the restitution, young said
jesse jackson said monday he expects democratic leaders to embrace him as the nominee if he wins the most pre-convention delegates because ``i would have earned it from the people.'' democrat richard gephardt ended his candidacy, and republican ex-candidate jack kemp climbed on george bush's bandwagon
as democratic leaders wrestled with the implications of jackson's overwhelming weekend victory in michigan, gephardt left the race for the democratic presidential nomination at a capitol hill news conference
it's been said the opera isn't over until the fat lady sings,'' gephardt said. ``last saturday in michigan i think i heard her walking to the microphone.''
abc news, meanwhile, reported that republican bob dole was set to drop out tuesday. the report cited campaign sources, and could not be immediately confirmed. dole has acknowledged bush is the almost certain nominee, and had been expected to withdraw soon
one consequence of gephardt's withdrawal was to edge jackson ahead of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the ap delegate count by one slim vote
most of gephardt's delegates were shifted into the uncommitted category with his withdrawal. but missouri party rules mandate that the at-large and public official delegates are redivided among the active candidates when a contender drops out. that gave jackson at least six more delegates
jackson now has 606.55, dukakis 605.55, tennessee sen. albert gore jr. 362.8, sen. paul simon 168.5 and uncommitted 515.6, according to the ap count
gephardt was pushed to withdraw by a third-place finish in michigan's caucuses, far short of the ``michigan miracle'' he sought to revive a candidacy that blossomed in iowa's lead-off caucuses but was trampled in the south
jackson and dukakis both campaigned in connecticut on the eve of its primary. gore campaigned in new york and was joining jackson and simon at a debate monday night
dukakis, the governor of massachusetts, was hoping his neighbor state would provide a victory sufficient to ease the pain of his loss to jackson in michigan _ a loss that raised questions about his candidacy and his abilities as a campaigner
at a junior high school in east hartford, a black student asked dukakis why she should vote for him over jackson
i am not running against him and he is not running against me; we are running for the presidency,'' dukakis responded, his answer running so long that he concluded by apologizing
i'm sorry i'm making a speech instead of answering your question,'' he said. ``i hope i've persuaded you. i don't know.''
dukakis borrowed a favorite jackson subject, urging the students to reject drugs. his wife kitty told of her secret 26-year amphetamine addiction
the governor was peppered with questions about jackson but declined to outline any differences between himself and jackson ``because i've never done that.''
i don't think the american people are particularly interested in what i think of the other candidates and what they think of me,'' dukakis said
gop front-runner bush, confident of winning in connecticut, the state he grew up in, began a three-day campaign swing through wisconsin, the next battleground with primaries next week. polls in both states put bush decisively ahead
one of the best things that happened to me was getting my brains kicked out in iowa,'' bush said. ``everybody had me dead and buried ... so people say now things are going pretty well for you, and they are.''
kemp, the new york congressman who abandoned his conservative candidacy two weeks ago, joined bush in milwaukee to offer an endorsement
george bush is going to be the nominee of the republican party and has earned that nomination,'' kemp said. ``the time has come for all republicans to unite behind this man who has been a fine and loyal vice president, and to help him be the next president of the united states.''
bush's remaining two rivals behaved as though their races were over, even though they kept their candidacies alive
dole, all but conceding the nomination to bush, spoke to campaign workers in washington in what sounded like a last hurrah _ though aides said he wasn't ready to withdraw
he said the republcan party ``must cast off the restrictions of privilege and class. we must offer help to those who need it. we must support and defend civil rights.''
former television evangelist pat robertson, with only 17 delegates to show for a campaign that has spent $25 million, took the week off
gore, the tennessee democrat, spoke at a congressional hearing in new york city on homelessness and met privately with mayor ed koch. later he criticized secretary of state george shultz for meeting with ``surrogates'' of the palestine liberation organization
gore said in a letter to shultz he had ``damaged the essential bond of confidence between america and the people of israel.''
jackson campaigned in connecticut and considered the possibility other democrats were confronting _ that he could be the candidate with the most delegate votes and popular votes by the end of the primary season in june
if by the end of california we have the most popular votes, the most delegate votes, becoming the nominee is logical and proper,'' jackson said on abc-tv. ``if i win the nomination from the people, i expect the party to embrace me, and to embrace those principles.''
he questioned the notion that party leaders, believing he cannot win in the general election, might ignore his strength at the convention and give the nomination to another democrat
they would not have given me the nomination, i would have earned it from the people,'' he said. ``there is no small group, no electoral college that can give or take your nomination. if so, why even have a primary. ... let the people speak.''
democratic chairman paul kirk said, ``i wouldn't be a party'' to a stop-jackson movement
i can't imagine that if he runs through the process and comes out on top, they could take it away from him,'' kirk said. ``i would refuse to be part of that.'''
democratic house speaker jim wright credited jackson with demonstrating ``remarkable support and surprising appeal. he is saying things people thirst to hear.''
democratic gov. dick bryan announced his candidacy for the u.s. senate on monday with a swipe at republican incumbent chic hecht
if he was the kind of senator nevada deserves, i would not have made that decision'' to run, said bryan, who is in the middle of his second four-year term
the 50-year-old former attorney general has won praise for his opposition to the government's proposed high-level nuclear dump at yucca mountain and has held a wide margin over hecht in polls taken over the past year
hecht, an upset victor over democratic sen. howard cannon six years ago, accused bryan of spouting empty rhetoric and added the governor was trying to take credit for the economic benefits to nevada of the ``reagan revolution.''
bryan urged hecht to consider a lid of about $2.5 million on spending, calling high-budget campaigns ``perhaps one of the great scandals in america today'' and acknowledging he couldn't match the $5 million to $6 million hecht has said he could raise
bryan plans to release a financial report next week that will show he has raised $1.1 million so far
bryan upset republican gov. robert list in 1982 and was re-elected in 1986 in a landslide over patty cafferata. at the time, detractors said he would be merely a ``caretaker'' governor while he prepared to run for the senate
he was born in las vegas, graduated from the university of nevada-reno and earned a law degree from the university of california hastings college of law
bryan served terms in the assembly and state senate before becoming attorney general in 1978
greece said monday it rejected american protests over a construction freeze at the four u.s. military bases here while talks proceed on the future of the installations
government spokesman yiannis roubatis said greece stood behind a september 1987 decision to ban new building and repair work for the duration of the negotiations
roubatis said u.s. ambassador robert v. keeley this month renewed a request that projects involving security and living quarters improvements go ahead. he said keeley cited a 1983 greek-american operating agreement, arguing such projects didn't require greek authorization
roubatis on sunday confirmed greek newspaper reports that state department officials in washington had protested the freeze
greek and u.s. officials are negotiating a new bases agreement that will replace the 1983 accord after it expires at the end of the year
socialist premier andreas papandreou has said a new agreement must be approved in a greek referendum before it is signed
the bases, two near athens and two on crete, have been operating since the early 1950s
iraq on monday condemned the united nations' sending a team to look into iranian charges of chemical warfare and asked the world body to instead investigate what it said was iranian torture of iraqi pows
in an angry, 15-page letter to u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar, foreign minister tariq aziz of iraq said the united nations was ignoring iran's own use of chemical weapons and letting iran drag its feet in implementing a cease-fire
the letter, delivered monday by iraqi ambassador ismat kittani, indicated a hardening of positions on both sides in the 7{-year-old war
iran will send an envoy to new york for talks with perez de cuellar this wednesday and thursday on implementing a july 20 security council cease-fire resolution. iraq will send a representative next week. the envoys have not been named
the resolution demands an immediate truce and return of prisoners of war. the united states has urged the council to call for a worldwide arms embargo to force iran to comply with the cease-fire
we ask you urgently and immediately to send a team to investigate the situation of iraqi prisoners of war in iran,'' said the letter
it said 10,000 iraqi pows are being tortured, brainwashed and forced to fight against their country
it said an additional 20,000 iraqis were missing in action and 7,000 more prisoners were registered with the international red cross but were not accounted for
the letter criticized perez de cuellar and some security council members for responding first to the tehran government's complaints about chemical warfare
it branded as ``biased and unbalanced'' the u.n. chief's statement friday condemning use of chemical weapons by iraq
iraq has been condemned by the united nations four other times since 1984 for using chemical weapons. western military analysis say iraq has the biggest chemical weapons armory in the region
the u.s. state department said recently that there was evidence iran may have fired chemical artillery shells into iraq
perez de cuellar sent a team to tehran to visit hospitals and investigate iran's charges that iraq used chemical weapons
the iraqi letter did not confirm or deny use of chemical weapons, but said iraq had the right to defend itself
when each time iran sends hundreds of thousands of people to attack and kill us, can you expect iraq to stand by with folded hands when barbarians try to invade?'' it said
the letter said since the war began in september 1980, iran's use of chemical weapons has been documented _ ``but here there is no question or quick response by the secretary-general to investigate this or any aggression by iran.''
aziz protested that last friday that the united nations only deplored the ``war of the cities'' when iraq fired missiles at tehran in retaliation for iran's attacks on basra and baghdad
he said that iraq has accepted the u.n. resolution for a cease-fire, while iran has not explicity endorsed it
bob dole, stopping short of quitting the presidential race in what looked and sounded like a last hurrah for his campaign workers, said monday that the republican party should ``cast off the restrictions of privilege and class.''
the kansas senator made no mention of vice president george bush, the front-runner for the republican nomination, and left the ballroom of a downtown hotel without talking to reporters. he posed for individual souvenir pictures with some of his supporters
abc news, citing sources in the dole campaign, said monday night that dole would drop out tuesday. the report could not immediately be confirmed, however
i have stated repeatedly ... if my campaign did nothing else, it would make clear that our party would never practice the politics of exclusion,'' dole told 450 campaign workers and volunteers
for the republican party to retain the white house, ``we have to convince more women, more young people, americans of every color and ethnic background, the disadvantaged, the disabled, independents and democrats not only to vote republican ... but to become committed party members,'' he said
the democratic party ``has lost its sense of purpose and its sense of direction ... in a mire of special interests,'' but still only 32 percent of americans identify themselves as republicans, he added
to become a majority party, the gop must open its doors ``to new legions of hispanic voters, blacks, asian-americans and other ethnic groups,'' as well as blue-collar workers, evangelicals and other conservatives who voted for ronald reagan, he said
we must cast off the restrictions of privilege and class. we must offer help to those who need it. we must support and defend civil rights,'' said dole. ``our leaders should not be timid about discussing issues that affect the homeless and the hungry.''
dole, joined by his wife, elizabeth, and daughter, robin, said the purpose of the gathering was to thank his campaign workers and to outline his vision for the future of the gop
he joked at the outset that he ``stepped on my own story'' on friday when he acknowledged to reporters that his race against bush appears lost. dole had told the u.s. chamber of commerce, ``it's probably a foregone conclusion what's happening on the republican side.''
mari maseng, a dole spokeswoman, said monday's speech was the last of three dole planned to make to stress key issues in his campaign: foreign policy, deficit reduction and the future of the gop
they're the three issues that have been most important to him in the campaign and why he got into the race in the first place. they're issues that he cares about,'' she said
asked if dole planned to withdraw, she said: ``he'll tell us when he makes that decision.''
dole said that ``i think despite the prospect of tough competition in the next few months, i believe a republican will win in november, but we must keep in mind that we've got a lot of work to do.''
no doubt about it, we've got miles to go before we rest and before we become a majority party,'' he said
two railroad buffs were charged monday with taking a locomotive on a three-mile joyride at speeds of up to 50 mph before it derailed and tipped over, police said
james schroedl, 20, and eric hoyem, 17, were charged with burglary and criminal damage to property, said detective richard obermaier. police located them through a pair of eyeglasses found at the scene, he said
we visited optical stores until we found one that remembered selling them to schroedl,'' obermaier said. ``they were a unique presciption. the kid's almost blind.''
they are railroad buffs. all their lives they've talked to railroad guys and they learned enough to start the engine and get it rolling,'' he said
joyriders boarded the 1,500-horsepower freight locomotive at a chicago and northwestern railroad yard late saturday, said railroad spokesman fred bloedorn
the 25-year-old locomotive, valued at $100,000 to $150,000, fell on its side, and the pair got out and ran off, bloedorn said. obermaier estimated damage to the engine and tracks at $320,000
police found schroedl in a hospital with a leg injury suffered in the derailment. he directed detectives to hoyem, a high school student, said obermaier
obermaier said the joyriders also apparently smashed windows, broke into the yard office and damaged computer equipment as they searched for a key to the locomotive
king fahd said monday saudi arabia would pursue plans to bolster its defenses, dismissing veiled israeli threats to the kingdom after it bought intermediate-range missiles capable of hitting any mideast capital
information minister ali al-shaer quoted fahd as telling his cabinet at a regularly scheduled meeting, ``saudi arabia will go ahead with its ratified defense programs and will pursue its islamic mission and arab duties.''
shaer said the cabinet reviewed ``solidarity'' with the kingdom expressed by most arab governments after ``repeated israeli threats to strike at the missiles that the kingdom has bought to defend its soil and sacred shrines.''
saudi arabia confirmed last week it bought css-2 missiles, with a range of 2,200 miles, from china, but said it would not put nuclear warheads on them
it said it wanted to diversify its arsenal
the kingdom's shipping lanes have been menaced by spillovers from the iraq-iran war. iran accuses saudi arabia of aiding iraq and has made threats against the kingdom
the washington post said last week israel might carry out a pre-emptive strike against the missiles
yossi ben aharon, a top aide to prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel, warned that israel had the reputation of ``not waiting till potential dangers become a reality.''
he was apparently referring to israel's 1981 pre-emptive strike against a nuclear reactor under construction in iraq
saudi arabia, like most arab countries, is technically at war with israel. support received by saudi arabia after the israeli threats included a message from egyptian president hosni mubarak, whose country is the only arab nation to make peace with israel
the state-run newspaper al-ittihad in abu dhabi, capital of the united arab emirates, reported monday that fahd would visit egypt on april 4 to discuss the israeli statements with mubarak. it quoted diplomatic sources in cairo
there was no official confirmation from cairo or riyadh. pick up 10th graf pvs: others in ... and edits to trim</note>
sandinista government and rebel negotiators met for two hours in this border outpost monday to work out details for a 60-day cease-fire outlined in the peace accord they signed unexpectedly last week
they are considering the areas where the rebels, known as contras, will gather during the truce, which is to begin april 1 under the accord signed wednesday night
after about two hours of discussions, the talks were recessed until tuesday, and rebel leaders said there remained obstacles
high-level talks aimed at reaching a more permanent truce are scheduled for april 6 in managua, the capital
the talks were delayed by the late arrival of the contra negotiators, who entered sapoa in midafternoon
representatives from the leftist sandinista government were led by maj. gen. joaquin cuadra, deputy defense minister and army chief of staff
we come with the same spirit, will and decision of the first meeting,'' he told reporters
leading the u.s.-backed contras was aristides sanchez, a director of the umbrella nicaraguan resistance alliance. he told reporters the rebels presented their plan to the government and discussions would resume tuesday
among the rebel representatives were walter calderon, a former national guardsman now known as commander tono; luis moreno payan, who uses the name commander mike lima and is chief of contra military intelligence; luis fley, or commander johnson, chief of rebel operations in northern nicaragua, and diogenes hernandez (commander fernando) whose units operate in central nicaragua
hernandez told a news conference after the meeting, ``i want to tell the nicaraguan people and the world that the (rebel) combatants are not going to put down their arms until nicaragua is a democracy.''
he said defense minister humberto ortega proposed last week that a marxist democracy be established, but hernandez said the contras want ``a real democracy like costa rica.''
cuadra declined to respond to hernandez' remarks and said monday's talks dealt with the ``mechanics of the meeting.'' he said the rebels made no proposals to define the zones where the contras would gather under a truce
we are hoping for an agreement before april 1,'' he added
a temporary cease-fire has been effect since march 21
cuadra said there had been ``violations of the truce of a minor character, but we understand that they are due to the communications problem.''
sanchez said that in a few days the rebels will free the sandinistas they are holding captive. he did not give details
others in the sandinista delegation were deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco and military intelligence chief maj. ricardo wheelock roman
on sunday, the leftist sandinista government fulfilled the first part of the cease-fire accord by freeing 100 political prisoners under an amnesty program. most of them were accused of activities linked to the contras
afterward, interior minister tomas borge called the amnesty ``possibly the beginning of the end of the (6-year-old) war.''
after celebrating palm sunday mass, roman catholic cardinal miguel obando y bravo called the prisoner release ``very positive.''
during his homily, the managua archbishop said the cease-fire agreeement did not mean ``we have already reached peace.''
let us not make a mistake. let us not confuse ourselves. they have only signed a cease-fire,'' he said
under the sapoa agreement, rebel forces are to gather without interference from sandinista forces in specified zones inside nicaragua during the first two weeks of april. monday's talks between special commissions of the two sides could be extended and were to define ``the location, size and modus operandi'' of those zones, according to the text of the sapoa accord
nothing is said in the sapoa agreement about the contras laying down their arms. in past talks, the rebels insisted on keeping their weapons until all provisions of an accord were carried out
once rebel fighters have moved into the truce zones, the contra leadership can send up to eight delegates to participate in national reconciliation talks on april 6
last week's pact provides a gradual amnesty for nicaragua's 3,300 political prisoners; guarantees freedom of expression, and permits all exiles to return home and participate in the political process
if the peace plan is carried out, nicaragua could become the first central american nation other than costa rica to comply fully with the regional peace plan signed by on aug. 7. news digest: managua, nicaragua _ pm-nicaragua, a0439; undated _ pm-political rdp, a0429; washington _ pm-gephardt, a0425; jerusalem _ pm-israel, a0418; panama city, panama _ pm-panama, a0466; hackensack, n.j. _ pm-surrogate mom, a0417; east dubuque, ill. _ pm-killer custody, a0463; los angeles _ pm-another look: aging la, a0406; new delhi, india _ pm-maneka gandhi, a0446
</note>
house speaker jim wright says he had no idea that one of his own advisers had tried to sell weapons to lt. col. oliver north's secret contra supply network three months before the iran-contra scandal began to unravel
the speaker, who has long opposed military aid to the nicaraguan rebels and has been a leader in trying to achieve a negotiated peace there, said he knew nothing of the 1986 arms offer by his associate, richard m. pena
pena, a former house foreign affairs committee staff member, contacted north's associate richard miller just three months before disclosures about the iran-contra affair shut down north's operation in november 1986
jesse jackson's win in michigan has sent a message to the democratic party that it can no longer ignore _ at the rate he's going, jackson just might wind up as its presidential nominee this fall
political analysts say jackson's almost 2-1 victory over erstwhile front-runner michael dukakis in saturday's michigan caucuses is a clear signal that the preacher-turned-politician is a very viable contender for the nomination
jackson, treated as an also-ran in 1984, has won in eight states so far this year _ michigan, alabama, georgia, louisiana, mississippi, virginia, south carolina, alaska _ and in puerto rico's non-binding contest
the ``attack ads'' of super tuesday have given way to a gentler spring, but experts say the most pointed jabs of the presidential primary season will be back this fall _ with a new twist
history tells us that we're likely going to see democrats being quoted against the democratic nominee and republicans quoted against the republican nominee both in advertising and in speeches,'' says kathleen hall jamieson, author of two books on political campaigns and advertising. ``it's a classic move and this year both sides are vulnerable.''
the outbreak of tough television talk started in new hampshire, when sen. paul simon questioned rep. richard gephardt's consistency and vice president george bush dubbed senate gop leader bob dole ``senator straddle.''
lawmakers from areas where japanese imports threaten to cut into jobs are coming down with a case of the blue-collar blues over changes they say will water down their sweeping trade bill
i don't see why we should be pulling all the teeth out of our bill out of fear of a presidential veto,'' says rep. donald j. pease, d-ohio
the concerns are surfacing as a house-senate conference committee prepares to meet tuesday to begin thrashing out what lawmakers are calling the ``cosmic issues'' still remaining in the debate, such as retaliation against foreign trade barriers
senate budget writers get their shot this week at crafting a $1 trillion fiscal 1989 federal spending plan, an exercise that normally causes fur to fly but this year should be relatively tame
with 1988 an election year, a truce has taken hold in what is usually a three-way budget battle among the white house and congressional democrats and republicans
the reason is last fall's budget summit pact between congress and the administration, an accord that settled most of the fiscal fights well in advance. lawmakers are showing no inclination to reopen the usually wrenching decisions about taxes and military and domestic spending that the summit has already made
houston has suffered low oil prices, a troubled space program and the near-exodus of its pro football team. now it wants to avoid another hit: the departure of superstar superconductivity physicist paul chu
i think we need to be sure we don't drop the ball,'' says city councilman jim greenwood. ``it's probably more important to keep paul chu as it was to keep the houston oilers.''
superconductivity, the potential of some materials to carry electricity without energy loss, has become one of the hottest areas in science today. and chu, a 47-year-old university of houston physics professor, has become one of the hottest researchers in superconductivity
a prosecutor today said the brother of former president chun doo-hwan embezzled at least $9 million, and opposition leaders charged other members of chun's family were involved in widespread corruption
prosecutor kang won-il said officials uncovered evidence chun kyung-hwan embezzled $9.3 million as head of the semi-official saemaul development movement. kang said altogether up to $14 million may have been embezzled
the younger chun was expected to be summoned for questioning tuesday and he will probably be detained, kang said. ``once chun is summoned, it will be difficult to allow him to return home in view of circumstances,'' he said. news digest: moscow _ slug am-soviet-unrest. jerusalem _ slug am-israel. islamabad, pakistan _ slug am-afghanistan. sapoa, nicaragua _ slug am-nicaragua. ^by the associated press</note>
jesse jackson said monday he expects democratic leaders to embrace him as the nominee if he wins the most pre-convention delegates because ``i would have earned it from the people.'' democrat richard gephardt ended his candidacy, and republican ex-candidate jack kemp climbed on george bush's bandwagon
as democratic leaders wrestled with the implications of jackson's overwhelming weekend victory in michigan, gephardt left the race for the democratic presidential nomination at a capitol hill news conference
it's been said the opera isn't over until the fat lady sings,'' gephardt said. ``last saturday in michigian i think i heard her walking to the microphone.''
richard gephardt quit the democratic presidential race monday, saying ``we lost, no question about that,'' but declaring his party can win the white house in the fall only by picking up his populist economic themes
gephardt, whose campaign faltered after his initial win in iowa's caucuses on feb. 8, said he would file for re-election to his house seat from missouri
i believe that our effort was not in vain _ that we challenged the democratic party and called it back to its central role as an agent of fundamental change,'' gephardt said at an emotional capitol hill news conference packed with journalists and supporters, including many of his house colleagues
democratic leaders said monday they oppose any ``stop jesse jackson'' movement in the wake of his stunning michigan caucus victory even as the outline of such an effort took shape in the south
the party can't afford that,'' said jim ruvolo, state chairman in ohio. ``jesse jackson is not where he is by some sleight of hand. he got there by winning votes.''
jackson overwhelmed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the michigan caucuses on saturday, winning the industrial state by nearly 2-to-1. that victory stalled dukakis' momentum and boosted talk that jackson could be the first black to win the party's presidential nomination
howard h. baker jr. says he won't be asked. california gov. george deukmejian says he wouldn't be able to accept. george bush says it's too early to think about it
still, a lot of people do
as the vice president's grip on the republican presidential nomination tightens, the question arises: who will be his running mate?
police and soldiers using shotguns, rubber truncheons and tear gas broke up a march monday by thousands of opponents of panama's strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
meanwhile, a general strike that has closed down an estimated 90 percent of panama's industry and commerce entered its second week
ignoring an order to disperse, a crowd of more than 10,000 cheering people began walking toward the capital's central business district monday afternoon
house democratic and republican leaders sought agreement monday on a package of strictly ``humanitarian'' aid to nicaragua's contras to sustain the rebels while they work out a peace accord with the leftist sandinista government
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said he expected quick agreement on an aid package that will conform to the requirements of a truce reached last week between the rebels and the managua government
for this (peace) effort to work, there's got to be this aid,'' said adolfo calero, a leader of the rebel political directorate, who met with wright and other congressional leaders on the aid package
the first american troops to return from a training mission in honduras to counter a nicaraguan advance earlier this month parachuted into their home base monday amid cheers of relatives and friends
an estimated 800 soldiers dropped into the sicily drop zone at fort bragg, home of the 82nd airborne division, about 5 p.m. they were met by a military band and commanding generals from the base
earlier in the day, the troops from the 82nd airborne whistled as they boarded seven c-141 transports for the united states
israel has handed over classified documents to independent counsel lawrence walsh for his iran-contra investigation under a cooperation agreement reached after year-long negotiations, an israeli official said monday
in return, walsh apparently agreed to revoke the subpoenas he issued to four israelis who arranged the 1985 and 1986 shipment of u.s.-made anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles to iran, the official and a u.s. lawyer indicated
he will get what he wants without us having to give up what we wanted,'' said the israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity
supporters of slain indian activist julian pierce said monday they would seek to change state law that would automatically make his judicial primary opponent the winner of the election
backers of pierce, a lawyer who was shot to death over the weekend at his rural home in what authorities called an assassination, decided to seek a special legislative session to allow a substitute candidate in the may 3 primary for superior court judge in racially divided robeson county
state law says if a candidate dies 30 days or more after the filing period closes in that election, the opposing candidate is declared the winner
an angry gov. evan mecham complained from the stand at his impeachment trial monday that he was ``insulted'' by a prosecutor's comparing his actions to embezzlement
i have to make a statement,'' mecham declared, ignoring orders from arizona supreme court justice frank gordon to refrain from comments beyond answering questions asked
i resent so highly the word embezzlement in my presence,'' mecham said. ``i'm insulted by it.''
president reagan said monday the american public won't accept trade restrictions and retaliation against foreign manufacturers
reagan, promoting his free-trade stance even in the face of mounting u.s. trade imbalances, warned that a trade bill under consideration in congress could weaken international trading systems and ``require the president to start trade wars.''
i'll veto if i must,'' reagan told reynolds metals co. workers on the eve of a crucial house-senate conference committee meeting on the bill
a rare first edition of edgar allan poe's first book, a collection of poetry written when he was 14, is to be auctioned by sotheby's, which calls it ``the most exciting book discovery in many years.''
in the 161 years since its publication, only 11 other copies of ``tamerlane and other poems'' have been found. published in 1827 by an obscure boston printer when the poet, short story writer and critic was 18, it could bring as much as $300,000 at auction on june 7
this 12th copy of the book was discovered in a bin of early 20th-century pamphlets on fertilizers and farming machines by a massachusetts book collector while he browsed at an antique barn in new hampshire. the price was $15
on feb. 15, 1986, the amsterdam news printed a front-page editorial calling upon mayor edward i. koch to resign
koch ignored it
he also ignored the next week's editorial, and the one after that. he has now ignored 110 consecutive editorials on the front page of new york's oldest black newspaper, each broadside demanding that he leave office
although saddled with drug problems of their own, a number of asian countries are extending effective help to americans trying to stem the flow of narcotics into the united states, senior u.s. officials say
the united states regards afghanistan, iran, laos and syria as patently uncooperative, but the officials say such countries as thailand, malaysia, burma, pakistan and china, along with hong kong, work closely with americans in cutting asian opium production and tracking drug shipments and dealers
in march, for example, asian-american teamwork led to the arrest in new york city of an alleged drug baron the u.s. drug enforcement administration (dea) says may have smuggled up to $1 billion worth of heroin into the united states
the trail of kon yu-leung, a high-living chinese carrying the passports of at least six countries, reportedly had snaked down from the opium fields of the ``golden triangle'' of thailand, burma and laos through hong kong and on to the united states. the heroin was hidden in shipments of innocent-looking vases, ice buckets and t-shirts
exchanging intelligence and tracking kon and his syndicate for four years were a special thai anti-narcotics unit, the royal hong kong police and some of the 80 dea agents based in asia
in this part of the world countries have acknowledged that they too have an internal drug problem,'' dea head john c. lawn said in an interview during a conference in kuala lumpur. ``they are overt in cooperating so that something can be done not only about the international problem but their domestic one.''
opium-smoking has long been a problem in asia because of the proximity of the drug. but asian nations in recent years have cracked down hard. malaysia, for example, has the death penalty for narcotics offenses
while the greater u.s. anti-narcotics focus is currently on latin america and the carribean, the dea has sharply revised its estimate of southeast asian heroin consumed by american addicts from 18 percent to 30 percent. an additional 37 percent is said to originate from the so-called ``golden crescent'' _ iran, afghanistan and pakistan _ and the rest comes largely from mexico
also requiring shifts of tactics and possibly manpower is dea's assertion that asian syndicates are replacing the mafia as wholesalers of heroin to american addicts, estimated to number about 500,000. according to the dea, about 70 percent of heroin reaching new york city originates in southeast asia, up from 4 percent five years ago. latin america is the chief source of cocaine
the war against drugs in asia works both ways. the united states, for example, helped set up a network of drug rehabilitation centers in thailand that treat some 30,000 addicts a year. the thais in turn have forged a dedicated group of anti-drug lawmen who each year arrest more traffickers and greater quantities of drugs, much of them bound for the united states
we couldn't really operate without the americans,'' said col. viraj jutimitta, widely regarded as one of thailand's best anti-narcotics officers. the united states supplies one of his elite units, ``the dirty dozen,'' with radios, vehicles, travel allowances and even copying paper
the united states also is providing aircraft and herbicides to spray opium fields in burma and pakistan and has helped thailand's largely successful effort to get hill tribes people to substitute coffee, vegetables and other crops for their traditional opium
the u.s. state department spends about a third of its $100 million anti-narcotics budget in asia, maintaining drug coordinators in every embassy and 24 officers at special narcotics units in in thailand, burma and pakistan. somewhat less than a third of dea's current $525 million budget is allocated to asia
cooperation, however, stops at the frontiers of war-torn afghanistan and politically hostile iran and syria. opium and heroin production in communist laos is reported soaring with the connivance of high-level authorities, but u.s. officials say there is reluctance to impose sanctions for fear the laotian government will refuse to cooperate on the accounting of americans missing in action from the indochina war in laos
in contrast, china has moved to forge links with the international anti-narcotics community which has detected new trafficking routes across its vast expanses from the golden triangle
most recently, authorities in china, hong kong and the united states got together to nab a ring attempting to smuggle heroin stuffed inside dead ornamental fish. when the drug-laden gold carp were discovered in shanghai, chinese police contacted american counterparts. the fish were flown to their san francisco destination, along with a senior shanghai police officer, and subsequent arrests were made at both ends of the connection
lawn said thai-u.s. teamwork, which he rated as excellent, was essential since thailand was the main funnel for heroin pouring out the golden triangle, which is formed by the rugged borderlands of burma, laos and thailand
american agents regularly tip off the thais about suspected drug carriers entering their country while thai police officers have followed traffickers to the united states to facilitate investigations and arrests. under a treaty now being considered, the united states would channel a share of assets seized from traffickers to thailand's anti-narcotics program in cases where thai lawmen provided assistance
when u.s. sailors by the hundreds descend on thailand's anything-goes beach resort of pattaya for shore leave, the two sides activate operation ``stable boy.'' a dea agent mingles with the americans while thai undercover police shadow local drug pushers
the leeway american agents have to operate varies among asian countries and there is invariably no power to arrest. but a number of countries give dea the green light to track traffickers and joint operations are mounted. in 1986, a dea agent on the malaysian island of penang posed as a drug dealer to entrap a local trafficker. when sufficient evidence was obtained, malaysian police moved in to make the arrest
in thailand and the united states authorities are now after traffickers behind what the thais say is the world's greatest drug haul: 1.4 tons of top grade heroin seized in february in bangkok, thailand's capital
the drugs, concealed in bales of smoked rubber sheets, were destined for new york city, where their street value, when cut and diluted, would have been more than $2 billion
when the sun goes down and the evening breeze comes up, luanda comes alive to an afro-latin beat called batuque, nightclub doors swing open and angola's 13-year civil war fades away _ until tomorrow
the night, in this capital of 960,000 people south of the equator, is for restaurants, discos, movie theaters, recreation centers and pop concerts _ or even just watching ``love boat'' at home on tv
but tomorrow always comes and one of the world's longest-running ``regional conflicts'' will be back in view again in the steaming daylight _ the pro-soviet, pro-cuban and marxist slogans on the billboards and walls ... the troops back in battle again in the southern countryside against the u.s. and south african-supported union for the total independence of angola (unita) rebels
but the night is for none of that in luanda
at the kizombo recreation and cultural center in the golf neighborhood, a ``sparkling'' tropical night show goes on to the accompaniment of a group called the kiezos
tables are available only by advance reservation and they are for couples only
at the mae negra (black mother) recreational center, a private club in the cuca neighborhood, four women and a man go through a gymnastic dance routine to the throbbing beata of the batuque
after the performance, elegantly dressed couples fill the floor of the cavernous pink, purple, red and blue center to dance to african, caribbean, british and american tunes
between dances, patrons fill their plates at a buffet, which comes with the $8.30 admission, of fish stew, salads, baked beans and tifufuntila, peanut butter mixed with manioc meal and sugar
cold local beer, colas and orange sodas go with it, but champagne can be had if ordered a week or two in advance, the locals say
at discos like the caixote (little box), flamingo and adao, bouncer-doormen size up prospective patrons, letting in the subdued, the well-dressed and the well-known for free
the t-shirt crowd and the unknown usually end up back on the street wondering where to go before the midnight-to-6 a.m. curfew
a recent pop concert at the neves bendinha movie theater sold out before showtime with a seat going for the same $8.30 it cost for an evening at mae negra
on the bill one recent night was an all-star angolan roster including os anjos (the angels), singers minguito, cananito alexandre and ze do pau and the closing act of ``bruxo e a bruxa'' (the male and female witch)
the fare at luanda's 12 movie theaters reflects a diversity that contrasts with the government's public austerity program and ranges from the expected cuban, czechoslovak, soviet and yugoslav films to jessica lange's ``frances'' and ``lonewolf mcquade,'' a chuck norris action movie featuring the texas rangers
for those who stay home, tpa, the state-run television, offers ``love boat'' in english with portuguese subtitles at prime time on sunday night
angola was a portuguese colony for 400 years until 1975 when it gained independence, and the portuguese language is still widely used
even in the southern provinces, close to the war zone, the atmosphere changes when the sun goes down
across the street from the hostal america in kuito, capital of central bie province, some of the 40,000 cuban support troops in angola as well as cuban civilian doctors, teachers and nurses were seen by visiting foreign reporters whooping it up at the local recreaction center
swisttal-heimerzheim, west germany (ap) _ bored with her office job, michaela busemann went off to learn how to shoot a machine gun and become part of an elite group of women breaking into an all-male domain _ the west german border police
the police are responsible for guarding the country's borders, including those separating west germany from the communist east
they also provide security at federal facilities and airports, run patrol boats along the coast in the north and baltic seas, arrest drug smugglers, and are deployed to help state police control unruly demonstrators
since the federal border police force was founded in 1951, only men were permitted to join. but last year the government permitted enlistment of women
on oct. 1, 1987, 31 women chosen from a group of 1,000 applicants began 30 months of training at swisttal-heimerzheim, 12 miles west of bonn
i was working in an office and it was boring,'' ms. busemann said in an interview, ``so i joined the border police because this is much more interesting.''
ms. busemann, who is 20 years old, has her sights set on completing the tough 30-month course, which includes handgun and machine gun target practice
the recruits also regularly train in the martial art of jujitsu, scramble through obstacle courses, and do required conditioning sports such as swimming and long-distance running
in addition they have a full classroom schedule, including law courses and other police-related subjects
asked how she and the other women were accepted by the men, ms. busemann said: ``at first there were a few funny remarks, but that ended quickly.''
ms. busemann is one of 29 women remaining from the 31 that began the training
two of them dropped out because they kept getting homesick,'' said spokesman hartmut ortlepp of border police command group west in bonn
he added that when the border police opened up for women applicants in 1987, ``there were 1,000 applicants for the initial 30 slots offered.''
we culled that down and finally started with 31 last october,'' ortlepp said
west germany's constitution bans women from the regular military services. ortlepp said authorities at first had some reservations about women becoming part of the 20,000-member border police forces
but when the women joined there was a very quick change. the tone of the men has become more respectful, more courteous; it's a change for the better,'' said ortlepp
the average age of the women is between 20 and 21 and they are more mature than the male recruits who average between 18 to 19.''
ortlepp added that political opinion would play a role in what assignments the women receive, but those completing the course would be considered qualified to apply for any border police assignment or advanced training
that could include, he said, joining the gsg-9 anti-terrorist commando squad, the most elite branch of the border police _ ``but that's a political question.''
in october 1977, gsg-9 commandos stormed a lufthansa airliner hijacked by arab terrorists to mogadishu, somalia. the action rescued 86 hostages aboard and resulted in the capture of one hijacker and the death of two others
whatever assignment they get, the women are still enthusiastic about the prospects
it's fun, and there are a lot of new things to do and learn,'' said 20-year-old heike hartmann
a short distance down the forest road, where ms. hartmann and the others were taking part in a field exercise, 21-year-old sybille jakoby from the saarland gave another reason for joining the border police
i always wanted to do police work, but i couldn't join the saarland state police because their minimum height for a woman is 1.68 meters (5 feet 6).''
but the federal border police minimum is 1.65 meters (5 feet 5) and that's exactly what i am.''
thousands of monuments and temples from india's ancient past are neglected and forlorn, slowly crumbling under the onslaught of time, weather and vandals
even the taj mahal, the 17th-century ``monument to love'' that perhaps is the best-known symbol of india's past, is in trouble, its marble yellowing and cracking under the assault of fumes from a nearby oil refinery
decay and disregard also blight such famed monuments as the domed, 12th-century temple to the hindu lord krishna here in puri and the erotic temple sculptures of khajuraho
lesser known but historically no less important monuments suffer even more
hundreds of poor people make their homes or even keep their cattle in mogul tombs. others cart away chunks of monuments to build makeshift houses. marble is scratched with uncaring visitors' names, and peepul or fig trees sprout from cracks in ancient walls
critics attribute the disrepair to a lack of regard for history by most indians, a large majority of whom are concerned with day-to-day survival, and a lack of will on the part of the government
despite protests from environmentalist, the oil refinery still operates near the taj mahal in agra, the magnificent tomb built by the mogul emperor shah jahan for his favorite queen, mumtaz mahal
but even at that, the taj, which attracts 1.4 million visitors a year, is the best preserved of india's monuments, with pollution levels at least monitored and treatment applied to stained marble
the famous erotic temples at khajuraho in central india are one of india's main tourist attractions. but large parts of the temples are covered with moss and algae, and hundreds of smaller statues, awaiting transport to museums, lie exposed to the sun and rain
of the 85 temples built in the years 950 to 1050, only 22 survive. those are protected from vandals and treasure hunters only by a single barbed wire fence
in india, the archaeological survey, a 125-year-old government body, looks after 3,524 monuments of ``national importance,'' and state governments are responsible for 1,500 other historic buildings. but that still leaves thousands of sites, either ancient or notable for artistic beauty, with no protection
we try to maintain what we have in the best possible condition,'' said j.p. joshi, the archaeological survey's director general
we have helped them survive. ninety percent of india's ancient history is our contribution. we have worked hard and quietly.''
but conservation enthusiasts, such as abhishek singhvi, vice president of the delhi conservation society, contend that the archaeological survey and the states simply do not have the money or qualified personnel to look after all the majestic remains
this is not a priority area and funding is a perpetual problem,'' singhvi said
the survey received about $12 million for monument protection in 1985-86, or an average of $284 a month for the maintenance, repair and protection of each of the 3,524 monuments on the list
the conservationists maintain the nation as a whole has become complacent about its history
at puri, one of the four major hindu pilgrimage centers, major leaks appeared in 1966 in the dome of the temple to lord krishna, but 21 years passed before restoration started
the work was blocked by the temple's own priests, who went to court claiming that repair would anger the gods and cause the temple to collapse
local kings had covered the temple with thick plaster to save it from the salty sea breeze about 300 years ago. in time, the plaster began to absorb water, adding enormous weight to the dome, causing cracks and making it vulnerable, said guru prashad mohanty, the temple's chief executive officer
the court rejected the priests' claims last year, and hundreds of archaelogical survey workers now are chiseling away the old plaster, exposing hidden statues and strengthening the temple
not all efforts at restoration have such happy endings
in new delhi, which is a composite of seven cities built by different rulers dating to the 8th century, some monuments simply disappear as modern neighborhoods overwhelm smaller tombs and courtyards
singhvi said a 1913 survey listed about 1,400 monuments in new delhi. of these, 400 have vanished without a trace, most likely torn down overnight by people putting up houses, he added
new delhi, which is a federal territory and not part of any state, has no law empowering it to take over monuments, and it must depend on the archaeological survey for conservation
singhvi and other conservation enthusiasts say one way to raise money to save india's past is to raise admission prices at monuments, maybe as much as five times current levels. he said foreign tourists could easily pay 70 cents instead of the present 15 cents to see the taj mahal
hardly a week goes by without reports in the newspapers of outbreaks of diseases among nigeria's 100 million people _ yellow fever, measles, meningitis, tetanus, cholera, polio, guinea worm and others
hundreds of thousands die each year as a result of infectious disease, malnutrition, poor sanitation and the lack of medical care
the majority of our people do not have access to health care,'' said dr. olikoye ransome-kuti, the minister in charge of health for africa's most populous nation
her task is to improve the health of nigeria at a time when the once-wealthy oil giant has been forced to drastically cut spending
ransome-kuti's approach to an array of problems is nothing short of a complete reform of the health care system and his program has won praise from the world health organization in geneva
our priority is to establish a basic primary health care system,'' he said in an interview. ``if we can put that in place, at least 50 to 60 percent of our health problems will be solved.''
previous administrations spent millions of dollars on large modern hospitals for the major urban areas, but most never were completed because of financial mismanagement and the country's falling oil revenues, ransome-kuti said
nigeria has joined a growing number of developing countries that are switching from large hospitals to a decentralized network of small health centers in rural and urban areas. the centers focus on preventative measures to control diseases before they require expensive hospitalization or reach epidemic proportions
the new program stresses mass immunization campaigns, oral rehydration therapy for diarrhea, africa's largest child-killer, and nutrition, hygiene and family planning education. it also seeks to provide cleaner water and human waste disposal systems
nigeria's predominantly rural population is highly susceptible to outbreaks of measles, typhoid, cholera, and other diseases largely caused by a lack of clean drinking water and poor hygiene. many villagers are suspicious of modern medicine, preferring to visit traditional healers whose treatments often aggravate health problems
the world health organization in geneva once assailed nigeria's health policies but now applauds them
nigeria has a headstart,'' said the organization's representative here, samuel brew-graves. ``it has the leadership and the know-how and is applying it.''
about a third of the nation's local government areas have been given 500,000 naira ($100,000) each to set up community health centers. ultimately all 304 local areas will be included in the program
both rural and urban areas suffer from a high infant mortality rate _ 150 per 1,000 live births in rural areas. three in 10 children die before age 5 in the urban areas, said a 1987 health ministry report
as many as 2,000 nigerian children die daily due to malnutrition, chronic undernourishment and related health problems
urban hospitals are rundown and underequipped to deal with the cities' burgeoning populations. basic drugs are in short supply, and the country's lack of hard currency has made it difficult to buy spare parts for medical equipment
another major problem is the low morale of doctors in the civil service. many doctors in urban areas moonlight illegally to supplement their meager salaries. others remain unemployed rather than work in the rural areas, most of which lack even rudimentary health facilities or basic amenities for doctors' families
ransome-kuti said last year he might be forced to import doctors from cuba and still is keeping that idea alive, despite protests from the nigerian medical association
my aim is to get health services to the people. if nigerian doctors show unwillingness to serve, i'm willing to use health personnel from any country,'' he said
ransome-kuti's younger brother, beko, also a doctor, is vice president of the medical association. he said there should be no need to import doctors
if the amount of money spent on foreign doctors was offered to nigerians they wouldn't be short of people applying,'' he said
the government seems to think patriotism and nationalism are enough to get people to the rural areas. incentives need to be given to attract doctors there.''
but the health minister said it is in his plans to do that, explaining that comfortable housing, electricity, running water and adequate schooling for doctors' children will be provided in rural posts
once these services are delivered, the doctors will find their place in the rural areas,'' he said
today is easter sunday, april 3, the 94th day of 1988. there are 272 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on april 3, 1860, the legendary pony express began service between st. joseph, mo., and sacramento, calif. the service would last for only 1{ years before giving way to the transcontinental telegraph
on this date:
in 1776, george washington received an honorary doctor of laws degree from harvard college
in 1783, washington irving, author of ``rip van winkle'' and ``the legend of sleepy hollow,'' was born in new york city
in 1865, union forces occupied the confederate capital of richmond, va., during the civil war
in 1882, the notorious outlaw jesse james was shot to death in st. joseph, mo., by robert ford, a member of his own gang
in 1936, bruno hauptmann was electrocuted in trenton, n.j., for the kidnap-murder of the lindbergh infant
in 1946, lt. gen. masaharu homma, the japanese officer responsible for the bataan death march during world war ii, was executed
in 1948, president harry s. truman signed the marshall plan, which allocated more than $5 billion in aid to 16 european countries
in 1964, the united states and panama agreed to resume recently severed diplomatic relations and seek prompt settlement of the canal dispute
in 1968, north vietnam agreed to meet with u.s. representatives to set up preliminary peace talks
in 1982, britain dispatched a large naval task force to the south atlantic to reclaim the disputed falkland islands, which had been seized by argentina
ten years ago: ``annie hall'' was named best picture at the academy awards ceremony in los angeles. the movie's co-star, diane keaton, was named best actress, and woody allen was named best director. richard dreyfuss won best actor for ``the goodbye girl.''
five years ago: final preparations were being made for the maiden launch of the space shuttle challenger, which was to take four astronauts into orbit
one year ago: stock prices rocketed on wall street as the dow jones industrial average soared 69.89 points, ending the day at a record 2,390.34
today's birthdays: actor marlon brando is 64. actress-singer doris day is 64. actress miyoshi umeki is 59. sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., is 58. actress marsha mason is 46. singer wayne newton is 46. singer tony orlando is 44. former football player lyle alzado is 39. comedian-actor eddie murphy is 27
thought for today: ``time is a circus always packing up and moving away.'' _ben hecht, american screenwriter (1893-1964)
today is monday, april 4, the 95th day of 1988. there are 271 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
twenty years ago, on april 4, 1968, civil rights leader martin luther king jr. was shot to death in memphis, tenn., where he had gone to support a strike by city sanitation workers. a student of the life of mahatma gandhi and a winner of the nobel peace prize, king advocated non-violent civil disobedience as a way of combating racism. he was 39 years old
on this date:
in 1818, congress decided the flag of the united states should consist of 13 red and white stripes and 20 stars, with a new star to be added for every new state of the union
in 1841, one month after his inaugural, president william henry harrison succumbed to pneumonia, becoming the first u.s. chief executive to die while in office
in 1850, the city of los angeles was incorporated
in 1887, susanna medora salter became the first woman to be elected mayor of an american community when she took office in argonia, kan
in 1902, british financier cecil rhodes left $10 million in his will to provide scholarships for americans at oxford university
in 1949, the north atlantic treaty organization was founded
in 1969, a surgical team in houston led by dr. denton cooley implanted a temporary artificial heart in a 47-year-old patient while awaiting a human donor heart. the patient, haskell karp, died april 8, one day after receiving a human heart
in 1974, hank aaron of the atlanta braves tied babe ruth's home-run record by hitting his 714th round-tripper in cincinnati
in 1975, more than 130 people, most of them children, were killed when a u.s. air force transport plane evacuating vietnamese orphans crashed shortly after takeoff from saigon
in 1977, 72 people were killed when a southern airways dc-9 crashed in new hope, ga
ten years ago: some 2,000 people marched through memphis, tenn., to mark the 10th anniversary of the assassination of civil rights leader martin luther king jr
five years ago: the space shuttle challenger roared into orbit on its maiden voyage. the u.s. government granted political asylum to chinese tennis champion hu na. actress gloria swanson died in new york at age 84
one year ago: during a visit to chile, pope john paul ii denounced torture and pleaded for reconciliation, telling tens of thousands of people in the city of punta arenas, ``you must find concrete means of creating a true culture of peace and harmony.''
today's birthdays: former dance teacher arthur murray is 93. broadcaster john cameron swayze is 82. composer elmer bernstein is 66. author-poet maya angelou is 60. sen. richard lugar, r-ind., is 56. baseball's national league president, a. bartlett giamatti, is 50. actress catherine spaak is 43. actress nancy mckeon is 22
thought for today: ``like anybody, i would like to live a long life. longevity has its place. but i'm not concerned about that now, i just want to do god's will. and he's allowed me to go up to the mountain, and i've looked over and i've seen the promised land.'' _ martin luther king jr. (1929-1968)
today is tuesday, april 5, the 96th day of 1988. there are 270 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on april 5, 1887, teacher anne sullivan achieved a major breakthrough with her blind and deaf pupil, helen keller, by conveying to her the meaning of the word ``water'' in the manual alphabet
on this date:
in 1614, american indian princess pocahontas married english colonist john rolfe in virginia
in 1621, the mayflower sailed from plymouth, mass., on a return trip to england
in 1649, elihu yale, the english philanthropist for whom yale university is named, was born
in 1792, president george washington cast his first veto, rejecting a congressional measure for apportioning representatives among the states
in 1856, black american educator booker t. washington was born in franklin county, va
in 1951, julius and ethel rosenberg were sentenced to death after their conviction on charges of being atomic spies for the soviet union
in 1964, army gen. douglas macarthur died in washington at age 84
in 1975, nationalist chinese leader chiang kai-shek died in taipei at age 87
in 1976, reclusive billionaire howard hughes died in houston at age 72
in 1980, the world's most valuable stamp, an 1856 british guiana one-cent magenta, was sold at auction in new york to an anonymous buyer for $850,000
in 1986, an american soldier and a turkish woman were killed in the bombing of a west berlin discotheque, an incident that prompted a u.s. air raid on libya more than a week later
ten years ago: addressing an international group of journalists and academics in cairo, egyptian president anwar sadat called on israeli prime minister menachem begin to be ``more flexible'' in peace negotiations
five years ago: france expelled about 50 soviet diplomats and officials, accusing them of trying to steal military secrets. the soviet embassy called the expulsions an unjustified political act
one year ago: president reagan arrived in canada for a summit with prime minister brian mulroney, who prodded the u.s. administration and congress to take tougher action on acid rain
today's birthdays: actress bette davis is 80. conductor herbert von karajan is 80. actor gregory peck is 72. actress gale storm is 66. impressionist-actor frank gorshin is 54. actor michael moriarty is 47. actor max gail is 45
thought for today: ``it is indeed difficult to define just who the `modern man' is, and what views he has to hold in order to be modern.'' _ josiah royce, american philosopher (1855-1916)
today is wednesday, april 6, the 97th day of 1988. there are 269 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on april 6, 1909, american explorer robert edwin peary became the first person to lead an expedition to the north pole
on this date:
in 1830, the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints was organized by joseph smith at fayette, n.y
in 1862, the civil war battle of shiloh began as the confederates attacked union forces in tennessee
in 1892, author and newscaster lowell thomas was born in woodington, ohio
in 1896, the first modern olympic games were formally opened in athens, greece
in 1917, congress approved a declaration of war against germany
in 1963, the united states and britain signed an agreement under which the americans would sell polaris a-3 missiles to the british
in 1965, the united states launched the early bird communications satellite
in 1971, russian-born composer igor stravinsky died in new york
in 1984, the space shuttle challenger blasted off from cape canaveral, fla., on a mission to recover and repair a damaged satellite in orbit
in 1985, william j. schroeder became the first artificial heart recipient to be discharged from the hospital when he moved into an apartment in louisville, ky., a short distance from humana hospital audubon
ten years ago: president jimmy carter signed legislation extending the mandatory retirement age for most private employees from 65 to 70 and prohibiting the federal government from requiring otherwise qualified civilian workers to retire at any age
five years ago: saying rock bands attracted ``the wrong element,'' interior secretary james watt declined to invite the beach boys to perform in washington at a july 4th celebration _ a decision he later reversed
one year ago: the dow jones industrial average closed above 2,400 for the first time. new york congressman jack kemp began his bid for the republican presidential nomination. sugar ray leonard upset marvelous marvin hagler to become middleweight champion. los angeles dodgers executive al campanis told abc's ``nightline'' that blacks ``may not have some of the necessities'' to hold managerial jobs in major-league baseball
today's birthdays: composer-conductor andre previn is 59. actor ivan dixon is 57. country singer merle haggard is 51. actor billy dee williams is 51. actor roy thinnes is 50. singer michelle phillips is 44. actress marilu henner is 36. figure skater janet lynn is 35
thought for today: ``the brain is a wonderful organ. it starts working the moment you get up in the morning and does not stop until you get into the office.'' _ robert frost, american poet (1874-1963)
today is thursday, april 7, the 98th day of 1988. there are 268 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on april 7, 1862, union forces led by general ulysses s. grant defeated the confederates at the battle of shiloh in tennessee
on this date:
in 1788, the first permanent settlement in ohio was founded at marietta
in 1927, an audience in new york saw an image of commerce secretary herbert hoover in the first successful long-distance demonstration of television
in 1939, italy invaded albania
in 1947, auto pioneer henry ford died in dearborn, mich., at age 83
in 1948, the world health organization was founded
in 1949, the rodgers and hammerstein musical ``south pacific'' opened on broadway
in 1953, the united nations general assembly elected dag hammarskjold of sweden to be secretary-general
in 1957, the last of new york's electric trolleys completed its final run from queens to manhattan
in 1966, the united states recovered a hydrogen bomb it had lost off the coast of spain
in 1976, china's leadership deposed deputy prime minister teng hsiao-ping and appointed hua kuo-feng prime minister and first deputy chairman of the communist party
in 1980, the united states announced it was breaking off diplomatic relations with iran in the wake of the hostage crisis
ten years ago: ending a week of speculation, president jimmy carter announced he had decided against immediate production of neutron warheads, a weapon designed to inflict battlefield casualties while limiting blast damage
five years ago: space shuttle astronauts story musgrave and don peterson took the first u.s. space walk in almost a decade as they worked in the open cargo bay of challenger for nearly four hours
one year ago: chicago mayor harold washington handily won a second term, quashing an attempt by archrival edward vrdolyak to turn him out of office. washington became the first chicago mayor since the late richard j. daley to win re-election
today's birthdays: actor james garner is 60. movie director alan j. pakula (``sophie's choice'') is 60. actor wayne rogers is 55. media commentator hodding carter is 53. former california governor jerry brown is 50. movie director francis ford coppola (``the godfather'') is 49. television personality david frost is 49. singer john oates is 39. singer janis ian is 37. football player tony dorsett is 34
thought for today: ``sometimes i would almost rather have people take away years of my life than take away a moment.'' _ pearl bailey, american entertainer
today is friday, april 8, the 99th day of 1988. there are 267 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on april 8, 1974, hank aaron of the atlanta braves hit his 715th career home run in a game against the los angeles dodgers, breaking babe ruth's record. the hit was off pitcher al downing
on this date:
in 1513, explorer juan ponce de leon claimed florida for spain
in 1730, the first jewish congregation in the united states consecrated its synagogue in new york
in 1935, the works progress administration was approved by congress
in 1946, the league of nations assembled for the last time
in 1950, ballet dancer vaslav nijinsky died in london
in 1952, president harry s. truman seized the steel industry to avert a nationwide strike
in 1970, the senate rejected president richard m. nixon's nomination of g. harold carswell to the u.s. supreme court
in 1973, artist pablo picasso died at his home near mougins, france, at age 91
in 1975, frank robinson, major league baseball's first black manager, got off to a winning start as his team, the cleveland indians, defeated the new york yankees, 5-3
in 1981, general omar n. bradley, america's last five-star general, died in new york at age 88
in 1985, the government of india filed suit against union carbide in the wake of the chemical leak at bhopal that claimed about 2,000 lives
in 1986, actor clint eastwood was elected mayor of carmel-by-the-sea, calif., defeating incumbent charlotte townsend by a landslide
ten years ago: a federal jury in washington convicted korean-american businessman hancho c. kim of conspiring to corrupt members of congress and then lying about receiving $600,000 from the government of south korea for the plot
five years ago: continued heavy rains in the deep south worsened disastrous flooding, forcing thousands of more people to join an exodus from low-lying areas in gulf coast states
one year ago: al campanis, vice president of player personnel for the los angeles dodgers, resigned in the wake of a controversy that began when he said on abc's ``nightline'' that blacks may lack some of the ``necessities'' to become baseball managers
today's birthdays: former first lady betty ford is 70. actor edward mulhare is 65. opera singer franco corelli is 65. television personality john bartholomew tucker is 57. lyricist fred ebb is 55. investigative reporter seymour hersh is 51. basketball hall-of-famer john havlicek is 48. rock guitarist steve howe is 41. actor john schneider is 34. all-star catcher gary carter is 34. singer julian lennon is 25
thought for today: ``i do not believe that women are better than men. we have not wrecked railroads, nor corrupted legislatures, nor done many unholy things that men have done; but then we must remember that we have not had the chance.'' _ jane addams, american social worker and nobel peace prize winner (1860-1935)
today is saturday, april 9, the 100th day of 1988. there are 266 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on april 9, 1865, with the civil war at a virtual end, confederate gen. robert e. lee surrendered his army to union gen. ulysses s. grant at appomattox court house in virginia
on this date:
in 1682, the french explorer robert la salle reached the mississippi river
in 1833, the first tax-supported public library was founded, in peterborough, n.h
in 1939, some 75,000 people gathered at the lincoln memorial in washington to hear black singer marian anderson perform after she was denied the use of constitution hall by the daughters of the american revolution
in 1940, germany invaded denmark and norway
in 1942, during world war ii, american and philippine forces on bataan were overwhelmed by the japanese
in 1959, nasa announced the selection of america's first seven astronauts: scott carpenter, gordon cooper, john glenn, gus grissom, wally schirra, alan shepard and donald slayton
in 1963, british statesman winston churchill was made an honorary united states citizen
in 1965, the newly built houston astrodome saw its first baseball game, an exhibition between the astros and the new york yankees. (the astros won, 2-1
in 1977, the united states seized the soviet trawler ``taras shevchenko'' off the new england coast for violating a new 200-mile fishing zone
in 1980, iranian militants holding american hostages repeated their threat to kill their captives should the united states take any military action against iran
ten years ago: police in the philippines broke up a peaceful march by several hundred people who charged that interim national assembly elections had been marked by widespread fraud
five years ago: the space shuttle challenger ended its first mission with a safe landing at edwards air force base in california after a five-day, 80-orbit flight
one year ago: responding to charges of bugging at the new u.s. embassy in moscow, soviet officials displayed microphones and other gadgets they said were found in soviet missions in the united states
today's birthdays: former senator j. william fulbright, d-ark., is 83. former sen. abraham ribicoff, d-conn., is 78. playboy magazine founder hugh hefner is 62. satirist-songwriter-mathematician tom lehrer is 60. singer-songwriter carl perkins is 56. actor jean-paul belmondo is 55. comedian avery schreiber is 53. actress michael learned is 49. actor dennis quaid is 34. golfer severiano ballesteros is 31
thought for today: ``only the vanquished remember history.'' _ marshall mcluhan, canadian communications theorist (1911-1980)
for $2 or so, you can hungrily cradle a barrel of popcorn while watching characters in ``babette's feast'' ravish blini with black caviar, quail stuffed with foie gras and other magnificent morsels in what has to be one of the most inspiring meals ever shown on the screen
for $88 more, you can follow this feast for the eyes with one for the body
one thing will happen after you see this movie: you will be starving,'' said dro e. proudian, general manager at petrossian inc., whose restaurant is one of several around the the country serving the seven-course feast during the run of the movie, denmark's entry for an academy award as best foreign film
when you see the film, how complicated the meal is, how expensive, all the marketing,'' there will be a greater understanding of the art of preparing a great meal, said yannick cam, chef and owner at le pavillion in washington, which begins serving the feast in april
the movie, based on a story by isak dinesen, tells of two unmarried and pious sisters who take a french political refugee, babette, into their home on the bleak coast of norway, in return for housekeeping. fourteen years later, when babette wins 10,000 francs in the lottery, she repays them with a feast so strange to them that one sister, in anticipation, compares it to a witch's sabbath
but babette fills the hearts, as well as the bellies, of her 12 guests, mostly members of the sisters' religious community
it was a whole experience, that's why we did it,'' said stella geller of west orange, n.j., who with her husband followed the film with dinner recently at petrossian. ``i didn't leave a bite of anything. i ate every bite.''
so far, plans have been made for the feast at restaurants in philadelphia, miami, los angeles, washington, san francisco and laguna niguel, calif., according to alfred rosenthal, orion classics' gastronomic consultant for the dinners. prices will vary slightly, with $80 the lowest, without wines, he said
that will buy: turtle soup; blini with black caviar; quail stuffed with foie gras baked in a pastry nest with truffle sauce; salad; cheeses; rum cake with candied fruit; fresh fruit; coffee. add $35 for four wines
as the movie opens in more cities, theater owners and restaurateurs can use a guide written by rosenthal to help them present the feast and find such ingredients as turtle meat
while the meal is expensive, proudian called it a bargain, noting the normal prices of just three ingredients: 30 grams of fresh russian sevruga caviar ($21); 2{ ounces of fresh foie gras ($15); three-quarters of an ounce of black truffle ($30)
the people who come here are adventurous, a lot of romantic people,'' proudian said in a recent interview at petrossian, a mirrored and marbled restaurant near carnegie hall
to meet their expectations and recreate the sense of abundance evident on babette's table, he said, ``the caviar has to be heaping, you have to see the truffles, not just a speck here, a slice there. when you put your knife into the quail, you have to feel the foie gras.''
it was extraordinarily difficult, because we had to recreate a visual image on a plate,'' he said
petrossian's chef, michel attali, said he encountered one problem. in the film, the quail is served sitting in its pastry nest with the head on. believing that would not be acceptable here, attali fashioned pastry ``heads'' for the tiny game birds
but no matter how faithful, diners will not experience the same mood as in the film, cam said: ``first the house in the film, and it was a little religious dinner. i don't think we can reproduce that.''
still, proudian said, ``the star of the movie is the food. so if you are in this business, it's nice to see all of this dignity and respect given to the preparation of food.''
whipping up the crowd of 1,500 supporters, jean-marie le pen paints a picture of a decadent, declining and endangered france, a tower of babel overrun by north african immigrants, perhaps even becoming an islamic republic
what he has been campaigning for in the presidential elections april 24 is a ``french france.''
the first man to announce his candidacy, le pen has been pounding out that message for a year
as the balloting draws nearer, le pen's message is being heard and his prediction that immigration will be a key campaign issue appears to be coming true. two main conservative candidates have picked up on it, but not to le pen's extremes, in hopes of winning over his followers in runoff balloting may 8
today we are in great danger,'' le pen told his audience in this communist-controlled town in the northern picardy region. france is suffering ``a demographic loss, a moral loss, a religious loss ... and when you lose the instinct for life, you condemn yourself to death.''
like a fire and brimstone preacher, the ruddy, silver-haired breton uses his considerable oratorial skills to shock, taunt, cajole his listeners. then he homes in on his favorite fears _ immigration, insecurity, drugs, aids _ and extols his favorite virtues _ god, family and france
the renaissance of france must come through drastic measures,'' said the 59-year-old fisherman's son
if elected, le pen says, he will amend the constitution to allow for referendums on social issues for france's 55 million people, then hold a vote to send large portions of non-european immigrants home, reinstitute the death penalty for drug traffickers and terrorists, and quarantine aids victims
critics charge that le pen, a one-time paratrooper in indochina and algeria, is a fascist, racist and anti-semite _ which he denies _ and that his national front encourages xenophobia
although running fourth in opinion polls, which give him about 10 percent of the vote, le pen has become an important electoral factor
president francois mitterrand, a socialist, is favored for re-election, consistently garnering about 38 percent in the opinion polls for the first round of balloting april 24. that kind of turnout for mitterrand, however, would mean he'd have to face a runoff may 8 against the top conservative candidate
thus for the divided right, le pen can be a spoiler
both of the two main conservative candidates, premier jacques chirac of the neo-gaullist rally for the republic party, and former premier raymond barre, backed by the center-right union for french democracy, need le pen's voters in the runoff
chirac and barre, who until recently shunned le pen's controversial themes, began addressing the issues in march on visits to the heavily-immigrant mediterranean port of marseille in the heart of the national front's southern stronghold
no one has ever reproached me for being xenophobic or racist,'' chirac told a crowd march 10. but ``developments which we have recently witnessed have led a certain number of our citizens to feelings of this kind. if i cannot condone it, i can understand it.''
on march 24, barre told a crowd of about 10,000: ``the national interest consists firstly of effectively stopping non-european immigration. not for reasons of principle but because of economic and demographic circumstances. ..
to me, what we must do appears clear: respect human rights but at the same time defend the national interest.''
about 4.5 million foreigners live in france, of whom 1.5 million are moslem arabs from the north african nations of algeria, tunisia and morocco. the remainder are people of european descent and blacks from france's former african colonies
immigrants have become a sensitive subject as the nation outgrows its need for cheap foreign labor. an attempt to revise the nationality code to make it more difficult for immigrants to become french was dropped at the approach of elections
le pen founded the national front in 1972, but its political awakening did not come until 1984 when the party took 11 percent of the vote in elections for the european parliament and seated 10 deputies, the same number as the communists. its entree into national politics came in the march 1986 legislative elections which gave the national front 35 seats in france's national assembly
le pen says he will wait until may 1 to tell his supporters how to vote, or whether to vote, in the runoff
however, he insists he still has an ``outsider's chance'' of being the top conservative vote-getter april 24
i don't believe in the polls,'' he said. ``people don't dare say they'll vote for us. they're afraid.''
wherever there's a little spot for a flower, there's a flower,'' owe bodentien was saying, as he stood on the muddy soil of a deserted tivoli park, where he is the head gardener
like gardeners everywhere in the northern hemisphere this time of year, his work is just beginning _ and he has 20 acres to worry about
the policy is to have something new and something old, but not too much of each,'' bodentien said of his 10 years in what he calls ``the best gardening job in denmark.''
first we plant about 25,000 to 30,000 violets and forget-me-nots in blue, pink and white, with tulips in between. people should do that in their gardens, too, because when the (tulip) bulbs are finished, you have another flower underneath.''
although the park is open barely a third of the year, as many as 5 million people stream through each summer season for the amusement rides, the food, the music, the theater _ or just to look at the flowers
entrepreneur georg carstensen got royal permission to found the park in 1843. the story goes that he told king christian viii, ``when people are amusing themselves, they do not think about politics.''
for many who visit tivoli, the gardens are the main attraction
bodentien makes a regular buying trip to the keukenhof gardens, showcase of the dutch flower bulb industry outside the hague in the netherlands. tivoli buys practically all its flowers from such specialized suppliers, spending the kroner equivalent of $313,000 a year on plants alone
by modern amusement park standards, tivoli is tiny, so every inch counts. the garden plan has 10 pages of ledger-sized entries detailing what is planted where
this year's plan calls for 68,000 tulips of 100 different varieties, from ``dreaming maid'' to ``black hero.''
the gardening staff of nine, which expands to as many as 17 in the summer, will also be tending 42,300 pearl hyacinths and anemones, 3,800 narcissi and easter lilies, 50,000 cut chrysanthemums and 100,000 potted plants of other kinds
january and february is the time for pruning trees, some of which are older than the park itself
i must admit that trees are my big passion,'' bodentien said. ``flowers are easily bought, but trees take centuries.''
tivoli's chestnuts, elms and lime trees are seldom felled, and when they must be, they are replaced. they grow from walls, poke through restaurant ceilings and stick up around the winding tracks of the rides
tivoli's lone california redwood, a gift from the danish brotherhood in california in 1968, is growing at the northern limit for the species, bodentien said
an american tourist was astonished to see a banana tree bearing fruit in this northern latitude, he said
i heard him tell his wife it was plastic, so i picked one and gave it to him to eat.''
bodentien and his crews are in a rush now to have everything in order and in bloom by opening day, april 27
in 1983, bodentien won a guinness record certificate for the biggest chrysanthemum display, 370,000 blooms. he's always coming up with new ideas for the park's designs
i get my inspiration all over,'' he said. ``at home in a chair or out walking on the street or maybe talking to people about something totally different, and suddenly it comes. ..
the park has to look as fine on the last day (of the season) as on the first day. we are changing all the time.''
alarmed by the fast spread of aids in the country, mexican authorities have begun a campaign called cascade education, a novel approach that enlists those most likely to be afflicted to spread the word
the campaign is aimed directly at male and female prostitutes, the homosexual community, street gangs and the poor in the hope that what they learn about aids prevention will ``cascade'' down to others in their own vernacular
most of the effort is concentrated in mexico city, a metropolis of 18 million people, where high-risk people are hard to reach through newspapers and other standard means
we are teaching them to become health care promoters and sending them into their communities,'' said dr. glorias ornellas hall, director of the national center for aids information, an arm of the federal public health department
we believe that using the media to give information is not enough to change behavior patterns. only face-to-face contact can do that,'' she said. ``the best way is for them to reach their own communities in their own language. that includes prostitutes reaching out to prostitutes, homosexuals to homosexuals, even deaf-mutes to deaf-mutes.''
according to the center, mexico had 1,126 confirmed aids cases as of feb. 1, and the number is doubling every seven months. for every confirmed case, an additional 50 to 100 people are becoming exposed to the virus, said dr. jaime sepulveda amor, the department's director of epidemiology
sepulveda, who is also president of the government's national commission on aids prevention, estimated during a recent interview the number of people confirmed to have aids will reach over 25,000 by 1991, making it the second or third leading cause of death for people in the 25 to 44 age group in mexico, which has a population estimated at 81.7 million
in the united states the number of aids cases reported since june, 1981, has reached 57,024
since it was founded last year, the information center has broadcast its services on radio and television and through bumper stickers, posters, keychains and matchbooks with condoms attached. mexico recently received a donation of 10 million condoms from the u.s. agency for international development
th center also has trained dozens of mexico city residents in its cascade education program, offering instructional rclasses but leaving the actual teaching process to each individual
we give them the basics, then leave the style of presentation in their own hands,'' ornellas said
the center's staff also trains street-gang leaders and visits jails to teach police officials and prisoners
ornellas said many of the cascade volunteers from the streets originally visited the center to be tested for the aids virus and, with counselling and support, have joined the program. she said the best of them are those who have tested positive
one male prostitute in the program, only known by his nickname of jaimito, regularly visits mexico city markets to sing a ``ranchero'' song he wrote and recorded called, ``what is aids?''
ornellas called jaimito ``one of our great promoters.''
a deaf mute who also is a male prostitute is another is cascade promoter
he uncovered a whole sub-culture of deaf mutes who prostitute themselves off to make a living,'' ornellas said. ``we found that many feel they have no other way to earn money.''
an initial health department survey indicated that about 30 percent of the male homosexual community in mexico city has been exposed to the aids virus. gerardo ortega zurita, a cascade volunteer leader, said cultural prejudices have made it very difficult for homosexual men to seek help
there's incredible discrimination against homosexuals, who are isolated from the centers of the country,'' ortega said. ``teaching them about aids is difficult. they are forced to hide from the police and other government authorities.''
ortega brings youths from what he calls ``controlled groups'' of prostitutes to the center to be examined and learn about aids prevention
but there are others we can't get to, who are more preoccupied with making a living than with taking care of their lives,'' he said
ornellas and other health officials say the cascade approach is essential not only in reaching previously hidden subcultures but in confronting many myths about aids
we've come across many beliefs,'' ornellas said. ``some say aids is punishment from god, and others, that witchcraft can ward it off. in a country with cultural setbacks that include religious beliefs, ignorance and cultural taboos that do not allow the use of condoms, we found that this program has worked.''
currently, ornellas said the center is receiving 50 visits and 100 telephone queries a day from people wanting to find out about aids
it's new that they should come out at all,'' she said
the very lowest class is the most at risk, and the hardest to get to. there's a disrespect for life (among them); they don't care if they die.''
as in other countries in latin america, the center had to overcome initial resistance from the roman catholic church in distributing literature and promoting the use of condoms
clerics are one way of reaching rural areas, ornellas said
we haven't even started with rural people, where you have whole families living in a single room. children learn about sex in one room. what's going to happen when aids reaches these rural areas?''
one of the thousands of small commuter buses that careen about kenya every day carries an appropriate bumper sticker: ``you never know, heaven could be nearer than home.''
authorities say the overcrowded, poorly maintained, wildly driven buses called ``matatus'' have contributed heavily to kenya's highway death toll of nearly 200 so far this year
at that rate, the toll is roughly on pace with 1987 when 1,889 people died in traffic accidents _ or one person killed for every 166 cars on kenya's roads. a similar rate in the united states would mean that annual highway fatalities, now fewer than 50,000, would reach more than 1 million a year
the privately owned matatus carry such names as ``survival of the fittest'' and ``living devil.''
scary as it all may be, the poor people who use them have no other choice
the brightly colored vehicles are legally allowed to carry no more than 25 passengers. but usually matatu crews cram in twice that many or more to get more fares. those who can't fit inside climb onto the roof and cling to luggage as the buses go into a list on high-speed turns
thirty-one people were killed feb. 29 in a three-matatu crash that incensed a nation already accustomed to headlines screaming of ``horror smashes,'' and ``matatu madness.''
for days after the crash, newspapers printed pictures of victims strewn across the road and of the crumpled matatus
commentaries called for something to be done about matatus, and a road-safety program was reintroduced on the government's voice of kenya television
the head of the matatu association of kenya resigned rather, he said, than be ``cursed by the innocent blood of the commuters who die daily on our roads at the hands of reckless matatu drivers.''
president daniel arap moi, whose government in 1984 passed the first legislation aimed at controlling matatus, decided they had become more ``an agent of death and destruction than an asset to the commuter.''
police began a crackdown, netting hundreds of unroadworthy and overcrowded vehicles. matatu crews, as well as unseated passengers, were hit with heavy fines
the ministry of transport issued a new and more stringent list of regulations and ordered all matatu drivers retested
but the matatu industry retaliated with a strike that stranded hundreds of thousands of people. moi rescinded the retesting order, and the matatus returned after a day off the roads
moi's response to the strike underscored the matatu industry's stranglehold on the nation's transportation sector
less than 1 percent of kenya's 22 million people own cars and fewer than 600 buses are on the roads. the lack of vehicles leaves a demand for transportation met by the tens of thousands of matatus, which mostly are vans and minibuses, that travel even the most rural routes
matatus first appeared as pirate taxis in the mid-1950s when kenya was a british colony and movement by the native population was restricted
the industry burgeoned after independence in 1963 when restrictions were lifted and people were allowed to move to the cities, swelling metropolitan populations and increasing the need for public transport
the name matatu comes from the kikuyu term ``mang'otore matatus,'' meaning 30 kenyan cents, which at that time was the standard matatu fare
today, the average fare around nairobi is 3 shillings (19 u.s. cents) and routes are flexible
to increase profits and their own $40 to $75 monthly salaries, matatu crews overload the buses, work overly long hours at the wheel and drive at high speeds in order to meet daily quotas set by matatu owners
at least 80 percent of the matatu crews work seven-day weeks and average 10 hours a day in vehicles that suffer most often from engine, brake or gear-box failure, according to a 1982 study by the nairobi-based mazengira institute
many drivers admit to chewing khat, a stimulative twig, or smoking marijuana to keep themselves alert
in one of the dozens of commentaries on matatus, a columnist for the daily nation, kenya's leading newspaper, blamed ``greed, brainless bravado and showmanship'' for the road carnage caused by matatus
the nation should not allow lunatics to ply the roads any longer,'' the columnist said. ^from ap newsfeatures</note> photos. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ the academy awards ritual returns to an ancient venue with a wide-open contest among nominated performers. cher? glenn close? sally kirkland? will michael douglas win the oscar that has eluded his father? it'll all be settled monday night on the stage of the cavernous shrine auditorium
oscar moves to a new-old location monday night for the 60th academy awards, which are expected to be dominated by ``the last emperor,'' bernardo bertolucci's epic of modern china
the venerable shrine auditorium, where the awards were presented in 1946 and 1947, will again be the site of hollywood's grandest affair. ``the last emperor'' has been labeled the favored picture at the ceremonies, especially since bertolucci won the directors guild award. the directors have proven uncanny in presaging the oscars, deviating only three times in 40 years
broadcast news'' was an early favorite, but its vogue seems to have faded. ``moonstruck'' has proven extremely popular at the box office and could stage a surprise victory. less likely are the other two nominees, ``fatal attraction'' and ``hope and glory.''
the nominated performances afford a wide-open contest, particularly among the actresses. both cher (``moonstruck'') and glenn close (``fatal attraction'') have their champions, as does sally kirkland (``anna''), who collected several critics' awards. also nominated are holly hunter (``broadcast news'') and meryl streep (``ironweed'')
michael douglas delivered two strong performances in 1987 in ``fatal attraction'' and ``wall street,'' the latter bringing his nomination. he might well win the oscar, a feat that has eluded his father kirk
marcello mastroianni (``dark eyes'') might be honored for his long, distinguished career. then again, academy voters might finally recognize comedy and reward robin williams for ``good morning, vietnam.'' also nominated are previous winners jack nicholson (``ironweed'') and william hurt (``broadcast news'')
the supporting performance categories are equally impressive. for supporting actress: norma aleandro, ``gaby''; anne archer, ``fatal attraction''; olympia dukakis, ``moonstruck''; anne ramsey, ``throw momma from the train''; ann sothern, ``the whales of august.''
for supporting actor: albert brooks, ``broadcast news''; sean connery, ``the untouchables''; morgan freeman, ``street smart''; vincent gardenia, ``moonstruck''; denzel washington, ``cry freedom.''
among the directors, bertolucci appears the solid favorite. other probables: louis malle's ``au revoir les enfants'' for foreign language film and ``(i've had) the time of my life'' from ``dirty dancing'' for original song
the 60th academy awards have proven remarkably free of controversy, at least in the nomination stages. the one eyebrow-raiser was the failure to nominate james l. brooks as best director for ``broadcast news.'' since brooks wrote, directed and produced the film that was nominated for best picture and for three of its actors, how could his direction go unmentioned? another academy mystery
monday night's ceremonies will be televised (abc-tv, 9 p.m. edt) from the stage of the shrine auditorium, an ancient cavern a few blocks from the los angeles memorial coliseum. the move from the marble and crystal los angeles music center might seem like a step backward, but the academy governors had their reasons
for years, producers have smarted over the limited rehearsal time afforded by the music center, which also houses symphonies and operas. also, the limited seating capacity of 3,400 didn't allow the academy to accommodate members' requests for tickets
the shrine holds 6,308, and at $150 for the best seats and $300 for the board of governors ball in the adjacent exhibition hall, the event can supply much-needed funds for the academy
oscar has wandered over a large portion of los angeles county during 60 years. the first event was held on may 16, 1929, in the blossom room of the hollywood roosevelt hotel. the 270 film industry leaders who attended paid $5 a head to dine on squab and lobster _ no booze in those prohibition times
for the next 14 years, the golden statuettes were presented at relatively intimate industry dinners in two hotel ballrooms _ the ambassador's coconut grove and the biltmore bowl. old-timers view those events with great nostalgia; they were warm, friendly gatherings during an era when hollywood had a sense of community
the war changed that. in 1944, formal dinners seemed incongruous with wartime austerity. the dinners were abandoned for the grauman's chinese theater, which could accommodate servicemen guests with its 2,258 capacity. no black tie or formal gowns, either. they were considered unpatriotic
after three years at the chinese, the academy sought a bigger house, moving to the shrine auditorium. then in 1949 came the nadir of oscar's fortunes
from the beginning of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences, the major studios supplied financing. then, in 1949, amid claims by some critics that the studios were upset by the academy's frequent rewarding of european films, the studios withdrew their support. they claimed they did so to avoid criticism that they overly influenced voting
totally broke, the academy was forced to present the 21st awards in its own 985-seat screening theater, once a neighborhood movie house. the studios resumed their support, and for the next 11 years the awards were presented at the art-deco pantages theater on hollywood boulevard
seeking greater capacity, the academy awards moved out of los angeles for the first time in l961, settling into the santa monica civic auditorium for the next eight years. the location a couple of blocks from the pacific prompted bob hope to comment: ``the losers can walk into the ocean.''
in 1969, oscar began a 20-year run in the dorothy chandler pavilion of the music center. now the awards follow the grammys to the shrine, which also attracted this year's emmys from their longtime base at the pasadena civic auditorium
if the academy awards had been given in december instead of april, the winner might well have been ``broadcast news.''
that's the way it looks to this oscar-watcher. james l. brooks' funny, insightful look at the madness of the television news business was the talk of hollywood. but after a few weeks the talk diminished, and ``broadcast news'' did not become the box-office smash that some had predicted
suddenly ``the last emperor'' began drawing more respect. as drama it may have been wanting, but his fellow filmmakers admired bernardo bertolucci's achievement in fulfilling such a difficult project with style and class. hence ``the last emperor'' appears the favorite to win as best picture and for bertolucci's direction
here is an estimate of the acting categories:
best actress: again, holly hunter of ``broadcast news'' was the early favorite, but she pulled a vanishing act while cher appeared on a half-dozen magazine covers. for exposure alone (please, no puns), cher looks like the winner for ``moonstruck.'' her performance was widely admired besides
best actor: it looks like the year of michael douglas. no more the nice guy, he was impressive as the boesky-like inside trader in ``wall street.''
best supporting actress: ann sothern would be the sentimental choice for ``the whales of august.'' but the likely winner is olympia dukakis of ``moonstruck.''
best supporting actor: a spirited race, but here sentiment is likely to prevail _ sean connery for ``the untouchables.''

hollywood (ap) _ like all great contests, the annual academy awards ceremony has generated a wealth of statistics and trivia over its 60 years of existence, all carefully chronicled by oscar historians
here, courtesy of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences, are 20 questions about oscar:
1. what actress has received the most oscars? katharine hepburn, 4
2. what actor has received the most oscars? walter brennan, 3
3. what director has received the most oscars? john ford, 4
4. who is the most nominated actress? katharine hepburn, 12
5. who is the most nominated actor? laurence olivier, 10
6. who is the most nominated director? william wyler, 12
7. how long was the longest oscar ceremony? 3 hours, 45 minutes in 1985
8. what film has won the most oscars? ``ben-hur,'' 11, 1959
9. what was the most nominated picture? ``gone with the wind,'' ``mary poppins'' and ``who's afraid of virginia woolf,'' each with 13
10. what studio has won the most oscars? mgm, with nearly 200
11. who was the youngest performer to win an oscar? tatum o'neal, 10, supporting actress, ``paper moon,'' 1973
12. who was the oldest performer ever to win an oscar? groucho marx, 83, an honorary award in 1974. george burns is the oldest actor to win a performing oscar, 80, for the ``the sunshine boys'' in 1976
13. what actor won a posthumous award? peter finch, ``network,'' 1976
14. what father-son team won oscars in the same picture? walter huston, supporting actor, and john huston, director-writer, ``the treasure of sierra madre,'' 1948
15. what actor was nominated in two categories for the same role? barry fitzgerald, ``going my way,'' 1944. he won in the supporting category
16. who decapitated his oscar while practicing golf swings indoors? barry fitzgerald. his 1944 supporting actor statuette was subsequently replaced by the academy
17. what performers have refused their oscars? george c. scott and marlon brando
18. how many people view the oscar ceremony on television? last year, the oscarcast was seen by one billion people in 79 countries
19. who holds the record for the fastest televised reading of the famed academy rules? actor-comedian john (federal express) moschitta, 25 seconds, 1983
20. what multiple oscar winner has never appeared to collect her award? katharine hepburn, all four times

los angeles (ap) _ here is a complete list of nominees for the 60th annual academy awards to be presented monday, april 11, at the shrine auditorium:
1. picture: ``broadcast news,'' ``fatal attraction,'' ``hope and glory,'' ``the last emperor,'' ``moonstruck.''
2. actor: michael douglas, ``wall street''; william hurt, ``broadcast news''; marcello mastroianni, ``dark eyes''; jack nicholson, ``ironweed''; robin williams, ``good morning vietnam.''
3. actress: cher, ``moonstruck''; glenn close, ``fatal attraction''; holly hunter, ``broadcast news''; sally kirkland, ``anna''; meryl streep, ``ironweed.''
4. supporting actor: albert brooks, ``broadcast news''; sean connery, ``the untouchables''; morgan freeman, ``street smart''; vincent gardenia, ``moonstruck''; denzel washington, ``cry freedom.''
5. supporting actress: norma aleandro, ``gaby - a true story''; anne archer, ``fatal attraction''; olympia dukakis, ``moonstruck''; anne ramsey, ``throw mama from the train''; ann sothern, ``the whales of august.''
6. director: adrian lyne, ``fatal attraction''; john boorman, ``hope and glory''; bernardo bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; lasse hallstrom, ``my life as a dog''; norman jewison, ``moonstruck.''
7. original screenplay: louis malle, ``au revoir les enfants''; james l. brooks, ``broadcast news''; john patrick shanley, ``moonstruck''; woody allen, ``radio days''; john boorman, ``hope and glory.''
8. adapted screenplay: tony huston, ``the dead''; james dearden, ``fatal attraction''; stanley kubrick, michael herr and gustav hasford, ``full metal jacket''; mark peploe and bernardo bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; lasse hallstrom, reidar jonsson, brasse brannstrom and per berglund, ``my life as a dog.''
9. best foreign film: ``au revoir les enfants,'' france; ``babette's feast,'' denmark; ``course completed,'' spain; ``the family,'' italy; ``pathfinder,'' norway
10. art direction: art direction: norman reynolds, set direction: harry cordwell, ``empire of the sun''; art direction: anthony pratt, set direction: joan woollard, ``hope and glory''; art direction: ferdinando scarfiotti, set direction: bruno cesari, ``the last emperor''; art direction: santo loquasto, set direction: carol joffe, les bloom and george detitta, jr., ``radio days''; art direction: patrizia von brandenstein, set direction: hal gausman, ``the untouchables.''
11. cinematography: michael ballhaus, ``broadcast news''; allen daviau, ``empire of the sun''; phillippe rousselot, ``hope and glory''; vittorio storaro, ``the last emperor''; haskell wexler, ``matewan.''
12. costume design: dorothy jeakins, ``the dead''; bob ringwood, ``empire of the sun''; james acheson, ``the last emperor''; jenny beavan and john bright, ``maurice''; marilyn vance-straker, ``the untouchables.''
13. documentary feature: callie crossley and james a. devinney, ``eyes on the prize: america's civil rights years@bridge to freedom 1965''; john junkerman and john dower, ``hellfire: a journey from hiroshima''; robert stone, ``radio bikini''; barbara herbich and cyril christo, ``a stitch for time''; aviva slesin, ``the ten-year lunch: the wit and legend of the algonquin round table.''
14. documentary short subject: deborah dickson, ``frances steloff: memoirs of a bookseller''; university of southern california, ``in the wee wee hours...''; megan williams ``language says it all''; lynn mueller, ``silver into gold''; sue marx and pamela conn, ``young at heart.''
15. film editing: richard marks, ``broadcast news''; michael kahn, ``empire of the sun''; michael kahn and peter e. berger, ``fatal attraction''; gabriella cristiani, ``the last emperor''; frank j. urioste, ``robocop.''
16. makeup: bob laden, ``happy new year''; rick baker, ``harry and the hendersons.''
17. music original score: george fenton and john gwangwa, ``cry freedom''; john t. williams, ``empire of the sun''; ryuichi sakamoto, david byrne and cong su, ``the last emperor''; ennio morricone, ``the untouchables''; john t. williams, ``the witches of eastwick.''
18. music original song: george fenton and jonas gwangwa, ``cry freedom,'' ``cry freedom''; music: franke previte, john denicola, donald markowitz, lyric: franke previte, ``(i've had) the time of my life,'' ``dirty dancing''; albert hammond and diane warren, ``nothing's gonna stop us now,'' ``mannequin''; music: harold faltermeyer, keith forsey, lyric: harold faltermeyer, keith forsey, bob seger, ``shakedown,'' ``beverly hills cop ii''; willy deville, ``storybook love,'' from ``the princess bride.''
19. animated short film: eunice macaulay, ``george and rosemary''; frederic back, ``the man who planted trees''; bill plymton, ``your face.''
20. live action short film: ann wingate, ``making waves''; jonathan sanger and jana sue memel, ``ray's male heterosexual dance hall''; robert a. katz, ``shoeshine.''
21. sound: robert knuson, don digirolamo, john boyle and tony dawe, ``empire of the sun''; bill rowe and ivan sharrock, ``the last emperor''; les fresholtz, dick alexander, vern poole, and bill nelson, ``lethal weapon''; michael j. kohut, carlos delarios, aaaron rochin and robert wald, ``robocop''; wayne artman, tome beckert, tom dahl and art rochester, ``the witches of eastwick.''
22. visual effects: dennis muren, william george, harley jessup and kenneth smith, ``innerspace''; joel hynek, robert m. greenberg, richard greenberg and stan winston, ``predator.''
recipients announced in advance:
irving g. thalberg: director billy wilder
special achievement: sound effects editing team on ``robocop.''
gordon e. sawyer: movie sound specialist fred hynes
particular cactus was uprooted illegally. they don't have brands on them, you know. the crooks are aware of this, and that's why it's big business. this time we got lucky.''
big business, yes, though not in comparison with the traffic in drugs or even illegal birds smuggled through the american southwest. but these states are facing dwindling water supplies and are encouraging developers, resort operators and homeowners to turn to desert plants for their landscaping. as a result, the legal trade in cactus in arizona, just one state, has grown to about $2 million a year. the illegal trade, according to state experts, is probably half again as much. the cactus in the nursery had a sticker price, as it were, of $15,000
moreover, the sleuths who pursue cactus rustlers seem every bit as determined as yesterday's cattle-rustler posses and today's narcotics detectives, and the crime just as pernicious
they view the illegal ripping of a fragile plant out of a fragile desert as a desecration, a ruthless violation of a cathedral of nature. all they have to do is look south across the mexican border to see the unholy bleakness of the very same desert practically laid bare by cactus rustlers and smugglers
such was their dedication that luck played only a minor role in catching the thieves who stole the great cactus that wound up in the las vegas nursery
that capture came about because of an observant nature-lover from oregon whose outrage set on the thief's trail wildlife agents from three states and the federal government. their hunt took eight months. it led to the nation's first and only felony conviction to date for the crime of cactus rustling
of all the 5,000 varieties of cactuses, the one that comes to mind with the very word is the saguaro, cereus giganteus, the giant of the desert, pronounced suh-wah-row
if you see saguaros growing in the wild you are looking at southern arizona, their only natural home on this planet. if you see them at sunset, the needles covering their giant torsos and uplifted arms reflect an aura of gold; in moonlight, silver. they seem to possess a mystical quality
the papago indians, who harvest cactus fruit to make wine and jelly, call saguaros ``the old men.'' the residents of quartzsite, ariz., had a special name for the one tracked to that nevada nursery: ``old granddad.''
a saguaro grows only an inch or less a year in the arid desert. that would make old granddad 200 years old. saguaros don't even develop their characteristic arms until they are at least 70
old granddad stood in utter remoteness 20 miles east of quartzsite, an old stagecoach stop on what is now i-10. but old granddad, which stood there before the first stagecoach arrived, wasn't visible from any paved road
roy and rosslee crockett, from baker, ore., heard about the majestic saguaro when they first wintered near quartzsite back in 1977
it was not like any other saguaro we had ever seen,'' mrs. crockett said. she and roy of course took snapshots of each other standing next to old granddad. each winter thereafter the crocketts drove their camper to southwestern arizona, and each year made a trip out to visit old granddad and make snapshots
and indeed it was like no other saguaro they had seen or were likely to see
it was a crested saguaro, the rarest of the rare. according to victor gass, curator of the desert botanical gardens in phoenix, maybe one saguaro in 200,000 develops a crest, and old granddad had the most developed crest gass or any of his colleagues had ever seen
a crest is a fan-shaped growth on the top of the plant's main stem. it is actually a deformity, a botanical aberration called ``fasciation.'' nobody knows what causes it. it occurs only in the wild and can't be reproduced in a nursery. on this particular saguaro the crest measured more than 6 feet across and 4 feet tall
on roy and rosslee crockett's ninth winter in quartzsite, old granddad was gone
we didn't know what to do or what to think,'' rosslee crockett said. ``the more i thought about it the madder i got. finally i called the sheriff.''
the following day mrs. crockett's report reached alex leivas, an agent of the arizona agricultural and horticultural commission whose district encompasses quartzsite and whose duties include that of cactus cop, as they are known in the state
she led him to the hole in the ground where the old cactus had stood. leivas found some tire tracks and took some pictures. she showed him her own pictures of old granddad
i had figured it was just another saguaro,'' leivas said. ``when i saw her pictures, i thought, wow. i had never seen such a crested saguaro.''
leivas returned to the site with survey maps and confirmed his suspicion that it was on land controlled by the bureau of land management, federal land, and phoned keeler, the u.s. fish and wildlife agent
then he recalled a ``transit notice'' he had received earlier from a border agent in california, information the two states exchange when native plants are transported across state lines. to uproot a protected plant legally requires a permit from the state and a metal tag affixed to the plant
the notice said that a load of cactuses, duly tagged, had passed through vidal junction, calif., on a flatbed truck feb. 3. it mentioned no crested saguaro, but, as leivas discovered later, the saguaro had been hidden beneath other varieties of especially prickly plants, concealed as if by barbed wire. the notice said the load was bound for las vegas, the carrier listed as rattlesnake ranch near wenden, ariz
leivas decided to check it out. meanwhile, he had mrs. crockett's pictures made into a sort of wanted poster, like a missing-child bulletin in a supermarket, and mailed a copy to every border checkpoint in arizona, california, nevada and new mexico
he also sent a poster to john jones of the nevada division of forestry in las vegas, and told him about the load of cactuses. jones immediately recognized the picture of the crested saguaro as one that recently arrived at cactus king, a leading nevada nursery
but a picture is not, as the cops say, a positive i.d., so keeler and leivas arranged to drive the 300 miles to las vegas with mr. and mrs. crockett and have them take a look
there it is!'' roy crockett cried, even before they pulled into the nursery
said linda akers, the assistant u.s. attorney who prepared the case for trial, ``it was the only plant lineup i've ever heard of. i mean, `mr. and mrs. crockett, do you recognize any plant among that bunch?' you have to admit it's bizarre.''
it turned out the deal had been made through a middleman, a broker, and the the nursery owner was unaware that it was illegal. the thief sold it for $1,300 to the broker, who resold it to the nursery for $1,500. that would be about the markup for any saguaro this size, but this crested beauty was special
after it was here a week i was offered $7,500,'' said the nursery owner, jeff meckley. ``obviously i wasn't going to let it go for the first offer, but the truth is i didn't want to sell it at all. that's why i marked it up to $15,000. it was so magnificent i wanted to keep it myself.''
meckley, disappointed, bundled up old granddad with loving care and proper equipment. he hauled it to where keeler had arranged for its keeping, the desert botanical gardens in phoenix
it is no easy job to move a giant saguaro without damage, internal or external. they are deceptively heavy, storing enough water within to last as long as four years without a refill. this one weighed two tons. transporting one safely involves hydraulic hoists and slings and padded cradles. the thief had used none
now keeler and leivas had their cactus, but not their case
the cactus was tagged with a legitimate tag, no. 10108. it was issued to glen and karen clontz of the rattlesnake ranch on jan. 10, 1986. it authorized them to dig cactuses along a 100-foot-wide right-of-way for an oil pipeline across the arizona desert
the only time permission is given to uproot any of arizona's 212 species of protected plants from state or federal land _ which constitutes 87 percent of arizona soil _ is when they are in certain danger of being destroyed by such a project
keeler found rattlesnake ranch ``out in the middle of nowhere'' in a place known as butler valley. the ``ranch'' turned out to be a trailer and a few other beat-up vehicles. no electricity. no running water
the clontzes admitted they had dug the crested cactus. they maintained that they had saved it in the nick of time from the pipeline bulldozers. keeler noticed a dozen saguaros scattered about, with no tags, and also an immature red-tailed hawk, a protected bird, which he found starving to death in a cage. he took the pitiful creature to a rehabilitation center in phoenix
who's to say precisely where a cactus was taken?'' keeler said. ``he claimed it came from the pipeline path. without the crockett's photos we didn't have much of a case.''
so keeler took the photos out to the site and stood in the exact spot where the crocketts had stood and snapped his own pictures. the backgrounds matched. only old granddad was missing _ a mile from the pipeline. that sewed it up
the evidence was so overwhelming,'' said u.s. attorney akers, ``that we let the clontzes plead guilty and saved the expense of a trial.''
under arizona law cactus rustling is a misdemeanor. under federal law it is a felony and this was the first time the government had had the evidence to make it stick. in recognition, the crocketts received a $2,000 reward
on feb. 23, 1987, a year and a day after rosslee crockett reported the missing saguaro to the sheriff, glen and karen clontz were each fined $250 and he was sent off to the federal penitentiary in boron, calif., where he served six months of a two-year sentence. both were put on five years supervised probation and forbidden to deal in plants for that period
when i called the sheriff,'' said mrs. crockett, ``i thought he would just scold somebody and make them put it back. now i know what it means to make a federal case out of something.''
the baby hawk died
so, at last, did the cactus
gass, of the botanical gardens, said the great plant had suffered more knocking around than it could endure.``something had gotten inside it, some form of bacteria,'' he said. ``we have kept the crest, to study it.''
so they have. it rests on soft grass in the shade and is magnificent in its size, a rotting relic of desert glory, destroyed. photo and 1 drawing. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ a decade ago, writer robert campbell made the switch from screenplays to mysteries. nothing much happened for a time. then, in 1986, he won an edgar, the mystery-writing equivalent of an oscar. campbell's been writing up a storm ever since
robert campbell is having such a good time with the renaissance of his writing career that there are rainy sundays when he sits at his home computer and writes instead of making himself take the day off
campbell studied to be a painter but instead became a hollywood screenwriter. he was nominated for an academy award for ``man of 1,000 faces,'' and wrote ``machine gun kelly'' and ``masque of the red death.''
my film career was not that illustrious,'' he says. ``i made a lot of money is about what it amounted to.''
ten years ago, on a visit to carmel, calif., he says, ``i went to the end of ocean avenue to look at the sunset and suddenly realized i had literally been starved for visual beauty. i wasn't in town three days when i knew i was moving. you can't write screenplays from there. i wrote two after i got there. neither picture was ever made.''
he bought a tiny house and started writing murder mysteries. he wrote two he was proud of, ``the spy who sat and waited,'' set in world war i, and ``fat tuesday,'' set in new orleans. nothing much happened
then his ``junkyard dog,'' published in 1986, won an edgar, given by the mystery writers of america, as best original paperback
it launched my mystery career,'' campbell says. ``everything sort of exploded all at once. my name was suddenly known among the mystery people _ almost overnight. now it has spread out, i understand, to the general population as well.''
he exploded like a geyser. in 1987, he wrote five books
he now has three heroes going
his newest is jake hatch in ``plugged nickel,'' which pocket books published in march. it introduces a detective for the burlington northern railroad, based in omaha, neb., who has a lady friend in nearly every station
i always wanted to do a nostalgic detective who has a connection with the railroads,'' campbell says. ``he does things for decent reasons. he stands for a time when america was innocent and when railroads were the principal way of getting around.'' he currently is writing jake hatch's second adventure, ``red cent.''
he intends to make his other two series ``sort of dignified novels of social injustice. jimmy flannery is a political precinct captain in chicago. he's an ombudsman for the little guy. whistler, a private detective, operates out of la, which i call la-la land.''
flannery came first, for publisher new american library, in ``junkyard dog,'' then starred in ``the 600-pound gorilla,'' ``hip-deep in alligators'' and a new one, ``thinning the turkey herd.'' all have a murder and a subplot
the second plot has to do with flannery, by a tricky device, coming off triumphant over a political reality. i have a lot of fun figuring those out,'' campbell says
in the whistler series, he says, ``i write books as tough as any being written today.'' mysterious press published ``in la-la land we trust'' then campbell moved to poseidon press for ``alice in la-la land.'' he is finishing ``sweet la-la land'' and plans ``the wizard of la-la land.''
i'm not going to drop the character or the locale but i'm not going to have la-la in the title any more. my thought is, when they go to paperback, to bring them out as a boxed set and call it the la-la land quartet.''
though ``not a crusader,'' campbell shows his fury at child pornography in ``in la-la land we trust.'' he calls the book ``a hard dose to take'' and adds, ``but that's the way it is. i'm not over-expressing. i knew policemen in los angeles. years ago i talked to one who said, `i know of people who can deliver on your doorstep a child, boy or girl, do with them as you will, no questions asked, for $2,500.''' campbell took care to write so as not to titillate people attracted to child pornography
i don't believe in censorship, but i think part of the development of human societies has been the ability to make hard choices where your right to express yourself impacts on my right to be kept safe from harm,'' he says
there ought to be a way, even with freedom of speech, where we can stop child porn publications. the first amendment protection doesn't impress me.''
he has written and sold ``juice,'' not in a series, to simon and schuster, for publication in 1990. ``series can wear you out,'' he says. but he started them deliberately, ``because a certain amount of income is assured
but the most felicitous thing about making a living writing is to make some contribution of excellence somewhere along the line or to sound the alarm.''
campbell, now 60, was born in newark, studied fine art at brooklyn's pratt institute, and joined the army. his brother went to acting school, then to hollywood. ``he was home at christmas one time i got a leave,'' campbell says. ``he was doing a picture, `battle cry.' i said, `how much does somebody make for writing a thing like this?' he said, `probably $50,000.'''
campbell followed his brother to hollywood. ``i said i'd give myself two years. if i can't break into the business or i find out i don't like it, i'll go to new york and get a job at an ad agency as an artist
things started happening. i sold a lot. then the town started getting to me. it's a bad town. i think cities can bring out the best or worst in people. i spent my youth in large cities. it is only since i moved to carmel i discovered i was really a small-town guy at heart.''
in hollywood, he developed a drinking problem, campbell says. while he didn't mess up any screenplays he wrote, he's sure that he missed being given assignments. he quit drinking 15 years ago
screenwriting was good preparation for writing mysteries, campbell says. ``you learn versatility. you choose a lot of subjects and backgrounds and feel comfortable with them. it teaches you to establish your characters and set the story rolling in a limited space.''
now he writes more than one novel at once. ``i will write five pages of whatever is the primary book _ the next one to the publisher. i may play tennis. later in the afternoon or evening, if i feel so inclined, i will turn to the secondary book
it gives my mind time to relax, in a sense, instead of pounding away at the same problems you pounded at earlier in the day. you let your subconscious do some of the work for you.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ james comer learned from personal experience that scholastic success depends not just on good teachers but also on good relations between families and schools. now an expert on child development, he's putting his theories to work in a program to help low-income minority children
after more than 40 years, three boyhood friends still come frequently to mind for dr. james p. comer, an expert in the education of disadvantaged children
comer and his friends were black low-income kids attending the same integrated elementary school in east chicago, ind. comer, now 53, went on to medical school and national prominence in the child development field. but one of his friends died of alcoholism, a second has been in and out of mental institutions, and the third has spent much of his life in jail
comer, the force behind a yale university program to help low-income minority children do well in school, says he and his four siblings were successful because they had the firm support of their parents and teachers. but for his three friends, it was a different story
something was wrong in the relationship between them and the school, their families and the school. ... my friends didn't want to see their parents in school,'' says comer, a yale professor of child psychiatry and associate dean of the yale medical school
what was clear to me as a result of that experience and other experiences was that school integration alone is not the issue. ... that quality teaching, whatever that is, is not the issue. it is relationships,'' comer says
that insight was part of the springboard for the yale school intervention program, directed by comer. he says it has shown positive results in new haven, benton harbor, mich., and prince georges county, md., and is taking root in lee county, ark., and norfolk, va
one thing dr. comer's work and research have clearly pointed out is that regardless of socio-economic background and color of skin, children can do extremely well in school,'' says gerald tirozzi, connecticut's commissioner of education
parent-school relationships are a major focus of the school intervention program. it seeks to overcome the hostility that some low-income parents feel toward school, which they may view as part of mainstream america from which they have been excluded, comer explains
comer tells of a first-grader who once told his teacher, ``my momma said i don't have to do anything you say.''
parents and school staff must ``respect each other and get the transfer of authority from home to school that existed almost automatically in a pre-1945 school,'' comer, 53, says
parents in the yale program are encouraged to volunteer, and when feasible, work for pay in schools as aides. they are asked to attend and plan school social functions
other elements include a parent-teacher-principal school management committee, a mental health team, and curriculum and staff development
the mental health team, made up of social workers and other professionals who may be working already in a school system, anticipates instead of reacts to problems, comer says
for example, an orientation program developed by one team helps children transferring to a new school. in another innovation, the same teacher stays with a class through two school years, to encourage close child-teacher relations that in turn foster learning
the school management committee encourages consensus action, while staff and curricula programs address the school's specific needs
we have parents, teachers and administrators working together to create a social environment in the school that promoted the development of the children. ... essentially, we figured out that we could systematically teach low-income children in that supportive environment,'' comer says
the program has run the longest _ about 20 years _ in the martin luther king jr. elementary school in new haven. more than 90 percent of its 260 students are black, and many live with single working mothers. the neighborhood is one of new haven's poorest
before the program started, contact between the school and parents was limited. performance by fourth-graders in reading and math achievement tests trailed the national average by 19 months and 18 months respectively
now by fourth grade they are a year above grade level,'' comer reports
attendance is up, teacher turnover is almost non-existent, and academic rankings for math and language arts had risen by 1984 to among the top five of 26 new haven schools
king teachers anne o'connell and allene small report that their interaction with parents is good. ``there's constant communications with parents,'' o'connell says
cindy bogan, a parent and school volunteer, says she didn't see the same level of parental involvement when she was a kid
they really gear the kids in the right direction,'' she says
in a follow-up study several years later, former king students were found to be doing better in middle schools than other children from their neighborhood, comer says
the program is being incorporated into other new haven schools. an outgrowth has been the testing of a social skills curriculum in the city's middle schools, emphasizing problem-solving, decision-making and self-control
comer reports that academic achievement is also up in the prince georges county, md., and benton harbor, mich., schools. the program is in its first year in norfolk, va., and lee county, ark., and can't be measured yet, he says
we're at the point now where we know something,'' says comer. ``you have to buy it because it makes sense and it works.'' photos.)</note>

editor's note _ the name ``woodstock'' evokes musical memories, and not just of the long-ago '60s. to a new generation of musicians, the upstate new york hamlet is still among the best places to make records, with all the equipment and none of the exhaust fumes of los angeles or new york
record producer bob clearmountain is used to the skeptical looks he gets when he invites musicians to this upstate new york hamlet to make records
they get this picture in their minds of a gang of hippies running around,'' says clearmountain, producer or mixer for bruce springsteen, the pretenders and dozens of other artists
woodstock may always be synonymous with the festival that bears its name, the last great party of the flower children before the '70s set in
but to a new generation of musicians, this town of boutiques and endless back roads has a growing reputation as one of the best places to make a record outside the music capitals of los angeles and new york
like max yasgur's farm, the bearsville studio is not actually in woodstock. it's about two miles west, atop a hill reached by a winding, unmarked dirt road that in winter sometimes takes two or three attempts to climb by car
despite the location, suzanne vega found bearsville to record her breakthrough hit, ``luka.'' robbie robertson returned to the site of ``big pink'' to mix his comeback album. artists as diverse as simple minds, cher, allen ginsberg and loudness have laid down tracks at bearsville in the last year
the big draw? a country ambiance and equipment that makes technicians like clearmountain marvel
it's one of my favorite studios,'' clearmountain says. ``it's very versatile. the recording room is very large and it's very good for recording drums and guitars. it has a lot of air and a lot of space ... the other room is one of the best mixing rooms that i've ever worked in.''
the studio is part of the late albert grossman's mini-empire in the village of bearsville, a hundred miles north of manhattan. the one-time manager of bob dylan, the band and janis joplin bought a restaurant, homes and offices and built the studio before his death two years ago
the bearsville record label, whose best-known client was fellow resident todd rundgren, has been inactive since grossman's death. but the studio, once used almost exclusively by bearsville artists, has seen more action
we just kind of intensified it,'' says grossman's widow, sally, who now runs the company
sally grossman may talk eagerly of the greenwich village clubs she grew up around in the '60s, but her studio has the air of a corporate retreat
fresh-smelling wood paneling and blackened windows blend the modern and rustic. framed pictures of the cover art of albums recorded in bearsville during the past year line the walls of second-floor offices
halfway down the hill is one of a handful of private homes grossman has converted into apartments for clients to use while recording. a second house, separated by a catskill mountain stream and wooden bridge, has been converted into a rehearsal studio
it's in woodstock, not in downtown manhattan, and if you want to get some air you just walk outside,'' clearmountain says. ``you don't walk outside and get hit by bus fumes.''
a producer with deadlines also doesn't have to worry about distractions that cause musicians' minds to wander. outside of a ping pong or pool table and a nearby vegetable stand, there's not a whole lot to do in woodstock
and groupies? they'd have to be pretty determined
a lot of the groups prefer working here because of the privacy,'' says mary lou arnold, a former backup singer to rundgren who's acting manager of the studio. ``we maintain very strict security. i can count on one hand the number of times fans have been able to find this place. and when they do, they quickly go away.''
of course, the isolation can quickly grow old. clearmountain says artists on extended projects like to split their time between bearsville and the city. musicians who need to rent equipment also have to wait longer for it to arrive
bearsville's studio is also the beneficiary of the current trend toward spacious rooms _ the better for bands to set up and run through songs live
the people who built it, i don't think they knew what they were doing. but the way it was built works very well,'' clearmountain says. ``most studios are very claustrophobic, with lots of wires, amplifiers and drums lying around that people can trip over. that studio is so big, you can either set up everybody tight in a corner or spread everybody out.''
bearsville's growing appeal is more than technical. when a hit record is produced there, it sets in motion music's infamous herd mentality
we get a lot of calls from people who are new who think if they just come in here, they'll get a hit record,'' arnold says
a long walk away from the studio, the town of woodstock is a jumble of small shops and restaurants. even on a brisk winter's day, a long-haired, middle-aged man or two stands idly in a small park, watching traffic go by
woodstock already had a long history as an artist's colony before musicians discovered it in the '60s. when dylan moved here from new york city, it instantly became a magnet for hipsters and aspiring hipsters
it was in woodstock, in a house dubbed ``big pink,'' that the band recorded some of its best music, including the famed ``basement tapes'' with dylan. at the time, dylan was recovering from a near-fatal motorcycle accident
woodstock's singular event, the three-day concert that attracted 450,000 people and such artists as joplin, the who, jimi hendrix and sly and the family stone, took place in 1969. its actual location was several miles away in bethel
the area's musical history comes alive in cans of tapes that fill shelves in a narrow storage room of bearsville studio. scrawled black magic markers identify the master tapes of work by the band, rundgren and dozens of others
it's the foreign bands who are usually most interested in woodstock's history, grossman says. she'll often give away books that describe past events, and once gave an impromptu tour to a japanese heavy-metal band that wanted to see the sights
i think it means something,'' clearmountain, who attended the festival, says of the woodstock mystique. ``originally, people are curious about it.''
but it's the reputation of the studio, not the community, that ultimately keeps musicians coming back, he says. ``it reinforces how current we are.'' photo.)</note>

editor's note _ the community correctional center in downtown detroit isn't anyone's idea of a country club. but to the first-time offenders who live there, serving sentences for tax evasion, mail fraud or embezzlement, it's a chance to repay social debts without losing lucrative, white-collar jobs
the residents of 125 sproat live quiet lives, faithfully going to work each day, spending their evenings playing cards or watching television, and doing community service once a week
not the usual routine of your average federal inmate. but these inmates aren't in your average federal prison
they are residents of the community correctional center, one of two programs in the country _ the other is in washington, d.c. _ that allows first-time offenders to keep their jobs while serving out sentences of up to one year
the 50-bed prison houses six women and 37 men. they live in dormitory-style rooms in the two floors above a salvation army
most have been convicted of white-collar crimes such as tax evasion, mail fraud and bank embezzlement. a few have dabbled in drug-dealing
once through the program, established in 1985, none of the 300 inmates has been a repeat criminal offender
a 36-year-old detroit man who asked to remain unidentified is in the center for securities fraud. he would have gone to a closed prison if the program did not exist
a parole hearing at the federal correctional institute in milan gave him a taste of what he might have been forced to endure
you walk in and see the guards in the towers with the guns, and see the bars on the doors ... i'm happy ... to be in this place,'' he said
the knowledge that a conventional prison could be the next step is the idea the program tries to get across
there are a lot of people who've made mistakes in their lives, but whose lives aren't buried because of it,'' said albert uhl, u.s. bureau of prisons community corrections administrator in detroit
the court didn't want to put them in confinement but wanted some constrictions so the seriousness of the situation would sink in,'' he said. ``in most cases, they are middle-class people who made one bad judgment.''
courts carefully screen for inmates they think will benefit from the program, uhl said. anyone who has already served time in prison, or has a history of assault or a drug problem, is ineligible, he said
the center is not the ``country club'' some associate with high-profile white-collar criminals
inmates occupy two- and-three bedroom units, furnished with a few basics, including a bed, a dresser, and a night stand. it is situated in a depressed area of downtown detroit, surrounded by abandoned buildings and litter-strewn lots
there probably isn't anyone here who hasn't been approached by a drug dealer, bum or prostitute,'' one inmate said
still, absent from the typical prison setting are barred cells, armed guards and violent offenders. these inmates are accountants, securities dealers and pharmacists. many find the company first-rate
i'm having a ball here,'' said leonard, a 48-year-old accountant, in the center for tax fraud. ``i shoot pool, there's a great bunch of guys here. it's like an army barracks.''
though not ecstatic to be there _ he said he would have gotten probation if the program did not exist _ he is philosophical about it, and he stays upbeat
my relations with my family are better,'' he said. ``we don't take each other for granted anymore.''
helping maintain family ties is another aim of the program, where visits are allowed three times a week
one inmate initially decided against having his children, a 3-year-old daughter and a 13-year-old son, see him there. he later changed his mind, thinking it might be beneficial
i explained the situation to my son,'' he said. ``i wanted him to see if you do something wrong, you're going to pay for it.''
program administrator rosiland humes said nine inmates have failed to comply with the rigid rules and were transferred to lockup facilities. two tried to escape, were captured, and taken to other prisons, she said
there is a commitment on the part of the federal bureau of prisons to move in this direction,'' uhl said, noting the federal prison population is expected to triple to 150,000 by the year 2002
oakland county prosecutor l. brooks patterson, known for his tough law-and-order stance, agrees the program can be beneficial
if a tax evader is persistently and gainfully employed and can pay back uncle sam, i think we're better off for it,'' brooks said
patterson agrees white-collar criminals should be treated differently from violent offenders
i don't think anyone in their right mind can't distinguish an embezzler from a rapist,'' patterson said. ``a white-collar offender is not going to rape and pillage the community.''
the relaxed atmosphere might give the impression inmates have considerable freedom. they move about the center freely, playing pool, watching television, using weight-training equipment, and joking with supervisors
but the sense of confinement is very real
each inmate has a curfew, and is allowed to leave only for work. inmates are tested regularly for substance and alcohol abuse, the facility is searched monthly, and random pat searches are part of the daily routine
it's dehumanizing to have someone telling you to do this and do that,'' one inmate said
a constant fear for some inmates is the thought of being transferred to a closed facility
it's a bad feeling to see a person handcuffed and taken out,'' said one inmate, who saw several residents removed by a federal marshal after they failed drug tests
still, many take their stay in stride, and maintain a sense of humor
listed on the current activities schedule are roller skating and quilting
i think i'm a little bit past the roller-skating age,'' said one inmate, a burly, 42-year-old detroit man in the center for selling cocaine
but, hey, i won a candle playing bingo,'' he said
several inmates think the program would be a good franchise investment, even if their criminal records would prevent them from getting such a contract. they point to the requirement that inmates pay part of their daily $37.50 subsistence, based on a sliding scale
however, there's no return on this facility, which is managed by project rehab, a non-profit organization based in grand rapids that also runs drug abuse centers and pre-release programs
establishing the center was the project of u.s. district judge john feikens, uhl said. he said feikens pushed the idea after the federal bureau of prisons decided the federal court volume didn't warrant building a detention center in detroit. photo.)</note>
gregory harrison hadn't intended to play in his remake of the 1948 screen classic ``red river'' until several actors turned down the role of the gunfighter
two weeks before we started shooting, we still hadn't cast the role of cherry valance,'' says harrison. ``after several actors turned it down i said, `i guess that means i should do the part.' that's how i ended up in it. everybody else had been cast for a long time.''
james arness stars as tom dunson, a tough, embittered ranch owner who organizes a cattle drive at the end of the civil war to save his financially troubled empire. bruce boxleitner is matthew garth, his adopted son just back from the war, who clashes repeatedly with dunson. the two-hour movie will be telecast sunday on cbs
the story, in essence, is ``mutiny on the bounty'' on a trail drive, as matthew is finally driven to rebellion against his tyrannical adoptive father
harrison, who is co-executive producer with his partner in catalina productions, franklin r. levy, says it was ``scary'' taking on the remake of the beloved western
john wayne starred in the original as dunson. montgomery clift was matt. the movie, directed by howard hawks, also starred walter brennan, joanne dru and john ireland. ray walston plays the brennan role, laura johnson plays dru's role and harrison takes over from ireland
the closest harrison's ever come to playing in a western was the role as pioneer levi zendt in the miniseries ``centennial.''
i was able to have a lot of freedom with the role of the gunfighter because i wasn't carrying the movie,'' he says. ``i could play the bad guy and have fun. i think my work is better because i did feel free to take chances. i loved putting on the chaps and the gun belt. i learned to rope.''
although it's a memorable movie, harrison points out that it was made 40 years ago. ``most people today haven't seen it except on the late show.'' he says. ``we've added some new characters and story lines. my partner and i were also very interested in doing a western and there aren't very many opportunities for that.''
there remain many links between old and new. the remake was filmed in the same area between tucson, ariz., and the mexican border. four members of hawks' crew worked on the remake, as did stunt man bud stout, who had a small role in the original
arness was wayne's protege, and it was wayne who helped him get the role as matt dillon on ``gunsmoke.'' boxleitner and arness had played together for a number of years in ``how the west was won.'' the branding iron used by wayne was found and used in the new film
at the first reading of the script arness read boxleitner's lines by mistake. after 20 years as matt dillon on ``gunsmoke,'' he read the lines for matt by force of habit
stan shaw stars in a new role as a black broncobuster and zachary ansley, a newcomer from vancouver, canada, plays the new role of a teen-ager named cal
i think we have a stronger story,'' says harrison. ``we don't have the limitations they had when they made the first one. i like the idea of the black cowboy. it reflects more of today's thinking. the only question is that you had such memorable performances (in the original) that nostalgia buffs may not be able to accept (the remake).''
harrison, who recently starred with john larroquette in the cbs comedy ``hot paint,'' spent 30 days at the betty ford center to break his dependency on drugs and alcohol. ``it's a very strong program that teaches you to stay away from drugs and alcohol for life,'' he says. ``it works for a lot of people. it works for me.''
he's also producing a stage musical called ``blame it on the movies,'' which features nearly a hundred movie tunes, and a theatrical comedy called ``my stepmother is an alien.'' dan aykroyd and kim basinger star in the sci-fi comedy with richard benjamin directing
away from work, harrison, whose father was the glass-bottom boat operator on catalina island, is pursuing his goal of surfing around the world
so far, he has surfed at bali, fiji, france, england, denmark, israel, greece, morocco, south africa, australia and in the caribbean, as well as hawaii and elsewhere in the united states
harrison's last series was ``trapper john, m.d.,'' in which he played gonzo for eight years
i'm ready to get back into a half-hour comedy show,'' he says. ``one that i'm producing and have control over. an hour show takes too much of your time. i enjoy being around my wife and child too much to do another hour show.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>
michael rupert does double duty delivering ``mail.''
the affable, boyish-looking actor not only stars in but wrote the music for the new broadway musical now playing at the music box theater
the show concerns a distraught man named alex who returns home after four months of solitude and discovers a mountain of mail just waiting to be opened. when he does, personal letters, bills and even junk mail come to life in song and dance
for rupert, the decision to star in a musical he helped write was a difficult one to make. he needed persuading
it's been exactly what i was scared it was going to be _ exhausting,'' he says now. ``i just don't have any time to myself at all. but i love it. i'm a bit of a workaholic.''
mail'' began life in the summer of 1984 when rupert and his partner, jerry colker, already were working on ``3 guys naked from the waist down,'' a musical about the world of stand-up comics
at the time, ``3 guys'' was between an out-of-town tryout in north carolina and its off-broadway premiere. the duo had some moments to spare and kicked around an idea that colker had about a man who drops out of life for four months and then comes back to face a stack of mail
colker envisioned the story as a play. but what stuck in rupert's head was the part of the story about the letter writers springing to life on stage
alex, the main character, would interact with these people,'' he recalls. ``maybe one letter was written four months ago and he was here today. so you have these two different times and places, and yet they were interacting. i thought, `how bizarre and interesting this would be as a musical.'''
it wasn't until more than a year later that rupert and colker picked up the pieces of ``mail.'' they worked furiously for three months, rewriting the show for a reading in los angeles
then they wrote by long-distance. colker was in los angeles and rupert was starring on broadway with debbie allen in a revival of ``sweet charity.''
it is a little strange to switch gears from writing to performing to writing,'' he recalls, ``but it was fun getting back into `mail' for me. i was ready for some creative writing.''
after ``sweet charity'' closed in march 1987, rupert and colker began reworking ``mail,'' refining it on its long road to broadway that took the show to the pasadena playhouse in california and then to the kennedy center in washington
writing musical comedy is a logical extension for rupert, who at 36 is a veteran stage performer
since i was a kid, i've been doing musical theater,'' he says, summing up in one sentence a show business career that begin in earnest at age 12. by his teens, rupert, born in colorado but transplanted to california, was guest-starring on television shows such as ``gunsmoke'' and ``my three sons.''
broadway beckoned in 1968 when he starred with robert goulet in the musical ``the happy time.'' he later appeared in new york in such shows as ``pippin'' and ``march of the falsettos.''
when i wrote `3 guys' i had this idea that i wasn't a writer,'' rupert says now. ``i had only written music as a hobby. i thought, `is anybody going to take this seriously?'''
the critics did. rupert and colker were hailed as a promising songwriting team. they hope to cement that reputation with ``mail.'' the show, however, wasn't written with the idea that rupert would star in it
but the producers, director andrew cadiff and colker all wanted their composer to do it. he resisted
i didn't want to neglect the acting for the composing or vice versa,'' rupert says. ``we had had auditions and everything. right up until a month before rehearsal, i kept saying no.''
finally, they were able to convince him that he was the only performer right for the role. what won rupert over was the fact that he would be supported by an experienced musical department
heading the team _ with the title of musical supervisor _ was paul gemignani, one of broadway's most experienced musicians. in recent years he has conducted every show by stephen sondheim
rupert describes gemignani's job as ``general custodian,'' making sure the music works. he oversees everything musical, working with conductor tom fay, orchestrator michael gibson and sound designer tom morse
with them, i feel confident enough to just get on the stage and do my work,'' rupert says. ``the biggest problem is that i am on stage the entire show and even when people are singing, i will be so distracted by what i hear in the monitor, i'll be going, `did i write that?'
it's difficult to stay focused. i guess i just have to do the best i can and play the character and not worry about the score.''
islamic militants who reject any negotiated settlement with israel have played a key role in the rebellion against military rule in the west bank and gaza strip
mosques have often become fortresses for fighting israeli soldiers, and moslem preachers use prayers during friday sabbath services to rally support for the ``intefadeh,'' arabic for uprising
underground leaflets and graffiti on walls are signed by the jihad islami, the islamic resistance and ``hamas,'' arabic for ``zeal'' and the name used by the moslem brotherhood. ``allahu akbar'' (god is great) has become a common battle cry
the uncompromising rhetoric of such groups is cited by prime minister yitzhak shamir as evidence that the unrest is not a political protest but a war aimed at the destruction of israel
we demand that the jews be put under our rule,'' said sheik jamil salim, a 29-year-old imam, or moslem prayer leader, in this hillside refugee camp near the west bank town of nablus
we are taught by the koran (moslem holy book) that jews have no good intentions to establish peace. they are breakers of agreements and covenants.''
salim, who offers an interviewer a meat-and-milk dish called shush barak, lives with 18 members of his extended family in a four-room, stone house on a street so narrow a donkey cart cannot pass
he is critical of arab states and the palestine liberation organization on grounds that they are not doing more for the cause. he contends the revolt is linked to the growth of islam, especially in the universities
for 20 years, there was no such uprising,'' he said. ``the fact there is such an uprising now is because of religious groups.''
sitting cross-legged on floor cushions in his diwan, or meeting room, salim said one reason for the growth of islam was the failure of other ideologies
socialism, nationalism and materialism, all the -isms, failed,'' he said
salim makes it clear he identifies with the moslem brotherhood, founded in egypt by school teacher hassan al banna in 1929. he does not oppose the diplomatic efforts of plo chairman yasser arafat but stresses an arab state on the west bank will not be enough
we are not against getting part of our rights. but we will seek all of our rights. we refuse negotiations and reject an international conference,'' said salim
outside, the walls bear dozens of slogans. one signed by the islamic resistance, which is believed to be connected to the moslem brothers, declares: ``islam is the solution and the alternative.''
speaking in a mosque in the west bank village of mazraat sharqiyeh, sheik bassam jarrar told several hundred young activists that israel tried to justify its actions in the west bank to europeans and americans by arguing that it was fighting fundamentalists
some people are trying to say that fundamentalists are behind the uprising. they want to frighten the west,'' said jarrar, a moslem preacher
not all arabs or palestinians hold to the views of salim and jarrar. nor do the underground moslem brotherhood and other islamic fundamentalist groups, which along with the plo are outlawed by israel, have a central spokesman or organ to expound them
the distrust of israelis expressed by salim is reflected to a greater or lesser degree inby hardline prayer leaders in sermons and in conversations with other moslem fundamentalists
the opposition to a negotiated settlement expressed by salim and jarrar is widely echoed, however. moslem brothers support the creation of an islamic state that would ultimately encompass all states in the region, including israel
in the gaza strip, where poverty is pervasive and a majority of the 650,000 residents are refugees, outward signs of islamic influence such as traditional long dresses and veils for women are more prevalent than in the relatively prosperous west bank
the arab uprising began dec. 8 in the jebaliya refugee camp near gaza city
ahmed hashem ali saftawi, 53, who owns a pharmacy in jebaliya, said the stage for rebellion was set by a group founded in 1986 by his 24-year-old son, imad, and a dozen fellow students at the islamic university in gaza city
the group took the name jihad islami, or islamic holy war, after the shadowy pro-iranian faction in lebanon that carried out suicide carbomb attacks on u.s. marines and israeli soldiers under the same name, saftawi said
growing to more than 50 active members, jihad islami in gaza drew inspiration from preachers with close ties with iran, but saftwai insisted there was no outside direction or funding
the iran orientation contrasts with the moslem brothers, who support iraq in the gulf war and, as sunni moslems, oppose the religious dogmas of ayatollah khomeini's shiite moslem regime
saftawi, who joined the moslem brotherhood as a student in cairo in the 1950s and later was jailed in israel for plo activism, spoke with pride about the group
the youths, jailed after carrying out knifings that wounded four israeli civilians, became local heros when six broke out of the central gaza prison on may 18, 1987
for five months they stayed underground, until october, when four were killed in a shootout with israeli forces. his son and another man escaped abroad, a feat previously considered impossible
by their actions and their success, they gave confidence to the palestinian people to depend on themselves and be self-sufficient,'' said saftawi
this can-do attitude contrasts with ``the spirit and mood'' of the older generation that had relied on outside help for deliverance, saftawi said
we were deceived into believing help would come from outside and waited for the arabs or islamic states or the united nations to do something.''
two days after the interview in his home in gaza city, saftawi was placed under administrative detention by israeli military authorities, who can keep him for six months without trial
the plo, in response to fundamentalist revival, has tried to channel some of the religious zeal into its own movement and has formed an alliance with the student groups like jihad islami in gaza
zohair saadat al didi, 39, a moslem preacher who served seven years in jail for belonging to a guerrilla cell of arafat's fatah movement, argues that a political settlement would stop the growth of radical, fundamentalist groups
if the situation improves, then there would be no room for such groups to continue. these groups will become weak and ineffective,'' said al didi, a freelance journalist in nablus, known to his friends as abu islam
this occupation is good for the moslem brothers and other radical movements.''
al didi said even though his fatah cell attacked and wounded an israeli soldier he does not believe in violence against civilians
i believe there should be coexistence between us and the israelis,'' he said. ``there is a possibility of reaching an understanding and sharing the land: two states, a confederation, cantons, it is not important how.''
the relative strengths of the plo and islamic groups is difficult to assess
clinton bailey, an islamic expert at tel aviv university who is carrying out a study, said fundamentalists claimed the allegiance of at least 30 percent of the 850,000 residents of the west bank while in gaza it was nearly 80 percent of 650,000
there is a certain gray area because not all people are one or the other. many who identify with the plo also became religious,'' said bailey
religious zeal, he added, was one of the factors that brought about the uprising
it gave people more daring and more of a willingness to sacrifice. it is identified with a certain honesty, not tainted like the plo by materialism and corruption.''

the milagro beanfield war''

robert redford's second film as a director has been a long time coming. eight years have passed between his intensely moving ``ordinary people'' and the new release, ``the milagro beanfield war.''
once again redford exhibits his basic humanism, this time on a social rather than personal level. and again he displays his uncommon talent for working with actors; the large cast delivers a number of memorable performances
why then is ``the milagro beanfield war'' less than satisfying? magazine articles about its making have outlined the problems: multiple script changes, wholesale reshooting. the tinkering appears to have eroded the film's basic core. it is now a series of audience-pleasing turns, with little sense of unity
the ``war'' harks back to frank capra: the good little people against the big, bad land barons. a new mexico hamlet is being squeezed to death by a resort developer (richard bradford) with the help of the state governor and his venal staff. the officials even send a hatchet man, christopher walken, to terrorize the natives when they grow restive under the rape of their land
the reluctant leader of the revolt is a small landowner, chick vennara, who inadvertently diverts the land baron's water into his beanfield. he becomes defiant, and others strive to make it a crusade, especially the garage owner, sonia braga. she enlists a disilussioned hippie, john heard, to print fliers to further the campaign
the land baron's goons, led by walken, try to quell the revolt, but the people will not give in. the sheriff, ruben blades, who seems like a decent man when he isn't doing the land baron's bidding, tries to forestall the imminent violence. the ending, as you can guess, is pure capra
providing grace notes throughout the film are two engaging figures: the venerable amarante (carlos riquelme) who wanders distractedly, accompanied by his adorable pig; the ghostly angel (robert carricart), who cavorts at dawn and dusk, playing his concertina. they are marvelous codgers, depicting the vigorous history of the fading town
the milagro beanfield war'' might have proved more effective if the townspeople hadn't been so downright lovable and their opponents so thoroughly detestable, and if the script by david ward and john nichols (based on nichols' book) had adhered to a central story line instead of wandering over the new mexico landscape; a mountaintop gunfight in the middle of the movie seems a late addition
redford and moctesuma esparza produced the universal pictures release. the r rating, apparently for language, seems overly severe. running time: 117 minutes

off limits''

buck mcgriff and albaby perkins are tough cookies. how do we know? because they say spout obscenities at least once in every sentence. that kind of crude characterization is the hallmark of ``off limits,'' a misfired vietnam war movie that is long on macho and short on credibility
off limits'' deals with the bleak underside of 1968 saigon. mcgriff (willem dafoe) and perkins (gregory hines) are military police investigating a series of prostitute murders. their search leads them to believe that a high american officer with a taste for kinky sex may have been the killer. the brass is alarmed, and the two cops are thwarted in their investigation
most of the action takes place in saigon (bangkok provided the locations), and it never looked seedier. the same for the underworld denizens _ whores, pimps, cutthroats, as well u.s. soldiers on their worst behavior. the only civilized person is a young convent novice (amanda pays) who counsels prostitutes and hence can help provide clues to the killer's identity. she and mcgriff form a friendship that almost becomes something more
the two detectives' quest proves more dangerous as they move closer to uncovering the culprit. their work seems over when they receive orders to ship out. but of course they couldn't leave a mystery unsolved
buck mcgriff (sounds like a name for a 1950s movie star) and albaby perkins are what you see. except for perkins' passion for college basketball, we know nothing about them: their homes, families, backgrounds. not that we need a dossier on film detectives but it would help to understand why they are so dogged in their pursuit
the fault lies in the shallow, convoluted script of christopher crowe and jack thibeau. as director, crowe manages a fair degree of suspenseful action. but he seems to be allowing the actors to ad lib their dialogue, and the outpouring of obscenities becomes almost ludicrous
dafoe and hines blend well as the buddy cops, but neither character is well defined. too often dafoe dominates the partnership, leaving hines with little to do. fred ward registers strongly as their helpful superior. scott glenn makes a brief appearance as a crazed colonel whose sudden exit is surreal and inexplicable
off limits'' is a 20th century fox release produced by alan barnette. the rating is r, language, nudity, violence, sexual content. running time: 102 minutes
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions
one of the biggest hits of last summer was buena vista's ``stakeout,'' a cop buddy movie starring richard dreyfuss and emilio estevez
earning $65 million, it had the longest hold in the no. 1 box-office spot and was one of the top 10 movies of 1987
the comedy-thriller directed by john badham is available this month for home screens from touchstone home video. it's one of two recent hit movies in which a policeman assigned to watch a woman falls in love with her. the other was ``someone to watch over me,'' starring tom berenger, available from rca-columbia pictures home video
elsewhere, hbo video plans a new music series called ``super sessions.'' available in may, the series will feature concerts and performances by such musical talents as b.b. king, roy orbison, chaka khan, phil collins, freda payne, martha reeves, billy ocean, eric clapton and etta james
roy orbison &amp; friends: a black and white night'' ($19.99, vhs@beta) will be one of the first videos released in the series. joining orbison on stage are jackson browne, elvis costello, bonnie raitt, t-bone burnett, tom waits, jennifer warnes and bruce springsteen
the concert, featuring such orbison hits as ``only the lonely'' and ``crying,'' was filmed at the cocoanut grove in los angeles in september 1987 and was made in black and white
axon video has released the italian comedy, ``spaghetti house'' ($69.95, vhs@beta), starring nino manfredi (``bread and chocolate''). in english, the movie romps through the true story about a group of italian waiters who are held hostage in a london restaurant
also new from axon is ``vogues of 1938'' ($69.95, vhs@beta). the 1937 movie, filmed in technicolor, stars warner baxter in a story about rival fashion houses. it features the academy award nominated song, ``that old feeling,'' and a rare filmed performance from the original cotton club revue
videos reviewed this week are ``stakeout'' and ``someone to watch over me.''
stakeout'' (touchstone home video, $89.95, vhs@beta, rated r)

john badham's action-comedy opens on a richly funny note: richard dreyfuss, a police officer, chases a bad guy and finds himself squirming about in a vat filled with dead fish in a factory
is this a cop or a guy auditioning for an abbott and costello flick? yeah, he's a cop all right, but teamed with ex-brat packer emilio estevez, the nutty covortings often remind one of a comedy duo
as the detective buddies, chris and bill, they are given the overnight stakeout of maria (madeleine stowe), the girlfriend of an escaped murderer (aidan quinn). they ogle the beauty through a telescope, and things become dicey when chris (dreyfuss) and maria meet and fall in love
i have to face up to my heterosexuality, but don't worry, you'll be well provided for,'' he tells his partner
the chases, the violent teases (there's a cliffhanger or two in a sawmill and a boat escape) and the nuttiness of dreyfuss and estevez hold up well on the small screen. badham maintains a comfortable and easy balance between the banter and thrills. and the chemistry between dreyfuss and estevez makes them believable and lovable cop buddies and provides a good hoot on a rainy afternoon or lazy night
_ by dolores barclay, associated press writer

someone to watch over me'' (rca-columbia pictures home video, $89.95, vhs@beta, rated r)

someone to watch over me'' was one of two movies last year in which the plot hinged on a cop falling in love with a woman he was assigned to watch. ``stakeout,'' a box-office smash, exploited the comic, screwball potential of that device; in ``someone,'' the romance leads to near-tragic complications
tom berenger plays a new york city police officer, newly promoted to detective, who lives happily in queens with his warm, no-nonsense wife (lorraine bracco) and son. the trouble starts when he is assigned on the all-night shift to guard mimi rogers, a manhattan heiress who has witnessed a savage murder and is waiting to identify the killer in a lineup
long nights alone together in miss rogers' mammoth and elegant east side apartment lead to an affair, which jeopardizes berenger's marriage and career, as well as the lives of all the major characters
what lends distinction to this essentially simple melodrama are some fine performances _ especially by berenger and miss bracco _ and the stylish direction of ridley (``alien'') scott
berenger, with his sensitive portrayal of a likable character betrayed by his own weakness, demonstrates again his enormous range. hard to believe this is the same actor who played the earnest but shallow tv star in ``the big chill'' and the evil sergeant in ``platoon.''
andreas katsulas deserves mention, too, for his chilling portrayal of a particularly sadistic villain
_ by mike silverman, associated press writer
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions

lefty'' (columbia) _ art garfunkel

when art garfunkel released his first solo album in 1973, ultra-hip rolling stone magazine interviewed him and asked him just who he thought would purchase an album of sweet love songs (like jimmy webb's ``all i know'') in the waning days of acid rock. ``english lit. majors,'' he suggested
it is with the same wit and grace that garfunkel offers ``lefty,'' his seventh solo album, a lovely, unrelentingly romantic record typified by such selections as the evocative ``i have a love,'' a bernstein-sondheim selection from ``west side story.''
garfunkel makes even more use of his unique vocal style on this album than he has on previous records, from the finger-snapping ``so much in love,'' a remake of the tymes' 1963 hit, to a interesting, third world-sounding arrangement of percy sledge's ``when a man loves a woman.''
background singers pam rose and mary ann kennedy, members of the nashville group calamity jane, are the writers of the beautiful ``love is the only chain,'' which should be a hit on its own. leah kunkel also sings backup, as does stephen bishop, who contributes three songs. kenny rankin is heard on ``i wonder why.''
lefty'' is a soothing album, but by no means homogenized. with each distinctive cut, garfunkel proves his subtle range and establishes once again that his taste in music is superb. pop music rarely shows more class
_ by kathryn baker, associated press writer

beethoven, symphony no. 9 (emi) _ the london classical players, the schutz choir of london, roger norrington conducting
beethoven cello sonatas (nonesuch) _ anner bylsma, cello; malcolm bilson, fortepiano
beethoven or bust (telarc) _ don dorsey, synthesizers
there is a shock in seeing a monument, however familiar, cleaned of accumulated grit and grime. it's recognizably the same, yet a constant surprise in its new colors and highlights
roger norrington has achieved something quite as spectacular with his recording of beethoven's choral symphony. stripped of the extra parts added as orchestras grew, and shorn of interpretive conventions of the late 19th and 20th centuries, the symphony sounds fresh and new
norrington returned not just to the original instrumentation, but to beethoven's tempo markings
some of those tempos at first seem agonizingly slow, especially in the concluding choral movement, but the logic becomes clear. the chorus is not whipped into a shrieking frenzy as often happens in the ``ode to joy.''
this ninth is an outstanding achievement
beethoven is also brilliantly served by another exercise in original instrumentation, the first and second cello sonatas recorded by cellist anner bylsma and fortepianist malcolm bilson
by now, the question about any such performance is not whether the instrumentation is authentic _ are the strings from a breed of cat which beethoven would have recognized? _ but whether the music is compelling
on that score, bylsma and bilson are outstanding. their instruments may speak more quietly than their modern counterparts, but with no less conviction or fire
turning to completely unoriginal instruments..
beethoven or bust'' sounds promising for, oh, about the first 10 seconds of the first cut, ``rage over a lost penny.'' then comes the first tinkle of a synthesized cymbal, followed shortly by an elephantine boom-chuck boom-chuck boom-chuck, apparently added so that the musically ignorant will know when to tap their feet
this is the sort of sensibility which holds that the parthenon by moonlight may be ok, but to really enjoy it you need a seltzer bottle and a whoopee cushion
don dorsey, who had a chart-topper with ``bachbusters'' in 1986, is a skillful technician but, on this try, a musician of abysmal taste. skip it
_ by robert barr, associated press writer
look at that air!'' ann sothern exclaimed as she gazed at the smog-laden sky outside the window of her westside hotel room. ``now you can see why i no longer live here.''
for the better part of a half-century, the blond actress had lived in los angeles, where she appeared in 56 movies and 178 television episodes of ``private secretary'' and ``the ann sothern show.'' in recent years a resident of sun valley, idaho, she returned to her old home town to bask in newfound glory: her academy award nomination as supporting actress for ``the whales of august.''
how did she hear the news?
i was sound asleep, and what woke me was the sound that a telephone makes when it's off the hook. so i hung it up, and the phone rang immediately. it was a friend of mine from here, and she said, `i suppose everybody in the world has been calling you.' i said no, the phone was off the hook
she said, `well, you did it! you got a nomination!' that's how i learned. then of course the phone didn't stop all day.''
she had never thought of herself as an oscar contender during her long years in the studios _ ``until this year at least, my type of work (comedy) was not considered very important for awards. but of course my performance in `whales' is not comedic.''
she was cast as the flighty neighbor of sisters bette davis and lillian gish, neither of whom was nominated despite early predictions
i'm an old method actress,'' miss sothern said. ``anyone who has studied (konstantin) stanislavski (the russian actor, director and teacher) understands you do preparation for the part. what intrigued me most was that the name of the character was tisha. that's my daughter's name. i thought, lord, there must be some reason for them to have sent me this part
i liked the role very much, and i realized it wasn't too much for me. she was very capricious, very flirtatious. i thought the red wig i wore was very good for the character. i did the part about two decibels above my regular speaking voice, and i was adamant about doing a yankee accent.''
about the reports of a feud between legends davis and gish:
lindsay anderson (the director) is a very strong man, and he kept things in hand. i think he and bette had a few tiffs, but i had no problems. i happen to be a diplomat as well as a tough lady, and i think bette respected that. besides, we've known each other for a long, long time
i had never even met miss gish, and i was in awe to be in the presence of this beautiful and talented legend. so we got along well.''
miss sothern shuns mention of age, but the record books show that she was born jan. 22, 1909, in valley city, n.d., and began her film career in the 1929 sound musical ``the show of shows.'' she is heavier than in her mgm heyday and walks hesitantly, the result of a long battle with ill health including a broken back. but her mind remains as lively as ever
she marks her film beginnings with the 1933 musical ``let's fall in love.'' that's when columbia boss harry cohn changed her name from harriet lake to ann sothern, reasoning that there were too many lakes in movies
the movie almost killed me,'' she said, recalling the years when actors could be worked 12 hours a day, six days a week. ``i decided then that i would never work after 5 o'clock, because there is just so much you have to give. and i never did.''
the actress moved on to rko and in 1938 to mgm, which she still remembers with great fondness: ``we were the last of the mgm `babies' _ myself, ava gardner, judy garland, mickey rooney, van johnson, others. i had greta garbo's dressing room, next to greer garson's and joan crawford's. we were pampered, and we loved it.''
at mgm she starred in seven ``maisie'' films, sang the oscar-winning ``the last time i saw paris'' in ``lady be good'' and played the ethel merman role in ``panama hattie.'' in the early 1950s she was felled by hepatitis
i was immobilized for a couple of years,'' she recalled. ``when i recovered, i realized i had to prove that i was still able to work. so i went back to the theater and did a play with robert cummings for seven months. when i came back, my agent said, `something new is happening, and you ought to get into it.'''
the ``something new'' was television, and the two series created a whole new audience. reruns of the shows are broadcast on nickelodeon on cable tv
six years ago miss sothern moved to sun valley, where she had skied since the early 1940s
it's a fairyland,'' she rhapsodized. ``beautiful, clean air _ we're at 5,600 feet _ and it's a healthful atmosphere; everybody skis. yes, it can also be boring, but i'm thinking of becoming involved in a new theater up there.''
she was married to two actors: roger pryor (1936-42) and robert sterling (1943-49)
they were not happy marriages, and i decided not to marry again,'' she sighed. ``i made a mistake. but then, i always was too independent.''
there's a matisse hanging in a cambridge subway station that has nothing to with fauvism, impressionism or any of the other labels commonly associated with the name
most matisses appeal to the eye. the subway matisse _ 16 massive aluminum chimes and teak-tipped hammers suspended between the tracks at the kendall square stop _ pleases the ear with a majestic sound that comes when a handle from the platform is pulled
henri matisse is considered one of the most influential 20th-century artists. his boldy colored canvases that typify the fauvist movement hang in famous galleries worldwide. fauvism was a french expressionist movement that involved such artists as matisse, vlaminck and derain and utilized strong, bold colors and distorted forms
his grandson, paul matisse, is less famous. he doesn't paint, but since setting up the chimes of ``pythagoras'' last october, he is cherished by hundreds of commuters who have left their scribbled comments on a pad near the handle
i am getting a proustian rush: is this normal?'' reads one. a less profound comment says simply: ``radical move, dude.''
others have viewed his functional mobiles at new york's museum of modern art and the metropolitan museum of art; the national gallery of art in washington; the musee d`art moderne in paris; the bienalle in vienna; and at other u.s. and foreign galleries
matisse, whose father, pierre, is a well-known art dealer in new york, lives and works in a former baptist church in groton _ a sleepy town about 50 miles northwest of boston _ with his wife, artist linda hoffman, and their two children
he talked about himself and his grandfather during a recent interview in his workshop _ a clutter of drill presses, lathes, jigsaws and other tools he wields to create works that titillate the imagination through movement, sight and sound
as a boy visiting paris for summer holidays, matisse sat frequently for his grandfather and has recollections of him as ``a terrifying presence.''
when he looked at you to draw you, you were looked at,'' he said. ``he was like a 50,000-watt search light.''
matisse bears some physical resemblance to his grandfather. he now does not seem to suffer from the burden of living up to such a famous heritage
it was not always so
what happens is in a lifetime you go through a whole series of responses,'' he said with a chuckle. ``so you go through a negative response. i've gone beyond that, and i feel a very positive appreciation of the fact that he was back there.''
but he is at pains to emphasize the obvious _ there is no similarity between his works and that of his grandfather, who died in 1954
when he drew a line, he drew a line he wanted to draw,'' he said. ``he knew exactly what he wanted to do, and i remember him telling me that his hand was his servant, and i don't work that way at all
i have to draw (while drafting), so i do. but it's not so much that, it's just that i don't have a great love of color and form,'' the 55-year-old artist said. ``i have a great love of ideas, which is different entirely, and i think i'm much closer to duchamp in respect.''
matisse's kinship with marcel duchamp, the famed french artist who began challenging traditional art concepts during the early years of this century, goes beyond a love for the unusual. duchamp, who died in 1968, was matisse's stepfather
matisse, an acknowledged authority on duchamp, referred several times to one of his stepfather's most controversial works _ a common urinal entitled ``fountain,'' which shocked the art world of his time. he hinted at a common bond in describing duchamp as an ideas man
i said duchamp because marcel rebelled against `painterly art,''' he said, commenting on artistic influences. ``he wanted art with intelligence
duchamp said things like `bete comme un peintre' (stupid like a painter). ``the influence i treasure from him is his point of view.''
while mentioning that duchamp frequently expressed support of his creations, matisse emphasized that he is very much an individual, personally and artistically
i am delighted that i was as close to him as i was,'' he said. ``but his character was very much his character and in no way does mine reflect his
although expressing reluctance to characterize his own art, matisse alluded to his creative philosophy in comments on ``pythagoras.''
the important part is to do whatever your spirit wants, and ... when you hang up a bell or tube, you do not get beautiful sound,'' he said
i was able to do all that, so why should i be jealous of my grandfather's ability to draw lines?''
rick astley is attracting more attention with his first album than he probably expected to have in a lifetime
it has been 20 years since england sent america anything like astley _ when joe cocker arrived sounding a lot like ray charles
astley's rca album, ``whenever you need somebody,'' and the first rhythm and blues sounding single from it, ``never gonna give you up,'' have shot up the best-selling charts in europe and then followed the same pattern in the united states where the lp went gold
besides getting a superhit with a first record, astley excites interest because he's quite a surprise. his voice is super-soulful, deeply resonating, mature-sounding _ and he's a 21-year-old english lad with a diffident air, chestnut hair and freckles
there's so much that gets crammed in,'' astley said during an interview at rca headquarters
private life is one thing i don't get, basically, any more. today we're a little rushed and that seems to be the norm these days. i don't see my family any more. i don't mean to moan about it. i knew i was letting myself in for this. i realize little things in life become suddenly important and you miss them
it's very nice traveling to all these countries. all the same, at the end of the day, all the rca offices look the same.''
astley was born in newton-le-willows, lancashire, england _ not far from liverpool. like many performers, he started as a teen-ager
i took up drums around 15,'' he said. ``i actually liked drums. with friends, a guitarist and bass player, we got a band together. one has gone to college now, studying computers. one is married
it was a fun thing. the bassist was doing most of the writing. we played anything that had three chords. we disbanded out of a mutual agreement sort of thing.''
then astley at 17 was asked by a band named fbi to be its drummer. ``it was in the same little town,'' he said. ``anybody who can play an instrument; everybody seems to know about them. it was an all-guitar band. nobody could afford keyboards
i started to write most of the material about six months after joining,'' he said, ``so i progressed on to be the singer as well.''
the band's managers _ one of whom still manages astley _ invited peter waterman, who owns production and publishing companies, to a performance. ``the band was still very young; i was one of the oldest and i was 19,'' astley said. ``he offered me a solo deal which i ended up taking.'' fbi continues and astley says they're still friendly
i went to work for pete for eight months or so. i was a tape operator in a studio. it's computerized these days. i made tea a few weeks until i saw how a studio works. then i started recording in december 1986, three songs. one was `never gonna give you up,' the first single. i was writing like mad, doing demos weekends and nights, learning whatever i could, getting to know everybody.''
later, astley played guitar on one track of the album, ``no more looking for love.''
we did that at 2 or 3 in the morning,'' he said. ``nobody was around. the guy producing said, `you do it.' i always play on my own demos. i said, `fine. i can get by on this
i'm not stupid enough not to know there are better musicians than me. i'm not going to get into an ego trip when i play; time is money in a studio. i'd like to do it when i get older
on ``never gonna give you up,'' astley said a few notes are high. ``it sounds as if it is low. i'm not saying that to be hip and cool. i prefer to sing lower; it feels better and suits better
i think i've always had this sort of tone to my voice. a lot of my favorite singers are black guys. in britain, music by people like luther vandross, james ingram and michael mcdonald becomes part of the top 40. i like a white artist's voice with a soulful approach.''
pwl, which waterman runs with mike stock and matt aitken, is mainly known in the united states as the power behind bananarama and samantha fox
it is almost like a mini-motown,'' astley said. ``they produce, write and arrange for so many people, some not big in america but massive in england. they may have five singles they've written and produced in the top 20 on the british charts in one week
they tend to have a very controlling role. everybody says they have a sound. i wondered what style they were going to use for me. it was a little more musical than some of the stuff they'd done, a return almost to the '70s, with string arrangements. i don't sound like most of what they do
we've recorded `ain't too proud to beg' by the temptations. i sang it live in a few clubs in london. everybody seems to think it's the strongest thing i've done and that's my direction. it's like rhythm, and me singing. it seems to show my vocal ability to its best. i did it slower than the temptations did it. my voice suits slow; i think you can express yourself a little more
we were going to put it on the first album but didn't want to put all the eggs in one basket,'' he said, ``and a lot of people lately have released old motown songs. i've got all these thoughts buzzing around in my head. you've got only 10 songs to bring to people.''
the album includes five songs by stock, aitken and waterman, four by astley and ``when i fall in love,'' the nat ``king'' cole hit
i'm only 21,'' astley said. ``as years go on, hopefully i'll get into writing all of an album and producing some of it. it's still early days for me.'' woman</head>
it is no accident that the cover of john updike's new novel consists entirely of an oversize scarlet letter
s.'' (knopf, $17.95) is a contemporary spin on nathaniel hawthorne's classic tale of adultery. it is also a lighthearted send-up of the new age fascination with eastern religions and a poignant study of the dynamics of marriage through updike's ever-wise eyes
s.'' is actually updike's third telling of ``the scarlet letter.'' his 1975 novel, ``a month of sundays,'' was the rev. dimmesdale's version in modern dress; his last novel, ``roger's version,'' portrayed the cuckolded husband, roger chillingsworth. sarah worth, the protagonist of ``s.,'' finally tells us hester prynne's side of the story
updike talked about his 13th novel during a recent visit to new york from his beverly, mass., home. wearing a writer's gray tweed jacket and exuding boyish energy, the 56-year-old pulitzer prize winner sat behind a desk in a vacant office at his publisher's, fidgeting with a paper clip and pondering why he is so captivated with the subject of adultery
it fascinates a lot of novelists. somebody once said that without adultery you don't have the novel. it used to be ... the only way in which a woman became a revolutionary. it was a high-energy transaction. it was the way in which marriage, which was the basis of the bourgeois social order, was betrayed,'' said updike
for men, the author noted, adultery was part of the social order: ``there were mistresses built into the system. there were brothels built into the system, so that in a way the male adulterer does not seem to be as conflicted or as passionate or as troubled or as vulnerable a creature as the adulteress.''
in ``s.,'' sarah, a middle-aged new england housewife, flees her inattentive doctor husband (after taking amply from their joint bank accounts) to join a religious commune in arizona that bears more than a passing resemblance to the now-dismantled rajneeshpuram in oregon. her imperial air and seven sisters pedigree quickly gain her entrance into the guru's inner circle, where she becomes a kind of personal secretary and bookkeeper
there is a way in which sarah is a `wicked woman,' kind of selfish and heedless and cavalier; she's no saint,'' updike said of his protagonist. ``but there is a way in which hester prynne is not a saint initially either. when we see her as a young woman, she's kind of sassy, really.''
asked if the reader is supposed to like sarah, this ``wicked woman,'' updike laughed and replied shyly, ``it'd be nice if you would. i'd be grateful. i like her ... because she's energetic and also purposeful. she's no slouch. tossed out into the world she does pretty well in it
i think what we like in fiction is life. and the novelist's hope is to imbue the characters with life rather than virtue. dickens had a nice way of getting us really enthusiastic about virtuous characters. i'm not sure that in the late 20th century we can make people that pure.''
updike, born in shillington, pa., educated at harvard university, and a massachusetts resident for the past three decades, has published 19 other books _ collections of poems, essays and short stories _ in addition to the novels. he is also the foreign books reviewer for the new yorker
the author has mined a prolific career out of his study of male-female relationships. he is probably best known for creating the ribald harry ``rabbit'' angstrom in 1960's ``rabbit, run,'' bringing him back a decade later in ``rabbit redux'' and again in 1981's ``rabbit is rich,'' which won him a pulitzer, an american book award and a national book critics circle award
updike has come under fire for his handling of female characters in the ``rabbit'' trilogy as well as some of his other work. in a recent new york times interview he said he wrote ``s.'' to satisfy his ``feminist detractors.''
i'm almost sorry i used that phrase,'' updike said. ``in fact, women tend to review my books more understandingly and kindly than men. in `the witches of eastwick' (with three female protagonists) the women reviewers were much more amused with it than some of the men. ... but i suppose i was impressed by the feminist point that many women in my books have tended to be dependent and seen to a large degree as sex objects. so in my clumsy way i'm trying to make female protagonists who are the center of the action.''
s.'' is an epistolary novel, in which the story is told through letters sarah writes to her husband, daughter, mother, friends, even her dentist and hairdresser. the convention usually doesn't allow for dialogue but updike cleverly circumvents this constraint by having sarah conceal a tape recorder in her clothes
although the epistolary form has built-in limitations, updike said, ``it's a blessing in a way because it spares you some of the carpentry work of the third-person novel.''
i've always been a realistic writer who treasures getting the furniture and clothes right. i had to abjure a lot of that detail. probably good for me, sort of a cleansing operation.''
even in a breezy satire such as ``s.'' updike's prose is luminescent. he is america's premiere stylist, writing with a precision and lushness that borders on the rococo in his descriptions of the arizona terrain or of sarah's beloved new england garden
updike was once called a ``creator of moral fables.'' he was asked if that label fit
i think of my books as being more moral investigations,'' he said. ``i try to raise the question of what is morality and what is goodness, more than to offer a definition. i think any novel to be alive must fluctuate somewhat in its moral standpoint; maybe fluctuate is the wrong word, but it should have ambiguity built into it. it should make the reader think a bit, surprise him a bit, make him investigate his own life, rather than present him with villains and heros and a good way and a bad way.''
are we going to see harry angstrom again?
author john updike was recently asked that question while plugging his new novel, ``s.''
yes. i hope, if i keep my wits and live a few more years, to write one more rabbit novel,'' said updike, interviewed on his 56th birthday and perhaps feeling intimations of mortality. ``i look forward to it, in fact, and it's the next novel on my schedule.''
harry ``rabbit'' angstrom, updike fans know, is the protagonist of the author's rabbit trilogy
when we first met harry in 1960 in ``rabbit, run'' he was a 26-year-old magipeel salesman in brewer, pa., still coasting on his glory days as a high school basketball star _ that's how he got his nickname rabbit because he was fast on the court. the book's sexual candor made it a sensation
in 1971's ``rabbit redux'' harry, now a typesetter, links up with a flower child and a black revolutionary. in ``rabbit is rich,'' which won the author a pulitzer, harry has reunited with his wife, janice, and becomes prosperous almost by accident when he takes over his father-in-law's toyota dealership at the height of the 1970s gas crunch
harry angstrom, who has has become as much a part of the american literary iconography as holden caufield, is updike's ode to the american male. he is a philanderer and a flirt, sometimes chauvinistic and a little bit of a jerk. yet updike has imbued him with a magical quality that elevates him. harry is the embodiment of grace; he has an innocence and an optimism that is enduring. we forgive him his weaknesses; we are charmed by his foibles
updike said he had not yet started writing the fourth book
the reason i haven't started it _ i'm kind of itching to get going on it, as a matter of fact, and i have a few ideas _ but the books have all taken place in the ninth year of the decade, sometimes the 10th. they kind of by accident, then on purpose, wrap up the decade. so i have to give it another year to see what the country's going to do,'' he said
i don't want to overemphasize that side of the books. they're not just meant to be headline blotters. but on the other hand some topical constituent has always been there ... and in some sense harry is a typical american and the headlines go on as a kind of background. so there's always been a link between him and the life of the nation. and i have to see what happens, what will be the post-reagan era
rabbit is the only novel on my horizon and i think it'll take a while. i don't want to rush it. i'd like it to be worthy of the series, and in a way, cap it.''
will rabbit practice safe sex? did he lose his shirt in the stock market crash? have yuppies inflated real estate prices in brewer? we'll find out in 1990
koppers co. has begun talks concerning the possible sale of the entire building materials and cement company to counter a hostile takeover attempt by beazer plc, koppers chairman charles r. pullin said
pullin said in a written statement sunday discussions were being held with ``certain third parties.'' koppers spokesman robert j. o'gara declined to elaborate
beazer, unable to lure koppers into a friendly deal, boosted its hostile tender offer for the building materials and cement company to $1.7 billion on friday
resorts international inc., the target of rival takeover bids from entertainer merv griffin and developer donald trump, is trying to line up $600 million in high-yield bond financing, mostly to complete its overdue and over-budget taj mahal hotel-casino
the financing negotiations were disclosed friday by trump, who controls 88 percent of resorts' voting strength, is the company's chairman and is seeking to buy the rest of its stock and take it private
if trump's takeover bid fails, the company may seek a smaller amount of financing, trump said
real-estate magnate donald trump is adding the landmark plaza hotel to his growing empire with plans to spruce up everything but its name
it's got the most important name in the world, and it's going to remain that way,'' trump said saturday as he announced he had purchased the world-renown plaza for $390 million
he vowed the plaza, already new york city's most famous hotel, would become ``the most luxurious hotel in the world'' under the supervision of his wife, ivana
less than a month before the filing deadline, fewer than half of americans have finished their tax returns. but refunds are bigger, the irs is doing a better job answering questions, and taxpayers are making fewer mistakes than had been expected
the internal revenue service is almost 3 percent behind last year's pace in processing returns, but blames that chiefly on taxpayers' slowness in filing this year. officials say there is nothing to signal a repeat of 1985 when faulty computer programs set off a chain of events that resulted in the worst filing season in modern times
sales of existing homes, after declining for three straight months, posted a modest increase of 3.8 percent in february, a real estate trade group reported
the national association of realtors said friday existing single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.29 million units in february. it was the first advance since a 1.2 percent rise in october
the reagan administration launched a final attempt to overturn a 46-year-old law that prohibits manufacturers from hiring people to produce apparel in their homes
the labor department said friday it will publish proposed regulations this week that would allow employers to contract work from people in their homes in five industries: gloves and mittens, embroideries, buttons and buckles, handkerchiefs and some jewelry
however, unlike its two previous attempts to deregulate so-called industrial homework, officials said this time they will not try to remove the ban on women's apparel
more than $2 trillion in japanese savings accounts loses its tax-free status this week, and executives from tokyo investment firms to foreign manufacturers are dreaming of tapping into the treasure trove
the april 1 change was prompted by complaints from allies that japan needs to spur domestic consumption as a way to recycle some of its $82.7 billion annual trade surplus
the hope is the new 20 percent tax on interest will encourage japanese to save less and spend more. but many experts do not foresee that happening
japanese monopolies on trade in tobacco and beef must be eliminated because they are barriers to u.s. exports, a former agriculture department official said during his confirmation hearing for the post of top u.s. negotiator on farm trade
the monopolies must go,'' daniel g. amstutz, a former undersecretary of agriculture, told the senate foreign relations committee friday. ``they are barriers to trade just as sure as import quotas are.''
he said the u.s. government is insisting on elimination of japanese quotas on beef imports
a federal appeals court denied a request by eastern airlines to block a set of sanctions levied against the miami-based carrier for its attempt to sell its east coast air shuttle
the ruling friday by the u.s. circuit court of appeals means eastern will at least temporarily have to halt its efforts to sell the shuttle while it wages a legal battle with its largest labor union
the appeals court also set a may 6 date for arguments on whether the judges should dismiss a contempt ruling against eastern that was issued in the same case
the arrival of spring has brought signs of recovery to the toy industry following 1987's dismal performance. stores are selling more toys and manufacturers are getting more orders
but toymakers know the fickle tastes of young customers can take a promising product and overnight turn it into a dud. so there is an air of caution in this highly volatile business, although the early trend is positive
it's a very good retail environment for the first time in several years,'' paul valentine, an analyst with standard &amp; poor's corp., said
a south korean trade delegation signed contracts to purchase about 10 million bushels of u.s. corn for about $29.3 million, and an official said about 95 percent of his country's corn purchases this year would come from the united states
also on friday, the agriculture department announced federally subsidized sales of 475,000 metric tons of hard red winter wheat to the soviet union have been indicated by five private exporters
stock prices tumbled for the second straight session friday, closing out the market's worst week so far in 1988. the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 44.92 points to 1,978.95
bond prices rose as stock prices tumbled
the dollar closed mixed amid rumors that central banks stepped in to steady the currency. gold prices declined
corn futures prices closed higher while wheat and soybeans finished slightly lower. oil prices posted solid gains
the dollar fell against major foreign currencies in european trading early today after closing at its lowest level in three months in tokyo. gold prices rose
foreign currency dealers said the bank of japan intervened to prop up the american currency but not enough to halt the dollar's slide in europe
in tokyo, where trading ends as europe's business day begins, the dollar fell for the third consecutive trading day, dropping 1.31 yen to a closing 124.43 yen. the dollar now has fallen 2.72 yen in three trading days in tokyo to its lowest level since jan. 4
in later london trading today the dollar was quoted at 124.38 yen
the bank of japan intervened shortly after the start of trading to prop up the dollar at 124.40 yen to 124.45 yen, traders said. one of the central bank's currency dealers, taeko kobayashi, said the bank bought between $100 million and $200 million
traders in frankfurt said the amount of the bank of japan's intervention was apparently insufficient to withstand the selling pressure from market operators testng the dollar's bottom level
they said the approaching easter holiday is slowing activity in trading rooms where a number of traders already have left on vacation
in london, the dollar dropped almost two cents against the british pound. one pound cost $1.8530 today, more expensive for buyers than late friday's $1.8360
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late friday's rates, included: 1.6660 west german marks, down from 1.6760; 1.3768 swiss francs, down from 1.3865; 5.6525 french francs, down from 5.6860; 1.8732 dutch guilders, down from 1.8820; 1,234,75 italian lire, down from 1,241.00; and 1.2425 canadian dollars, down from 1.2433
gold opened in london at a bid price of $453.80 a troy ounce, compared with late friday's $451.70. amid quiet trading at midmorning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $453.10
in zurich, the bid price was $453.20, up from $451.50 late friday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell 59 cents from saturday's close to a bid $454.67
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.63 a troy ounce, down from friday's $6.64
the dollar fell today for the third consecutive trading day in tokyo, closing at its lowest level in almost three months, while stock prices recovered from sharp losses over the weekend
the dollar closed at 124.43 yen, down 1.31 yen from friday's finish of 125.74 yen, after opening the day's session at 124.60. the currency ranged between 124.30 yen and 124.63 yen
the dollar now has fallen 2.72 yen in three trading days. its close today was its lowest since 121.65 on jan. 4
japan is taking the cue from trends overseas like new york,'' said taeko kobayashi, a currency dealer with the bank of japan. ``japanese fundamentals are changing and that explains a weaker dollar here.''
the bank of japan intervened shortly after the start of today's trading to prop up the dollar at a level of around 124.40-124.45 yen, traders said
while the move failed to prevent a further decline, it did help to steady the dollar. ms. kobayashi said the central bank bought $100 million to $200 dollars
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which shed a hefty 305.99 points in saturday's half day of trading, recovered most of its losses, rising 301.99 points, or 1.19 percent, ending the day at 25,622.71
traders said the market was active as investors were preparing for the new fiscal year
large issues such as steel and shipbuilding, as well as pulp and paper, were traded actively in the first section, where the overall volume was estimated at 1.1 million shares. uncertain; also moved on general news wires.</note>
senate budget writers get their shot this week at crafting a $1 trillion fiscal 1989 federal spending plan, an exercise that normally causes fur to fly but this year should be relatively tame
with 1988 an election year, a truce has taken hold in what is usually a three-way budget battle among the white house and congressional democrats and republicans
the reason is last fall's budget summit pact between congress and the administration, an accord that settled most of the fiscal fights well in advance. lawmakers are showing no inclination to reopen the usually wrenching decisions about taxes and military and domestic spending that the summit has already made
there are enough hopeless endeavors here without taking on another,'' said sen. rudy boschwitz, r-minn., a member of the senate budget committee
the budget panel scheduled meetings beginning today to write the spending plan for fiscal 1989, which begins oct. 1. committee members say they expect their work to be completed as early as tuesday or wednesday
in a rare show of bipartisan unity, the house approved a $1.1 trillion budget last wednesday. there, as in the senate, the only real question left for the lawmakers to decide was how to divide up the $169.2 billion the summit accord allows for domestic programs that congress directly controls
when president reagan sent his budget proposal to congress last month, he asked for a $2.4 billion increase in space and science programs. the house slashed that figure in half to help finance a batch of other programs that reagan sought to eliminate or reduce, such as subsidized housing, mass transit aid and energy conservation grants
the senate budget panel, however, is likely to be much more kind to science. in part that's because the committee is chaired by democratic sen. lawton chiles of florida, home of cape canaveral, and the senior republican is pete v. domenici, whose home state of new mexico houses some large federal laboratories
there's no doubt you'll see science and nasa and futuristic things, we'll push that up, which means other things have to be restrained,'' domenici said friday
lawmakers and aides of both parties concede that there is little support among senators for eliminating programs as the president has proposed. so to finance those programs and to pay for large increases in science, education, the homeless, aids research and the fight against drugs, the budget panel will have to find savings in a wide range of domestic programs
budget committee members and staffs of both parties have been meeting in efforts to sound out differences and forge preliminary agreements. final decisions on how to spread the pain of spending cuts around have yet to be made
the senate, like the house, will write a budget using economic assumptions prepared by the white house's office of management and budget
the use of those projections, generally more optimistic than the forecasts of private economists, helped the house compose a budget with a projected 1989 deficit of $134 billion. that would avoid the automatic spending cuts that would occur under the gramm-rudman budget balancing law if the deficit should exceed $146 billion
if lawmakers chose to use projections by their own non-partisan congressional budget office _ which are far gloomier than those by omb _ they would be staring at an estimated deficit that would grow by $35 billion and raise the possibility of enormous spending reductions
some legislators say the administration's figures have as good a chance to prove accurate as cbo's. others say using administration numbers will mask the true extent of the red ink, but concede that there is no stopping congress from using them and postponing real deficit reduction until a new president comes to town next year
it is irresponsible, isn't it?'' said sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c. ``but what can you do? i'm waiting on january.''
prices steadied in light trading on the london stock exchange by midday monday after dropping sharply during the morning session
several traders said they were encouraged by the slight recovery from the market's morning lows. but they also were waiting for the new york market's next move
the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 selected stocks was down 15.1 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,752.8 at midday. during the morning, it was down 19.5 points
volume stood at 212.6 million shares at midday, down from 221.6 million shares at about the same time friday
traders said activity again appeared to be limited to market-makers
most of the fund managers are busy writing reports'' ahead of the end of the first quarter, commented one trader
i can't see anyone wanting to do much before the easter holidays.''
the market ignored the 301.99 point gain made monday in tokyo's nikkei stock index and instead focused on the possibility of another bearish run on wall street. on friday, the dow jones industrial average fell 44.92 to 1,978.95, its second 40-plus point loss in two days
koppers co. chairman charles r. pullin says the entire building materials and cement company may be sold to counter a takeover attempt by beazer plc
pullin said in a written statement sunday that discussions concerning a possible sale are being held with ``certain third parties.'' koppers spokesman robert j. o'gara declined to elaborate
koppers has rebuffed beazer ever since it appeared on the scene about three weeks ago with a $45-a-share offer. beazer sweetened the bid march 19 to $56 a share, or $1.52 billion, which koppers characterized as inadequate
before going to shareholders friday with its latest $60-per-share tender offer, about $1.7 billion, the british construction and buildings materials company tried to negotiate a friendly deal at the same price with koppers management
shearson lehman hutton inc. is an equity partner in the beazer takeover bid
pullin said koppers' board of directors has instructed management to work with the company's financial advisers to consider alternatives to a takeover
those alternatives include a recapitalization that maintains the company's independence, the acquisition of the firm or a portion of its assets by another party, and the purchase by koppers of a stake in another company, pullin said
a consortium of banks had agreed to lend koppers about $1 billion to finance a recapitalization, which would likely involve a one-time cash payout to shareholders
we're progressing in the work that we're doing to counter this takeover,'' o'gara said
up to now, company officials had been firm in their desire to remain independent
beazer spokeswoman lissa perlman declined comment. company officials have said previously they would sue koppers if the company sold some or all of its construction materials and services businesses as part of a recapitalization
beazer sees the acquisition of koppers as a strategic step toward establishing a worldwide building materials empire
separately, the u.s. district court in los angeles late friday granted koppers an order that prohibits bns from buying koppers stock until april 4, at which time koppers will argue for a permanent order to block the tender offer
koppers had asked the court to halt the tender offer for antitrust reasons. but beazer had agreed to sell koppers' aggregate plant in los angeles, if the deal were consumated, to satisfy the justice department's antitrust concerns
beazer believes the temporary order has no practical impact on the tender offer since the offer remains open through april 7 and no shares can be purchased until that time, ms. perlman said
the chicago mercantile exchange, seeking to subdue wild price swings on the nation's financial markets, has adopted an unusual method for limiting daily price moves on its standard &amp; poor's 500 stock-index futures
the exchange said the adjustable limits will take effect today, replacing the 30-point limit the merc adopted for the contract after the oct. 19 stock market collapse
the new limits, approved thursday by the commodity futures trading commission, will range from 15 index points to 25 points. this will depend on the settlement price of the lead-month s&amp;p 500 futures contract on the last business day of the preceding month
investors use stock-index futures to hedge against losses in the stock market
s&amp;p 500 futures account for more than 80 percent of all u.s. stock-index futures trades
merc officials have said the limits will result in better coordination of u.s. financial markets, a key recommendation of the presidential commission that investigated the stock market collapse
a one-point move in the s&amp;p 500 index is roughly equivalent to an eight-point move in the dow jones industrial average. some analysts had criticized the 30-point limit on s&amp;p 500 futures _ equivalent to about 240 points on the dow _ as being too high to curtail all but the most violent price swings
a 15-point limit will take effect today because the june contract settled february 29 at 268.75 points, within the low-end range of 0 to 275 points
the limit would increase to 20 points if the june contract settled above 275 points on the last trading day of march, or to 25 points if the june contract settled above 325 points
the stock market opened lower in edgy trading today in the wake of friday's 45-point drop in the dow jones average of 30 industrials
the closely watched blue chip average was down 11.44 points at 1,967.51 in the first half-hour of trading. declining issues outpaced advances by around 6-to-1 on the new york stock exchange, with 949 issues falling, 159 gaining and 338 unchanged
volume on the big board was about 26.3 million shares
traders had been looking anxiously toward today's opening on wall street after friday's tumble, which closed out the worst trading week so far this year
the bearish sentiment deepened overseas earlier today when the dollar came under pressure and stock traders in london ignored a turnaround on the tokyo stock exchange. the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 selected stocks was down 15.1 points, or 0.9 percent, at 1,752.8 at midday. during the morning, it was down 19.5 points
this opening was kind of pre-ordained,'' said larry wachtel, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc., referring to wall street's initial activity
wachtel said traders don't expect another ``black monday'' in today's session, however, anticipating that prices will stabilize after initial losses. the dow's historic 508-point plunge on oct. 19 had followed sharp losses on the previous friday
the market's pretty well sold out; it's just that there are no buyers around,'' he said
the nyse composite index was off 1.07 at 145.51
on friday the dow jones industrial average fell 44.92 points to 1,978.95, finishing the week with a net loss of 108.42
declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 3 to 1 on the nyse, with 377 up, 1,149 down and 431 unchanged. big board volume totaled 163.17 million shares, down from 184.91 million in thursday's session
at the american stock exchange, the market value index had fallen 2.12 to 292.52. declines outnumbering advances. picks up 4th graf pvs: analysts had ...</note>
stock prices steadied at lower levels in edgy trading today as bearish sentiment spilled over from last week, the worst trading week so far this year
on wall street, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was off 9.45 points at 1,969.50 at 11 a.m. est. the key index fell 44.92 points on friday and 43.77 points on thursday
ten stock issues declined in price for every three that rose on the new york stock exchange in the early going
analysts had expected further downward movement following the losses late last week
stocks succumbed to additional pressure from a softer dollar, which continued to fall against major foreign currencies in europe after closing at its lowest level in three months in tokyo
despite the bearish sentiment in the equities market, traders did not expect another ``black monday'' in today's session, said larry wachtel, an analyst at prudential-bache securities inc
the dow's historic 508-point plunge on oct. 19 followed sharp losses on the previous friday. but wachtel said market participants anticipated the market would settle down after initial losses today
a drug that could save your life may be hiding right now in a bit of ordinary seaweed
so could chemicals that could produce better crops, kill dangerous pests or clean toxic wastes. they just haven't been discovered yet
we're essentially land creatures. that's why we've focused on land plants. but the sea, chemically, is a very different environment, and you will find many new and different things there,'' said kenneth terry, vice president of ocean genetics inc
the young company 60 miles south of san francisco wants to be the first to find, develop and perhaps market some of the potentially valuable products that may be lurking in seaweed and other forms of marine algae
in hundreds of glass dishes and flasks in its laboratories or huge bubbling tanks in seaside greenhouses, ocean genetics is growing, studying and testing more than 300 species of the simple plants
algae, which range from one-celled organisms to large, familiar seaweeds, already are used to make many things, including stabilizers, thickeners and texturizers important in the food and cosmetic industries and gels essential to science and medicine
two of those gels are agar _ the familiar culture medium in petri dishes _ and its purer, electrically neutral form, agarose, which is criticial for many research procedures
there are no substitutes for either, producers are few, and demand keeps growing. that means a profitable opportunity for ocean genetics, which plans later this year to market agar and agarose it's now producing and testing
agar and agarose provide us with the steppingstone i felt was necessary for ocean genetics to find and develop other product lines,'' said company president and founder wayne harvey
those yet-undiscovered products are the primary, though long-term, goal of the company, the company officials said in recent interviews
the highest potential is for pharmaceutical and animal health care products. but i think the potential of agrichemicals, in particular natural pesticides ... and plant-growth regulators also are signficant,'' harvey said
bay venture group, which provided ocean genetics $200,000 in seed capital when it was formed in 1981 and other financing since, is pleased with the privately-held company's progress and is optimistic about the future
it has all the characteristics of a successful business,'' said bvg general partner bill chandler, also a director of ocean genetics. ``i think the company is going to be a major pioneer
and of course, there's a saying that while pioneers get shot in the back, they also get to claim the new land.''
once it identifies new chemicals, ocean genetics will be able to grow the algae they come from very quickly, harvey said
that's primarily because the company combines engineering knowledge with plant physiology and biochemistry and will avoid ``the vagaries of nature'' by raising large monoculture crops of proven plants in indoor tanks, he said
but the process begins in a santa cruz laboratory filled with hundreds of petri dishes and seething carboys filled with large pieces of brown, red and green algae
the specimens, collected all over the world, are cleaned and small pieces are put in the petri dishes, where they grow for several months. then they are transferred to the carboy containers, where for another six to nine months they are kept in purified, nutrient-rich salt water
some of them are just incredibly beautiful. look at the lace of the leaf of this plant,'' said harvey, displaying a specimen whose delicate russet network was revealed by the strong light behind its container
once we have found an organism that produces a product, we do extensive studies ... to find out how we can control its environment to maximize the production and the quality of what we're interested in,'' harvey said
controlling reproduction, screening cells for mutations and cloning are some of the methods the company can use to increase and improve desirable qualities, he added
ocean genetics' first research product, phychobiliproteins, already are being produced and tested. the naturally flourescent chemicals found in certain seaweeds can be used in medicine to tag some types of cells. someday they may replace radioactive tracers now used to study and treat diseases like cancer and aids, harvey said
these little puppies are worth $10,000 to $15,000 a gram ... wholesale,'' he said, holding a test tube of glowing purple liquid
after growing in the carboys, some plants are freeze-dried and sent to one of several pharmaceutical, chemical or biotech companies, which test the samples for possibly valuable substances
but other promising varieties are ``grown up'' and studied further in several stages in computer-controlled tanks inside greenhouses on land the company leases from the university of california-santa cruz, terry said
reaching into one tank, terry pulls out a handful of material that looks like reddish-brown steel wool _ a plant whose origin or possible future use he and harvey good-naturedly refuse to reveal
this is a unique opportunity,'' terry said. ``it's about as if we were able to start over on land. the sea is a whole fresh resource.''
jerry mcdowell makes a whole lot of cents
mcdowell heads the plant where most of the nation's pennies are produced, though the u.s. mint finishes the job by stamping shiny blanks with their slogans and abraham lincoln's profile
mcdowell knows just about all there is to know about the nation's 1-cent piece. he's learned most of it since 1981, when the u.s. treasury department gave up penny production and assigned the task to ball corp.'s zinc products division in greeneville
pennies used to be made almost entirely of copper, but skyrocketing prices for the metal sent the federal government in search of cheaper materials and lower operating costs in the private sector
mcdowell and other ball officials convinced the mint they could do the job in greeneville, and the nation's copper-plated penny over a zinc base was born
they very quietly introduced this thing and nobody much knew there was a change,'' mcdowell said. ``there was one helluva a lot of testing before they switched over.''
the old pennies were 95 percent copper and 5 percent zinc. the new pennies are 97.5 percent zinc and 2.5 percent copper, he said
the mint first wanted to go to all-aluminum, but aluminum was very light and trouble was anticipated with vending machines. federal officials then thought about an all-zinc penny, but zinc is silvery like other coins and tarnishes quickly, mcdowell said
ball came up with the idea to plate zinc with copper,'' he said
the phase-in from old penny to new took a year, he said, with the 42-acre plant shipping new pennies in 1982 for the first time
about 70 percent of the nation's pennies are made in greeneville, or about 8.5 billion blanks under the government's $18.2 million contract with ball for 1988. a much smaller operation in la salle, ill., also makes penny blanks under a small business set-aside program with the government
ball corp. reported net income in 1987 of $66.3 million on sales of just over $1 billion, said tom jenkins, an accountant in ball's muncie, ind. headquarters. that compared with income of $58.9 million on a similar sales total in 1986
the government ships zinc and copper to greeneville and the zinc is melted down, cast at a rate of 35,000 pounds an hour and rolled into thin sheets, coiled 13,000 pounds at a time, then pressed into penny shapes and rimmed before copper is added during a series of electroplate and cleansing rinses
the process takes about two hours, and the longest time spent is electroplating, mcdowell said. each blank penny weighs about 2.5 grams, and 181 pennies weigh a pound as opposed to 145 pennies a pound of the old, mostly copper cents
zinc is less dense than copper,'' mcdowell said
the pennies are turned from a sleek silver to a shiny copper color during their electroplating baths. after they're dried and an anti-tarnish material is added, the blanks are checked for quality before they're shipped to mints in 3,300-pound wooden crates lined with plastic
when they're new, they want them to look new,'' mcdowell said
a federal law prohibits the government from spending any more on making a coin than the face value of the coin, which means pennies must be made with all costs included for less than a cent each
when copper prices went as high as $1 a pound in the early 1970s, the government was spending a full cent per penny to manufacture the coins itself. in the late 1970s, copper cost as much as $1.45 per pound. ball is now making pennies, and they're finished off by the mint, at a total cost of sixth-tenths of a cent, mcdowell said
the mint coins the pennies in philadelphia and denver after they're shipped from greeneville by rail and truck
ball cranked out about 12 billion penny blanks in 1982, the first year of full production, because the government feared there would be a penny shortage when the word got out copper was no longer going to be the primary material
the government ordered so many pennies that year and in 1983 because officials were jittery after people took silver coins out of circulation in droves around 1965, when the mint stopped using silver for dimes, quarters and half-dollars
no similar penny shortage occurred, however, and the government later cut back production in greeneville so the inventory that had built up could be depleted, mcdowell said. penny production has been steady since 1987
the greeneville plant employs about 300 people, with the facility also manufacturing casings for batteries and other zinc-based products
the mint still makes all other coins itself and likely will continue to do so, mcdowell said
security is not extraordinary at the ball plant since the pennies are shipped as blanks, he said. besides, vending machines don't take pennies anyway so criminals aren't much interested, mcdowell said
how are you gonna peddle them?'' he said. ``they're blank.''
the stock market was lower in moderate trading early today, holding steady despite a residue of nervousness left by friday's 45-point drop in the dow jones average of 30 industrials
the closely watched blue chip average was down 9.45 points at 1,969.50 at 11 a.m. est. declining issues outpaced advances by around 10-to-3 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,038 issues falling, only 280 gaining and 370 unchanged
volume on the big board was about 51.1 million shares
traders had been looking anxiously toward today's opening on wall street after friday's tumble, which closed out the worst trading week so far this year
the bearish sentiment deepened overseas earlier today when the dollar came under pressure and stock traders in london ignored a turnaround on the tokyo stock exchange. the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 selected stocks was down 15.1 points, or 0.9 percent, at 1,752.8 at midday. during the morning, it was down 19.5 points
the early decline on wall street is ``sort of a hangover from last week,'' said hugh johnson, a senior vice president of first albany corp. in albany, n.y. ``we've been almost rudely reminded that the market is still on very, very thin ice.''
the nyse composite index was off 0.98 at 145.60
at the american stock exchange, the market value index had fallen 2.63 to 292.01
among actively traded issues on the nyse, commonwealth edison was unchanged at 26|, gillette had dropped 2{ to 44\, at&amp;t was down \ at 26~, american express had also eased \ to 24\, philips petroleum had lost { at 16[ and mcdonalds had fallen 1 to 42
ibm had risen { to 107{ and lucky stores was up ] at 48[
the number of working oil and gas rigs in the united states fell by eight this week to total 935, baker hughes inc. announced
in the previous week, the count lost three rigs to total 943. a year ago, the count totaled 748, baker hughes said monday
the rig count reflects the number of rigs actively exploring for oil as of last friday, not the number of rigs producing oil
houston-based baker hughes, an oil toolmaker company, tallies the number of working rigs and the count is the widely-watched industry index of drilling activity
hughes tool co., which merged this year with baker international corp. of orange, calif., has kept track of the number of working rigs since 1940
the rig count reached a peak of 4,500 active rigs in december 1981, which was the height of the oil boom. but oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel in the summer of 1986 and the rig count went with it, dropping to 663 _ the lowest since hughes began compiling figures
among the major oil producing states, texas gained nine rigs, while wyoming and california each gained three and north dakota gained one. louisiana and new mexico each lost five, pennsylvania lost four, michigan lost three, ohio and oklahoma each lost two, and colorado lost one
the rig count in kansas was unchanged
the supreme court has agreed to study the appeal of a coal company that saw its property tax assessment for some 7,400 acres of land in webster county, w.va., soar from $488,000 to $12.3 million in one year
the justices said monday they will decide whether the increased assessment represented ``systematic and intentional'' discrimination against the allegheny pittsburgh coal co., a subsidiary of allegheny power system inc
the west virginia supreme court of appeals upheld the assessment by a 3-2 vote last july 17
the justices today also granted a separate, similar appeal from three other coal companies owning land in webster county
allegheny pittsburgh bought the land, in numerous tracts, in 1974 for about $24.6 million
the total assessed value assigned to all the tracts of real estate was $488,000 in 1975. but that assessment was raised in 1976 to $12.3 million, half the 1974 purchase price
allegheny pittsburgh challenged the new assessment, and repeated that challenge for each tax year through 1982
the company sold the real estate, along with the mineral rights attached to it, in 1982 to east kentucky energy corp. for $29.8 million
the proper assessment in 1984 was raised to $14.9 million to reflect 50 percent of the 1982 purchase price
county officials testified that all recently sold property was assessed at 50 percent of its sale price. they also testified that property not sold during the same six-year period received comparatively modest assessment increases
a state trial judge ruled that allegheny pittsburgh's assessment increase violated the state constitution and the equal protection guaranteed by the federal constitution's 14th amendment
but the state supreme court of appeals reversed that ruling
in a separate appeal granted review today, east kentucky energy, oneida coal co. and shamrock coal co. challenged the way webster county formulates property tax assessments
their appeal noted that recently sold property is being assessed and taxed ``at a level as much as 6,500 percent higher than properties stipulated and found to be comparable in every pertinent respect.''
east kentucky energy is a subsidiary of shell oil co. oneida coal and shamrock coal are both subsidiaries of sun co. inc
the cases are allegheny pittsburgh vs. county commission of webster county, 87-1303, and east kentucky energy vs. county commission, 87-1310
soybean futures opened slightly higher while grains opened steady to lower today on the chicago board of trade
soybean prices advanced on the government's offer to donate soybean oil to pakistan, and also on news that a drought in the rio grande du sul region of brazil had prompted the government there to declare a state of emergency, analysts said
some rain fell over the weekend in brazil after the declaration was issued, however, said jerry gidel, an analyst with g.h. miller &amp; co
farmer sales of corn over the weekend put pressure on corn futures prices; wheat opened slightly lower on expectations of a pickup this week in the amounts of surplus wheat sold at government auctions, gidel said
but wheat futures were trading slightly higher about a half-hour into the session
in early trading, wheat was } cent to 1\ cents higher with the contract for delivery in may at $3.06\ a bushel; corn was unchanged to } cent lower with may at $2.09} a bushel; oats were { cent lower to \ cent higher with may at $1.69 a bushel; soybeans were 2 cents to 3\ cents higher with may at $6.51\ a bushel
cattle futures were mostly higher while pork futures were lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .03 cent to .28 cent higher with april at 75.20 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent lower to .35 cent higher with march at 82.80 cents a pound; hogs were .10 cent to .57 cent lower with april at 45.95 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .27 cent to .72 cent lower with may at 56.65 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures settled mostly higher on friday
american stores co. today launched its $1.74 billion tender offer for lucky stores inc., a $45-a-share bid that would create the nation's largest grocery store chain if successful
that is correct,'' said american stores vice president michael holt, confirming that the offer to lucky stockholders began this morning. he refused to comment further
lucky, the country's sixth-largest supermarket chain, boasts annual sales of about $7 billion, with 480 stores in the west, midwest and southwest, mostly in california and arizona. american stores, with annual sales of $15 billion, has about 1,700 retail outlets in 40 states, making it the nation's third-largest grocery retailer
lucky officials at the company's dublin, calif., headquarters referred calls to new york spokeswoman lissa perlman. she confirmed the tender offer had begun, saying lucky officials have been reviewing the offer with financial and legal advisers
lucky strongly advises its stockholders not to take any action with respect to the american stores offer'' until the lucky board of directors has a chance to further study the bid and make its recommendation, ms. perlman said
no deadline for a recommendation was given
wall street reacted to news of the bid by sending lucky store's stock up 87{ cents per share to $48.62{ per share at midday on the new york stock exchange. american stores down $1.87{ per share, at $54.75 per share
american stores chairman l.s. skaggs notified lucky stores chairman john m. lillie of the then impending tender offer in a march 21 letter. skaggs said if the offer was successful, he planned to combine american store's alpha beta stores with lucky's operation under the lucky name
the letter praised lucky's management and marketing strategies and invited lucky executives to stay on if the deal is completed. lucky's headquarters would remain in dublin, skaggs said
the bid for lucky comes 16 months after a takeover specialist asher edleman dropped his hostile effort to acquire the company. in return, lucky agreed to pay his $2.8 million in legal bills
lucky kept edleman at bay partially by selling off non-grocery divisions and adopting anti-takeover measures
after the text of the letter was released last week, lucky officials had no comment on the american stores' tender offer except to say company bylaws contain a ``poison pill'' anti-takeover provision limiting the voting power of any shareholder who acquires more than 10 percent of lucky's stock
american stores last made financial headlines in 1984 when it spent $1.1 billion to take over jewel companies inc., a chicago-based grocery, drug and convenience store chain
that acquisition expanded american stores' operations from just over 1,000 retail outlets to its present 1,700. the company has three divisions _ skaggs, which operates supermarkets in the western united states; american superstores, which runs outlets in the midwest and east, and osco drug stores, which has stores nationwide
the company operates stores under the names acme, jewel, star, buttrey, skaggs, skaggs alpha beta, and osco drug
the stock market was broadly lower in light to moderate trading early today, amid continued anxiety stemming from friday's market drop and pressure from a declining dollar
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was unchanged at 1,978.95 at noon est, after trading about 9 to 10 points lower through much of the morning. the broader market continued to decline, however. losing issues outpaced advances by around 10-to-3 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,069 issues falling, only 320 gaining and 403 unchanged
volume on the big board was 70.43 million shares, down from 74.55 million shares traded by noon on friday
there is an enormous amount of bearish sentiment out there,'' said michael metz, an analyst for oppenheimer &amp; co. he noted that wall street has been gripped recently by a ``buyers' strike'' led by foreign investors and large financial institutions
stock prices are being pressured by the weak dollar, which fell anew today on world currency markets. the u.s. currency was quoted at about 124.15 japanese yen at around noon today, down from 125.30 yen late friday in new york
the dollar had also retreated to around 1.6600 west german marks from 1.6760 marks
the financial markets have been ``reminded that stabilizing the dollar is not going to be easy,'' said hugh johnson, a senior vice president of first albany corp. in albany, n.y
the nyse composite index was off 0.65 at 145.93
at the american stock exchange, the market value index had fallen 2.76 to 291.88
among actively traded issues on the nyse, commonwealth edison was unchanged at 26|, gillette had fallen 1{ to 45\, at&amp;t was down ] at 26} and texaco had slipped ~ to 44|
ibm was up | at 107|, general electric had gained [ to 40| and lucky stores was up ~ at 48|
the supreme court today refused to hear an appeal by companies seeking refunds of new jersey taxes they paid to help clean up hazardous waste
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that could limit the amount of the refunds
the new jersey supreme court ruled in december that the businesses are entitled to only a partial refund if the state legislature does not appropriate enough money to reimburse them fully
the case stems from a dispute over new jersey's so-called spill fund and whether it was preempted by the federal superfund law
the u.s. supreme court ruled in 1986, in an earlier review of the new jersey case, that the superfund preempted _ at least partially _ state efforts to deal with hazardous waste pollution through taxation
the high court said states only may tax the same companies subject to the superfund law for purposes not covered by the federal act
congress then removed the preemption feature from the superfund law to eliminate the potential obstacle to state clean-up programs
at issue in the case acted on today is the size of the refund the companies are entitled to recover for the period before the preemption feature was eliminated
the new jersey supreme court interpreted the 1986 u.s. supreme court rulig to allow the state to retain part of the taxes the companies paid for clean-up costs
the state court said that if the new jersey legislature failed by june to reimburse the spill fund for the full amount of preempted expenditures, the businesses are entitled only to a partial refund
the spill fund was created in 1977, supported by tax revenues that average about $10 million a year
the $1.6 billion federal superfund was created in 1980 and renewed in 1986
seeking the refunds are exxon corp., b.f. goodrich, union carbide, monsanto and tenneco
they said the new jersey court ruling would permit the state illegally to retain millions of dollars in tax revenue
the case is in re exxon corp., 87-1296
there are few disputes more vociferous than those on how uncle sam, along with his nieces and nephews in smaller governmental entities, earn their income and spend their money
every taxpayer has an opinion. every business, too. tax reform and watchdog groups exist in most municipalities. presidential candidates can't steer clear of the subject. congress tinkers with it every year
academics write books about taxing and spending. institutions exist for the specific purpose of studying every detail of every proposal. pressure groups and lobbyists are in a constant uproar about their favorite projects
here's a sampling:
the poor are being nickeled and dimed to death by state sales taxes, says citizens for tax justice. sales taxes are regressive, says the public interest organization's director, robert s. mcintyre
as a share of income, he states, sales and excise taxes take five times as much from poor families _ and three times more out of middle-income families _ as they take from the rich
taxing the poor heavily is both curel and inefficient,'' he says. ``it doesn't produce much in the way of revenues, because the poor don't make very much money.''
progressive taxes, based on the ability to pay, are the answer, he says. he suggests a sales-tax rebate plan to mitigate some of the regressivity of such taxes, which some states impose even on food, gasoline and utilities
the center for the study of economics in columbia, md., pushes what it calls incentive taxes as a way to generate revenue, while simultaneously improving the economic base of a municipality
it's not a new idea, having been proposed many years ago by economist henry george. in fact, some municipalities have accepted the notion, but not enough of them according to the center, which proselytizes with missionary zeal
one of its tenets is that the value of land was created by society and government. nevertheless, taxes on undeveloped land are almost always far below land on which an investor has placed a building
in short, downtown parking lots pay low taxes and contribue minimally to the area's economy in terms of jobs, payrolls and products. but lots with structures on them and job-producing businesses in them are taxed more heavily
they ask if the opposite policy wouldn't be more productive? shouldn't that parking lot be forced to develop itself into a more economically productive role? how better to do it than by taxing it into compliance?
no discussion of spending and taxing could be so boisterous as to drown out j. peter grace, who headed the president's private sector survey on cost control, said by the white house to have saved $40.5 billion in fiscal 1988
now head of citizens against government waste, grace is currently circulating his notions of how uncle sam can reduce the budget deficit by $60 billion a year
he claims, for instance, that $6 billion could be saved in three years by establishing a bipartisan commission to recommend an extensive program of military base closings
an additional $1 billion could be saved over three years, he says, by imposing user fees for non-emergency coast guard services, such as getting a tow if your outboard runs out of fuel
earlier this month, the president's management report said recommendations by the private sector survey led to savings of $30.6 billion in fiscal 1986 and $38.9 billion in fiscal '87, for a three-year total of $110 billion
they still haven't gone far enough,'' said grace in handing congress his new proposals
never at a loss for money-saving ideas is the heritage foundation. this year, as in years before, it is suggesting that big savings are possible by ``privatization'' _ turning various functions over to the private sector
this can be accomplished, it says, by selling off assets such as the federal loan portfolio and the naval petroleum reserve; by contracting out services that it now tries to handle by itself; and by further deregulation
if heritage had its way, public housing would be privatized, a private air traffic control system would be developed, and amtrak, the passenger rail service, would be sold to private operators
american farmers won't get all the new business if japan opens its market to more agricultural imports, japanese commentators said on the eve of a visit to washington by the japanese agriculture minister
if japan can import freely, there is always australian beef, and fruit from other countries,'' which cost less than u.s. products, said mitsuru uchida, professor of political science at tokyo's waseda university
the united states will suffer. people will buy from cheaper places,'' said hirotatsu fujiwara, a political commentator and author
takashi sato, the minister of agriculture, is scheduled to travel to washington on tuesday to seek an easing of u.s. demands for an end to japan's barriers against beef and orange imports
the current four-year agreement on beef and oranges expires thursday. the united states has refused to open negotiations on a new one until tokyo draws up a timetable for a complete end to the quotas. it also has threatened to take the matter to the general agreement on tariffs and trade, an international forum that oversees the trade rules agreed upon by its member nations
in separate interviews, fujiwara and uchida said japan should open its market to imported food. but both expressed doubts over whether ending japan's limits on beef and citrus fruit imports would help reduce the united states' huge deficit in its trade with japan, which reached a record $59.8 billion last year
japan in recent years has bought almost 20 percent of all u.s. farm exports, or nearly $6 billion worth in 1986, according to japanese government estimates. japanese officials say the united states ignores the fact that japan is the world's largest importer of farm products
but over the years, beef and oranges have become a symbolic issue in what the united states sees as japanese foot-dragging in efforts to solve the trade imbalance
japan's politically influential farm groups say their members' livelihood would be threatened by an end to the import barriers. government officials want market-opening steps taken gradually, although opinion within the government and ruling liberal democratic party on how quickly to move still is divided
talks on monday failed to iron out differences
u.s. officials say the barriers mean japanese consumers pay two to four times what their american counterparts pay for beef and citrus fruit
the quasi-governmental livestock industry promotion corp. says american square-cut chuck beef had a wholesale price here of 831 yen a kilogram (about $3 a pound) last month, while a similar cut from australia had a wholesale price of 757 yen a kilogram ($2.74 a pound). retail prices are substantially higher
australia has made plain that it will seek to ensure that any japan-u.s. agreements on beef are not made at australia's expense
under the expiring agreement, japan raised its annual quota for high-grade beef imports from the united states from 31,000 tons in 1983 to 58,400 tons in 1987, while raising its quota on orange imports by 1,100 tons a year
meanwhile, it raised its overall quota for beef imports from 141,000 tons in 1984 to 177,000 tons in 1987
in fiscal 1986, which ended last march, japan imported 188,000 tons of beef _ including 63,000 tons from the united states and 113,000 tons from australia. of its orange imports, 99 percent came from the united states
international business machines corp. leads forbes magazine's list of the nation's most valuable companies for a fourth consecutive year, the magazine said monday
ibm's stock market value at the end of 1987 was $69.0 billion, a decline of 5.2 percent from a year earlier. that was still enough to surpass exxon corp., whose stock market value rose 4.5 percent to $52.6 billion
ibm, the world's largest computer company, has led the forbes list since 1984, when american telephone &amp; telegraph co. fell off the top of the heap because of the breakup of the bell system
among the big movers in the top 10, merck &amp; co. inc., the rahway, n.j.-based pharmaceutical company, climbed to sixth from ninth. ford motor co. ascended to ninth from 15th, while general motors corp. fell to eighth from fifth
stock market value is determined by multiplying the price of a company's stock by the number of its shares
here are the top 10 companies in forbes' market value list, which will appear in the ``forbes 500s'' issue of april 25
1. international business machines corp., $69.0 billion, down 5.2 percent
2. exxon corp., $52.6 billion, up 4.5 percent
3. general electric co., $39.8 billion, up 1.6 percent
4. american telephone &amp; telegraph co., $29.0 billion, up 8.2 percent
5. du pont co., $20.9 billion, up 3.5 percent
6. merck &amp; co. inc., $20.8 billion, up 23.2 percent
7. philip morris cos. inc., $20.2 billion, up 18.2 percent
8. general motors corp., $19.1 billion, down 9.0 percent
9. ford motor co., $18.6 billion, up 26.6 percent
10. amoco corp., $17.8 billion, up 6.5 percent
the stock market was broadly lower in fairly light trading today, dampened by new declines in the dollar and lingering anxiety about wall street's own strength
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 7.46 points at 1,971.49 at 2 p.m. est, after declining initially and then stabilizing at around midday. the broader market posted substantial losses. declining issues outpaced advances by around 11-to-4 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,110 issues falling, a scant 373 gaining and 401 unchanged
volume on the big board was 100.33 million shares
we're again hooked to the dollar,'' said monte gordon, director of research for dreyfus corp. ``the market continues to wallow in confusion and uncertainty.''
stock prices are being pressured by the weak dollar, which fell anew today on world currency markets. the u.s. currency was quoted at about 123.95 japanese yen at around 2 p.m. est today, down from 125.30 yen late friday in new york
the dollar had also retreated to around 1.6565 west german marks from 1.6760 marks
the financial markets have been ``reminded that stabilizing the dollar is not going to be easy,'' said hugh johnson, a senior vice president of first albany corp. in albany, n.y
the nyse composite index was off 0.98 at 145.60
at the american stock exchange, the market value index had fallen 2.88 to 291.76
among actively traded issues on the nyse, bankers trust was down ] at 31|, at&amp;t had lost { at 26|, gillette had fallen 1} to 45, navistar had slipped ] to 6\ and american express was unchanged at 24{
shares of lucky stores, the object of a $1.74 billion tender offer from american stores, had risen } to 48{. ibm was up { at 107{ while exxon had also gained {, to 42[
a flood of travel scams has pushed two florida legislators to propose a law that would require bonding for travel agents, a plan that gained the support monday of state attorney general bob butterworth
travel agents would be required to register with the state and post bond ranging from $10,000 to $25,000, unless they already are bonded by airline recording corp., under the proposed measure
butterworth endorsed the bill at a news conference at the coconut creek government center
when bogus holidays are offered by deceptive telephone promotions, the reputation of florida as an ideal vacation destiny is damaged,'' he said
his office launched a major investigation of travel scams last june with raids on eight offices. complaints naming more than 200 other travel companies are under investigation
fraudulent travel providers who fast talk customers in telephone promotions are being brought to justice,'' butterworth said
although the bill would add regulation, it has picked up industry support
the professional is concerned to make sure the traveling public does not get bilked, and i think the professional also is concerned he doesn't want the reputation of the industry impugned by scam operators,'' harold berns, a member of the board of directors of the american society of travel agents, said monday
the professional travel agent is more than happy to see this happen,'' said berns, owner of air and sea travel in fort lauderdale. ``we've heard too many horror stories. not only here, but all over the country.''
tobin and weinstein charged tour operators who take money from unsuspecting consumers for trips they will never deliver are a growing problem
a 1985 state law made the fraudulent sale of travel a misdemeanor. but victims have no way of recovering their money without bonding, weinstein said
opposing the bill would ``be like being against apple pie,'' said berns
most of florida's 2,200 legitimate travel agents already meet the bill's requirements by registering with airline recording corp., which requires bonds of up to $50,000 bond
virtually all travel agents who sell airline tickets must register with the corporation, berns said
agents already associated with such a recording association would not be required to register under the bill, weinstein said. but agents already bonded may voluntarily register with the state
failure to obtaing a bond would be a misdemeanor, and the state division of consumer services would have the power to shut down unbonded agencies
new england fishermen returned to port last year with 12 million fewer pounds of fish and shellfish than in 1986 but the value of the catch soared 14 percent to $512.6 million, according to figures compiled by a federal agency
massachusetts led the five states in the region with fishing industries both in total harvest and value, followed by maine and rhode island. new hampshire led connecticut in terms of harvest weight, but connecticut's catch was worth more
gloucester fishermen caught the most fish and shellfish but the value of the catch was substantially below that of new bedford fishermen, whose lucrative harvest of pricey sea scallops made that port first in the nation in terms of catch value for the second consecutive year
the region's 1987 lobster harvest was virtually identical to the previous year, 19.8 million pounds compared to 19.7 million pounds in 1986, but the value of that harvest jumped from $46.2 million to $54.6 million
the preliminary harvest figures were compiled by the northeast fisheries center, a division of the commerce department's national marine fisheries service. the center compiles the data for an annual report on the fishing industry nationwide that the commerce department is expected to release in april
commercial fishermen throughout the region caught 543.7 million pounds of fish and shellfish in 1987, down from the 1986 total of 555.7 million pounds. but because of increased overall fish prices, the catch value increased from $448.9 million to $512.6 million
massachusetts fisherman harvested 256.8 pounds of fish and shellfish in 1987, down from 271.3 million pounds a year earlier. but the value of the bay state catch jumped 14.4 percent from $243.6 million in 1986 to $278.9 million last year
the maine catch of 169 million pounds was up slightly from 168.2 million pounds in 1986, but the value of the harvest increased 22 percent from $108.4 million to $132.4 million
rhode island's catch also remained relatively stable, 100 million pounds in 1987 compared to 101.6 million pounds in 1986, with the value of that state's catch increasing 3 percent from $75.1 million to $77.5 million
new hampshire fishermen caught 9.3 million pounds of fish and shellfish last year, up from 7.9 million pounds in 1986. the value of the harvest increased nearly 26 percent, from $6.2 million to $7.8 million
connecticut had the smallest regional harvest in terms of weight, 8.6 million pounds, but it was worth $16 million, an increase of 2.5 percent from $15.6 million in 1986, when that state's total catch was 6.7 million pounds
in terms of weight, gloucester led the region's major fishing ports with a catch of 92.6 million pounds, followed by new bedford, point judith in narragansett, r.i., portland, me., rockland, me., boston and newport, r.i
new bedford fishermen harvested about half of the 18.2 million pounds of sea scallops caught in new england in 1987, according to fisheries center spokesman ron l. schultz
the average price of $4.42 a pound paid to fishermen for sea scallops was by far the highest of the 14 major species of fish and shellfish harvested in new england waters. the average price paid to fishermen for lobster was $2.91 a pound
the price paid to gloucester fishermen falls far below that paid to their new bedford counterparts because two of the major species harvested by gloucester fishermen, pollock and atlantic herring, net per-pound prices among the lowest of the 14 species
control data corp. will buy a 20 percent stake in silicon graphics inc. for $68.9 million in a step intended to cement their business relationship, the computer companies said monday
minneapolis-based control data said it intended to buy $150 million worth of computer workstations from silicon graphics over the next three years, continuing an arrangement with the mountain view, calif.-based company that dates back to late 1986. the companies will cooperate on developing new workstations
control data will buy newly issued shares of common stock in silicon graphics at a price of $22.50 a share that will represent 20 percent of the company's stock
the stock market was broadly lower in fairly light trading today, dampened by new declines in the dollar and lingering anxiety about wall street's own strength
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 11.11 points at 1,967.84 at 3 p.m. est, widening its early-session losses. the broader market posted substantial deficits. declining issues outpaced advances by around 11-to-4 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,139 issues falling, only 375 gaining and 402 unchanged
volume on the big board was 118.6 million shares
many investors had their new-found confidence shaken late last week, when stocks fell sharply on thursday and friday. the closely watched dow average tumbled nearly 45 points on friday after falling nearly 44 points in the previous session _ sparking fears that today's session could turn into another ``black monday'' like oct. 19
the anxiety was fueled today by fresh declines in the battered dollar
we're again hooked to the dollar,'' said monte gordon, director of research for dreyfus corp. ``the market continues to wallow in confusion and uncertainty.''
stock prices are being pressured by the weak dollar, which fell anew today on world currency markets. the u.s. currency was quoted at about 123.84 japanese yen at around 3 p.m. est today, down from 125.30 yen late friday in new york
the dollar had also retreated to around 1.6550 west german marks from 1.6760 marks
the dollar's slump brought the federal reserve into the currency market to buy dollars in a bid to support the currency after it fell to around 124.00 yen, traders reported
the nyse composite index was off 1.20 at 145.38
at the american stock exchange, the market value index had fallen 3.19 to 291.45
soybean futures prices closed sharply higher monday on the chicago board of trade while most grain futures retreated
soybeans were supported by news that a drought in the brazilian soybean-growing region of rio grande du sul had prompted the government there to declare a state of emergency on friday, analysts said
but traders were divided over the extent of damage to the nearly ripe soybean crop, especially after weekend rains were reported in the area
nevertheless, most soybean contracts closed at new lifetime high prices on a combination of fundamental and technical factors with most players feeling bullish ahead of thursday's agriculture department reports on spring planting intentions and grain stocks, analysts said
right now, everything seems to be go in this market,'' said ted mao, grain specialist with shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york
wheat posted substantial losses due to rainy weather in the midwest, which was seen as helping out the new crop, said jerry gidel, an analyst in chicago with g.h. miller &amp; co
at the close, wheat was 4 cents to 5{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $2.99{ a bushel; corn was 1 cent lower to } cent higher with may at $2.10{ a bushel; oats were 1 cent to 2\ cents lower with may at $1.66{ a bushel; soybeans were 4 cents to 10\ cents higher with may at $6.55{ a bushel
the board of directors of federated department stores inc. will move wednesday to end the bidding war for the retailer by acting on the final competing purchase offers of r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. and campeau corp., federated said monday
a committee of federated's outside directors met monday to determine bidding procedures and would inform macy and campeau of those guidelines, federated said in a statement
the board's wednesday meeting was to be held at an undisclosed location in new york. federated has said edward finkelstein and robert campeau, the chairmen respectively of macy and campeau, would be allowed to address the directors
macy and campeau have each offered more than $6 billion to buy federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer. macy's bid has the approval of federated management
in a letter to both suitors, federated said, ``it is anticipated that the board will consider and act on the parties' final bids at a board meeting on wednesday, march 30. federated's advisers will continue to be available to you to discuss all matters.''
federated said last week its board would meet this week to consider campeau's $6.53 billion offer and a $6.3 billion bid from macy
robert campeau, whose toronto-based company has been trying since jan. 25 to buy federated, will address federated's board if invited, ms. frank said
i'm sure he will go. nothing's been firmed up, at this point,'' she said
macy, based in new york, had no comment, said spokesman james fingeroth
federated disclosed last week it was negotiating with macy about an improved macy offer, but said there was no guarantee negotiations would be successful
campeau last week raised its two-step, all-cash offer to approximately $73 a share from $68 a share, or $6.18 billion. campeau offered to pay $82 each for 70.5 million federated shares and $37 for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares in a subsequent merger. campeau also extended its deadline until midnight edt april 4, when macy's offer is to expire
campeau, a development company that bought allied stores corp. in december 1986, also proposed an alternate friendly merger under which it would pay $73 a share for 70.5 million shares in a tender offer and $73 for the remaining shares after the merger
macy has offered $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $5.4 billion. macy would exchange shares in the merged company and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares
federated and macy have signed a merger agreement under which macy would take over federated in a newly formed, joint company
federated's divisions include bloomingdale's, abraham and straus, burdine's, filene's, foley's, lazarus and rich's department stores; ralphs supermarkets; gold circle discount stores; and main street and children's place specialty stores
federated has also delayed putting into effect, until at least wednesday, a ``poison pill'' amendment to its shareholder rights plan. that would allow shareholders to buy new shares at a steep discount and make an unwanted takeover more expensive. division</head>
the federal trade commission on monday approved furr's inc.'s purchase of safeway's 59-store el paso division
however, furr's must hold the stores separately pending the final sale of 12 safeways in new mexico and texas to jaynes group inc., according to the ftc
the jaynes group is a newly formed corporation organized by former safeway employees. both it and lubbock-based furr's are privately held and did not disclose the amount of the transactions
kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. of new york acquired safeway in 1986 in a $4.3 billion leveraged buyout to fend off a hostile takeover by the dart group of maryland. it has been selling off whole divisions to pay off its debt
during the four-month ftc review period, furr's operated the 59 stores as an autonomous division
furr's now operates 154 retail grocery stores in texas and new mexico. it also operates two distribution centers and several support offices
the ftc's only objection to furr's purchase of safeway's el paso division was that it would have a monopoly in 12 new mexico and texas cities
furr's reached an agreement with the jayne's group to buy the stores, which are in the texas cities of pecos and fort stockton and the new mexico cities of alamogordo, artesia, clovis, espanola, hobbs, las vegas, lovington, portales, roswell and silver city
stock prices declined broadly today, dampened by new declines in the dollar and lingering anxiety about wall street's own strength
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 0.50 point at 1,978.45. the broader market posted more substantial losses
stock prices declined broadly today, dampened by new declines in the dollar and lingering anxiety about wall street's own strength
many investors had their new-found confidence shaken late last week, when stocks fell sharply on thursday and friday. the dow jones average of 30 industrials tumbled around 45 points on friday after falling nearly 44 points in the previous session _ sparking fears that today's session could turn into another ``black monday'' akin to oct. 19
but today's decline was tempered by some ``bargain-hunting'' buying at the lower price levels, traders said. they noted, though, that many foreign investors and financial institutions remained on the sidelines
although today's losses were more moderate, analysts said they reflected a bearish sentiment that continues to hang over the market
it will take a while before this blows over,'' said richard schmidt, an analyst for advest inc. in hartford, conn. ``we're testing some lows here.''
the anxiety was deepened today by fresh declines in the battered dollar on world currency markets
we're again hooked to the dollar,'' said monte gordon, director of research for dreyfus corp. ``the market continues to wallow in confusion and uncertainty.''
the u.s. currency was quoted at about 123.83 japanese yen in late afternoon, down from 125.30 yen late friday in new york. the dollar had also retreated to around 1.6563 west german marks from 1.6760 marks
the dollar's slump brought the federal reserve into the market to buy dollars in a bid to support the currency after it fell to around 124.00 yen, traders reported
the financial markets have been ``reminded that stabilizing the dollar is not going to be easy,'' said hugh johnson, a senior vice president of first albany corp. in albany, n.y
traders are anxiously looking toward tuesday's scheduled report on the leading economic indicators for february for a signal on the economy's direction. key unemployment data for march is set to be published on friday, but stock markets will be closed that day in observance of the good friday holiday
irving bank corp., which is resisting a $1.08 billion takeover offer from another banking company, said monday it took additional steps to discourage hostile bidders from acquiring its stock
irving said its board of directors approved an amendment to its share purchase rights plan that would deal with the possibility of a ``street sweep'' under which a bidder who terminates a tender offer then begins buying the target company's begins on the open market or in privately negotiated deals
irving said the provision was adopted to assure that a street sweep would not jeopardize irving's efforts to explore alternatives that would maximize values for its shareholders
bank of new york co. launched a $60-a-share offer of cash and securities last week for each of irving's 18.1 million common shares outstanding
irving has called the offer inadequate, and indicated last week that it was seeking a friendly bidder and exploring other alternatives to thwart the hostile offer
the scrap has attracted an unusual level of attention because hostile takeover efforts are rare in the banking business
a spokesman for bank of new york, owen brady, said his company thought the latest provision adopted by the irving board was illegal and said it was investigating what to do about it
separately, bank of new york disclosed that its chairman, j. carter bacot, asked joseph rice, irving's chairman, in a letter to make sure that bank of new york gets a chance to look at any of the confidential financial information that irving has been sharing with other potential friendly bidders
under the new move by irving, the company's previously adopted share purchase rights plan would be activated if a party who made a tender or exchange offer subsequently bought enough non-tendered irving stock to push its total irving stake to 5 percent or more
if that occurred, each right would entitle its holder to purchase irving stock with a market value double the right's exercise price
bank of new york's tender offer currently is scheduled to expire april 15
steel production rose to 1.996 million tons in the week ended march 26, an increase of 0.3 percent from the previous week's 1.991 million tons, the american iron and steel institute reported monday
the industry's production amounted to 93.0 percent of capacity during the week, compared with 92.7 percent in the previous week
estimated figures for the year to date showed production at 23.725 million net tons, an increase of 33.2 percent from the 17.805 million net tons in the previous year. the steel operations of usx corp., the nation's largest steel producer, were shut down by a strike during the first month of 1987
production so far this year used 89.9 percent of capacity, compared with 68.0 percent a year earlier
net tonnage by district for the week ended march 26: northeast coast, 291,000; pittsburgh, 204,000; youngstown, 124,000; lake erie, 163,000; detroit, 174,000; chicago, 535,000; midwest, 177,000; southern, 225,000; and western, 103,000
the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 0.82 point to 1,979.77
declines outpaced advances by about 2-to-1 on the new york stock exchange
big board volume totaled 142.82 million shares, down from 163.17 million in friday's session
the nyse's composite index was down 0.47 at 146.11
at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 2.64 to 292.00
u.s. sen. john heinz monday said he will introduce legislation to thwart a hostile takeover of koppers co. by british business magnate brian beazer and the wall street investment bank shearson lehman hutton inc
the pennsylvania republican charged again at a news conference that if a $1.7 billion tender offer from bns inc. succeeded, beazer will gain a monopoly in the various local markets for aggregates, road building materials that include the sand and pebbles added to concrete to make cement
one of the reasons it's attractive to have a stranglehold on the existing aggregates business is that environmental laws are such at the state and local level that you cannot easily open ... a new source of aggregate,'' he said. ``so in effect it is a sellers' market for a very very long time.''
u.s. sen. arlen specter, r-pa., said monday he asked attorney general edwin meese to personally review the koppers case and to respond to the request by thursday
heinz withheld details of the proposed legislation
to reveal our stragegy might very well be to jeopardize its success,'' he said
the proposal will be offered this week or after the easter break in congress as an amendment to pending legislation, heinz said. the proposed law is unlike an amendment sponsored by u.s. rep. john bryant, d-texas, to require foreign investors to disclose details of takeover attempts
i'm not in the business of making hollow promises, and i do not make idle threats,'' heinz said. ``i have drafted and am prepared to introduce and press legislation to make the takeover of koppers extremely unpalatable to beazer-shearson and similar consortiums in the future
the corporate raiders will be and should be as surprised by this legislation as koppers was by this raid.''
we are not corporate raiders,'' beazer declared in a full-page advertisement monday in pittsburgh's newspapers. ``our goal is not to make a quick buck. rather, we are in the process of creating a vital, dynamic worldwide organization.''
beazer's ad appealed to koppers' worried employees and to the city to investigate the fate of the atlanta homebuilder cohn communities and the dallas construction materials company gifford-hill after he acquired them in 1985 and 1986 respectively
each of those companies has grown and prospered under our ownership,'' he said
koppers has rejected each of the offers, $45, $56 and $60 per share, that bns has made since launching its cash tender offer march 3. the latest expires april 7, although a federal court in california has blocked the acquisition over anti-trust concerns
koppers management says it may sell all or part of the company or pay cash to shareholders to keep the company out of beazer's hands
heinz said taxpayers would spend more for public roads if the takeover succeeds. the combination would heighten beazer's concentration in markets where his holdings and koppers compete
the two of them combined in what are essentially local market areas would, if the sale went through, amount to a de facto local monopoly on very costly road building materials,'' he said
the senator, allegheny county commission chairman thomas foerster and others at the news conference warned that the takeover jeopardizes the approximately 1,100 pittsburgh-area jobs in koppers' chemicals businesses
beazer has said he would sell chemicals and related businesses, although it is not clear that all those jobs would be eliminated
opponents also worry about the $232 million that koppers contributes to the area economy
heinz joined city, county and state officials who have lambasted shearson for going a step beyond traditional takeover financing and becoming an equity partner in the takeover company, bns
i am appalled by the involvement of shearson,'' he said. ``shearson stands to gain tens of millions of dollars in fees simply for shuffling some paper around.''
shearson officials have said their ownership in bns is merely a temporary method of helping finance the takeover
the federal fund that insures deposits in commercial banks could suffer a loss in 1988 for the first time in its 54-year history, federal deposit insurance corp. chairman l. william seidman said monday
seidman said a loss to the insurance fund, if any, would depend on how much the fdic spends to resolve the problems of first republicbank of dallas, which earlier this month received a $1 billion infusion of government aid
the deterioration of texas banks, hard hit by losses on real estate and energy loans, has raised concern about the health of the insurance fund, which backs deposits of up to $100,000 in 13,700 commercial banks
speaking at a luncheon meeting with reporters, seidman said it is too soon to say with certainty what the cost of restoring first republicbank to health will be. but, he said the $5 billion to $6 billion estimates of some are ``far higher than anything that is likely to be required.''
he said the $1.7 billion cost of the 1984 bailout of continental illinois bank &amp; trust co., which was about the same size as first republicbank, ``is the best guide we have.''
the fdic's initial outlay on first republicbank could be higher than the ultimate cost, just as it was in the case of continental when the agency spent $4.5 billion, seidman said
however, he said the fdic now usually tries to structure bank rescues so that the initial cash cost is close to the ultimate cost
if the first republicbank cost is in the $1.7 billion range and if banks fail this year at about the same rate as last year, then ``it is possible we will have a loss in 1988,'' he said
last year, a post-depression record of 184 banks failed. forty-four have failed so far this year and seidman said he expected the 1988 total to be roughly the same as 1987
as failures have increased, the steady growth of the fdic fund _ from $4.6 billion in 1970, $11.6 billion in 1980 to $17.9 billion in 1985 _ has slowed. the fund finished 1986 with $18.2 billion and 1987 with $18.3 billion
seidman said the 1988 loss, if it occurs, would be ``something under 5 percent ... certainly under ... $1 billion.'' he said he did not see any prospect for what he termed a substantial loss, one approaching 20 percent, or about $3.5 billion
he contrasted the relatively healthy condition of the fdic fund with that of the federal savings and loan insurance corp., which insures deposits in 3,170 savings institutions. fslic was insolvent until last fall when money began flowing from congressionally-authorized bond sales. it has had to keep bankrupt s&amp;ls open because it lacked the money to pay off depositors
the dollar plunged again monday, piercing key levels as central bank intervention failed to pull it out of the doldrums
gold prices rose. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $455.10 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from friday's late bid of $452.75 an ounce
in a wave that swept westward, the dollar fell in tokyo before closing lower in very light european trading. in new york, the dollar dipped below the 124-yen barrier to finish at its lowest point since early january in active trading
dealers said the federal reserve entered the market to buy dollars, but the move only served to smooth out the currency's latest decline, which began last week
the fed was not very useful in what you'd call turning (the dollar) around,'' said ron sapiro, head trader at continental illinois national bank &amp; trust co. in chicago
but because the dollar's decline was essentially orderly, ``there was no reason for the fed to come in en masse,'' he added
traders in europe were surprised that central banks did not aggressively step in to support the dollar. ``it's gotten away with (the decline) because it's been so gradual,'' said a london trader, who speculated that the central banks would have intervened to stave off a hastier retreat
traders said the dollar's slide was fueled more by investors' attraction to other major currencies than by any worries about u.s. economic factors. ``everybody's in love with the yen,'' rather than spurning the dollar, sapiro said
but the yen is not the only currency on the rise. ``all the high-yielding (major) currencies are benefitting'' from the market's recent strength, said james mcgroarty, a vice president at discount corp
instead of simply selling dollars, traders are jockeying their deals among several currencies. ``there has been a lot of cross-playing,'' sapiro said, albeit at the dollar's expense
with most currency markets scheduled to close friday for the easter holiday, traders may already be beginning to square off their positions, analysts said
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar fell for a third consecutive trading day, dropping 1.31 yen to a closing 124.43 yen. later in london, the dollar was quoted lower at 124.20 yen
in new york, the dollar closed still lower at 123.84 yen, down sharply from 125.30 yen on friday
the bank of japan intervened shortly after the start of tokyo trading to prop up the dollar at about 124.40 yen, traders said. one of the central bank's currency dealers, taeko kobayashi, said the bank bought $100 million to $200 million
the british pound rose in london to $1.8590 from $1.8360. in new york, it cost $1.8705 to buy one pound, more expensive than friday's $1.84175
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late friday, included: 1.65615 west german marks, down from 1.6760; 1.3652 swiss francs, down from 1.3865; 5.6130 french francs, down from 5.68625; 1.23715 canadian dollars, down from 1.24205; and 1,226.00 italian lire, down from 1,238.50
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late friday, included: 1.6605 west german marks, down from 1.6760; 1.3705 swiss francs, down from 1.3865; 5.6275 french francs, down from 5.6860; 1.8685 dutch guilders, down from 1.8820; 1,231.00 italian lire, down from 1,241.00; and 1.2377 canadian dollars, down from 1.2433
gold prices jumped higher. on new york's commodity exchange, gold closed at $455.80 a troy ounce, up from $453.20 on friday. in london, gold rose to a late bid price of $454 a troy ounce, compared with late friday's $451.70
in zurich, gold also moved higher, closing at a bid $453.50, compared with $451.50 late friday. earlier in hong kong, gold fell 59 cents from saturday's close to a bid $454.67
silver closed unchanged at $6.665 a troy ounce on new york's comex. in london the metal traded at a bid of $6.63 a troy ounce, down 1 cent from late friday. concerns</head>
the possibility of severe drought damage to brazilian soybean crops helped propel u.s. soybean futures prices above $6.50 a bushel monday to their highest levels since mid-1984
grain futures retreated in other trading on the chicago board of trade
on other exchanges, copper futures fell sharply while precious metals were mixed; energy futures advanced; livestock and meat futures were mixed; and stock-index futures advanced
news that a month-long dry spell in the brazilian soybean-growing region of rio grande du sul had prompted the government there to declare a state of emergency on friday gave u.s. soybean futures a healthy boost, analysts said
but traders were divided over the extent of damage to the nearly ripe brazilian crop, especially after light weekend rains were reported in the rio grande du sul area
nevertheless, most soybean contracts closed at new lifetime high prices on a combination of fundamental and technical factors with most players feeling bullish ahead of thursday's agriculture department reports on spring planting intentions and grain stocks, analysts said
right now, everything seems to be go in this market,'' said ted mao, grain specialist with shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york
wheat posted significant losses due to rainy weather in the midwest, which was seen as helping out the new crop, said jerry gidel, an analyst in chicago with g.h. miller &amp; co
wheat settled 4 cents to 5{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $2.99{ a bushel; corn was 1 cent lower to } cent higher with may at $2.10{ a bushel; oats were 1 cent to 2\ cents lower with may at $1.66} a bushel; soybeans were 3 cents to 9} cents higher with may at $6.55} a bushel
copper futures plummeted on new york's commodity exchange in reaction to a rise in inventories of the metal at the warehouses of the world's two largest copper exchanges
the comex reported an increase in warehouse copper stocks of 1,425 short tons to 11,170 short tons. the london metal exchange reported an increase of 425 metric tons to 56,725 metric tons
the closely watched march contract was the big loser, tumbling 6.15 cents to $1.076 a pound. some of that activity was also due to traders selling out of the march contract before it goes off the board on tuesday, said bette raptopoulos, metals analyst in new york with prudential-bache securities inc
also on the comex, gold futures advanced slightly and silver was nearly unchanged in quiet trading
gold settled $2.60 to $2.80 lower with april at $455.90 a troy ounce; silver was unchanged to 0.5 cent lower with march at $6.665 a troy ounce
energy futures advanced in slow, featureless trading on the new york mercantile exchange
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 6 cents to 7 cents higher with may at $17.10 a barrel; heating oil was .27 cent to .47 cent higher with april at 48.17 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .08 cent to .10 cent higher with april at 48.02 cents a gallon
the contracts for april and june delivery of live cattle posted new highs on the chicago mercantile exchange. feeder cattle also advanced while pork futures retreated
higher cash markets underpinned the rise in cattle futures, said tom morgan, president of sterling research corp. in arlington heights, ill
pork-complex prices fell on expectations that the usda's quarterly hogs and pigs report will show an increase in the nation's hog herd of 4 percent to 8 percent from a year ago, morgan said
live cattle settled .30 cent to .55 cent higher with april at 75.42 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .23 cent to .73 cent higher with march at 82.95 cents a pound; hogs were .10 cent to .33 cent lower with april at 46.05 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .20 cent to .92 cent lower with may at 56.45 cents a pound
stock-index futures advanced on the chicago merc, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 2.15 points higher at 259.90. the underlying spot index finished .45 point lower at 258.06
representatives of international paper co. and its striking unions met monday in an attempt to defuse the hostility that has permeated negotiations during a yearlong contract dispute and hindered chances of a settlement
both sides declined to release information on what was discussed or how long they met
we've agreed that any releases would be joint statements and only where there's something to report,'' said william meserve, president of local 14 of the united paperworkers international union in jay, maine
he did say the two sides would meet again tuesday, and the talks are expected to last for weeks. ip has paper mills throughout the country
company spokesman william greener echoed meserve's statement, saying from the company's purchase, n.y., headquarters that neither side intended to release details of the meetings
ip and its unions, the upiu and the international brotherhood of firemen and oilers, have been at odds for more than a year over contracts that have come up for renewal. the disagreements focus on whether local contracts should restore premium pay for sunday and holidays
premium pay had been eliminated with labor's approval from past contracts, but since the industry's fortunes have improved in the last year, the unions have campaigned to revive the benefit
about 3,500 workers in four locations are embroiled in contract fights. in mobile, ala., 1,200 workers have been locked out of their jobs by the company. an additional 2,300 have struck plants in jay, lock haven, pa., and depere, wis
contracts are also open in pine bluff and camden, ark., and natchez, miss
ip has continued to operate its mills with replacement workers. the company claims the strike-breakers are now permanent employees and has offered assistance to strikers who want to re-enter the job market, including positions at other ip mills. the unions have rejected such offers
international paper co. claimed earnings of $305 million in 1986 and said it expected to post earnings of $407 million when final figures are released. however, the company said its profitablity was below the industry average in both 1986 and 1987, when measured in terms of its net worth
a fresh decline in the dollar and lingering anxiety about wall street's own strength pushed stock prices mostly lower monday, but the market avoided the sharp falls of the preceding two sessions
the dow jones average of 30 industrials closed a scant 0.82 higher at 1,979.77, after posting moderate declines through much of the trading session
but the broader market moved downward. declining issues outpaced advances by more than 2-to-1 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,059 issues falling, 468 gaining and 420 unchanged
volume on the big board totaled 142.82 million shares, down from 163.17 million in friday's session
many investors had their new-found confidence shaken late last week when stocks fell sharply on thursday and friday. the closely watched dow jones average tumbled around 45 points on friday after falling nearly 44 points in the previous session _ sparking widespread fears that monday's session could turn into another ``black monday'' akin to the collapse on oct. 19
we've been almost rudely reminded that the market is still on very, very thin ice,'' said hugh johnson, a senior vice president of first albany corp. in albany, n.y. ``it's still volatile and vulnerable.''
but monday's decline was tempered by some ``bargain-hunting'' buying at the lower price levels, traders said. they noted, though, that many foreign investors and financial institutions remained on the sidelines
although the latest losses were more moderate, analysts said they reflected a bearish sentiment that continued to pervade the market. and the anxiety was deepened by fresh declines in the battered dollar on world currency markets
we're again hooked to the dollar,'' said monte gordon, director of research for dreyfus corp. ``the market continues to wallow in confusion and uncertainty.''
the u.s. currency was quoted at below 124 japanese yen in late trading in new york, down sharply from more than 125 yen late friday. the dollar also retreated to around 1.66 west german marks from 1.68 marks
earlier in the day, the dollar's slump brought the federal reserve into the market to buy dollars in a bid to support the currency after it fell to around 124 yen, traders reported
the financial markets have been ``reminded that stabilizing the dollar is not going to be easy,'' first albany's johnson said
among the most actively traded issues on the nyse, bankers trust was down \ at 31}, at&amp;t fell ] to 26}, gillette dropped 1| to 45[, navistar lost \ at 6] and american express was unchanged at 24{
shares of lucky stores, the object of a $1.74 billion, $45-a-share tender offer from american stores, rose ~ to 48|. ibm advanced 1[ to 108[, while general electric gained { at 41
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 168.89 million shares
the nyse's composite index was down 0.47 at 146.11
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials slipped 0.45 point to 299.08, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was also down 0.45, at 258.06
at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 2.64 to 292.00. the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market closed at 370.42, down 2.12
a state court judge reserved a decision monday on a request that he prohibit six former top executives of lord, geller, federico, einstein inc. from soliciting business or employees from lord geller for their new ad agency
justice herman cahn asked attorneys for lord geller, which had made the request for a preliminary injunction, and for the defecting lord geller executives to work out a plan for introducing evidence in the case
the six executives, led by lord geller founding partners richard lord and arthur einstein jr., walked off the job march 18, saying they felt unduly constrained under the ownership of the british firm, wpp group plc
wpp group, which is headed by martin sorrell, had aquired lord geller last summer when he bought its parent, jwt group inc., for $566 million in the biggest ad agency acquisition ever. in addition to lord geller, jwt group owned the much larger advertising agency, j. walter thompson co
since the six top partners left lord geller to form a new agency called lord, einstein, o'neill &amp; partners, about 30 other lord geller employees have quit, some of them signing on with the new agency
two lord geller clients, wnbc-tv and new yorker magazine, have indicated they plan to take their business to the new agency
but most of the ad world's attention is focused international business machines corp., the computer giant which reportedly accounts for about half of lord geller's $245 million in annual billings
four companies seeking to build a state-of-the-art transportation system in florida's congested corridors conjured images monday of a bullet train that would whisk passengers at speeds of 150-250 mph along a tampa-miami route
company representatives envisioned sleek, high-technology trains that resembled airplanes in appearance, planned suburbs and cities springing up along the routes and quiet and comfortable trips between tampa and miami that took only 90 minutes, regardless of the weather
state officials attending the presentations were urged to think about the tourism boom, the business opportunities and environmental advantage of having a clean and efficient way of moving as many as 6 million people along routes between miami, orlando and tampa every year
legislative leaders seemed to like what they were hearing
florida was the first state to have a settlement in the new world, it was the site of the first moon launch and now it will be the site of the first truly modern rail system in the world,'' said house speaker jon mills. ``i think it's symbolic of what florida can become.''
mills, d-gainesville, attended the crowded presentation ceremony in florida's old capitol along with gov. bob martinez, senate president john vogt, d-merritt island, and officials of the rail commission
the florida high speed rail transportation commission was not expected to award a franchise until september 1991 to allow time to study the project and its costs, which could run as high as $5 billion. the train linking tampa, orlando and miami is expected to be running by 1995
state guidelines mandate that the project must link the three cities, but the applicants will determine precise routes, financing agreements and the technology they will use
the company that wins the franchise will be allowed to develop property adjacent to the route for rail stations and connecting attractions. the idea is that those developmental rights will help the company recoup the startup costs of building the rail system
one of the four applicants was tgv of florida inc., backed by the french company alsthom, which supplies tgv trains to the french national railways, and bombardier inc., a canadian manufacturing consortium
tgv's proposal for an electrified system would include trains that could run up to 185 mph and the cost several billion dollars
tgv's big advantage is that the system in france has been very successful
all american magneplane inc. argued that its technology was newer, faster and cleaner environmentally. the magnetic-levitation trains, called ``mag-lev'' for short, would glide along a magnetic field along an elevated track. because a magnetic force controls the movement of the train instead of electricity or diesel-powered engines, company officials said their system eliminates the dependence on oil
that system also is expensive, in the neighborhood of $3 billion
two other companies, the florida high speed rail corp. and stone and webster engineering corp., have proposed plans for systems that run a little slower, in the neighborhood of 150 mph, and cost less because they use existing transportation corridors
stone and webster have submitted the lowest general estimate of cost, recommending that the system could be built for about $1 billion
after judging the proposals on the basis of environmental effects, financial arrangements, growth patterns and technologies, the rail commiission can recommend one, or none, of the applicants to the governor and cabinet
the world bank, which borrows on world markets for re-lending to poor countries, announced on monday that it is asking 14 u.s. companies outside new york and three in toronto to be agents for the sale of its longer-term bonds
its object is to get a bigger variety of investors, the announcement said
the 17 companies will be in addition to the five in the united states which are now primary agents for what the bank calls its continuously offered longer-term securities (colts). these are bonds with maturities of three to more than 30 years
it has $1.4 billion in such bonds outstanding
a former stock analyst who pleaded guilty to a criminal charge in the ``yuppie five'' insider trading scandal, settled a civil action with the securities and exchange commission monday
andrew solomon, formerly a researcher at the marcus schloss &amp; co. brokerage, settled civil charges by admitting his participation in a scheme to trade on inside information of corporate activities
insider trading is the wrongful use of confidential information to profit in securities transactions
the settlement is subject to a judge's approval
solomon, 28, of manhattan, pleaded guilty june 5, 1986, to one count of conspiracy. he was sentenced nov. 26, 1986, to one year's probation, 250 hours of community service and a $10,000 fine
he could have been sentenced to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine
solomon was part of a ring that included four wall street professionals and one of their clients, all known as the ``yuppie five.'' they traded in securities involved in six proposed or anticipated corporate takeovers using non-public information
in settling the sec civil charges, solomon admitted passing on inside information about gaf corp.'s tender offer for union carbide corp., dominion textile's tender offer for avondale mills as well as a takeover bid of american brands by bat industries, all before they were made public
in february, marcus schloss &amp; co. agreed to pay $410,700 _ without admitting or denying guilt _ to settle civil insider trading charges with the sec
general motors corp.'s chevrolet division is extending rebates ranging from $400 to $1,200 on several cars and trucks, the company said monday
the incentives, which were to expire april 30, will run through may 11
they include rebates of $1,200 to import owners buying the subcompact chevrolet nova, built at a toyota-run joint-venture factory in fremont, calif. non-import owners receive a $600 rebate on nova
other rebates include: $400 on chevrolet cavalier, $500 on beretta, spectrum, s-10 pickup and blazer, full-size pickup and cab-and-chassis and chevy van and sportvan; $750 on camaro and celebrity and $1,000 on spectrum turbo and camaro in hawaii and california
the rebate can be taken as cash or used for a down payment. buyers must take delivery by the campaign's expiration
usg corp. urged its stockholders monday to reject a slate of board candidates recommended by desert partners lp and repeated its opposition to the texas group's $1.9 billion hostile takeover attempt
in a letter accompanying its proxy statement for the may 11 annual meeting, usg asked its stockholders to elect the slate of candidates nominated by the usg board to fill six spots on the 15-member panel
desert partners, meanwhile, announced it had extended until april 8 its $42-a-share cash tender offer for up to 21.5 million shares of usg stock. the offer was set to expire monday at 11:59 p.m. est
desert partners, a limited partnership led by texas oilmen jack e. brown and cyril wagner jr., had also offered to buy the remainder of usg's outstanding shares with securities valued at $42 a share
chicago-based usg, a leading producer of gypsum wallboard and other building materials, told its stockholders that desert partners had reserved the right to cancel its tender offer unless all of the many conditions set forth in securities and exchange commission regulations were met
if desert partners were to win the proxy fight, then drop its tender offer, ``desert partners would have obtained control of 40 percent of usg's board without paying anything to usg stockholders or committing to do so in the future,'' wrote robert j. day, usg's chairman and chief executive officer
day stated that brown and wagner had proposed takeovers of at least three other public companies in the past but had not yet acquired any of them
day's letter said desert partners' proxy materials did not disclose whether its board candidates had any experience in overseeing a large public company ``and did not disclose what the desert candidates would do if elected other than support the desert partners takeover campaign.''
desert partners announced the extension of its cash tender offer in a statement. the texas group also said it was negotiating for additional financing in hopes of increasing the number of shares in the cash tender offer from 21.5 million to 39 million
desert partners owned a 9.9 percent stake in usg when it launched the tender offer, and said a ``nominal number'' of shares had been tendered through the end of last week. bid for icl, no pickup.</note>
corning glass works and smithkline beckman corp. each raised their bids monday for international clinical laboratories, a chain of clinical-testing laboratories that is based in tennessee
corning moved first, increasing its tender offer to about $360 million, or $35 a share for icl's 10 million-plus outstanding shares and common stock equivalents
but smithkline, based in philadelphia, soon followed by raising its offer to $37 a share, which it said would amount to about $400 million. it had previously offered $32 a share
on wall street, ici's stock rose $1.75 per share to $36.75 in nationwide over-the-counter trading
corning had started the bidding on march 8 at $260 million
under terms of its merger agreement, corning would have an option to buy 3 million unissued icl shares as well as ``all the shares owned by certain directors and officers'' for $26 each
henry wendt, smithkline chairman and chief executive officer, said the merger with the nashville, tenn.-based icl would fit with the pharmaceutical giant's acquistion of bio-science laboratories
this increased offer reaffirms the strategic commitment to invest in our key businesses,'' wendt said. ``since the merger with bio-science laboratories in 1985, our clinical laboratories have made a substantial and growing contribution to the corporation
this investment will enhance that record of achievement,'' wendt said
the smithkline offer expires at midnight april 20, the company said
corning's latest offer, which is subject to federal approval and is contingent on buying a majority of shares, expires at midnight april 8
in raising its offer, corning chairman james houghton said his company would not back off from its campaign
expansion of our medical-laboratory business is an important strategic goal, and this acquisition continues to be a very attractive one for corning, even at this increased price. we are determined to complete our agreed-upon merger,'' he said
icl operates 13 major laboratories, mainly in the south and west, and earned $4.8 million on sales of $205 million last fiscal year
the company would be merged with corning's own laboratory subsidiary, metpath inc., which is based in tetersboro, n.j., and has a dozen other testing labs in the united states
besides laboratory services, corning makes consumer housewares, optical fibers and other telecommunications equipment and speciality glass and ceramics. last year, corning had sales of $2.08 billion
smithkline bio-science laboratories, the company's clinical laboratory segment headquartered in king of prussia, pa., operates 22 regional laboratories. it reported sales of $431 million last year. share and clarifies references to size of companies. picks up 11th graf pvs ``the letter praised...''</note>
american stores co. said monday it was prepared to up its bid for lucky stores inc. to more than $1.9 billion in an effort to create the nation's largest grocery store chain
in a letter to the board of the dublin, calif.-based company, american stores chairman l.s. skaggs said his company was ready to offer $50 per share if a ``mutually acceptable agreement'' could be worked out with lucky stores
earlier monday, american launched a cash tender offer for lucky at $45 per share, or a total of $1.74 billion. that offer expires at midnight april 22
we made clear our willingness to negotiate concerning all aspects of our offer, including the price,'' said skaggs in his letter to lucky
skaggs noted that lucky stores' representatives had so far declined the invitation to negotiate
the combination of american, the nation's third largest grocery retailer with 1,700 stores and annual sales of $15 billion, and lucky, the sixth largest with 480 stores and sales of $7 billion, could produce the biggest grocery retailer in the country, analysts say
lucky stores officials were not immediately available for comment on the latest developments, which were announced by press release after the close of stock trading
lucky shares advanced 87{ cents to close at $48.62{, while american shares lost $1.75 to finish at $54.87{ on the new york stock exchange
before american revealed the contents of its letter to the lucky stores board, lucky spokeswoman lissa perlman said company officials had been reviewing the offer with financial and legal advisers since last week
lucky strongly advises its stockholders not to take any action with respect to the american stores offer'' until the lucky board of directors has a chance to further study the bid and make its recommendation, perlman said
no deadline for a recommendation was given
in a march 21 letter, skaggs notified lucky stores chairman john m. lillie of the then impending tender offer. skaggs said if the offer was successful, he planned to combine american store's alpha beta stores with lucky's operation under the lucky name
the letter praised lucky's management and marketing strategies and invited lucky executives to stay on if the deal is completed. lucky's headquarters would remain in dublin, skaggs said
the bid for lucky came 16 months after takeover specialist asher edelman dropped his hostile effort to acquire the company. in return, lucky agreed to pay his $2.8 million in legal bills
lucky kept edelman at bay partially by selling off its non-grocery divisions and adopting anti-takeover measures
after the text of the letter was released last week, lucky officials had no comment on the american stores' tender offer except to say company bylaws contain a ``poison pill'' anti-takeover provision limiting the voting power of any shareholder who acquires more than 10 percent of lucky's stock
american stores last made financial headlines in 1984 when it spent $1.1 billion to take over jewel companies inc., a chicago-based grocery, drug and convenience store chain
that acquisition expanded american stores' operations from just over 1,000 retail outlets to its present 1,700. the company has three divisions _ skaggs, which operates supermarkets in the western united states; american superstores, which runs outlets in the midwest and east, and osco drug stores, which has stores nationwide
the company operates stores under the names acme, jewel, star, buttrey, skaggs, skaggs alpha beta, and osco drug. billion,'' with reno court developments, picks up 5th graf original, ``the kansas ... regulatory approval.''</note>
a proxy solicitation by batus inc., which is making a hostile bid for insurer farmers group inc., may be illegal and may have to be halted, the kansas insurance department has said
the ruling was disclosed monday by los angeles-based farmers, which has been resisting takeover overtures by batus since january. it was later confirmed by batus, the american subsidiary of london-based bat industries inc. plc
at issue is whether a proposal by batus for which proxies are being sought would, if successful, constitute a change in control of the company
the proposal seeks to make farmers' directors reconsider their previous refusal to negotiate on batus' takeover offer of $63 per share, or $4.5 billion
meanwhile, farmers filed suit monday in nevada, where the company is incorporated, challenging batus's proxy solicitation. farmers claims batus did not disclose enough information in the solicitation. an april 13 hearing on the dispute was scheduled in u.s. district court in reno
judge howard mckibben also said he would decide by wednesday whether to declare unconstitutional the nevada takeover act, which prevents stockholders from taking advantage of tender offers after the deal is 60 days old
the nevada attorney general's office contends the law is meant to protect investors from being strung along for months during a takeover bid
but batus' attorneys argue the nevada law conflicts with the federal williams act, which gives shareholders the right to participate in tender offers at will
the kansas insurance company holding act says no one can take control of an insurer without first obtaining regulatory approval
control shall be presumed to exist if any person ... holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the voting securities,'' the law says
if the issue isn't resolved or the proxy solicitation isn't ``stopped immediately,'' the regulators said, the department will be ``required to initiate the applicable administrative or legal action.''
the kansas insurance department outlined its concerns in a letter to batus dated last thursday
batus said monday that it is responding and ``strongly believes that it will be able to satisfy the concerns raised.''
batus is basing its argument on the contention that its proposal, even if successful, couldn't directly constitute a change in control of farmers
in fact, a change in control cannot result from a vote on our proxy,'' batus spokesman wilson wyatt said
kansas is one of nine states in which farmers owns insurers. regulatory approval must be obtained in each of those
besides kansas, where farmers group operates farmers insurance co., and california, where farmers group is based, the other states are arizona, idaho, illinois, ohio, oregon, texas and washington
farmers, in its release monday, noted that insurance regulators in texas, illinois and idaho have rejected or found deficient certain required filings by batus on grounds that they contained inadequate information
bat is a tobacco, retailing and paper-goods conglomerate that for some time has been seeking a foothold in the u.s. financial services market. its american subsidiary, batus, is based in louisville, ky
farmers, with about $11 billion in assets, is the nation's third largest home and auto insurer, and the seventh largest property and casualty insurer
an executive vice president of allied signal inc. has been chosen the company's president and chief operating officer, officials of the advanced techonolgy firm announced monday
alan belzer, who has also been president of the company's $2.8 billion engineered materials sector, will assume his new posts april 1, said edward l. hennessy, chairman and chief executive officer of allied signal
hennessy said the materials sector under belzer, 55, has been the most consistently profitable of allied signal's three operating units
in his new position, alan will oversee the day-to-day operations of the company's successful core businesses in aerospace, engineered materials and automotive products,'' hennessy said
belzer, 55, joined allied signal in 1955
