ey</head>
an employee of texas billionaire h. ross perot carried a letter from white house aide oliver l. north giving him presidential authority for transporting $100,000 to canada as part of a plan to free a u.s. hostage in lebanon, according to a published report
north sent the courier, jay coburn, to canada in january 1986 with a letter on national security council stationery that said coburn ``is acting on official u.s. government business on behalf of the president of the united states,'' according to a copy of the letter obtained by the washington post
in support of this mission he has the authority to transport and disburse as necessary, u.s. $100,000,'' the letter said. ``in the event of emergency or clarification, please contact: oliver l. north.''
perot had provided the money, at north's request, to help free peter c. kilburn, the librarian at the american university in beirut who was kidnapped dec. 3, 1984. kilburn was killed by a libyan terrorist group in april 1986 in apparent retaliation for the u.s. bombing of libya
coburn needed the north letter in case u.s. customs service agents stopped him at the border, the post said in friday's editions. travelers must file a disclosure statement if they take more than $10,000 out of the country. failure to file is punishable by up to $250,000 in fines and five years in prison
the post said coburn has told associates that he filed no disclosure statement and planned to rely on north's letter if he ran into trouble at the border
coburn got into canada without difficulty and in montreal, he gave the money to a canadian citizen who had provided proof of contact with kilburn's captors. the canadian said the $100,000 was a down payment and that with it, he could arrange kilburn's release for $1 million more, said the post, which did not identify the man
the canadian contact took the money, but never came through with his end of the deal and was later observed by the cia in damascus, spending the money on high living, the post said, citing unidentified sources for the information
the post said that a senior fbi official has told congress that then-fbi director william h. webster _ who is now cia director _ approved the fbi's participation in the plan. the newspaper said the plan also was discussed with attorney general edwin meese iii
north has said repeatedly that he had express authority from his superiors for his actions
however, the white house has said reagan had no knowledge of any efforts to ransom u.s. hostages in lebanon
north, who was fired from his job as an nsc aide in late 1986 following revelations of the secret sales of arms to iran and the diversion of profits from those sales to the nicaraguan contra rebels, was indicted wednesday
he was charged with conspiracy to defraud the government and commit criminal offenses against it, theft of government property and wire fraud arising from the diversion of arms-sales proceeds. he was named in nine counts charging him with obstruction of congress, making false statements, obstructing meese's nov. 21-23, 1986 inquiry by making false statements and concealing, falsifying and destroying classified government documents in nsc files
also indicted wednesday were former national security adviser john m. poindexter and arms dealers richard v. secord and albert hakim
three men in red academic robes and mortarboards walked across the platform at boston university to receive their master's degrees, and later walked back into prison
steven kelleher, robert layne and gene perry, inmates at the medium-security bay state correctional center in norfolk, became the first master's recipients under a 16-year-old prison education program
you begin to see your relationship with society and what you owe to it,'' said kelleher, 36, in the seventh year of a 12- to 20-year sentence for armed robbery. ``it puts everything in a different light.''
layne, 41, serving two consecutive terms for possession of a firearm and receiving stolen property, said higher education leads to more responsible action in society
life is decision making,'' said layne. ``bad decisions put you in jail. the more complex and complicated the decision, the more education is needed to make the right choice.''
it was tough to study after being away for all those years,'' said perry, 41, who has served eight years for second-degree murder. ``but after i got the hunger to learn, it was something that just took over.''
all three, bestowed master of liberal arts degrees wednesday, got their undergraduate degrees in prison and each expressed a desire to perform counseling or social work once free
the three graduates join about 60 other degree recipients in the program, which has served more than 500 inmates at the medium security state prison at norfolk prison and the adjacent minimum security correctional center with classes from high school equivalency to postgraduate
this is the true model for education for all,'' said elizabeth ``ma'' barker, a bu professor emeritus and founder of the school's prison program. ``this is truly education befitting all free men.''
bu pays for textbooks and teacher salaries and the state subsidizes tutition for the inmates. in 1985, the non-profit massachusetts council on prison education was formed representing 11 higher education institutions offering classes to inmates, including bu and curry college in milton
bu president john silber told the nearly 100 friends, family and educators at wednesday's ceremony that some consider the program an unnecessary frill
these are individuals who society deemed not worthy of being free,'' said silber. ``through education, they become useful citizens catering to the society they depend on. they are earning their right to be free.''
dust was in the air as west texans coped with the annual onslaught of earth, wind and fiery sandstorms
the season usually begins in mid-march and ends in may. april is the windiest month, and the driven dust can sand-blast car finishes, damage skin and hair and make life miserable for allergy sufferers and people with respiratory illnesses
el paso suffered through its first dust storm of the year a week ago, once again meeting a timetable as old as the desert and texas' south plains
the season's high winds and dry weather, combined with plowed-under fields, make lubbock particularly dusty this time of year, said andy anderson, meteorologist in charge at the national weather service there
everything unfortunately seems to work in harmony,'' he said
conditions are similar in the desert of the trans-pecos, where moisture is scarce and the dust easily swirls in the warm winds
it's so windy in the panhandle that amarillo high school's mascot is the sandstorm. the school's sports teams are known as the amarillo high sandies
wind picks up in spring because of uneven heating of the earth, causing fronts and upper-level disturbances, said howard wheless of the weather service office here
we're going from winter to summer,'' wheless said. ``it's just a cycle that mother nature goes through.''
it's also a cycle that allergy sufferers have to go through. at the el paso allergy and asthma center, business picks up about 15 percent to 20 percent during dust storm season, said spokesman jon kersey
we're seeing a lot of people come in,'' he said. ``they complain of allergic rhinitis, asthma, wheezing, tightness in the chest.''
allergic rhinitis is another way of saying hay fever
the wind-blown dust pits windshields and scratches car finishes, but the body-repair business doesn't increase much during dust storm season, said enrique medina, president of spraymaster paint &amp; body in el paso
imogene johns, manager of aladdin beauty college in el paso, said she, like most people, procrastinates when it comes to protecting her hair and skin this time of year
knowing better, i'll wait 'till it's too late,'' she said
she said people should use skin moisturizers and hair conditioners ``to keep those ends from being whipped up in the sand.''
once it hits, taking care of it later is kind of like running out after the horse is out and shutting the barn door,'' she said. to honduras. picks up 16th graf pvs, bgng: ``meanwhile, partisan ...''; deletes last graf to tighten.</note>
senate majority leader robert byrd on wednesday called president reagan's plan to send 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras an ``overreaction'' to the movement of nicaraguan forces into that country
other legislators were more cautious in their reaction to the white house announcement that u.s. troops were being dispatched for what presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater termed a ``measured response designed to show our staunch support to the democratic government of honduras.''
i just hope it's merited,'' sen. john kerry, d-mass., said, recalling a similar incident two years ago when the united states leaped to the aid of honduras under circumstances many saw as exaggerated by the white house. ``i hope this is not an overreaction.''
a contra supporter, sen. john mccain, r-ariz., said he would ``reserve judgment'' on the wisdom of reagan's decision but that u.s. combat involvement did not appear to be warranted
i think that it's clear that the honduran government sought a show of support from the united states,'' mccain said. ``i believe these troops are not and must not be put into combat and to some degree it will shift the focus from what the sandinistras are doing to what our troops will be doing down there.''
house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., appeared supportive of the decision and said it was intended ``psychologically to give an indication that we are not just going to stand by and have nicaragua ... make incursions into neighboring countries.''
but byrd, d-w.va., said the administration was going too far
it's an overreaction,'' he said. ``the sandinistas have crossed over the border before and gone back.''
jason isaacson, a spokesman for sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., said the senator saw the administratoin action as an effort ``to divert attention from the iran-contra indictments and to turn up the heat on congress for more aid to the contras.''
rep. jack fields, r-texas, said, ``i don't think the president really had an alternative'' to sending the troops to nicaragua
the purpose is for them to demonstrate our commitment to regional peace and stability,'' fields said. ``i lay the blame for the president having no alternative at the feet of (house speaker) jim wright and the democrats who scuttled the contra aid package
earlier wednesday before the troop action was announced, wright, d-texas, said nicaragua already was ordering its troops back from the incursion into honduras and that plans for resumption of cease-fire talks with the contra rebels next week remain on track
wright said if those developments in fact occur, the seriousness of the cross-border fighting will be greatly minimized and will have little impact on the political climate in congress toward further aid for the rebels
but he said the reverse is also true, that aid prospects could improve if sandinista troops do not withdraw
wright said word of the order for sandinista troops to pull back had been relayed to him by nicaraguan foreign minister miguel d'escoto, who also said president daniel ortega was asking the united nations to send an observer group to the border area
at the same time, others in congress were skeptical about administration portrayal of the incursion as ``a genuine national security problem for the united states,'' as secretary of state george shultz described it
they have cried wolf so many times ... even supporters of contra aid are somewhat skeptical,'' said sen. patrick leahy, d-vt., an aid opponent. ``it is apparently a major raid on a contra camp in the jungles. now, that does not pose a threat to honduras or its capital.''
i think you have to ask the question of whether 1,200 nicaraguans going across the honduran border is a threat to u.s. national security,'' said majority whip tony coelho, d-calif
in this situation there is questionable trust in the activities of the white house and the state department,'' coelho said
wright said he still does not believe support exists in congress for any kind of renewed military aid for the rebels, and repeated that congressional democrats remain willing to talk about a further package of purely ``humanitarian'' aid
but he did question the judgment of ortega in mounting the military action on the border. ``i would have preferred certainly that no armed forces of any country enter into the territory of another country,'' wright said
meanwhile, partisan warfare broke out on the house floor after democrats accused republicans of abandoning the nicaraguan contra rebels, and a gop lawmaker's microphone was cut off during an angry response
in a floor speech, coelho triggered a verbal brawl when he said the rebels had supported a democratic aid package which was narrowly defeated on march 3, but were ordered by the white house not to lobby in favor of it
republicans overwhelmingly voted against the $30 million ``humanitarian'' aid bill
we now know the truth,'' coelho said. ``the republicans abandoned the contras to the politics of cynicism ....''
coelho's remarks drew shouts of ``shame! shame!'' from the republican side of the chamber, and rep. robert dornan, r-calif., rose a few minutes later to condemn coelho and wright
in 10 years, jim and tony, ... i have never heard on this floor so obnoxious a statement as i heard from mr. coelho,'' dornan said. ``thanks to the radical and liberal leadership in this house, the communists are winning a major victory.''
dornan referred to the white house assertion that nicaraguan troops had crossed the border into honduras seeking to destroy contra supply centers and to deal a death blow to the rebels
under house rules, members are allowed to speak for up to one minute on any subject before the chamber begins its business each day. dornan's heated remarks continued past the two-minute mark, and rep. gary ackerman, d-n.y., presiding in the speaker's chair, sought to gavel him down
dornan, shouting and pounding on the podium, continued to speak, however, to cheers and applause from republican colleagues. apparently at ackerman's request, dornan's microphone was cut off so that there was no longer any sound on the house television system
that brought renewed outrage from the gop side, which already has a long-simmering feud with the democratic leadership over what they consider heavy-handed tactics used to control proceedings in the chamber
rep. judd gregg, r-n.h., objected that ackerman was not acting in accord with house rules and was attempting to ``close down the process of free speech.''
ackerman responded that dornan had ``greatly exceeded the limit and abused the privilege'' of one-minute speeches, and that he simply was trying to maintain house decorum and order
a 75-year-old woman finally found relief after 36 years of hiccuping, according to a report published today. her hiccuping stopped after doctors gave her a drug to treat her newly diagnosed parkinson's disease
until then, ``the patient's hiccup bouts were almost continuous, with rare remissions lasting a maximum of six to eight weeks,'' the doctors wrote. ``even during the periods of remission, sporadic hiccups were observed. she had been hospitalized several times and had undergone a great many tests.''
the hiccups immediately stopped when she got the drug amantadine for parkinson's disease. the doctors theorize that the disease was somehow responsible for the hiccups
the treatment was reported by dr. j.j.m. askenasy of tel aviv university and colleagues from hasharon hospital in a letter in the new england journal of medicine
in a separate letter, drs. izidore s. lossos and raphael breuer of hadassah hospital in jerusalem described another odd case of hiccuping, this one involving a 19-year-old woman
she complained of a two-hour bout of hiccups along with an unpleasant itching sensation in her left ear. the doctors found that both problems were caused by an ant that had crawled into her ear. arguments from trial. no pickup.</note>
a gangster was convicted wednesday of murdering a chinese-american journalist on orders from the taiwanese government
a jury deliberated 45 minutes before returning the first-degree murder verdict against tung kuei-sen, a member of the international united bamboo gang, in the 1984 slaying of henry liu. liu was shot to death in his garage
tung, 36, claimed he shot liu for patriotic reasons, believing he was killing a traitor
liu had written articles critical of the taiwanese government. the 52-year-old journalist also had written about the personal life of the late nationalist chinese leader chiang kai-shek, behavior considered indecent in taiwan
tung, who is serving a 20-year sentence for heroin trafficking, could receive 25 years to life in prison in the liu slaying. he also faces up to two years in prison for use of a firearm. sentencing was set for may 11
tung had insisted on a trial because prosecutors refused to offer a plea bargain and because he wanted to tell his story, said defense attorney douglas gray
earlier wednesday, tung testified the plot to kill liu went as high as the son of then-president chiang ching-kuo. the son at the time was head of taiwan's secret police. the president died in january
tung is the only one of liu's suspected killers to be brought to trial in the united states
wang hsi-ling, a taiwanese vice admiral, was convicted earlier in taiwan of orchestrating the plot; two aides also were convicted in the slaying, as were two other bamboo gang members. all five received life sentences
the taiwanese government had refused to extradite the gangsters to the united states for trial. tung was arrested in rio de janeiro a year after the slaying
wang wanted liu killed before liu was about to publish the memoirs of a former high-ranking taiwanese official, something wang feared would be embarrassing and damaging to president chiang, assistant district attorney bob bishop said
the suspected gunmen in the case had fled the united states and surfaced in taiwan, believing they were immune from prosecution, bishop said
the slaying strained relations between the united states and taiwan, and the united states began putting so much pressure on chiang's regime that ``something had to be done,'' bishop told the jury
in his testimony, tung said he believed he was duped by his own government into killing a man who was not a traitor. liu asked in a written statement sent to the judge wednesday that a written apology be given to helen liu, the victim's wife
tung confessed to his role in liu's killing two years ago during his drug smuggling trial in new york. he was found guilty of smuggling 660 pounds of heroin into the united states. diabetes</head>
despite promising preliminary results, physicians should not routinely use a transplant drug to treat childhood diabetes until experts learn its long-term safety and effectiveness, doctors cautioned today
a report by french doctors is the latest in a series of studies demonstrating that the drug cyclosporine seems to help victims of juvenile diabetes, also known as type 1 or insulin-dependent diabetes
the report showed that half of the youngsters treated with the drug did not need insulin shots one year after their therapy began
the study was conducted by dr. p.f. bougneres and colleagues at st. vincent de paul hospital in paris and published in today's new england journal of medicine
an accompanying editorial noted that cyclosporine can harm the kidneys and ``is not an ideal drug.''
we believe that it is still premature to advocate the use of cyclosporine for patients who are not enrolled in clinical trials in which the response to treatment and adverse effects are carefully monitored,'' wrote drs. kevan c. herold and arthur h. rubenstein of the university of chicago
cyclosporine suppresses the body's immune system. it is widely used after transplants to prevent rejection of the new organ
although cyclosporine has been the subject of studies by several research groups in recent years, experts still do not know the long-term effects and hazards of the drug when used to treat juvenile diabetes
the national center for health statistics estimates that about 7 percent of all americans are diabetic. the disease is the underlying cause of 36,000 deaths each year
usually the disease strikes during adulthood and can be controlled without insulin shots. only about one in 10 diabetics has the juvenile-onset form of the disease, which usually destroys the body's ability to make insulin. people with the juvenile form face an increased risk of such complications as blindness, heart disease and kidney failure
in the french study, 40 youngsters with recently diagnosed diabetes were treated with cyclosporine. the researchers found that two-thirds were in remission after four months, and half after 12 months
those helped by the drug started getting treatment an average of three weeks after diagnosis. those for whom it failed started therapy seven weeks after diagnosis. bribe</head> with former wedtech official testifying biaggi asked for 5 percent of stock, 5 percent cut on government contracts, picking up 4th graf pvs, `as to ...'</note>
a prosecutor in the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi told the judge that another congressman was bribed and that wedtech corp. founder john mariotta ``was the prime mover'' in the alleged bribery, it was disclosed wednesday
rep. robert garcia, d-n.y., the second congressman, has not been charged with any crime. his attorney, robert morvillo, said wednesday that the congressman was aware that his activities were being investigated and had denied any wrongdoing
mariotta is a co-defendant in the trial of biaggi, a bronx democrat, involving alleged bribery of public officials by wedtech, a defunct defense contractor
in another development, a key government witness testified that biaggi sought 5 percent of wedtech's stock and a 5 percent cut of all government contracts that he and his law partner helped the company get
the witness, former wedtech vice chairman mario moreno, testified that in the summer of 1982 he and mariotta met with biaggi at a restaurant and the congressman ``indicated he wanted 5 percent of every contract that he could help bring into the company.''
biaggi also wanted 5 percent of wedtech's soon-to-be issued stock, moreno said
he testified that mariotta later agreed to the deal but his partner, fred neuberger, opposed it and got into a ``heated argument'' with biaggi at a later meeting in july 1982
we have done a lot for this company,'' moreno quoted biaggi as telling neuberger. ``this company is where it is because of the services we provided to you.''
the prosecutor's statement about mariotta was revealed in the transcript of a tuesday morning conference in u.s. district judge constance baker motley's robing room before the start of the day's court session
as to congressman garcia,'' assistant u.s. attorney mary shannon told the judge, ``it is the government's contention that mr. mariotta was the prime mover in the bribery of congressman garcia.''
in the conference, mariotta lawyer jeffrey glekel complained bitterly that prosecutors planned to elicit testimony about wedtech-related crimes from a key government witness who is not charged in the case on trial
the witness, mario moreno, is one of four former wedtech executives who have admitted bribing public officials and agreed to testify in a plea bargain with state and federal prosecutors
the integrity and reliability of the four former executives were attacked by several defense lawyers in opening statements to the jury monday
countering glekel's arguments in the robing room session, ms. shannon told the judge: ``we told mr. glekel that while we would elicit from mario moreno that he had knowledge of and participated in the bribery of congressman garcia, we wouldn't go beyond that; nor would we bring out any details.''
the judge asked: ``now you plan to bring out details, is that what you are saying?''
to the extent that mr. mariotta was involved, yes,'' said ms. shannon. ``just to bring out his involvement. again, not to substantively prove that particular crime.''
prosecutors said they were entitled to bring out the other alleged crimes because of the opening statements by defense lawyers
the transcript and court proceedings did not indicate whether the judge would allow the testimony
moreno, a former vice chairman of wedtech, continued his testimony wednesday, elaborating on how another defendant, former bronx borough president stanley simon, got his brother-in-law a four-day-a-week job with the company
moreno said simon told him his brother-in-law, henry bittman, ``needed to take off one day a week ... he had to sign in at a state job, a no-show job.''
previously, moreno said company officials agreed to simon's request because they needed his help in getting city approval for a land deal
hello dear. you're very handsome. yes you are,'' sir alec guinness coos through the cage at a rhinoceros
you've got a sweet face, very pretty ears,'' the elder statesman of british acting says, as he strolls through berlin's central zoologischen garten
his chat with the animals is almost as engaging as the wonderful characters he has portrayed on stage and screen during five decades as one of the world's finest, most chameleon-like talents
on this particular day, the berlin film festival was awarding the 73-year-old guinness its special ``ehren bear'' (honorary bear) for lifetime achievement in the cinema. the actor, however, elected to avoid the morning crush of screenings and news conferences for a romp in the zoo
i'm not actually that keen on them; i hate to see certain animals caged up,'' he said
but i remember this zoo being small and very imaginatively laid out on the open plan, and i thought it might be amusing to have a second look.'' he last visited the zoologischen garten 14 years ago
images of some of the zoo's reported stock of 10,000 animals have lingered: ``they used to have white rhinoceroses there that were charming. and a great sea lion covered in shrapnel wounds _ an old thing that was like a symbol of berlin; a splendid, great creature.''
this time around, guinness' observations are as keen as ever, whether applied to the varieties of zoo-bound species or the special tributes that have marked his career
in 1980, he received a special academy award to honor a range of work encompassing such portrayals as the sinister fagin in ``oliver twist'' (1948), a comic octet of murder victims in ``kind hearts and coronets'' (1950), the hard-driving colonel nicholson in ``the bridge on the river kwai'' (1957), the aging mystic ben obi-wan kenobi in ``star wars'' (1977) and its sequels
last year, he was twice feted in lavish galas _ in april at new york's lincoln center and in may at the cannes film festival
the occasion in berlin may be less tony, but its significance is no less clear: in the festival's 38 years, guinness is only the second actor to be so honored, following james stewart in 1982
i'm afraid when you get rather elderly, these things seem to come on you rather more than you might wish,'' he says, his brisk gait belying his years, his nose becoming slightly red in the seasonal chill
a signpost draws his attention: ``i think that way may be the pheasantry. do you mind if we go in there?''
somewhere between pheasants and finches, the conversation turns to work. his latest project is ``little dorrit,'' the six-hour film adaptation of charles dickens' novel in which he plays william dorrit, a long-term inmate of a debtor's prison who finds that sudden wealth brings sudden freedom
guinness had not performed dickens since the 1940s, when he both adapted ``great expectations'' for the stage and made his movie debut as herbert pocket in david lean's 1946 film version. he then appeared in ``oliver twist'' in 1948. he considers ``little dorrit'' to be one of dickens' two or three greatest novels
dickens offers great temptations for actors because you can go over the top,'' he said
later this year, he'll be seen as mr. todd in a movie of evelyn waugh's 1934 novel, ``a handful of dust.'' then there's lee blessing's current broadway play, ``a walk in the woods,'' which guinness may do on the london stage. he last trod the west end boards in alan bennett's ``the old country'' in 1977-8
it's a very distinguished piece of writing,'' he says of the play. but guinness acknowledges its pitfalls, as well: ``the amount of learning for a two-hander is horrendous. an actor's great fear is that he won't have the memory.''
on that topic, he is emboldened by the recent return to the stage, after a decade away, of his friend and mentor, sir john gielgud, in the new play ``the best of friends.''
gielgud is 83,'' guinness says matter-of-factly, ``and he got through it (the play) very successfully.''
by now, the sky has clouded over, and rain looks likely. guinness has a lunch date for which he mustn't be late, so he returns to his hotel to find that autograph hunters have arrived
there they are,'' he says, sounding resigned as the anonymity of the walk in the zoo gives way to the fans' ever-ready pens and cameras
but before leaving the zoo, he has one last remark about rhinos: ``we're told they have very nice personalities.''
he takes an inimitable pause. ``but i don't think i'd like to encounter them intimately.''
three decades after the irish government evacuated his weeping father and the few other people who remained on the tiny blasket islands, mike carney says the exiles are flourishing in their landlocked new home
there's more of us here than in ireland,'' said the happy emigrant from the harsh life that ended abruptly in 1955 with the closing of the islands off the western tip of the dingle peninsula
carney, 67, is among the last surviving natives of the five-mile-long main island that preserved 18th-century language and customs into the middle of the 20th century, when the government deemed the land too dangerous to inhabit
now he makes his home among an estimated 50 other natives in springfield's hungry hill district
in ireland, they ``lived in a pre-capitalist society in some of the most treacherous waters of western europe,'' said thomas biuso, an english professor at colby-sawyer college in new london, n.h
on thursday, carney plans to join other islanders for the city's st. patrick's day parade and a drink at the john boyle o'reilly club, a far cry from the celebrations of his youth on the westernmost point of europe
here there is more of a parade. it's more show-off here,'' he said. ``back there we would go pick a shamrock in the fields to wear in green caps. if we could, we would go to the mainland to watch the horse races.''
getting to the mainland three miles away in handmade canoes was always precarious because of often-threatening weather, which seemed to worsen by the mid-1900s, carney said
bad weather kept his family from bringing his brother's body to the mainland for burial for three days after his death in the winter of 1947. neither a doctor nor a priest could be summoned because of the storm
the islands apparently were too remote even for a bull brought from the mainland for breeding. the bull swam the three miles home, carney said
the island's remoteness, however, ensured the preservation there of an ancient social organization, which included a king and a council of elders, and of the gaelic tongue. carney said gaelic-speaking mainlanders have difficulty understanding islanders ``because we speak so fast.''
no one knows when the first mainlanders settled on the blaskets or when the islanders began emigrating to the united states, but biuso said they apparently left in the mid-1800s to work on the railroad running through massachusetts
carney's father went to the united states three times but always returned. ``i guess he got homesick,'' carney said
carney was 16 when he left for dublin, where he worked as a bartender for 10 years before coming to springfield
i could not see myself battling the atlantic ocean for a living,'' he said. ``you could be captive on the island for a month without being able to go to the mainland to get food. it looks beautiful, yes, but to operate there, that's a different story, battling 20, 25 foot waves in those little boats.''
by then the blaskets' population, which had numbered 176 people at its peak, had fallen to a few dozen
we had more relatives in springfield than we had back in the blaskets,'' carney said
his brother, paddy, said: ``we were like wild geese following after each other. there was nothing left for us, but we were all lonesome leaving. i don't think anyone really wanted to go.''
the government, fearing for the safety of the island's aging population, took the last islanders off in 1955 and gave them houses on the mainland, some within sight of the island
my father cried when he left,'' carney said
the writer, bureau chief for the associated press in mexico city, was among three ap journalists detained at gunpoint wednesday at defense forces headquarters in panama city, but later released. here is his account
yes, we are also simulating arrests,'' said the captain as i nodded toward a somber-looking military man being led away by soldiers at gunpoint
this is merely an exercise,'' the captain added
but it was no exercise
it was an attempted coup by a group of young officers, led by police chief col. leonidas macias, who tried to take over the defense forces headquarters wednesday and overthrow gen. manuel antonio noriega, the military chief
this reporter, accompanied by ap radio reporter pauline jelinek and ap photographer diana smith, had been forced out of our car at gunpoint by soldiers in full battle gear when we tried to stop in front of the defense froces headquarters
we drove there following reports that a group of officers had tried to take over the installation. soldiers had cordoned off the street in front of headquarters
as we tried to park near a checkpoint, soldiers noticed the photographer's cameras and started banging on the doors of the car. they stuck their guns through the windows and yelled, ``get out!''
they took cameras, tape recorders and car keys. i identified myself as a newsman and was asked: ``which country?'' we told him, the united states. the government and the panamanian news media it controls daily accuse american news media of distorting information
i insisted we should be allowed to leave, but was forced to lean on the car for a search and then a sergeant said, ``take them inside.''
we were forced to walk one long block at gunpoint by two soldiers who kept urging us not to look back and ``just keep on walking,'' past a big patio where an infantry company was listening to a speech by an officer, and into the large yard between headquarters and the barracks of the elite urraca infantry unit
anything going on?'' i asked our escort
just shut up and keep walking. there is nothing going on. move and don't look back,'' he replied
we saw armed civilians and military moving around. then a captain came in and told our escort, ``just calm down.'' he turned to us and explained, ``this is just a routine exercise.''
you mean you simulate reaction in case of an attempted coup?'' i asked
that's right,'' the captain said
it was then we saw about four civilians and military men lead an officer, his shirt hanging out, head bowed and hands behind his head into the barracks
yes, we are also simulating arrests,'' the captain added
they were taping and taking pictures,'' our escort said to the captain
take the tape and the film,'' the captain said
the exercise is over. you can go. you can pick up your gear tomorrow,'' the captain told us
after i insisted we need the equipment right away, he agreed to let us have it back
later on, a soldier brought our car. on the way out, i saw several other civilians standing, while other armed civilians removed pistols from their belts
for an exercise, it was very realistic
two swarms of so-called killer bees were discovered on the waterfront earlier this month in a leaking shipment of honey from guatemala but were apparently trapped and destroyed, authorities said wednesday
we have begun a two-week trapping program at the wharf to ensure none escaped, however,'' said state agriculture commissioner bob odom
africanized, or killer, bees are more aggressive than the domestic honey bee. since they take over other hives, they are considered a threat to the u.s. honey industry
the bees were taken from africa to south america where they escaped in the 1950s. they have been advancing northward since then, but their movement is believed to have been stopped near tehuantepec, south of mexico city
odom said customs officials spotted them buzzing around two containers
the swarms were destroyed. the queens were found,'' said tom rinderer, director of the lousiana state university laboratory that is the federal government's main research center on africanized bees
that's an important discovery. this is a complete destruction. no question about it,'' he said
rinderer said most of the bees were workers, which are not involved in reproduction. ``if one or two of them got loose, it doesn't mean a thing,'' he said
the shipment on which the bees were found originated in el salvador, said state entomologist john impson
odom said that killer bees have been found in florida and california, but officials believe the swarms were contained
residents of lt. col. oliver north's hometown are steadfast in their belief that he's a hero, even after he was indicted on charges of conspiracy in the iran-contra affair
we still believe in ollie,'' mayor philip mossman said wednesday night. ``if i took a poll right now i'd find that most people here are in favor of ollie. he's a folk hero around here.''
i think he's taking the fall for higher-ups,'' added the mayor's son nick, the lone judge in this village of 1,600 residents. ``what i gather is that most people believe in him and i think they'll support him to the end.''
in rural philmont, located about 30 miles south of albany, negative words about north are seldom heard. hometown supporters remember north, voted ``most handsome'' and ``most courteous'' by his senior class in high school, as a go-getter
i remember him as a conscientious student, industrious and not political,'' thomas givens, one of north's high school teachers and a former neighbor, said of the fired national security council aide
another teacher echoed the sentiment. ``north was a real swell young kid, and now he's getting raked over the coals,'' said robert bowes
the majority of the people down here are behind him,'' said russ robertson, north's high school track coach. ``i think he was just acting under orders. he was trying to do the best for his country. it looks like larry is the fall guy.''
residents know north as larry, his middle name, to distinguish him from his late father, oliver clay north, an army colonel who earned a silver star for valor in world war ii
the younger north graduated in 1961 in a class of fewer than 50, then left philmont to attend the u.s. naval academy at annapolis, md. his mother, ann, lives in guilderland, a suburb of albany. his two younger brothers and a sister also have moved away from philmont. mobilization, condemning sending of u.s. troops; arias reaction; picks up 4th graf pvs, ``in washington ...; minor editing thereafter to conform.</note>
nicaragua mobilized its troops and appealed to citizens to help the army wednesday after the united states announced it was sending soldiers to honduras for a training exercise, the official radio said
the government did not confirm reports from honduras and washington that sandinista troops pursued u.s.-backed contra rebels into honduran territory during an offensive in northern nicaragua
however, president daniel ortega said fighting was raging along the border and that there was ``cross fire from honduran territory against our forces.''
this is the hour in which the nicaraguan people must place themselves at the orders of the sandinista army,'' the government radio network said late wednesday
it said troops were being mobilized throughout the country, and demonstrators took to the street in the southern town of rivas, near the costa rican border, to protest the dispatching of u.s. troops to honduras
the radio called honduran president jose azcona hoyo's request for u.s. military help ``just a disguise, since these troops could well come into nicaragua. this is certainly the intention, and they will do it at any moment.''
but they will not catch the nicaraguan people sleeping,'' the radio network said
in washington, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said the united states was sending 3,200 soldiers to southern honduras to carry out training exercises and to be ``a signal to the governments and the people of central america.'' he said they would not enter any combat zones
foreign minister carlos lopez contreras of honduras said wednesday night that azcona contacted ortega to demand the withdrawal of the sandinista troops. honduran military intelligence sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the associated press that honduran troops had surrounded about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers near the border
in costa rica, president oscar arias said his government had confirmed the incursion. he condemned it
the leftist nicaraguan government took control of all privately owned radio stations wednesday and hooked them up into a national network that broadcast government announcements and revolutionary music
ortega told a news conference wednesday afternoon that the offensive was launched march 6 and that sandinista troops recently disloged about 2,000 rebels from northern jinotega province. he did not say how many sandinista troops took part in that action
ortega said the contras were receiving logistical support and evacuation from chinook helicopters owned by the united states
referring to reports earlier wednesday that the reagan administration was considering sending military support to honduras, ortega said: ``this is the most serious threat in recent years. we are calling on the nicaraguan public to be alert, to be in combat readiness, ready to repel, resist, defeat whatever aggression from the united states.''
state-run voice of nicaragua radio said earlier there were reports from the atlantic coastal city of puerto cabezas, 250 miles east of managua, that unidentified airplanes were seen and that residents feared the city would be bombed
it called on nicaraguans to ``maintain a state of alert ... because we can't discount the possibility that president reagan will invade nicaragua in defense of his mercenaries.''
a defense ministry spokeswoman, maj. rosa pasos, told reporters earlier: ``we have never invaded honduras and we have never invaded any neighboring country.''
lopez contreras said the honduran president telephoned the presidents of costa rica, el salvador and guatemala to ask them to urge ortega to withdraw his troops from the border
speaking of the offensive against the contras, ortega said: ``they have been totally expelled from nicaraguan territory and are located in honduran territory, opening fire against our positions in nicaragua.''
the leftist president said that 400 contras had been killed or wounded in the operation. thirty-four sandinista soldiers had died and 68 were wounded, he said
ortega charged that the united states was ``creating this scandal'' to delay talks between the sandinistas and contras on a cease-fire in the 6{-year-old war. the meeting _ which would be the first on nicaraguan territory _ is scheduled next monday
the president said he called on the united nations and the organization of american states to investigate the offensive and to prove that the contra bases were located in honduras
honduras and other central americans are prohibited from offering financial or logistical help to rebels under a regional peace plan signed august 7
in march 1986, 1,500 sandinista troops reportedly penetrated honduran territory. u.s. helicopters ferried honduran troops to the border and provided honduras $20 million in emergency aid
ortega never directly admitted the incursion but said at the time: ``we attack where they say they have their bases.''
until last year, the contras maintained support bases in honduras. fueled by $100 million in u.s. aid, most of the more than 6,000 rebels moved their camps into nicaraguan territory
in december 1986, honduran warplanes and artillery pounded sandinista troops who had penetrated into honduras to attack contra bases, and u.s. army helicopters again were brought in to ferry honduran infantrymen to the front. breakthrough</head>
a week and a half after his breakthrough in the south, democrat albert gore jr. is in need of another one: in a state where a win will sustain his claim to be a real contender. but gore's campaign still is trying to find that state
he never expected it would be illinois, although gore's presidential campaign poured an estimated $200,000 to $300,000 into late television ads there in hopes of a surprisingly strong showing
and it's not likely to be the next big state, either. michigan's democratic caucuses march 26 will determine a big chunk of delegates _ 138. but the process here requires organization _ a commodity gore's campaign is short on
i think he's got to win some states, but i'm not saying which one right now,'' said larry harrington, gore's deputy campaign manager and political director
gore rocketed to the top tier of democratic presidential contenders on super tuesday by doing what he said he would do: carry a good chunk of the south
he claimed five southern states. gore took a split decision in wyoming three days days earlier, which he points to as a win that, with his victory in nevada's caucuses, proves drawing power outside the south
but no one will ride to the nomination on the strength of those two small western states. while gore contends he has already established himself as the moderate with national appeal, the rest of the democratic party is awaiting proof in the series of northern and midwestern states that stretch from now until the california primary june 7
still serving as a principal strategist for his own campaign, gore is studying the primary calender
the gore campaign plans to set up some organization in virtually all the remaining primary states, supporting his claim to be more than a regional candidate
they don't want to single out any state as holding the best potential for gore, to avoid being drawn into a make-or-break contest
yet gore must establish a northern beachhead somewhere if he is to continue to argue that he is the most electable candidate and only real alternative to jesse jackson and michael dukakis. and more importantly, if he is to keep up in delegates
he must single out some state or states to focus his budget for television commercials
that's the real decision,'' said harrington
a state to punch through, gore called it
we've got a whole series of contests between now and june 7,'' gore said, talking aboard his campaign plane this week. ``we're going to compete in all of them, and in some we're going to punch through
we're pushing everywhere ... and looking for the best opportunity to make an all-out push to break through, and i think there are a lot of opportunities,'' gore said
a look at the primary calender reveals no easy choice, however. none of the upcoming states offers the comfort of a natural base
he named nearly all the big ones as posing opportunity: connecticut, ohio, pennsylvania, new york, indiana, wisconsin, california and new jersey
he called connecticut ``an opportunity to demonstrate real strength,'' but at the same time a dukakis ``backyard.''
the campaign also considers new york as having potential, and wisconsin is another candidate
as it wrestles with the decision, gore's campaign is experiencing the growing pains associated with the new demands of a national effort
it is struggling to add depth. this week it hired departed candidate bruce babbitt's issues director, bart gellman, to help craft policy positions. it has also put harrington and press aide mike kopp with the candidate to beef up gore's traveling staff
gore also says fund-raising has been spurred by super tuesday, and he took in as much as $150,000 a day immediately after that showing
even so, the campaign is hardly a match for the well-heeled dukakis organization. gore's schedule is being made up practically on the fly
gore sought endorsements from democratic figures in southern states, and he has turned to state legislators in states like michigan and connecticut
but harrington called michigan a particularly tough state for gore because of the need for an organization that can deliver in the caucuses. gore had virtually no organization there before this week, and even now it is based primarily on the state house speaker and other legislative leaders
fewer than half a dozen supporters turned out for gore's arrival in detroit monday night, and his campaign advance man had only been in the state a few hours before the candidate arrived
we're not going to blow the doors off there,'' harrington said
u.s. veterans are cheating the government out of tens of millions of dollars each year by lying about their incomes and collecting excessive benefits as a result, a congressional report says
the report by the general accounting office, the investigative wing of congress, compared veterans administration income forms filled out by pensioners with internal revenue service data
sen. frank murkowski, r-alaska, released the report wednesday and said congress should move to halt the abuses by giving the va access to same tax information so it can verify what veterans tell it about income from jobs and investments. murkowski is the senior republican on the veterans affairs committee
the irs information is compiled from reports supplied by employers and other income sources such as banks and stockbrokers
the gao's findings were based on an examination of such information from a single year. it said pensioners who understated their incomes to the va potentially collected $182.5 million more in pension payments than they deserved in 1984
under the law, the size of a va pension _ which went to 1.4 million people in 1984 _ is determined principally by a recipient's total income from all sources
the gao report said congressional investigators found that 549,000 pensioners failed to tell the va about $947 million in income
the report said that more than 26,000 veterans told the va they had no earned income in 1984 but each actually made at least $1,000 through employment
some cases had reported no earnings over several years, although tax data showed significant earnings in those years,'' gao said
some 60 percent of the pensioners who understated their incomes to the va failed to report that they received money through interest and dividends, according to gao
the report said it could not estimate the exact amount of pension overpayments by the va, but it estimated that potential overpayments of $182.5 million went to 149,000 pensioners whose va and irs records had a difference of $100 or more
murkowski said the figures may be low because gao made several conservative decisions in compiling its data, including ignoring all unreported income below $100
murkowski and gao urged the va to overhaul its income verification system and said congress should give the agency the legal ability to use irs data to cross-check the income veterans report to the va
this is the type of system that has been used for several years to verify the income of applicants for and recipients of need-based entitlement programs such as aid to families with dependent children
murkowski said that ``if va was allowed the same access to tax records _ as the gao had and as food stamps, medicaid and other means-tested programs do _ va pension payments would be focused on the intended beneficiaries and more money would be available for other veterans' programs and services.''
the senator said he would introduce legislation to give the va the ability to use irs records to verify what it is told by its pensioners
clearly, va should be allowed to go to where the most accurate information can be found,'' he said
the intent of this legislation is not to `get' anyone,'' he said. ``rather, it is to protect the integrity of this vital benefit and to ensure the money ... goes to its intended beneficiaries.''
gao quoted the va as saying it agreed with the report's findings that it needs the tools to verify pensioners' income and that its income questionnaires could be improved
but it quoted the irs as saying it opposes giving the va access to tax data because ``such access would compromise the voluntary tax system.''
with no chance of winning the republican presidential nomination, his campaign curtailed, and his former free spending shackled, pat robertson is trying to map out his role at the party's national convention _ and beyond
the former television evangelist confidently says the party will listen to his conservative message, but other political analysts believe robertson has squandered his strength with a string of poor primary showings
all agree that his real effect on the party is likely to come in 1990 and 1992
robertson believes his active presence at the new orleans convention will ensure that the likely nominee, vice president george bush, will heed the conservative position on the issues
i want to ask george bush questions... is he going to be as fervent for the contras... as ronald reagan? will he be truthfully as fervent for tax cuts as ronald reagan?'' robertson said tuesday after finishing third in the illinois primary behind bush and kansas sen. bob dole
robertson is claiming his forces will make themselves felt in the convention platform and rules committees. he said he would like to see the 1984 platform resurrected _ ``it was a good, conservative platform.''
that platform endorsed constitutional amendments to ban abortion and to allow prayer in school, and opposed the equal rights amendment and any tax increases
robertson has spent nearly $25 million on a campaign that has won 17 delegates. the federal spending cap for the primaries is $27 million. some longtime robertson watchers question the amount of clout that gives him
he has no chance to win the nomination. he never did. his candidacy is irrelevant in terms of the nomination,'' said larry sabato, a professor of political science at the university of virginia and longtime observer of state and national politics
though robertson may have some effect on the party's platform and procedural votes in the convention, ``he lost a great deal of clout because of his pitiful performance in the south,'' sabato said
robertson won none of the 14 southern and border states holding primaries or caucuses on the march 8 super tuesday. he placed third in his home state of virginia and was third in his hometown of virginia beach
richard pinsky, the national field director for americans for robertson, said even though the candidate will not be contesting any of the primary states and will be taking his scaled-back campaign only to states holding caucuses, he expects robertson to come to the convention with 150 to 200 delegates
he has a substantial bloc of votes behind him,'' said william whitehurst, a professor of history at old dominion university and former virginia 2nd district representative for 19 years. ``what it boils down to is what does he want in the way of price to keep him in the party fold?''
robertson met with republican national committee chairman frank fahrenkopf on tuesday to discuss what the candidate called ``housekeeping details'' surrounding the convention. robertson would not say whether he asked the party for a chance to address the convention during prime time
hopefully we could be in that kind of time slot,'' said connie snapp, robertson's director of communications, ``but that was not discussed.''
it's difficult to predict what robertson might get, said whitehurst. ``his showing has been sufficiently weak that he can't make too many demands,'' he said. whitehurst said he does not see robertson being offered a cabinet post or a place on the ticket
he needs to wait for friendlier times,'' whitehurst said. ``and acquire the political maturity he desperately needs.''
sabato and merle black, political scientist from the university of north carolina and another commentator on southern politics, see robertson's long-term effect on the party coming at the state and local level
in many caucus states, robertson's people, the majority of them political newcomers, have taken control of the party at the precinct level
although robertson's viability as a candidate seems to be dissipating, i think we'll see the impact of his candidacy through these delegates, partly at the convention, partly in local and state politics as well. this may be played out over years,'' said black
these new people are part of the party and are not fighting the party. we are sending a signal at the convention that we are sticking with the party,'' snapp said. ``and that the party is going to need us.''
as terry anderson's fourth year in captivity began, his friends and loved ones gathered to pray for the longest-held american hostage's release from lebanon
pray ...that terry anderson will come back from hell,'' said charles glass at a ceremony to honor the american newsman, who has been kept blindfolded and chained to a wall during his captivity. glass, also a journalist, escaped from captivity last year
more than 300 people attended the ceremony for anderson. among them: jesse jackson, the democratic presidential candidate; peggy say, anderson's sister; and the revs. lawrence martin jenco and benjamin weir, former hostages
other ceremonies for anderson were held in batavia, n.y., where mrs. say lives, and lorain, ohio, anderson's birthplace
by coincidence, the third anniversary of anderson's captivity came as former white house aides oliver l. north and john poindexter were indicted for their role in selling weapons to iran and sending the profits to the nicaraguan contras
jenco and weir are two of the three americans hostages released as a result of the weapons shipments to iran. both have said they would have opposed selling arms to the radical government of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini
anderson, 40, and at least some of the other eight american hostages are thought to be held by pro-iranian groups in lebanon
mrs. say said that since the iran-contra affair was revealed _ in november 1986 _ the reagan administration, embarrassed by the episode, has ignored the hostages. ``for the past year, silence,'' she said
jackson blasted the administration for taking a passive role and pursuing what he called a flawed policy in the middle east. ``we must be willing to make it happen,'' he said
jackson said he would go to lebanon to talk with anderson's captors, if they would identify themselves
sen. daniel p. moynihan, d-n.y., said in a statement that he has proposed a special envoy to deal with the hostages
i will not accept the explanation that nothing can be done,'' he said. ``something must be done.''
the service at holy trinity roman catholic church included christian and moslem prayers, songs, a candle-lighting ceremony and personal reminiscences about anderson. children in the audience distributed olive leaves as a symbol of peace
many in the group were colleagues of anderson's in beirut where he served as the chief middle east correspondent for the associated press
the ceremony was arranged by the journalists committee to free terry anderson, a group dedicated to seeing him released, and no greater love, a humanitarian organization that helps families of hostages and victims of terrorism
don mell, an ap photographer, recounted how anderson ``had the look of a man who knew he was doomed'' when he was kidnapped after a game of tennis in west beirut three years ago. ``the whole thing took less than a minute,'' said mell, who witnessed the abduction
the state department, meantime, reaffirmed administration policy toward the hostages
we have made constant efforts to open a valid channel of communications to the terrorists,'' department spokeswoman sondra mccarty said. ``they have responded with unacceptable demands conveyed through one-way channels such as videotapes given to news agencies.''
the united states is willing to talk, but it will not make concessions, she said
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,872.29 points, up 167.86 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on thursday
a 19th century irish farmer longs for more of the world than his family's farm but is reined in by his mother's apron strings in ``the great hunger,'' presented by dublin's abbey theater, the national theater of ireland
based on a poem of the same title by patrick kavanagh, the play by tom macintyre develops as a series of episodes rather than narrative. some of wednesday's second-night audience in the triplex at manhattan community college, apparently not enjoying theater of indirection, left at intermission
one is reminded of a beckett play. actor tom hickey has the more-than-scruffy clothes, aged, unshaven look and anguished expressions of a beckett protagonist. there's also a lot of noises, nonsense syllables and silence. but there's more speech _ and a lot more lively moving around _ than is usual in beckett
the farmer, paddy maguire, lacks education and money and the ability to escape from his small world. in one articulate passage between paddy and his sister toward the end of the play, they exchange phrases: ``the young men and women. i might have joined them. i remember a night we walked through the moon the four of us. seeking adventure.''
the mother is represented on stage by a primitive wood carving, seated, her lap a chair. there are seven in the cast, who sometimes are children, paddy's pigs, chickens or team of horses
audience members who were interested seemed to be concentrating so hard they didn't relax to laugh. one very funny few moments came when a girl selling raffle tickets for the catholic church joined paddy in a superior cluck-and-strut rooster-hen mating dance in his barnyard
much of the time paddy sits on his gate or compensates for his lack of female companionship. this may have sent some of the audience home
director patrick mason joined the company in 1977 and has directed five tom macintyre works. the current engagement, through march 27, ends a tour of the soviet union and the united states
the last time the abbey theater was in new york was in 1976, when it presented ``the plough and the stars'' at the brooklyn academy of music. its last manhattan appearance was on broadway in 1937, with ``juno and the paycock'' and ``the playboy of the western world.''
shady organizations with official-sounding names are using fear over the future of social security to get the elderly to send them money, according to sen. john mccain, r-ariz., who denounced the practice as a ``sham.''
the solicitations are little more than efforts to raise money for the organizations, which prey on the fears of the aged, mccain told a federal trade commission hearing on wednesday
he called on the agency to investigate several organizations which, he said, consumer reports magazine has identified as using fraudulent fund-raising techniques
what all these mailings have in common is official-sounding names and letterhead implying a special connection with social security which simply does not exist,'' mccain said. ``in addition, their messages imply that social security is in trouble _ which ... is simply not the case.''
while there are worthwhile organizations for the elderly, mccain said, many of those sending out such solicitations do nothing more than raise funds for their own coffers and send postcards to congressional offices
pure and simple ... this is a sham,'' mccain said, ``and its victims are those who can least afford to take money needed for their basic day-to-day needs and send it to such organizations.''
fraud against the elderly is a problem of increasing magnitude _ one that deserves our active attention,'' mccain said at a special ftc hearing on the problems of the aged
the number of people in the united states over the age of 65 now exceeds the entire population of canada, and americans 65 and older make the fastest growing population segment in this country,'' observed ftc chairman daniel oliver in opening the session
the census bureau estimated that there were about 29 million americans aged 65 and over as of 1986, while canada was estimated to have a total population of about 26 million
the ftc, which investigates fraud and antitrust matters, called in a series of witnesses to discuss the problems of the elderly, and what can be done to help
testimony also focused on the so-called medigap insurance plans, designed to supplement medicare and medicaid benefits for the elderly
rep. claude pepper, d-fla., said sales fraud in that industry is costing the elderly as much as $3 billion annually
commissioner terri calvani noted that the ftc is looking into sales practices in this industry, which consumer groups say induce many elderly people to purchase duplicative and unneeded coverage
however, calvani noted that the commission is specifically prohibited from regulating the insurance industry, so that regardless of what it finds in the investigation, any action would have to come from congress or from the states
telephone marketing fraud and medical quackery also are major problems for elderly americans, the witnesses said. users</head>
the federal communications commission is abandoning plans for a hefty increase in telephone hook-up charges for computer users, according to fcc and congressional sources
strong and nearly unanimous opposition to the proposal led fcc chairman dennis r. patrick to give up on it, said the sources, who spoke on the condition they not be identified by name
commissioner patricia diaz dennis said wednesday that patrick had not spoken with her about scrapping the plan, but she said she agrees
there's a lot on our plate right now and i don't think i'd miss not seeing that on it,'' she said
their votes would be enough to ditch the proposal, though the third commissioner, james quello, who could not be reached for comment, was likely to concur
patrick's office declined to comment
dropping the plan would be good news for the hundreds of thousands of computer users who dial into databases such as compuserve and quantumlink. the services carry items such as news stories and financial reports, and allow users to communicate electronically with each other
users of these services flooded the fcc and capitol hill with thousands of letters opposing the plan, which would add about $4.50 an hour to the cost of hooking up to information services
they said the increased charges, which would double the hourly hook-up price for some information services, would drive many of them off the computer networks and crush a fledgling industry
rep. edward j. markey, d-mass. and chairman of the house energy and commerce telecommunications subcommittee, said that in light of the commission's apparent reversal on the proposal he would delay indefinitely introduction of a bill preventing the fcc from imposing the access charges
but, he said, the panel ``will closely monitor the commission's actions to ensure that these onerous charges do not re-emerge in a new form.''
the fcc had proposed extending to computer users the same access charges now paid by long-distance companies for access to the local phone network. the long-distance companies pass these charges along to callers in their rates
when it adopted the long-distance access charges in 1982, the fcc exempted information service providers, fearing that the new industry would not withstand the sudden increase in costs
in proposing to levy the charges last year, the fcc said the issue was one of fairness
but the commission found virtually no support for the proposal. even the reagan administration, which usually backs the fcc's ideas, opposed the idea
the sources said patrick concluded the proposal should be dropped because of the lack of support and because the commission is considering plans by the local bell phone companies to give information providers equal access to their networks, as they have given long-distance companies. these plans could change the way information services are provided over the local networks
the commission was expected to vote in two to three months to drop the proposal
the ashes of dorothy parker, the writer, poet, critic and algonquin round table wit, are going to a final resting place in baltimore after languishing for years on a shelf in a lawyer's office
as she suggested for her epitaph, ``excuse my dust.''
mrs. parker, whose fiction, poetry, criticism and ascerbic wit epitomized the sophistication of new york city in the '20s and '30s, was exiled to baltimore at an irreverent meeting of fans wednesday at the algonquin hotel
best known for her immortal squib, ``men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses,'' she wrote in 1956 that ``wit has truth in it; wisecracking is simply calisthenics with words.''
success came early to mrs. parker, who was drama critic for vanity fair magazine at age 24, and soon a regular at the algonquin, trading barbs with robert benchley, alexander woolcott, george kaufman, ring lardner and heywood broun
she died, bitter and alone in her hotel room in 1967 after a life whose early successes could not overcome the later disillusionment that included unhappy love affairs, three marriages and four suicide attempts
she wrote:
razors pain you
rivers are damp
acids stain you
and drugs cause cramp
guns aren't lawful
nooses give
gas smells awful
you might as well live.''
for 10 years, mrs. parker's ashes have been sitting in a canister on a shelf in a wall street office. they wound up there when playwright lillian hellman, executor of mrs. parker's estate, refused to pay a mortuary bill and the mortuary threatened to throw them out
they were rescued by miss hellman's attorney, paul o'dwyer, who decided last summer that he'd like to get them out of his office
new york daily news columnist liz smith said she wrote about the situation and readers replied with ``perhaps the most literate, the most charming and the most intelligent mail that's been written in the past 50 years.''
and that led to wednesday's meeting at the algonquin, which mrs. parker helped make famous as the home of the round table, the weekly gathering of new york's literati in the 1920s and '30s
ms. smith said that mrs. parker ``would have been quite sarcastic about this whole thing and would have thought we were terrible fools.''
some people, ms. smith among them, thought the ashes should be interred at the algonquin bar, where mrs. parker created many a hangover. but the algonquin's current management wasn't enthusiastic about that idea
o'dwyer dutifully offered the suggestion of one letter writer, an artist who wanted to use mrs. parker's ashes to thicken his oil paints, but that got little more than a few snickers
book collector bob weinberg of stamford, conn., said he went to the meeting hoping to take home the ashes to complete his collection of mrs. parker's work. but he apparently thought better of the idea and never proposed it
benjamin hooks, executive director of the national association for the advancement of colored people, said mrs. parker had left her entire estate to the naacp, when that was ``quite a daring thing'' for a white woman to do
he offered a place for the ashes at naacp national headquarters in baltimore, conceding that some people might not want the naacp to have the ashes, ``not because we're not worthy, but because we're not in new york.''
some people agreed, but others thought mrs. parker would appreciate hooks' gesture. when the algonquin's manager sweetened the deal by offering to hold a benefit dinner to create a dorothy parker scholarship fund, that sealed it
mrs. parker might have appreciated the irony of a quintessential new yorker's banishment to baltimore. as she wrote in the '20s:
why is it no one ever sent me yet
one perfect limousine, do you suppose?
ah, no, it's always just my luck to get
one perfect rose.''
an energy department official has asked a house appropriations subcommittee to authorize $1.8 billion in advance for the final three years of a clean-coal technology program
we have no desire to make any frivolous expenditures,'' assistant energy secretary j. allen wampler told a house panel on wednesday. ``we monitor that real closely.''
wampler asked the subcommittee to authorize the expenditure in the fiscal years 1990, 1991 and 1992. the money pays up to half the cost of projects to show the ways clean-coal technology can be used by power plants and industry
seven projects were given $227 million in the first phase of the program, and wampler said four contracts still being negotiated will bring the initial commitment to $400 million
in addition, he said, the energy department will award $575 million this year for second-phase projects, using money appropriated for fiscal 1988 and 1989. ``the interest is out there,'' wampler said
president reagan proposed a five-year, $5 billion clean-coal program in an effort to curb acid rain, which occurs when sulfur dioxide and other emissions from power plants and factory boilers mix with moisture aloft and fall to the ground as rain
acid rain is blamed for aquatic pollution and damage to crops and forests in the northeast and canada
although the white house requested $850 million for clean-coal projects in fiscal 1988 and 1989, congress approved only the $575 million. wampler said the department is asking congress to restore money cut from the program in addition to authorizing the appropriations for the three years
while wampler was seeking more money for the future, a group representing states and private participants in the program was meeting in the nation's capital to learn how members could qualify for the $575 million set-aside for second-phase projects
at its third annual conference, the clean coal technology coalition also endorsed the energy department budget request
if the program is successful, the environment will benefit, our national energy security will be strengthened, the use of u.s. coal resources will be assured and consumers' electric or energy bills will be kept to a minimum,'' said ben yamagata, its executive director. ``the benefits are really enormous.'' deals</head>
president reagan's arms-for-hostages deals became the springboard for an elaborate, illegal conspiracy to aid the nicaraguan contras and enrich two private businessmen, according to the indictment of four key iran-contra figures
it is this conspiracy that forms the backbone of the 23-count indictment against former national security adviser john m. poindexter; his aide, oliver l. north; and the two businessmen: retired air force maj. gen. richard secord and his business partner, albert hakim
arms sales to iran were formally authorized by reagan on jan. 17, 1986 when he signed an official finding
but the indictment charged that the defendants ranged far beyond the president's initiative into the zone of illegality
they did it by deceiving the justice department, congress, and even the central intelligence agency, the indictment said. official documents were destroyed and transactions were concealed through use of foreign corporations and untraceable swiss bank accounts, the grand jurors said
the aid to the contras came while such assistance was banned by congress
the indictment accused the defendants of repeating the same deceptive scheme to make a profit for what secord and hakim called ``the enterprise'' _ and to arm and supply the contras
for instance in early 1986, the indictment said, the defendants told the cia that iran paid $3.7 million for 1,000 tow anti-tank missiles when the iranians actually paid $10 million
the difference went for the contras and to swiss investment accounts ``under the control of the defendants secord and hakim for their personal benefit,'' the indictment said
in may 1986, the indictment went on, $16.4 million was deposited for the enterprise, including $15 million from iran for hawk anti-aircraft missile parts, and tows for israel. the tows for israel were to replenish that nation's supply for its prior transfer of tows to iran
the conspirators ``caused only $6.5 million to be transmitted to the united states through the cia ... thus leaving a remainder of almost $10 million in the bank accounts of the enterprise,'' the indictment said. the arms sales profits again went for the contras and the hakim-secord profits
and in october and november 1986, the conspirators shipped 500 tows to iran and were paid $3.6 million by the iranians. only slightly more than $2 million went to the u.s. government through the cia, with the remaining $1.5 million going to the businessmen, the indictment said
part of the conspiracy involved north's fund-raising for the contras and the secord-hakim enterprise
in the spring and early summer of 1985, in order to fund the enterprise, the defendant oliver l. north began raising money through the national endowment for the preservation of liberty by, among other things, arranging meetings with officers of and potential contributors to nepl, and others participating in soliciting contributions for ... the contras,'' the indictment said
from the fall of 1985 to december 1986, the defendant oliver l. north controlled the disposition of funds raised for the contras through nepl.''
last spring, two conservative fund-raisers, carl r. ``spitz'' channell and richard miller, pleaded guilty to felony charges that they conspired with north to illegally use a tax-exempt foundation for the purpose of raising money for the contras, a non-exempt purpose. both are cooperating with walsh's investigation
and in june 1986, the indictment said, north came up with a new scheme. he attempted to divert to the enterprise a $10 million contribution from brunei intended for humanitarian aid to the contras
he did so ``by undertaking to supply an official of the department of state (elliott abrams) with the bank account number of lake resources (an enterprise account) instead of the number of a contra bank account, which the official had requested.''
another part of the conspiracy was to deceive congress, the indictment said. north and poindexter made ``false, fictitious, fraudulent and misleading statements and representations, concerning, among other things, the involvement of officials of the united states ... in support of the military and paramilitary operations in nicaragua.'' such assistance was banned by the boland amendment passed by congress
and in november 1986, as a justice department inquiry of the contra effort closed in on north and poindexter, they ``altered, destroyed, removed official and other documents and records, including classified documents and records of the nsc and the staff of the nsc,'' the indictment said
it said north further tried to cover up his activities in late november 1986 by making ``false and misleading statements to the attorney general'' who was conducting an inquiry for the president
as a protestant gunman opened fire and hurled grenades at a roman catholic funeral, another protestant was receiving a medal from a different group of catholics for his fortitude in a different atrocity
while three people lay dying in the milltown cemetery in belfast on wednesday, gordon wilson of northern ireland was in limerick in the irish republic, being honored for his words of love and forgiveness after losing his daughter in an ira bombing that killed 11 protestants
thus, as often happens in the 19-year cycle of violence savaging northern ireland, two dreadful deeds four months apart came together in a mixture of horror and poignancy
after the nov. 8 bombing in enniskillen, some optimists hoped 56-year-old wilson's courageous example would ignite a grass-roots rebellion against violence of all political stripes
cynics, however, talked of ``the politics of the last atrocity'' _ the notion that no single bloodbath can turn hearts and minds to peace, because sooner or later the other side will try to square the books with a similar atrocity
wednesday's attack is a severe setback to northern ireland's british rulers, who believed they were on the way to shoving the irish republican army out of the catholic mainstream
that was the purpose of the 1985 anglo-irish agreement, which gave the irish government a say in the running of northern ireland on the assumption that catholics would come to see dublin, rather than the ira, as their protector
the funeral bloodbath is bound to help the ira, which is fighting to drive the british from protestant-dominated northern ireland and recoup the loss of face it suffered over the enniskillen bombing
wednesday's atrocity also showed just how thin a tightrope northern ireland can be
the three people being buried were ira guerrillas shot and killed in gibraltar march 6 as they allegedly prepared to plant a car bomb, and the fact that they died unarmed had already scored propaganda points for the ira against britain
had the belfast police turned out in force as they usually do at ira funerals, the unmasked gunman might never have mounted such a blatant attack
but the police, reluctant to get into a fight with the mourners that might hand the ira yet more sympathy, stayed well away, and none was around to disarm the attacker
meanwhile, gibraltar put the irish government in a vice as well
on the one hand, dublin was condemning the british for slaying unarmed irish people. but, then, it too regards the ira as a mortal enemy
so, while wringing its hands over the deaths, dublin made sure the guerrillas' cortege was shunted out of irish territory with minimal fanfare, and a state radio journalist was suspended for airing interviews with leaders of sinn fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed ira, as the hearses drove north to belfast
ireland feels it has enough problems of unemployment, emigration, crime and high taxes without having to deal with a crisis it regards as being of britain's making
the funeral shootings came on the eve of st. patrick's day, when dublin was preparing an extra big parade to commemorate its millennium. the deaths had no visible impact on the shoppers cramming central dublin
but trouble was clearly brewing from the moment the gibraltar coffins crossed the border into northern ireland
ulster protestants have grown increasingly frustrated at their failure to topple the anglo-irish agreement, which they see as an intolerable intrusion in affairs by a hostile catholic state
dublin's protests about the gibraltar killings were, to protestants, an outrageous abuse of its rights of intervention under the anglo-irish accord, considering that a car bombing was allgedly being planned
as soon as the cortege entered northern ireland on monday night it was jeered and stoned by protestants. thus the prospect of a protestant gunman opening fire on the funeral was not as far-fetched as might be imagined
the incidents come at a troubled time for anglo-irish relations after the honeymoon engendered by the 1985 pact
a series of rancorous incidents have occurred over british behavior in ulster-related matters, in which the gibraltar shootings were only the latest irritant
however, at least one man remained optimistic. gordon wilson told his audience in limerick:
i believe in the fundamental decency of all irish people and the longing for peace in all irish hearts. i have no doubt about that.''
marcus eliason, ap's london news editor, has been covering northern ireland for 3{ years. iran-contra</head>
democratic presidential contenders are expressing concern about president reagan's decision to send u.s. troops to honduras today, with jesse jackson calling it ``heavy-handed,'' while indictments in the iran-contra affair are putting some political heat on george bush
bob dole's backers were quick to suggest that if bush is the republican nominee, the democrats will use the re-ignited iran-contra affair as ammunition against him this fall
the democrats didn't wait that long, however, with richard gephardt calling the indictments evidence that the reagan administration has put the constitution ``through the shredder.''
dole's beleaguered gop campaign, meanwhile, came in for some serious scrutiny on wednesday, with republican party chairman frank fahrenkopf hinting that the kansas senator should think about throwing in the towel after his latest loss to bush, in illinois
but dole, whose aides said he would stay in the race at least until the wisconsin primary on april 5, got some encouragement from a dozen senate supporters who met to talk about his prospects
i believe he should stay in,'' said sen. charles grassley of iowa, one of the group. grassley said the four indictments on wednesday in connection with the iran-contra affair were not directly discussed but said: ``there's going to be some reagan baggage that george bush has to contend with, and realistically it's going to be problems for the republicans this fall.''
former national security adviser john poindexter, lt. col. oliver l. north, retired maj. gen. richard v. secord and secord's business partner albert hakim were indicted on conspiracy charges stemming from the diversion of secret iran arms sale profits to nicaragua's contra rebels
what is going on with those four gentlemen has nothing to do with this campaign,'' said bush spokesman pete teeley
but sen. dave durenberger, r-minn., said, ``george can't duck the issue. he's going to have to explain his role.''
fahrenkopf's remarks, however, seemed aimed at suggesting that the senate minority leader should abandon his bid. while stressing his neutrality in the gop campaign, the party chief said he had a responsibility to ask bush's rivals ``for some reflection.''
dole and former television evangelist pat robertson, he said, should ``start thinking past the convention and start thinking about november'' and the general election. robertson has indicated he will drastically scale back his campaign but remain in the race
meanwhile, the democrats, who have been eyeing each other warily amid prospects of a deadlocked race, turned their fire on the reagan administration over both the iran-contra indictments and the sending of four military battalions to honduras in response to a reported nicaraguan incursion there
sending in our troops is a bit heavy-handed,'' said jackson. ``it's just not necessary.''
sen. paul simon also expressed concern, saying ``there is skepticism on the part of all of us about anything'' the administration does in central america
simon also hit the administration over the iran-contra affair, saying the indictments underscore ``something fundamental'' _ that the administration cannot be trusted to obey the law
we need a government we can trust,'' he said
that view was echoed by democratic rival gephardt
whatever the outcome of these prosecutions, i think the special prosecutor has given us fresh evidence that the reagan administration generally has put the constitution of the united states through the shredder,'' gephardt said
gephardt and simon both campaigned wednesday in michigan, which holds its democratic caucuses march 26. gephardt, running dead last in democratic delegate totals, desperately needs a strong showing in the state
they say i'm the underdog,'' he said at a stop in lansing. ``i like being the underdog because the underdog usually does well.''
the missouri congressman will soon have to decide whether to continue his presidential campaign or file for re-election to his house seat. the filing deadline is march 29, three days after the michigan contest
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., still seeking a strong showing outside the south, was campaigning today in kansas, which holds local party caucuses on saturday. gore was addressing the kansas house
simon, who revived his campaign with a home-state victory in illinois on tuesday, continued to predict that no one will be able to patch together enough delegates for a first-ballot victory at the national convention. he said he doubted he'd win in michigan, but added: ``i'd like to pick up as many delegates as i can.''
dukakis again expressed hopes that the democratic contest wouldn't come down to a fight at the convention. ``i think there is agreement on the part of most democrats across the country that somebody will come out of this primary process with, if not an absolute majority, a substantial plurality ... and that people will rally behind that person,'' he said in boston
obviously, i hope i will be that person.''
dukakis remained the democratic delegate leader even after being shut out of the delegate race in illinois. the latest ap delegate count gave him 464.5; jackson 460.55; gore 354.8; simon 171.5 and gephardt 145, with 2,082 needed to nominate
dukakis also continued to lead the democratic field in federal matching funds. the federal election commission on wednesday certified dukakis for another $600,000 in matching funds, bringing his total to nearly $5.7 million
ten-year-old melissa montgomery transformed a class report on mississippi into an adventure that included a first-hand look at civil war battlefields, a catfish fry, grits, mud pie and lots of museums
the best part, melissa said wednesday after returning from her five-day excursion into the deep south, was the impressionist gallery and its ``neat stuff.''
the worst, she said, was the catfish, which she had to taste at what californians would have called a barbecue, but in the deep south is known as a fishfry
not far behind the ugly creatures came a planetarium
you just look up. it's dumb,'' she said
it all started when the fifth-grader from john swett elementary school showed her mother a rough draft of a report on mississippi. melissa compiled it with the help of an encyclopedia a couple of weeks ago
her mother cringed at such stuffy phrases as ``institute of higher learning,'' and decided there had to be a better way to inspire her daughter
she called a visitors' bureau in mississippi for a few postcards, then asked the secretary of state's office for a book outlining interesting and important facts about the state. but they were all out
when someone suggested ``y'all ought to come out and see mississippi for yourself,'' melissa's mother, kathryn, told them to make some arrangement. three days later, melissa was bound for the magnolia state. she stayed with a fred and maridel ingram, parents of a fifth-grader at casey elementary in the capital of jackson
on the trip financed in part by an anonymous donor, melissa visited such sites as the mississippi river, the state museum of natural science, and also got to meet gov. ray mabus
he just kind of shook my hand,'' she said. ``he was nice.''
the excursion included a few too many museums for such an active california girl, who would have preferred riding horses, swimming or ice-skating. instead, it was more of an educational and cultural trip, she said
she was startled when mississippi folks laughed at a west coast speech pattern she didn't know she had
i said, `you guys,' they said `y'all.' they think i have an accent,'' said melissa, sprawled on the couch back home amid welcome home balloons and streamers
during her visit melissa was dogged by reporters and camera crews. ``i liked it at first, but after a while i got sick of it.'' upon her return, she confided to her mother, ``even madonna hates it.''
she returned home laden with memories and trinkets such as a bale of cotton, t-shirts, pens, and brochures reflecting aspects of mississippi life
when they talk about southern hospitality, they're not kidding,'' said her mother
the only thing's that's different,'' said melissa, ``is their attitude. they're really nice.''
she had so much fun she has invited two of her new friends in mississippi to visit her in may
but first comes the hard part. melissa's 50-page report complete with pictures, maps and a replica of the state flag, is due wednesday
she's got 36 pages done but already is planning her next report
australia. correct finishing time to 8:42 p.m. sted 8:43; picks up 3rd graf pvs; subs 11th graf pvs, `butcher's lead ...' to correct that only one of the dogs mentioned led her across finish line last year.</note>
susan butcher left the competition behind on the icy bering sea coast and mushed through bone-chilling winds wednesday to claim her third straight victory in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race
butcher, 33, collected a $30,000 first prize by urging her nine-dog team into the finish chute at 8:42 p.m., hours ahead of her closest rival in the 16th annual anchorage-to-nome trek. she had been on the trail for more than 11 days
i'm just amazed at what my dogs are doing, and what they've done all year,'' said butcher
butcher said she would try next year for a fourth straight win. ``i very much want four, i guess i want five,'' she said
hundreds of cheering fans braved the blustery 15-degree weather to watch as butcher became the first musher to win three consecutive iditarods. butcher started the race with 17 dogs, but dropped eight at checkpoints along the trail
i'm really happy,'' said butcher's husband, dave monson, who earlier this month won another long-distance alaska sled dog race, the 1,000-mile yukon quest. the couple run a kennel in the interior alaska village of manley
we've had a tremendous year,'' monson said. ``it shows that hard work pays off sometimes.''
butcher's closest competitor, martin buser of big lake, was trailing by at least 14 hours wednesday. butcher's longtime rival, four-time iditarod champion rick swenson of two rivers, was minutes behind buser for third place
joe garnie of teller was running fourth, and 70-year-old joe redington of knik, who organized the first iditarod in 1973 but has never won the race, was fifth
butcher had slept little since monday, when she reached the bering sea coast in unalakleet, 229 miles from nome. she said a training run last month along the windy coast accustomed her team to the punishing conditions
tuesday night, butcher guided her team through subzero temperatures and winds that brought the wind chill factor down to minus 70 degrees. peeking out from a fur-ruffed parka, butcher suffered only a frost-nipped wrist
the wind was going right into my big mitt and up my arm. it's still pretty sore,'' she said earlier wednesday
one of butcher's lead dogs this year was granite, a husky that led her to victory last year
butcher, competing in her 11th iditarod, long dreamed of being the first woman musher to win, but that honor went to libby riddles of teller in 1985. butcher won in 1986 and 1987, setting course records each time
last year, when the race followed its shorter southern route, butcher finished in 11 days, 2 hours
the iditarod, named after an old supply route to the gold mining districts of interior alaska, draws its inspiration from a 1925 relay of diphtheria serum to nome, which was hit hard by an outbreak of the disease
the race started march 5 on trucked-in snow. the temperature in downtown anchorage hovered around 32 degrees and climbed even higher during the next few days, which strained the cold-loving huskies
fresh snow slowed the leaders as they climbed into the alaska range. that gave an advantage to redington, who had taken his mandatory 24-hour layover early in the race and sailed past the leaders on the trail they had packed down
redington, known as the father of the iditarod, has entered all but two of the race's 16 runnings and has placed as high as fifth. for 400 miles, it seemed as if he might finally win, but he lost the lead to buser on the yukon river
butcher quickly caught up, passing buser on tuesday near koyuk, 171 miles from the finish
five of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out
about 3,200 american infantry and airborne troops are flying to honduras today in the most dramatic show of u.s. force in the six-year nicaraguan war, causing the senate's top democrat to accuse president reagan of ``overreaction.''
the white house described the movement as ``an emergency deployment readiness exercise'' triggered by what it called the invasion of honduras by 1,500 to 2,000 nicaraguan forces pursuing contra rebels
the exercise involves two battalions of the 82nd airborne division from fort bragg, n.c., and two battalions from the 7th infantry division at fort ord, calif
the troops will be posted out of harm's way for an indefinite period near the palmerola air force base in honduras, about 125 miles from the area of reported hostilities, said marlin fitzwater, the president's spokesman
this exercise is a measured response designed to show our staunch support to the democratic government of honduras at a time when its territorial integrity is being violated by the cuban- and soviet-supported sandinista army,'' fitzwater said in a late-night announcement
he said it also was ``a signal to the governments and peoples of central america of the seriousness with which the united states government views the current situation in the region.''
some congressional democrats weren't buying the administration's rationale
it's an overreaction,'' said senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va. ``the sandinistas have crossed over the border before and gone back.''
i just hope it's merited,'' sen. john kerry, d-mass., said, recalling a similar incident two years ago when the united states jumped to the aid of honduras under circumstances many saw as exaggerated by the white house. then, as now, the development came as the administration was pushing a reluctant congress to approve military aid to the contras
rep. edward j. markey, d-mass., said, ``this is not the first time the president has made use of his military authority after he lost a vote on the contras. president reagan's decision to send the 82nd airborne to honduras has more to do with politics than with american security. it is an irresponsible involvement of american troops in the conflict in central america and an unwise escalation of tensions in that region.''
however, a number of republicans were supportive
house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., said the deployment was intended ``psychologically to give an indication that we are not just going to stand by and have nicaragua ... make incursions into neighboring countries.''
rep. jack fields, r-texas, said, ``i don't think the president really had an alternative.''
congressional leaders were briefed by telephone late wednesday
elliott abrams, assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, said congress would receive information today documenting the nicaraguan incursion
we will present evidence ... which proves conclusively that there was a very large sandinista incursion into honduras, that will show, i think, what to make of president ortega's claim that there isn't one single nicaraguan soldier in honduras. it's a lie,'' abrams said on abc's ``nightline.''
fitzwater said upwards of 2,000 sandinistas are in honduras. ``they are there and we have seen no evidence that they are retreating to their own country.''
the developments came as secretary of state george p. shultz and white house officials conferred with congressional leaders about the possibility of a new aid package for the contra rebels trying to topple nicaragua's leftist regime
u.s. aid to the rebels ran out two weeks ago, and the administration is hoping the new situation will earn the contras greater sympathy in congress
nicaraguan defense ministry officials denied wednesday there was any border crossing but later president daniel ortega appeared to leave open that possibility
in a radio address, he said sandinista forces had pushed back the contras into honduras and that there was ``cross-fire from honduran territory against our forces.'' his remarks did not confirm or deny the administration claims
fitzwater said the u.s. deployment came in response to a request from honduran president jose azcona. he said reagan was briefed on the request about 8 p.m. est in his residence and decided to send in u.s. forces
as the president said when he was briefed on this issue, `when friends ask for our support, we should provide it,''' fitzwater said
some 12,500 american military personnel are stationed in central america, including roughly 10,000 who are located in panama. total u.s. military manpower in honduras varies from week to week, depending upon the exercises being conducted. squads'</head>
rep. joseph p. kennedy ii and leading civil rights activists say british troops are acting like latin american ``death squads'' where northern ireland is concerned
the british today, under the rule of mrs. (prime minister margaret) thatcher, are advocating just the kind of death squads the congress of the united states condemns every day,'' the massachusetts democrat said outside the british embassy on the eve of st. patrick's day
kennedy, the great-great-grandson of irish immigrants, was joined by martin luther king iii, cesar chavez, the rev. joseph lowery, rep. john lewis, d-ga., and rep. albert bustamante, d-texas, for a 50-minute meeting with british ambassador antony acland
the long-scheduled embassy meeting came just hours after attackers lobbed grenades and fired shots into a heavily attended funeral in belfast for three slain irish republican army guerrillas. the trio, unarmed, were shot march 6 by british troops in gilbraltar
british authorities say the three ira members were on a bombing mission. the outlawed ira is fighting to push the british out of protestant-dominated northern ireland, which remains part of the united kingdom
kennedy and the other activists condemned the violence of the catholic ira and rival protestant paramilitary units. but they blamed the british government for providing ``enthusiastic support'' to the british security forces and for not prosecuting soldiers
killers and perjurers should be brought to justice and the world should know the truth,'' the group wrote in a letter to mrs. thatcher delivered to the ambassador
after the closed meeting, kennedy said acland's comments exemplified the ``callousness'' the british show toward the irish
what we see today in northern ireland is complete abandonment by the british government of real justice issues,'' kennedy told reporters outside the embassy compound. ``they're not fundamentally committed to change in northern ireland.''
the embassy said only that ``it was a frank discussion on both sides.''
but an embassy official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, derided the ``death squad'' analogy
we regard that frankly as over the top,'' the official said. ``death squads imply shooting at will.'' british troops, the official said, have strict orders to fire only if their lives or others are in danger
kennedy urged britain to impose new laws to protect catholics against the type of discrimination that has resulted in up to 80 percent unemployment among catholic men in some parts of northern ireland
unless you get people employed in that country, you're not going to see the cycle of violence change,'' said kennedy, a freshman congressman and the eldest son of the late sen. robert f. kennedy
the fact is, folks, what we still face today in northern ireland is discrimination, discrimination just as bad as we faced in the 1960s and earlier in our country,'' he said
kennedy lambasted new british proposals for fair employment legislation as ``empty rhetoric'' that lack timetables demanding tangible improvement
king, the son of the late rev. martin luther king jr., and lowery, president of the southern christian leadership conference, said the arguments the ambassador gave against affirmative action programs were the same ones voiced by opponents of the u.s. civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s
king, who said his father would have been at the embassy wednesday to protest britain's actions if he were alive, said discrimination ``in all its forms is wrong, whether it's in a public place or a private boardroom in the united states, in south africa or in ireland.''
quoting his slain father, king said: ``injustice which is allowed to flourish anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.''
consumer advocates and industry are squaring off over the question of whether unstable all-terrain vehicles should be recalled, with even the federal consumer product safety commission split on the issue
legislation being considered in congress would force makers of the off-road machines to buy back three-wheeled versions. the machines have been involved in more than 900 deaths and 300,000 injuries in the last five years
the recall measure would go beyond the settlement reached monday between industry, the justice department and cpsc
that consent agreement, yet to be approved by a federal judge, calls for a ban on sales of the three-wheeled vehicles, provides for advertising stressing the dangers of atvs, and institutes tougher safety programs and warnings for buyers of the new, more stable, four-wheeled atvs
but it lacks provisions for a recall of the estimated 1.5 million to 2 million three-wheeled atvs already in use, an omission that consumer advocates say could spell tragedy
the consent decree ... isn't good enough,'' rep. james j. florio, d-n.j., said wednesday at a hearing of the house energy and commerce consumer protection subcommittee, which he chairs. ``it fails to provide any real protection for those who bought the admittedly dangerous three-wheelers in the past
the legislation before us, by requiring manufacturers to offer refunds to past purchasers of three-wheel atvs, provides this necessary relief.''
susan a. weiss of the consumer federation of america told the subcommittee that the settlement announced monday is ``simply inadequate to stem this devastation.''
anne graham, the lone cpsc member to oppose the settlement, said she voted against it because it lacked a recall program
if three-wheeled atvs are hazardous enough to stop their sale, then certainly the millions of consumers who already own them should be given the opportunity to return them,'' graham said in her testimony
commission chairman terrence m. scanlon argued that if congress were to countermand the negotiated agreement, other industries might be discouraged from negotiating with the cpsc to obtain remedies for consumers
carol dawson, the third member of the safety commission, told the subcommittee, ``those who bought atvs because they believed atv marketing that these machines were safe and fun for the entire family ought to have the right to a reasonable refund if they so choose.''
w.j. michael cody, tennessee's attorney general, also presented testimony supporting the refund legislation
consumers who have already purchased an atv had no notice or inadequate notice of the risk of death and severe injury posed by atvs,'' cody said. ``manufacturers have affirmatively misrepresented the characteristics of atvs.''
however, lloyd cutler, representing american honda motor co., testified in favor of the settlement reached by the safety commission
legislation overriding that agreement and requiring refunds would be ``unwise, unconstitutional and ... unprecedented,'' cutler told the subcommittee
cutler questioned who would enter into settlements with government agencies if congress could reverse those agreements
moves by congress to raise the federal minimum wage this year will put presidential candidates on the spot and force them to take a position on the issue, the chairman of the house labor committee says
they like to say they are for a good education or a living wage for everyone,'' said rep. augustus f. hawkins. ``they will have to discuss in detail the numbers that congress sets. they won't be able to just say they are for a living wage.''
the house labor and education committee on wednesday ignored the threat of a presidential veto and approved legislation to raise the minimum wage from $3.35 per hour to $5.05 over the next four years
the measure, which passed after numerous republican attempts to weaken or gut it, now goes to the full house
this will be one of the great election issues,'' hawkins, d-calif., said in an interview. ``each candidate will be pinned down.''
the democratic-controlled committee approved the measure by voice vote after rejecting a republican proposal to permit a special ``new hire'' wage of $3.35 an hour
hawkins said he expected the full house to take up the legislation within 10 days after members return april 11 from their easter recess
the senate labor and human resources committee will take up a similar bill during the week of april 11, according to its chairman, sen. edward kennedy, d-mass
labor secretary ann mclaughlin says senior white house advisers will urge president reagan to veto any minimum wage increase that would lead to a decrease in the number of job opportunities
the initial house bill would have raised the minimum to $4.65 an hour over three years; that figure is still contained in the senate bill. the administration claims the proposal would result in elimination of 880,000 jobs because employers won't be willing to pay their workers that much
under the house committee-passed bill, the minimum wage would go to $3.85 an hour next year, $4.25 in 1990, $4.65 in 1991 and $5.05 in 1992
last week, the committee added the fourth-year increase of 40 cents as a substitute for ``indexing'' _ or tying _ future raises to inflation
indexing was supported by hawkins, kennedy and organized labor, but democrats dropped the plan because they feared it would result in little or no increase this year
the final version of the bill was sent to the house floor after the committee defeated, 20-13, a proposal by rep. steve bartlett, r-texas, to create a ``new hire'' or training wage by which employers could pay new workers $3.35 an hour for 90 days
bartlett said the white house told him the president would veto any legislation not containing a lower starting wage
rep. matthew g. martinez, d-calif., called the training wage proposal ``a sham, a joke and a fraud.'' he said it was ``nothing more than a way to get around the minimum wage.''
the committee also rejected another bartlett amendment which would have given private employers the right to grant compensatory time off in lieu of wages for overtime
also defeated by a voice vote was an amendment by rep. thomas e. petri, r-wis., to permit employers to include the cost of fringe benefits, such as health insurance, in the calculation of the minimum wage and an amendment by rep. william f. goodling, r-pa., to exempt motorcycle dealers from paying overtime
robert mcglotten, legislative director of the afl-cio, said the committee ``recognized the need to bring this nation's working poor to at least the poverty level by gradually raising the minimum wage.''
corn is the most plentiful farm crop grown in the united states but is losing ground among brewers
the agriculture department says only 34.5 million bushels of corn were used to make beer in 1987, the smallest amount in 25 years. just a decade ago, american brewers used 53.6 million bushels of corn
rice production has increased, and lots of the lower grades go into breweries,'' said larry van meir of the department's economic research service
in 1961, he told the associated press, breweries used about 3.4 million hundredweight of rice. by last year more than 15 million hundredweight were used to make beer
corn is still ahead of rice in the brewer's art, however. the 34.5 million bushels, at 56 pounds per bushel, converts to about 19.3 million hundredweight, compared with the 15 million hundredweight of rice
moreover, corn used to make beer is only a small part of the huge supply. the brewery figures were based on corn produced and used in the 1986-87 crop marketing year, which included the bumper 1986 corn harvest of 8.25 billion bushels
of that amount, more than 4.7 billion bushels were fed to livestock; 1.5 billion bushels were exported; and less than 1.2 billion bushels went into food, seed and industrial uses, which includes corn flakes, alcohol and beer
van meir's agency says in a new report that the use of corn for food, seed and industrial purposes, called fsi by the economists, is expected to continue growing at an annual rate of 3 percent to 4 percent, despite the decline in beer use
since 1980, the largest single use of corn in the fsi category has been the manufacture of high-fructose corn syrup, abbreviated in the trade to hfcs. of the 1.2 billion bushels that went into food, seed and industrial uses in 1986-87, some 339 million bushels were used to make hfcs
the rise of hfcs has been linked to a decline in the use of sugar in soft drinks and many other food products, including baked goods, dairy and cereal products
corn also is a source of glucose and dextrose, two other sweeteners, and starch for a long list of industrial purposes in the paper and corrugating industries, and by pharmaceutical, building, textile and food manufacturers
department analysts estimate that about 300 million bushels of corn were used to make ethanol in 1986-87, the fuel-grade alcohol that is blended with gasoline
use of corn for ethanol is expected to increase 3 percent to 5 percent this year, much slower than the double-digit annual increases in 1979 through 1985
monthly sales of ethanol-blended fuel again reached new records during the first seven months of calendar 1987,'' the report said. ``however, as in 1986, sales fell off during late summer and the fall months.''
the report explained: ``one of the reasons for lower ethanol sales in the summer is the strong competition for wet-million capacity. heavy demand for hfcs in soft drinks in the summer, along with the fact that hfcs cannot be stored for long periods of time, means that any wet-milling capacity that has the ability to shift moves into higher-profit hfcs production.''
in the fall, the plants again shift into ethanol production as the demand for hfcs declines. however, seasonal demand for automotive fuel and, presumably, ethanol, also declines at that time
the soviet union has bought an additional 200,000 metric tons of u.s. corn for delivery this year under a long-term supply agreement between the two countries, the agriculture department says
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 200,000 tons of corn announced wednesday would be about 7.9 million bushels
corn prices recently have been averaging about $1.83 per bushel at the farm level, meaning that the sale could have a farm value of around $14.5 million
the corn is part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of the agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases are supposed to include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
with the latest purchases, the soviets now have bought 3.47 million tons of corn, plus more than 6.9 million tons of wheat; 813,300 tons of soybeans, and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal
an agriculture department report says thailand may import soybeans for the first time since 1981 due to drought and a shortage of the oilseed
the department's foreign agricultural service said also wednesday that a decision is expected about the country's import quota for soybean meal. feed mills and livestock producers, meanwhile, have turned to other oilseed meals not restricted by quotas, such as sunflowerseed meal and peanut meal
meanwhile, the united states has been ``working to liberalize thailand's oilseed trade'' by encouraging the thai government to use import tariffs instead of the current system, which includes bans on imported soybeans, a quota on soybean meal, and licensing for vegetable oil, the report said. ^tip o'neill says brokered convention would be good fun; few dems concur</head>
talk of a brokered convention is making some democrats shudder, while former house speaker thomas p. ``tip'' o'neill says he thinks it would be a lot of fun and other party leaders say the scenario probably will be avoided one way or another
a brokered convention is nothing,'' said o'neill on wednesday evening. he recalled the brokered 1952 convention that nominated adlai stevenson and said, ``it was enjoyable ... it makes it more fun.''
if i had my way _ they talk about the smoke-filled rooms _ we ought to open them up to the tv and the press,'' he said in an interview wednesday night
sen. paul simon's favorite-son primary victory in illinois on tuesday brought the brokered convention speculation to the fore, along with concerns that the democrats could only be hurt by such a lack of unity
new york gov. mario cuomo, who some hope would emerge the nominee if there were a deadlocked convention, condemned the possibility as ``the best way to give this election away to the republicans.''
he joined democratic national committee chairman paul kirk in calling for the democratic leadership to unify behind the front-runner when the primary season ends in june, rather than wait until the july convention in atlanta
simon, reviving his faltering campaign, took most of the delegates in illinois, with the other home-state candidate, jesse jackson, coming in second and taking the rest of the delegates
simon said no one will have enough delegates to lock up the nomination before the convention, and added, ``we're going to have to work out some kind of a compromise.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who currently holds a slim lead in delegates, said the party should unite behind the front-runner at the end of the primary season, and that encouraging a brokered convention ``would be a very dangerous thing.''
i think there is agreement on the part of most democrats across the country that somebody will come out of this primary process with, if not an absolute majority, a substantial plurality ... and that people will rally behind that person. obviously, i hope i will be that person,'' the governor said in boston
but other prominent democrats, interviewed wednesday at a congressional dinner, professed not to be worried about the deadlocked convention prospect, mostly because they don't think it will come to that
nobody said the process had to end by march,'' said sen. john kerry of massachusetts, chairman of the democratic senatorial campaign committee
but he said he thinks his candidate, dukakis, will have enough delegates to take the nomination by june, and that ``the process is going to work its way out.''
former virginia gov. charles robb, who opted not to seek the presidential nomination this year, said he doubts anyone will have a winning cache of delegates in june. but he predicted that the party would unite behind a candidate before the convention
nonetheless, he added, ``i don't fear a brokered convention ... i don't think any harm comes from it.''
after illinois, dukakis had 464.5 delegate votes, jackson 460.55 and simon 171.5. sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee had 354.8 and rep. richard gephardt of missouri 145. uncommitted delegates totaled 272.65 of the 2,082 needed to win the nomination
boosted by his illinois win, simon plans to campaign vigorously for the upcoming michigan caucuses march 26 and the wisconsin primary april 5
gore, who fared poorly in illinois, said he is ``almost prepared'' to agree that the race will still be fluid at the convention
i still think this process is likely to produce a winner before the first ballot is over,'' gore said. ``the results (from illinois) ... make it more likely we will go to a second ballot.''
gephardt, who skipped illinois to try to resuscitate his campaign in michigan, said the democratic battle could go all the way
the race is wide open,'' he said in kalamazoo, mich. ``i think if i can get a good result in michigan, which i think i can, i'm going to be back in the middle of this thing and have a great chance to be the nominee.''
house speaker jim wright of texas said wednesday night he anticipated he would be involved in any discussions to unite behind a candidate before the convention if no one had the winning number of delegates in june
he said a brokered convention wouldn't be the worst thing, but added, ``all things considered, it would be desirable if it didn't happen.''
sen. bill bradley of new jersey on wednesday signaled the likelihood that he, too, would help in early selection of a nominee. first, he told party leaders in his home state that he would endorse a candidate before the primary there june 7, with dukakis the favorite for his backing
and he said party leaders should halt an effort to put together an uncommitted delegate slate for the state. victory for such a slate, he said, could cause problems for the front-running candidate when the primary is held
william j. porter, the chief u.s. delegate to the paris peace talks that ended the vietnam war, has died of cancer. he was 73
porter, who had served in many diplomatic posts, died tuesday at a nursing home
a native of staleybridge, england, he became a u.s. citizen in 1936 when he was 22. he began his foreign service that year as private secretary to the u.s. ambassador in budapest
from 1962 to 1965, porter served as the first u.s. ambassador to algeria. he later served as deputy ambassador to south vietnam, ambassador to south korea, undersecretary of state for political affairs and ambassador to canada. he retired in 1977 as ambassador to saudi arabia
in july 1971, president nixon named porter chief delegate to the paris talks to succeed david k.e. bruce, who was retiring because of illness
porter and his mother immigrated to fall river from england after his father, a royal navy officer, was killed in world war i
before becoming ambassador to algeria, he had served as a diplomatic aide in iraq, lebanon, jerusalem, cyprus and morocco, and as political adviser to the chief of voice of america and director of the state department's office of north african affairs
in 1941, he was credited with rescuing three american missionary couples who were trapped in their homes in baghdad during two days of rioting in which iraqis killed more than 500 jews
he married eleanore henry, an army nurse from philadelphia, while in syria in 1944
survivors include his wife, a son and a daughter
a funeral mass is to be said friday at st. john the baptist church in westport
here is a chronology of events related to the iran-contra affair:
march 7 _ cable news network correspondent jeremy levin is kidnapped in beirut. levin, freed 11 months later, is first of 16 american hostages, of whom nine remain captive
summer _ iranian purchasing agents put out call for weapons, including tow anti-tank missiles. by november, iranians are suggesting link between weapons sales and release of u.s. hostages
aug. 31 _ national security adviser robert mcfarlane asks for reassessment of u.s. policy toward iran
july _ israeli official tells mcfarlane transfer of arms to iran could lead to release of hostages. mcfarlane takes the message to president reagan, who approves ``in principle'' sale of tow missiles to iran, subject to further review
aug. 6 _ mcfarlane briefs reagan on a specific israeli proposal to sell tows to iran through israel. mcfarlane says the president approved it; reagan says he cannot recall
late august _ israel sends 96 tows to iran
sept. 14 _ second shipment of 408 tows is sent to iran
sept. 15 _ american hostage rev. benjamin weir is released
nov. 24-25 _ cia arranges for shipment of anti-aircraft missiles from israel to iran. iran rejects missiles after test-firing, finding they do not meet their requirements
dec. 4 _ mcfarlane resigns as national security adviser and is succeeded by rear adm. john poindexter
dec. 5 _ reagan signs a ``finding'' retroactively authorizing operation with iran. poindexter later testifies that on nov. 21, 1986, he tore up only copy of finding that bore president's signature
jan. 17 _ reagan signs a secret intelligence finding authorizing cia participation in the sales and ordering process be kept secret from congress
feb. 17 _ first direct shipment of arms from pentagon stocks, 500 tows, is sent to israel for shipment to iran. no hostages freed
feb. 19 _ national security council aide lt. col. oliver north meets with iranians in frankfurt, west germany. iranians want better weapons; north presses for hostages
feb. 27 _ shipment of 500 more tows sent to israel for shipment to iran. no hostages freed
april 4 _ north writes memo to poindexter outlining plans to use $12 million in profits from iran arms sales to aid nicaragua's contra rebels. poindexter says he never showed it to reagan
may 23-24 _ spare parts and 508 more tows shipped to israel
may 25 _ north and mcfarlane fly to tehran with shipment of spare parts, expecting hostages to be freed. negotiations break down and they return to washington
july 26 _ rev. lawrence jenco, held since january 1985, is freed
aug. 4 _ u.s. sends iran shipment of spare parts for hawk anti-aircraft missiles
sept. 9-oct. 21 _ three more americans kidnapped in lebanon
sept. 26 _ iranian middlemen deposit $7 million into swiss bank account
oct. 5 _ north flies to west germany for meeting with iranian contact, who says he can obtain release of one hostage for 500 tows
oct. 28 _ another 500 u.s. tow missiles are sent to iran
nov. 2 _ american hostage david jacobsen, held since june 1985, is freed
nov. 4 _ a pro-syrian news magazine in beirut breaks news that mcfarlane had flown to iran to meet and negotiate with officials there
nov. 13 _ white house admits selling arms to iran. reagan repeats administration has not sold arms for hostages
nov. 21 _ cia director william casey briefs house and senate intelligence committees on arms deal, but makes no mention of diversion of funds. north and his secretary, fawn hall, shred, alter and remove documents relevant to arms deal
nov. 25 _ reagan announces north has been fired and poindexter has resigned. attorney general edwin meese discloses $10 million to $30 million in arms-sale profits were diverted to contras
dec. 1-3 _ senate intelligence committee begins inquiry into revelations by questioning mcfarlane. committee also questions north and poindexter, who both invoke the fifth amendment
dec. 19 _ lawrence e. walsh is appointed independent counsel to investigate the deal. both houses of congress select investigating committees
feb. 26 _ tower commission, appointed by president to examine the role of the national security council, issues its report, rebuking reagan for failing to control council staff
march 4 _ reagan acknowledges in televised speech his iranian initiative deteriorated into arms-for-hostages deal. ``it was a mistake.''
march 7 _ meese announces appointment of independent counsel walsh to similar position in justice department as ``insurance policy'' against challenges to independent counsel law
may 5 _ televised testimony of congressional iran-contra hearings begins with testimony from retired air force general and arms dealer richard secord, who describes how he helped divert $3.5 million in proceeds from iran arms sales to contras
may 6 _ casey dies
may 11 _ mcfarlane begins four days of testimony, during which he says reagan instructed staff in 1984 to find ways around congressional ban on u.s. military aid to contras. mcfarlane denies he, north and poindexter concocted cover story in early november 1986 to cover up administration's arms sales to iran
july 7 _ north begins six days on stand during which he says he had authorization from his superiors for diverting iran arms sale money to the contras, casey knew of diversion, and north always assumed reagan knew about it. but he says he never discussed plan with the president or received written presidential authorization
july 15 _ poindexter testifies over five days he never told reagan arms sale proceeds were being diverted to contras. poindexter says reagan, in writing, authorized straight arms-for-hostages swap in december 1985 but poindexter tore up the document in november 1986 as the affair unraveled
aug. 6 _ hearings conclude
nov. 18. _ iran-contra committees release final report, saying ``cabal of zealots'' ran u.s. policy and concluding reagan bears ultimate responsibility for affair that plunged administration into crisis
jan. 19 _ u.s. supreme court kills appeal by north attacking independent counsel walsh's authority as delegated by justice department to investigate iran-contra affair
jan. 22 _ u.s. appeals court declares 1978 independent counsel law unconstitutional. walsh, however, continues investigation under auspices of dual justice department ``insurance policy'' appointment
mar. 16 _ federal grand jury indicts poindexter, north, secord and his business partner albert hakim on conspiracy charges in diversion of iranian arms sales profits to contras
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh is leaving the door open for further criminal charges in the iran-contra affair following the indictment of lt. col. oliver north and three others on charges of ``deceitfully exploiting'' u.s. weapons sales to iran
the 23-count indictment charging that north, former national security adviser john poindexter and two weapons dealers engaged in a criminal conspiracy ``is simply an interim report'' of the grand jury's 14-month investigation, walsh told reporters
the grand jury is not finished,'' walsh said wednesday after the panel returned the 101-page indictment against north, poindexter and arms dealers albert hakim and retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord
grand jurors will continue to meet because ``they have uncompleted investigations,'' walsh said, refusing to say if more criminal charges would be brought
the indictment charges that the defendants circumvented a statutory ban on u.s. military aid to the nicaraguan contra rebels ``by deceitfully and without legal authorization'' setting up a clandestine private arms supply network
it also says the four conspired to defraud the government ``by deceitfully exploiting for their own purposes and corrupting'' the u.s. arms sales to iran that were approved by president reagan in an attempt to win release of american hostages in lebanon
the u.s. government was cheated out of its rightful proceeds from the sale of $30 million dollars worth of weaponry to iran, the indictment said. the government received only $12.2 million
all four defendants were charged with conspiracy, theft of government property and wire fraud, stemming from the diversion of arms-sale profits to the contras to swiss bank accounts controlled by hakim and secord
together, these charges carry a maximum 25-year sentence and each of the three counts has a potential fine of $250,000
the indictment raises the question of whether reagan will issue pardons to those charged or convicted as a result of the iran-contra affair. reagan, who has refused to rule out pardons for his former aides, ``had no response'' to the latest development in the scandal, said spokesman marlin fitzwater
north, who was fired from his white house post in november 1986, was named in 16 counts. he also was charged with obstructing attorney general edwin meese iii's nov. 21-23, 1986, investigation by making false statements and destroying national security council documents
secord and hakim were additionally charged with conspiring to pay north illegal gratuities by agreeing to set up a $200,000 swiss bank account for the marine officer's family and to pay for the installation of a security system at north's home in great falls, va
north was accused of accepting the security system and pocketing $4,500 of $90,000 in travelers checks he received from a contra leader to cover expenses of helping the rebels
the gratuities were offered to ``encourage north to continue in his position'' at the white house so secord and hakim ``would continue to receive opportunities for substantial revenues and profits'' from the arms sales, the indictment said
secord and north agreed the ``enterprise'' would keep most of the proceeds from the sale of tow missiles to iran in february 1986, the indictment said
poindexter, a retired navy rear admiral, also was charged with four counts of obstructing congressional inquiries and deleting national security council computer records shortly after the iran-contra affair unraveled in november 1986
last week, another of reagan's former national security advisers, robert c. mcfarlane, pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor charges of withholding information from congress about the covert aid efforts
north also was charged with illegally using a tax-exempt foundation, the national endowment for the preservation of liberty, to raise $3.2 million for the contras
north, who was fired from the nsc staff in november 1986, told reporters: ``i did not commit any crime. i intend to fight the allegations of wrongdoing for as long as necessary.''
the case was assigned to u.s. district judge gerhard gesell, 77, an appointee of president johnson who presided at one of the watergate trials and ruled in favor of the washington post's publication of the pentagon papers
secord said on abc-tv's ``nightline'' that the charges were ``crazy.''
we're going to defend this case successfully,'' he said
n. richard janis, who represents hakim, said ``we believe strongly that mr. hakim has committed no crimes and that this indictment is unfair and unwarranted.'' poindexter's lawyer, richard beckler, told the washington post that ``we're going to vigorously contest this case.'' market</head>
president reagan's top economic advisers have urged a two-week delay in proposed action seeking to open japan's multibillion construction market to u.s. companies, administration officials say
the delay, backed on tuesday by reagan's cabinet-level economic policy committee, will permit time for last-ditch negotiations, requested by japan, to resolve the dispute, said officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity
however, if the negotiations _ to begin this weekend _ fail, then the administration is likely to proceed with the trade case, which could result in stiff retaliatory tariffs against japan, the sources said
the council, headed by treasury secretary james a. baker iii, put off a recommendation by senior staff members calling for presidential action against japan on the issue, pending the result of the talks, the sources said
japan will send a special negotiating team to washington this weekend to meet with u.s. officials in an effort to end the bitter dispute, said the officials
they proposed sending a high-level representative to meet with us. we've taken them up on it,'' said one administration official present at the cabinet session
the cabinet unit agreed that there ``would be no pre-conditions'' on the negotiations, and that the results would have to be satisfactory to both nations for further action to be abandoned, the official said
failure of u.s. construction companies to win contracts on japanese public works projects, including the new $8 billion kansai international airport, has been a major trade irritant between the two nations
last month, top administration staff members recommended that president reagan initiate a trade action against japan on grounds that japan has resisted opening its construction market to u.s. companies
according to the sources, commerce secretary c. william verity opened tuesday's session with a call for initiation of the trade action against japan _ an action that could result in tariffs equal to the amount of lost business to u.s. construction companies
however, the cabinet was told of a new offer by japan to resolve the dispute, and the group agreed to await the result of the two-week talks before recommending further action to president reagan, the sources said
u.s. construction companies claim they have been all but barred from bidding on such projects in japan. some $60 billion of japanese construction projects are at stake, according to industry officials
japanese prime minister naburo takeshita, in his visit with president reagan earlier this year, brought with him a proposal he said would open more japanese construction projects to u.s. companies
however, the administration said that the proposal _ which focused on joint ventures between u.s. and japanese companies _ did not go nearly far enough
japanse construction firms, by contrast, do an estimated $1.8 billion worth of business each year in the united states
however, congress late last year voted to ban future japanese participation in u.s. public works projects _ which include planned work on a segment of the washington subway system _ until the issue is resolved
u.s. construction industry officials have claimed that japanese red tape for bidding on such projects in japan makes it virtually impossible for americans to win contracts
for instance, they claim, one requirement for participation in such projects is extensive prior experience on similar japanese projects _ experience that u.s. industry officials claim it is almost impossible for american outfits to acquire. programs</head>
three times as many americans would raise taxes rather than cut medicare and other social programs to reduce the federal budget deficit, according to a survey released today
but a third option _ cutting defense spending _ was favored by the majority of those questioned in a gallup poll
the american public clearly is not inclined to cut entitlement programs in order to reduce the federal budget deficit,'' said gallup vice president harry cotugno in an analysis of the poll
the telephone survey of 1,014 people from jan. 10-23 found 10 percent approved of cutting entitlement programs, 33 percent favored higher taxes and 59 percent cutting defense spending
that left 87 percent disapproving of cutting entitlement programs _ in the questionnaire's words _ ``such as social security, medicare and the like.''
the ``raise taxes'' option, disapproved by 52 percent, did not specify which taxes and the ``cut spending on defense'' _ disapproved by 36 percent _ likewise did not specify where the cuts would come
the totals of those approving and disapproving the three options exceeds 100 percent because each person was asked to give an opinion on each of the options, not pick one of the three
the survey was commissioned by the federation of american health systems, a trade organization representing about 1,300 private hospitals, and released in conjunction with its annual convention
health advisers to several presidential candidates _ including vice president george bush and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis _ were scheduled to appear on a panel today
one of the questions in the survey asked whether respondents would be more likely or less likely to vote for a candidate who favored a large increase in defense spending, cuts in medicare or medicaid and increasing taxes
three-quarters said they would be less likely to vote for a candidate who favored medicare or medicaid cuts and 65 percent said they would be less likely to support a candidate advocating more defense spending
cotugno said those figures showed a significant shift from a similar survey taken for newsweek in 1982
the proportion likely to vote for a candidate in favor of increased spending for defense has been cut in half, from 28 percent to 12 percent, while the proportion who are less likely to vote (for such a candidate) has risen from 44 percent in 1982 to 65 percent this year,'' he said
just under half _ 49 percent _ said they would be less likely to support a candidate who favored increasing taxes and 26 percent said such a stand would make them more likely to vote for a candidate with a tax-raising position
another question gave four ``if you had to choose'' options for reducing the deficit
given that choice, 43 percent said take money from defense, 21 percent said give up ``a portion of the next phase of the federal tax cut,'' 18 percent said give up having a balanced budget and 3 percent said take money from health care programs. the rest had no opinion
the margin of error for the poll was 4 percentage points
here are brief sketches of the men indicted by a federal grand jury wednesday on charges stemming from the iran-contra affair
north, a marine lieutenant colonel, is a former member of the national security council staff. he played the central role in supervising the arms shipments to iran and in helping coordinate assistance to the nicaraguan rebels during the 1985-86 period when congress barred u.s. government aid for the rebels
he was fired from his nsc post in november 1986 when the iran-contra affair first became public
born in san antonio, texas, north, 44, was raised in philmont, n.y. he graduated from the u.s. naval academy, where he was a boxing champion. he received numerous medals for heroism in the vietnam war. north and his wife, betsy, have four children. he lives in great falls, va
poindexter, a retired rear admiral, had a lifelong career with the navy. born in odom, ind., poindexter, 51, received a ph.d in nuclear physics from california institute of technology in 1964
he joined the national security council staff in june 1981 as a military assistant, succeeding robert c. mcfarlane as president reagan's national security adviser in december 1985. earlier in his career he was on the personal staff of three navy secretaries and was the top assistant to the chief of naval operations
his wife, linda, is an ordained episcopal priest. they have five sons
secord, 55, a retired major general in the air force, spent virtually his entire career in the military. a native of larue, ohio, secord graduated from west point. he was one of the first american combat pilots in vietnam. early in his career, he also ran bombing missions for the cia from laos. he resigned from the air force in 1983 after federal investigators looked into his relationship with former cia agent edwin wilson, who was convicted of selling weapons to libya
secord and his business associate, albert hakim, were the two most prominent figures among the clandestine operators who assisted north in supplying the nicaraguan contras
hakim, 51, a naturalized american born in iran, is a businessman based in los gatos, calif. hakim left iran for good in 1978 when the shah of iran was forced from power. in the mid-1970s, hakim met secord in tehran; the two later became business partners
hakim travels frequently, rarely staying in the same place for long. his second wife was born in south korea. investigators say hakim was the money man who handled the accounts and financial arrangements in the iran-contra affair
here is a transcript of the statement wednesday night by white house spokesman marlin fitzwater on president reagan's decision to send u.s. military battalions on an ``emergency deployment readiness exercise'' to honduras:
in light of the significant cross-border incursion by sandinista armed forces into honduras from nicaragua, and at the request of the government of honduras, the president has ordered the immediate deployment of an infantry brigade task force consisting of two battalions of the 82nd airborne division from fort bragg (n.c.), two battalions from the 7th infantry division at fort ord, calif., plus supporting units to palmerola air force base in honduras for an emergency deployment readiness exercise
in addition to its value as a test of the proficiency of our military units, this exercise is a measured response designed to show our staunch support to the democratic government of honduras, at a time when its territorial integrity is being violated by the cuban- and soviet-supported sandinista army
this exercise is also intended as a signal to the governments and peoples of central america of the seriousness with which the u.s. government views the current situation in the region
the duration of this exercise has not been decided
the brigade task force will not be deployed to any area of ongoing hostilities
here is the text of the letter from honduran president jose azcona to president reagan:
his excellency tegucigalpa
ronald reagan march 15, 1988
president of the united states
washington, d.c
dear mr. president:
i have the honor of addressing your excellency, first of all to inform you that today nicarauga army troops crossed the border limits between honduras and nicaragua, attacking, with artillery fire and combat aircraft support, locations situated in honduran territory in southeast olancho department
with the purpose of preventing the worsening of the situation on the frontier, i have demanded of president ortega that he order his troops to abstain from violating national territory, and immediately redeploy to their territory the military units that have invaded honduras
i have also communicated with presidents jose napoleon duarte, vinicio cerezo and oscar arias sanchez to ask that they demand that the government of nicaragua stop its aggression against honduras and remove the troops from the border region
my government, exercising the right of legitimate defense, consecrated in article 51 of the charter of the united nations, has proceeded immediately to execute the necessary actions to repel the invasion of which it is the object, ordering its armed forces to repulse the troops of the sandinista popular army
in view of the unjustifiable aggression and the evident disadvantage in which, in terms of numbers of military forces and armaments, my country finds itself in relation to the aggressor forces, my government finds itself forced to appeal for continental solidarity to repel the aggression of which it is subject and to reestablish peace in the region
the actions taken by the invading army represent, before international law, an act of aggression that as a result should be considered as an attack against all the states of the american continent
therefore, in conformity with what is established in the cited article 51 of the charter of the united nations, in articles 3, 8, and 9 of the inter-american treaty for reciprocal assistance; by virtue of the special security relations existing between our two states and the dispositions of the military assistance agreement that was signed on the 20th of may 1954, i find myself required to ask your illustrious government for effective and immediate assistance to maintain the sovereign and territorial integrity of my country
i have the conviction that you share with me, mr. president, that certainty that combined action by both nations is necessary to defeat this new aggression of the sandinista regime
the occasion is propitious to reiterate to your excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration
signed,
jose azcona h
president
a gangster who testified he killed a chinese-american journalist on orders of the taiwanese government was convicted of murder by a jury that deliberated just 45 minutes
tung kuie-sen, a member of the international united bamboo gang, was convicted wednesday of first-degree murder in the oct. 15, 1984, slaying of dissident writer henry liu, who was gunned down in his garage in daly city
tung, 36, admitted to the san mateo county superior court jury that he killed liu, but he claimed he carried out the act for patriotic rfused to offer a plea bargain and tung wanted to tell his side of the story in public, said defense attorney douglas gray
judge margaret j. kemp set tung's sentencing for may 11. tung faces 25 years to life in prison for murder and two years for use of a firearm
earlier wednesday, during cross-examination, tung testified the plot to murder liu went as high as the then-head of taiwan's secret police, who also was the son of president chiang ching-kuo, who died in january
liu was known for his writings critical of chiang. some of the writings included personal details of the lives of taiwan's ruling family
tung is the only one of liu's suspected killers to be brought to trial in the united states
wang hsi-ling, the taiwanese vice admiral who some believe orchestrated the plot, and his two aides were convicted in taiwan of the murder and are serving life sentences
wang reportedly wanted liu killed because he feared he was about to embarrass chiang by publishing memoirs of a former high-ranking taiwanese official
tung testified he believed he was duped by his own government into killing a man who was not a traitor. tung asked in a written statement sent to the judge wednesday that a written apology be given to liu's widow, helen
tung confessed to his role in liu's killing two years ago during a heroin smuggling trial in federal court in new york. tung was acquitted of racketeering in that case, but found guilty of smuggling 660 pounds of heroin into the united states
here is the text of a statement read by lt. col. oliver north at the office of his lawyer, brendan sullivan, after a grand jury indicted north in the iran-contra case on wednesday
it is a sad irony that the decision to indict me should occur today, a day in which the communists in nicaragua invaded their democratic neighbor, a day which is the fourth anniversary of the abduction of william buckley and the third anniversary of the kidnapping of terry anderson, two of the american hostages we tried so hard to rescue
hopefully, mr. anderson is still alive and will be freed soon
the indictment is also sad for our country, for all the men and women who work to protect it and to make our government work
it is a particularly painful thing to my wife, betsy, our four children and me
throughout my service as a marine officer i have always done my very best, often working night and day to get the job done and to do so honorably
i am proud of my service to our country and those with whom i have served, both in the marine corps and on the national security council
unfortunately, i have now been caught in a bitter dispute between the congress and the president over the control of foreign policy, the power of the president to deter communism in central america and the president's duty to protect our citizens against terrorist acts abroad
it is a shame that the new battleground for such a fight will be a courtroom
i did not commit any crime
i intend to fight allegations of wrongdoing for as long as necessary
i recognize that opposing a prosecutor with an unlimited budget, a staff of 30 lawyers, 50 investigators, scores of support personnel is a formidable task for me and my counsel, brendan sullivan
there are enormous costs involved both personal and financial
the months ahead will be difficult and often very lonely
nonetheless, i can assure you i will never give up, we will win, i just cannot tell you how soon
and finally to the american people who have shown so much love and concern these past 16 months by their millions of telegrams and letters and prayers and support, i want to tell you again how extremely grateful i am for that
you have helped my family and me find the strength to endure this seemingly endless ordeal in washington
you have shown your appreciation for what we did accomplish and what we tried to achieve
for that i thank you again. god bless you. california base; picks up 3rd graf pvs, `nicaragua denied ...'; deletes outdated 11th graf, `by wednesday ...'</note>
convoys of army vehicles moved out of fort ord late wednesday, hours after word was received that two base battalions would be sent to honduras to counter the reported incursion of nicaraguan forces into that country
three convoys of about 15 vehicles each, carrying both troops and supplies, left the base shortly before midnight, apparently bound for travis air force base, 125 miles north
the sprawling army base on the monterey peninsula was in the midst of an emergency exercise on wednesday when it was informed that the two units, consisting of at least 1,200 soliders, would be sent to honduras
the white house announced that president reagan was sending about 3,200 troops in an emergency deployment exercise to southern honduras as a ``measured response'' to an incursion of nicaraguan forces into that country
nicaragua denied that its troops had entered honduras
the american force includes about two battalions from the 7th infantry division light at ford ord and two from the 82nd airborne division at fort bragg, n.c., plus support units, the white house said
fort bragg officials said 1,400 to 1,500 soldiers would leave the base at 6:30 a.m. thursday
it was really exciting,'' pfc. eugene rice, 21, told the charlotte (n.c.) observer. ``it was like, something's really going to happen. we're finally going to get a chance to use our training.''
paul boyce, a spokesman at fort ord, said the emergency deployment exercise was routine and had started early wednesday
all 11,400 members of fort ord's rapid deployment force participated in the daylong exercise, which involved recalling troops to the base for the checking of weapons, vehicles, identifications and other equipment, he said
the rapid deployment force is trained to respond at a moment's notice to assignments throughout the world
there are 21,000 soldiers at fort ord, about 80 miles south of san francisco. details of the transfer of troops were not immediately available. telephones at the base went unanswered or were busy wednesday night
several wives were told by their husbands that the battalions would leave from travis, where they would be flown to florida and then onto honduras. travis officials said they could not confirm that arrangement
i'm real terrfied, and so are all the wives,'' said sheila baesler
karen brylewski, a civilian base worker, said her husband told her that his unit and the battalions would be flown to florida from travis on thursday morning
he said some of the guys (on guard duty) are crying but (he said) everybody has to be strong,'' she told the monterey herald. brylkewski said she spent most of the evening talking by telephone with relatives of soldiers
we're just hoping and praying nothing serious comes from this,'' she said. ``i just don't want anybody to get hurt.''
elsewhere at fort ord, the mood was somber. mildred mcintyre, cashier at an officers club, said there were only about 30 people there, two-thirds of them women. a normal night sees up to 250 people, she said
this is ladies' night, and we normally have an excellent crowd,'' she said. `` many of the females are saying their fiances, husbands, boyfriends are on alert, and they're depressed about that.''
fort bragg is home to paratrooper units of the 82nd airborne and the green berets and has been called upon to send combat-ready soldiers to trouble spots around the world
the 82nd airborne was sent to grenada for the u.s. invasion of the caribbean island in october 1983, and president reagan also chose the unit to help keep peace in the sinai
the fayetteville (n.c.) times reported wednesday night, before the white house announcement, that roads to the 82nd airborne headquarters had been closed, and officers at checkpoints were allowing only authorized military personnel through
during the day wednesday, the post outside fayetteville was abuzz with heavy-truck convoys carrying explosives, supplies were being loaded at klieg-lighted parking lots and cars were being stopped at military police checkpoints
maj. mike nason, spokesman for the 82nd airborne, said: ``i'm really not at liberty to talk to you, but we're leaning forward in the foxholes. we're watching cnn (cable news network) just like you are.''
wives were seen dropping off their husbands in in combat gear. asked what what was happening, one began to cry and to the news and observer of raleigh: ``i just can't answer any questions.''
they told us to get our stuff together,'' one unidentified soldier told the newspaper. ``they're rigging trucks that they've never rigged before. people don't know what to think. they don't know whether we're going to war or just doing a little peace-keeping. they're on ends right now.''
capt. donald m. sensing, an army spokesman at fort bragg, said that if paratroopers from fort bragg were ordered into battle, they and their equipment would be transported in much the same way as they were during market square one, a special four-day mock war game held in october 1986
then, the entire division _ including helicopters, rank-and-file infantry, artillery units and support units _ was mobilized as if they had been called into battle. they were airlifted out of south carolina and from pope air force base
here is a transcript of remarks to reporters wednesday by iran-contra independent counsel lawrence e. walsh on the indictment of john m. poindexter, oliver l. north, richard v. secord and albert hakim in the iran-contra case
the grand jury indicted four defendants: john m. poindexter, oliver l. north, richard v. secord, and albert hakim
there are altogether _ well, there are three counts which include all four defendants
the first is conspiracy to defraud the united states, which consists of a charge of three illegal objectives; the first of those objectives is to impair and obstruct the compliance with legal requirements for government covert activities by organizing, directing and concealing a program of support for the paramilitary activities in nicaragua by the contras at a time when the boland act was in effect, and when other restrictions on covert activities were in effect
i note parenthetically that it does not charge a violation of the boland act, it charges the objective of conducting unauthorized covert activities
the second objective of the conspiracy as charged is the use _ or is the _ the use of private individuals by the government employee defendants to generate a fund which could be used without government accountability for the conduct of covert activities, including the support of the paramilitary activities in nicaragua of the contras
and the third charged illegal objective of the conspiracy is to deprive the _ to defraud the united states by depriving it of the full control of the iranian initiative by using the _ by corrupting that initiative for the diversion of funds to private individuals where they would be subject _ where they could be used for covert activities designated by the government employee defendants
q. mr. walsh _
a. do you want me to give you the other charges?
q. i'm sorry, i thought you'd done your three
a. no, no. that's just the conspiracy
those are the three objectives of the conspiracy
then the next count on which all four defendants are named is the theft of government property
and that charges the embezzlement of funds generated _ of funds and other things of value of the government generated in the iran initiative for _ to private persons, again, to be used for unauthorized purposes
and the third count in which all four defendants are named is a _ is fraud by wire, which alleges again this same diversion, but also alleges false pretenses
then the additional charges, there are about 13 charges of obstruction of investigation and false statements
these are against _ nine are against north individually, four are against poindexter individually
they also include the destruction of records as part of the obstruction
there is also a count against north on the destruction of records alone
then there are five counts that deal with gratuities
two charge efforts by secord and hakim to supply gratuities to north, and one charges a gift by secord of the security system, another charges the acceptance by north of the security system, and another charges north (with) obstruction of our investigation by developing false documents to conceal his acceptance of that gift
the next count charges north's conversion of traveler's checks which he received from calero, a contra leader, for government purposes. ..
q. judge, could you _
a. and the fifth _ one more. that's the last one
the last count charges a conspiracy to defraud the internal revenue service by using a tax-exempt foundation, the national endowment for the preservation of liberty, to _ to generate funds for the contras
but would you just _ i can't figure it out what you want me to do
q. put that recorder down in front
a. who _ who? ok
q. can you tell us whether that's it now for the grand jury? is this _
a. oh, no. the grand jury is not finished
the grand jury is continuing
this is simply an interim report
they will be back again monday
q. so there may be other indictments?
a. that will be for the grand jury to decide, what they want to do
q. do you expect there will be other indictments?
a. i can't comment on their investigation, and indeed, i can comment even less after this indictment than i could before, which was not very much
q. is there any reason why they would continue to sit, if not to return indictments?
a. well, they have uncompleted investigations
i'm just talking in the abstract now, not saying what reasons they might have
but i cannot discuss the grand jury's activities
q. judge, are you happy with the indictments that you got against these four?
a. i didn't hear you
q. i'm sorry. are you satisfied with the indictments _
a. that's not for me to say
that's for the grand jury to say
q. is it as much as you proposed, or did you _
q. thank you
q. thank you very much
a. under the present circumstances, i can't do more than discuss the indictments itself
i can no longer talk about background material
q. thank you very much
badia ghati'a al-jabiri stood disconsolately outside what was left of his downtown hotel after it was hit by a soviet-made katyusha rocket fired by iranian revolutionary guards a few miles to the east
i'll need a fortune to get it repaired,'' he lamented as he viewed the facade tuesday. the front wall had collapsed into the street. ``but thank god nobody was hurt.''
al-jabiri's ibn kholdoun hotel was empty because most people have fled to safer areas out of reach of the relentless iranian bombardment
basra, once iraq's second-largest city, once again is taking a hammering in the renewed ``war of the city'' between iran and iraq. it has borne the brunt of the iranian bombardment of border cities
al-jabiri is like many basrans who are defying the iranian barrages and staying in their city after 7{ years of war
shells and missiles hit the city day and night. the iranians are dug in a scant six miles east of the city that straddles the shatt al-arab waterway
it is formed by the confluence of the euphrates and tigris rivers that forms the southern border between iraq and iran
official statistics released this month in baghdad showed that basra was hit by iranian artillery and missiles 179 times last year. most of the 776 civilians listed as killed in iraqi cities last year died in basra, the report said
al-jabiri lives with his wife, 10 children and his mother in the andalus district. he said they have no intention of leaving
where would we go?'' he said. ``i was born in this city, my kids have grown up here and know no other place. if we're going to die, then let us die here.''
in the latest round of missile, air and artillery attacks that began sunday after a short-lived cease-fire, officials said eight civilians have been killed in basra and 20 others wounded. the low casualty rate was because most of the basrans who are toughing it out live in shelters or basements
but the city's governor, anwar omar al-hadithi told reporters basra that nearly 50 civilians have been killed and 250 wounded since feb. 29
in that period, he said, 164 houses, 49 shops and 150 vehicles have been destroyed and 200 residences badly damaged
the iranians have fired nearly 3,000 shells and 183 short-range rockets into basra in that time, he said
despite the destruction, life goes on normally in several part of the city, with shops, government offices and the university open
the barrage has hit mosques, schools and hospitals in the ancient city, founded by caliph omer bin al-khatab in 637 a.d. and reputedly the starting point for the legendary voyages of sinbad the sailor
some basrans, especially those in the hardest-hit central section of town, have sought shelter in nearby towns or in the city's western outskirts
the authorities make no attempt to stop those who want to leave but supply temporary pre-fabricated homes for anyone who wants one on basra's western edge
if they want to leave they can go anywhere they like,'' al-hadithi said at his heavily sandbagged headquarters. ``if they want to stay they can stay.''
al-hadithi estimated that 40 percent of the pre-war population of more than 1.5 million has left the city in recent years, leaving about 870,000 people
many basrans were caught by the latest round of shelling. they had just returned to their homes believing that the cease-fire would hold, but it lasted only two days
the renewed bombardment put many basrans on the run again
we thought that the shelling had stopped so we went back home,'' said jassim jabar najim, 67. ``i even reopened my shop and arranged to start business again when a shell hit near the shop and i was hit in the hip by sharpnel.''
najim, interviewed from his bed in basra's general hospital, said he has repaired his house four times, ``but this time i'm going to leave it until the war is over.''
as he spoke, shells exploded in the eastern part of the city
israel is arresting arab activists like pharmacist assad saftawi, some of whom may have done nothing illegal, in its effort to end three months of violence in the occupied territories
saftawi, 53, also is headmaster of a an elementary school run by the united nations in the bureij refugee camp. he joined the fundamentalist moslem brotherhood as a youth in egypt and later spent four years in an israeli jail for working with the palestine liberation organization
alaa, his 25-year-old son, said five israeli soldiers took saftawi from the stone house on a dirt street of gaza city's sabra district sunday, adding him to a growing list of palestinians being held without trial for up to six months
authorities use administrative detention as part of its effort to break the rebellion, which palestinians call ``the uprising,'' that began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza strip
the army reported 212 detentions up to feb. 26. the arab-run human rights group law in the service of man put the number at 232 through march 13, compared with 193 for all of 1987
it is used as an attempt to take out any potential leadership the community might have,'' said fatah azzem, a member of the group based in the west bank town of ramallah. ``it is a method of punishment for people who are active and not necessarily illegally active.''
the army confirmed saftawi was in administrative detention, but a spokesman would not say what he had done or what threat he was thought to pose
saftawi, a squarely built man who favors the long arab robe called the djellaba, is an ardent nationalist who was severely critical of occupation in an interview a few days before his arrest
as another son served glasses of tea and tiny blue cups of strong, sweet coffee, saftawi spoke with pride of his second son imad, a member of a fundamentalist organization. he has six sons and three daughters
imad, 24, became a local hero in gaza after escaping from jail and making his way abroad last year. saftawi credits his his son and imad's friends with setting the stage for the rebellion
by their actions and their success they gave confidence to the palestinian people to depend on themselves, to be self-sufficient,'' saftawi said during the interview in his diwan, or arab-style reception room
he contrasted the confidence of youth to the passivity of those who were adults when israel captured the territories from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
we were deceived, believing that the arabs or islam or the united nations would do something for us,'' he said, ``but this group made people believe we could depend on ourselves. they planted the seed of something new.''
the pharmacist and teacher was candid in criticizing the plo, which he said encouraged palestinians to await deliverance from the outside
there is no doubt that the plo's original leadership belongs to the older generation and was captive to old ideas, especially the idea that we as palestinian people were unable to do anything,'' he said
his comments had an element of self-criticism because saftawi, by his own account, has been associated with the plo for more than three decades
in the early 1950s in cairo, he was in the moslem brotherhood, a fundamentalist group founded by hassan al banna in 1929. ``i belonged to the only group at the time that was willng to make sacrifices,'' saftawi said
egyptian authorities cracked down on the brotherhood in 1955 so saftawi and fellow students like yasser arafat and salah khalaf, now the top two plo leaders, formed a new faction
their group, the nucleus arafat's future fatah guerrillas, made raids into israel but saftawi said he did not participate in them
saftawi was arrested in 1973, six years after israel took gaza from egypt, and convicted of handling plo funds. he spent four years in jail
imad was 9 at the time and took on responsibility for feeding the family by working at odd jobs, saftawi said
he became the breadwinner for the whole family and took care of my parents,'' the father said. ``if i count the hours i saw my son while i was in jail it was not more than 10.''
saftawi said imad went to the islamic university in gaza city and joined the moslem brotherhood, then formed his own group. switzerland</head>
defense secretary frank c. carlucci was monitoring events in central america while in the swiss capital for meetings with his soviet counterpart, aides say
carlucci discussed nicaragua in general terms with soviet defense minister dmitri yazov on wednesday, said a pentagon spokesman, but it was not clear how deeply they delved into that issue
dan howard, the pentagon spokesman, told reporters that ``regional issues were discussed .... angola, afghanistan, nicaragua, korea.'' but he declined to disclose the substance of the talks
carlucci and yazov met for 10 minutes with only their translators present at the beginning of an afternoon session at the soviet embassy, but the topic of that conversation remained secret
aides to carlucci worked through the night wednesday and early today, remaining in close contact with the pentagon and white house. they declined, however, to divulge the secretary's exact role in the decision to send 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras for what the white house called ``an emergency deployment readiness exercise''
investigators are looking for a prime-time prowler who slips into homes to take cash and jewelry while the residents are watching television
at least 55 such burglaries have occurred since december in the denver area, police say
it's a little bizarre,'' sgt. pat whitman of nearby cherry hills village said wednesday. ``most burglars would rather find an empty house than a resident inside.''
denver sgt. bill wiederspan says he's no psychiatrist, but he has theories
either it's psychological and he does it for the thrills. or, he's imitating burglars on tv shows and he's been watching too much tv,'' he said
in as many as six houses a night, a prowler has entered, usually through unlocked doors or windows, and fled with a few selected items such as rifles, jewelry boxes, wallets or purses
the first possible confrontation with the prime-time prowler occurred monday night when a cherry hills resident came out of the shower to find a stranger in his home
what are you doing here?'' the resident asked
don't worry. i'm just leaving,'' said the tall, slender young stranger, backing away and fleeing out a back door. a watch later was discovered missing, authorities said
the intruder, whose visits last only a few minutes, is so neat that many victims don't realize for some time that anyone has been in the house. in a few instances, the homeowner has heard something and the prowler has fled empty-handed
but authorities fear violence is not far away
i think it's just a matter of time,'' wiederspan said
reported incursions by nicaraguan troops into honduras in pursuit of contra rebels have marked the recent history of the six-year nicaraguan civil war, but the present u.s. reaction is the strongest yet
the white house said wednesday it was sending 3,200 american infantry and airborne troops to honduras today as ``an emergency deployment readiness exercise.'' the white house says the action was prompted by what it called the invasion of neighboring honduras by 1,500 to 2,000 nicaraguan forces
the u.s. troops were to be kept 125 miles from the area of reported hostilities, spokesman marlin fitzwater said
the last such incident was late in november 1986. honduras said a sandinista force of 2,500 soldiers crossed the border in a bid to stall the contras from mounting a dry-season offensive
honduras, which claimed the sandinistas had moved at least nine miles deep into the country, responded by having u.s. helicopters airlift about 3,000 honduran troops to the area
there was some small-scale combat between the sandinistas and hondurans. and the hondurans bombed and strafed suspected sandinista positions with french-built super mystere and old, u.s.-made a-37 jet fighters
nicaragua denied that its troops crossed over, and no casualty figures were released
in late march 1986, u.s. officials said about 1,500 nicaraguan troops were operating nine miles to 15 miles inside honduras
the sandinista government initially denied the charge, but president daniel ortega acknowledged border crossings which he claimed were ``totally defensive operations.''
the week before that incursion, the house had voted 222-210 against president reagan's request for $100 million in aid to the contras. the senate approved the money four days after the administration announced the incursion, and an aid package was passed in august
at the time of the incursion, reagan approved $20 million in emergency assistance to the hondurans, and u.s. helicopters ferried about 600 honduran soldiers to the area from the palmerola air base where the troops were being flown today
honduran military sources said 200 sandinistas were killed, 16 captured and others injured during the incursion, which lasted less than a week. forty contras were reportedly killed
other u.s. officials later scaled back their estimate of the number of sandinista troops involved in the border crossing to about 800. suggests</head>
aids may force the growing populations of some developing countries into decline decades after the first aids virus infection, according to computer projections published today
but another study says that at the worst, aids could cut the growth rate of a typical central african country in half
it's a disaster from any point of view,'' said john bongaarts of the population council in new york, who did the second study
today's projections appear in the british journal nature
they say that with low to moderate infection rates like those of kenya, uganda or zaire, population declines would not begin until 20 to 70 years after the aids virus invades a developing country, even one with low growth rates
the researchers stressed that their projections are crude and said too little is known about aids to make more realistic ones
it is clear that aids will have an impact on swelling population growth rates, but by how much is too sensitive to things we don't know about with sufficient certititude,'' said robert may of princeton university, who did the study with roy anderson and a.r. mclean of imperial college in london
any (firm) long-term projection about whether aids will or will not bring about zero or even negative rates of growth in africa cannot be made.''
in a telephone interview, may said the projections do not pertain to the united states or any other developed country
acquired immune deficiency syndrome in africa is thought to spread mainly through heterosexual contact, while most cases in the united states stem from homosexual contact or needle sharing by intravenous drug abusers
the researchers said they found potential for eventual population decline under a range of plausible assumptions for such factors as the fraction of infected people who will die from aids, the fraction of infected women's babies who are born infected and the length of time the virus lies dormant before causing aids
projections are severely limited by lack of precise knowledge on such points, may said
the federal centers for disease control estimates that an infected woman runs a 30 percent to 60 percent chance of giving birth to an infected baby, and that 20 percent to 30 percent of people infected with the virus develop aids within five years. the cdc has no figure on the percentage of infected people who eventually die from aids, a spokesman said
one series of projections in nature assumed an initial 4 percent growth rate like that of kenya, where the population doubles about every 16 years and residents have a normal life expectancy of 52 years
assuming an eight-year dormant period for the virus, one projection forecast eventual population decline if half or 30 percent of babies born to infected mothers are infected at birth
a second projection took the same basic assumptions, set the infected-newborn rate at 50 percent, and found eventual population decline if every infected person dies of aids
bongaarts said his projections come out differently because he divided the hypothetical population into groups of high, medium and low risk for aids
he also said that ``very implausible estimates'' of the prevalence of aids virus infection would be needed to project zero population growth or population decline
his projections, in the worst case, find aids cutting the 3 percent growth rate typical of central african nations in half. more likely is a reduction to 2 percent, he said
but even that implies a doubling of the death rate, leading to an overwhelmed health care system and disrupted social structure, he said
scientists reported today they have found the approximate location of a defective gene causing an inherited tendency toward kidney cancer, and that the gene also may help cause kidney cancer in general
genes lie along threadlike structures called chromosomes. the gene in the study is in a general area already associated with genetic abnormality in kidney cancer, the researchers said
if the gene plays a role in kidney cancer, which strikes some 18,000 americans a year, studying it may lead to better diagnosis and treatment, another expert said
the gene is now linked to von hippel-lindau disease, for which only a few hundred cases are known in the united states, according to the national organization for rare disorders
usually striking in young adulthood, the disease can cause tumors in the eye, brain and spinal cord that can damage eyesight and nerve function. about 40 percent of people with the disease develop kidney cancer, usually in both kidneys, and their prognosis is poor, researchers say
genes are chemical sequences that lie along chromosomes in every cell of the body
the u.s., canadian, british and dutch scientists, whose study is reported in today's issue of the british journal nature, used a ``marker,'' which is a chemical sequence at a known location on a chromosome and can be inherited along with a gene if it is close enough
in a study of 203 members of nine families, including 71 who had von hippel-lindau disease, the marker was inherited along with the defective gene 90 percent of the time, said james gusella of massachusetts general hospital and harvard medical school
other studies have found that stretches of the chromosome numbered 3 are missing in some kidney cancers. the new work shows that the defective gene causing von hippel-lindau disease resides in the same general portion of the chromosome as the deletions, researchers said
so the defective gene or a nearby one may play a role in at least some sporadic kidney cancers, gusella said
he explained that in its normal form, the gene may protect against kidney cancer. every cell gets two copies of a gene, so if one copy is defective _ as in von hippel-lindau disease _ the cell has only one normal copy left. if that copy is damaged or deleted during a person's lifetime, the cell could turn cancerous, gusella said
under that theory, people without von hippel-lindau disease could get kidney cancer if both normal copies are damaged or deleted during their lifetimes
the next step for researchers will be to find the gene and isolate it for study
w. marston linehan of the national cancer institute, who has studied chromosome deletions in kidney cancer, called the finding very significant work that may help in learning about development of kidney cancer
such new understanding might lead to better diagnosis and treatment, he said
col. leonidas macias, the alleged leader of a failed coup, in recent months had been a staunch defender of the nation's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
when president eric arturo delvalle tried unsuccessfully to remove noriega as chief of the 15,000-member defense forces on feb. 25, it was macias who heatedly told reporters that delvalle himself would go before noriega
within hours, delvalle was deposed by the legislative assembly in a noriega-orchestrated move
during the past year macias, about 50, has been chief of police, a job that put him in charge of about 5,000 officers and administrative employees
they include the riot police, who have forcibly put down street demonstrations against the government since last june
but after light arms fire broke out in the defense forces headquarters on wednesday, the military said that macias, three majors, a captain and some civilians were arrested after ``an attempt by several officers to take over the headquarters of our institution was foiled.''
panama's civil unrest began after accusations last summer that noriega was involved in crimes ranging from political assassination to drug trafficking
noriega was indicted on federal drug charges in florida last month
some of those arrested in the anti-noriega demonstrations have accused macias of allowing others to beat them while in custody. one of those detained told the opposition-aligned human rights association that macias took part in at least one beating. macias denied the accusations
macias had conducted a public relations campaign with reporters to counter the anti-noriega drive, holding several news conferences to report on events in the defense forces. he was the only high-ranking officer to do so
in recent months, macias called three news conferences, one christmas lunch and invited journalists to his home, always saying in a jovial manner that nothing was happening
during a protest strike that began feb. 29, macias took journalists around the city on a bus saying: ``look, there's nothing happening here. everything is fine. look at me, i'm unarmed. what policeman like myself can move around the streets of his city without being armed?''
but he could be harsh with the opposition
on feb. 29, he took chamber of commerce president aurelio barria, who had been arrested a few hours earlier, before reporters. ``clown!'' he yelled at barria. ``look at him, he's fine. you can go home!''
barria was detained for trying to enter the chamber of commerce building, which had been closed by the government four days earlier
although macias was considered one of the colonels most loyal to noriega, there had been rumors before wednesday that while they kept up the appearance of good relations, there were problems between the two men
the federal election commission has certified almost $3.5 million in new federal matching funds for 11 presidential candidates, including nearly $900,000 for pat robertson whose republican campaign is winding down
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis continued to lead the democratic money race, qualifying for more than $600,000 in new matching funds and raising his matching total to more than twice that of his competitors for his party's nomination
dukakis' closest democratic rivals jesse jackson and tennesee sen. albert gore jr. qualify for a little more than $300,000 and $336,000 respectively
vice president george bush, who has a big lead in the republican contest, got in line for a new quarter of a million dollars in federal funds, keeping his edge in the category
kansas sen. bob dole is eligible for almost $390,000
in all, the new funds certified on wednesday raise the total certified thus far for 14 candidates to $45.44 million
presidential candidates qualify for matching funds by raising at least $5,000 in individual contributions of $250 or less in at least 20 states. after qualifying, every individual contribution of $250 or less is matched dollar-for-dollar by federal funds. the money comes from the voluntary $1 checkoff on federal tax returns
carl and karen hawkinson will be taking a trip to new orleans together this summer as delegates to the republican national convention _ but that's where the togetherness ends
the couple were elected tuesday as gop delegates, but he supports kansas sen. bob dole and she backs vice president george bush
we didn't really expect to both be elected but that's the way it turned out,'' hawkinson said
even though bush is the front-runner, mrs. hawkinson said winning her delegate slot was a surprise because dole was considered the favorite in their congressional district
her husband's win was not as as unpredictable, she said
carl has held office since 1976 _ people are used to voting for him,'' she said. ``but i had never been on a ballot before.''
the two said campaigning for rival candidates made their home life a little hectic, but they avoided the kind of spats that have colored the bush-dole battle for the nomination
gov. mario cuomo has signed legislation to switch the date of the new york state primary to keep it from falling on the jewish holiday of rosh hashana
the primary, not to be confused with new york's april 19 presidential primary, will be held thursday, sept. 15. it was originally scheduled two days earlier
three other states had switched their primaries already to prevent the conflict. connecticut and rhode island will hold their primaries sept. 14, while massachusetts will join new york with a primary sept. 15
six states _ arizona, minnesota, new hampshire, utah, vermont and wisconsin _ will hold primaries on rosh hashana, sept. 13
in new york, jews usually represent 20 percent or more of the vote in democratic primary contests
the state primaries which were swithced on wednesday determine nominations for governor, state legislative seats, congress and local offices
lt. col. oliver north says he will fight the criminal allegations against him ``for as long as necessary'' despite heavy personal and financial costs
i did not commit any crime,'' north said wednesday a few hours after a federal grand jury indicted him and three others on conspiracy charges stemming from the iran-contra affair. ``i intend to fight allegations of wrongdoing for as long as necessary.''
appearing ashen-faced and grim, north said he was aware of the high personal and financial costs of fighting the charges, but ``i can assure you, i will never give up, we will win.''
north thanked the american people ``who have shown so much love and concern these past 16 months by their millions of telegrams and letters and prayers and support.''
the marine officer said that he was caught in the cross-fire of a bitter dispute between congress and the president over central america, and that ``it is a shame the new battleground for such a fight will be in a courtroom.''
beside north was his lawyer, brendan sullivan, who also represented north at last summer's hearings before joint committees of the senate and house
sullivan, whose spirited defense of his client was one of the highlights of the hearings, said that seeking wednesday's indictment ``was one of the worst prosecutorial decisions in the history of our country.''
it is a decision of an unaccountable prosecutor who came to washington determined to allege that some crime, any crime had been committed,'' sullivan said
sullivan added that lawrence e. walsh, the independent counsel ``presents an indictment after 15 months (of investigation) based on mistaken facts, novel and sometimes ridiculous legal theories.''
everyone must seriously wonder about a decision to indict a man like oliver north, a highly decorated marine corps officer, based on his tireless effort in the interests of his country,'' sullivan said
for his part, north said it was a sad irony that the decision to indict should occur on the fourth anniversary of the abduction in lebanon of william buckley and the third anniversary of the kidnapping of terry anderson, the associated press' chief middle east correspondent
a firm of ex-commandos credited with snatching a 7-year-old girl off a school bus in jordan for her american mother is known among law enforcement agencies for its anti-terrorist training, officers say
fayetteville police chief ron hansen said corporate training unlimited approached him last year and offered to train some of his officers in such areas as building searches, response techniques and hostage negotiations
it was excellent training,'' hansen said wednesday. ``i checked them out and found out they were very reputable and knowledgeable in their areas (of expertise).''
they are extremely competent and detailed in what they do,'' said hansen, whose 12-man emergency response team was trained by ctu specialists at no cost
ctu's brochure touts the company as an ``international security consulting and training firm specializing in both anti- and counter-terrorist tactics and techniques.''
our staff is comprised entirely of delta force and special operations qualified personnel, each with many years experience in this field,'' it reads. ``these personnel have passed a rigorous screening and selective process, participating in years of specialized training and have proven themselves under fire.''
oscar adkins, a ctu employee, is teaching a 40-hour course on specialized weapons and tactics at wilson county technical college in wilson, n.c., according to school spokeswoman mary lou smith,
representatives from the agency have also taught other courses in the past,'' she said. ``they came highly recommended from other law enforcement agencies.''
although ctu officials have denied involvement in the jordan mission, the company reportedly was paid up to $200,000 by cathy phelps mahone to recover her daughter, lauren bayan, from jerash, north of amman, in late january
ms. mahone, who is said to be in hiding outside dallas, claims her ex-husband, jordanian-born mohammed ali bayan, failed to return her daughter after a visit last october. a dallas judge had given ms. mahone custody after the couple's 1980 divorce, but bayan reportedly claims custody under jordanian law
the rescue operation was planned and executed jan. 28 by ctu, the philadelphia inquirer reported last weekend, quoting anonymous sources
ctu president donald feeney has denied involvement. a secretary at the company's office told the associated press on wednesday that company officials would have no comment on the story
state department spokesman charles redman said earlier this week an american embassy officer in amman has been recalled to washington to answer questions about his knowledge of the matter
redman said the united states has apologized to jordan for any role the embassy officer may have played in the mission. the officer, who was unidentified, had some prior knowledge of the plan but apparently was misled by ctu, redman said
in an interview last october, guy chapman, a former member of the army's secretive counter-terrorist unit delta force, said he and three other former delta members created the company in january 1986
a lot of companies profess to be knowledgeable, but when you come right down to it, no company has the experience we have,'' he said
in its brochure, ctu claims it offers courses to police agencies or corporate security organizations in hostage rescue, shooting enhancement, protective security, anti-terrorism and defensive driving. the company also provides audio-visual training material and professional guard services
chapman, who says he participated in the abortive iran hostage rescue mission in 1979, said ctu has worked with federal and local agencies protecting the u.s. strategic petroleum reserves in louisiana and texas
chapman also said ctu has trained special police forces in peru and ecuador, and worked with the south american offices of several major u.s. companies, including colgate-palmolive and johnson and johnson
carla mikell, a spokeswoman at colgate-palmolive, said wednesday that company officials would have no comment on the story. johnson and johnson spokesman jeff leebaw said his company does not discuss its security measures
actress brooke shields and other celebrities bussed tables and hawked their wares to raise money for dreammakers inc., an organization that grants the wishes of terminally ill children
country musicians lynn anderson, lee greenwood and charlie daniels joined local television news anchors and shields to raise an estimated $52,000 for the charity wednesday
gov. ned mcwherter and mayor bill boner also joined in the fifth annual celebrity waiters luncheon
my dad would never let me wait tables when i was a teen-ager, because he said it wasn't a good job for a lady,'' said demetria kalidimos, an anchor at wsmv-tv. ``but, i think the money's pretty good.''
about 80 celebrities offered caps, posters and t-shirts decorated with the dreammakers logo to their fellows. members of the country music band sawyer brown bought shields' apron for $500, outbidding davidson county sheriff fate thomas and musician chet atkins
the organization was created by nancy west, who was presented with the annual dreammakers award. she said the group's success cannot be attributed to any one person
let us not forget that this is the children who this is for and i accept it on their behalf,'' she said
here is a look at the latest major developments involving the united states, nicaragua and honduras:
the white house said president reagan ordered 3,200 u.s. troops to begin an ``emergency deployment'' exercise in honduras today in response to the reported incursion of nicaraguan forces into honduras. a spokesman described the troop movement as a training exercise and ``a signal to the governments and the people of central america.''
spokesman marlin fitzwater said 1,500 to 2,000 nicaraguan troops were in honduras after mounting an attack contra rebel forces. he said the u.s. troops were requested by honduras' president. he did not say how long they would stay in central america
senate majority leader robert byrd called the troop movement an ``overreaction.'' sen. john kerry, d-mass., said ``i just hope it's merited.'' a supporter of aid to the contras, sen. john mccain, r-ariz., said he would ``reserve judgment'' on the wisdom of reagan's decision but added he believed the troops ``must not be put into combat.''
house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., appeared to support the decision. and rep. jack fields, r-texas, said: ``i don't think the president really had an alternative.''
</head>
president daniel ortega said nicaraguan troops chased contra rebels into honduran territory, and fighting raged along the border, but would neither confirm nor deny whether nicaraguan soldiers crossed the border. earlier, the defense ministry denied its troops had entered honduras
ortega said nicaragua's army began a major offensive against the u.s.-supplied contras march 6 and that 400 contras had been killed or wounded, 34 sandinista soldiers had died and 68 were wounded
</head>
military intelligence sources said late wednesday that honduran troops surrounded about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers inside the honduran border province of olancho. foreign minister carlos lopez contreras said president jose azcona hoyo contacted nicaraguan president ortega to demand the withdrawal of the sandinista troops
azcona met for six hours behind closed doors to discuss the situation with top officials and the nation's armed forces chiefs. lopez contreras said the military command was reviewing battle plans in case the sandinista forces remained in honduran territory
at least 90 members of a moslem wedding party died when their bus overturned and caught fire after the driver lost control while changing a cassette in the tape player, the united news of india said today
most of the victims in wednesday night's crash in central india were women and children
the news agency said the bus was carrying about 105 people when the accident happened near simga village in madhya pradesh state, 560 miles southeast of the indian capital
about 15 people, including the driver and the bridegroom, escaped by breaking the windshield, uni said. blacksmiths from simga were trying to cut through the wreck today to recover bodies, it added
the agency quoted ``reports received in new delhi'' as saying the driver lost control of the bus while changing a cassette in a tape recorder. the bus swerved and smashed against a culvert with a loud bang, uni said
some survivors said the bus caught fire because of an explosion in the diesel tank, but others said passengers' firecrackers set off the blaze
ten injured people were taken to a hospital in simga and were reported out of danger
authorities were investigating. trail</head>
the developer of a proposed 358-mile northeast natural gas pipeline is vowing to find a more suitable place for the project to cross the appalachian trail
officials at iroquois gas transmission system said wednesday they are confident of finding a new cross-over site that would satisfy interior secretary donald p. hodel, who rejected the current plan
hodel, in a letter to sen. lowell p. weicker jr. r-conn. released wednesday, said the current iroquois pipeline plan would cross the 2,000-mile appalachian trail at a point in new york near the connecticut border where it would have ``significant environmental and scenic impacts.''
the plan now is to find a place along the new york-connecticut border where we can cross,'' said company spokesman gary b. davis. ``we will have to sit down with the park service again and discuss our concern. ... something will have to be worked out.''
the pipeline would have to cross the appalachian trail at some point. the project would bring canadian natural gas from ontario through new york and connecticut to long island, serving new york, new jersey and connecticut. the hiking trail runs from maine to georgia
the $384 million project is the first and most prominent northeast gas line proposal under consideration by the federal energy regulatory commission
house minority leader bob michel expected to accept a humanitarian award without much fanfare, but he ended up singing for his supper
after first being serenaded by james maloof, the mayor of his hometown of peoria, ill., michel listened wednesday night as 22 of his congressional colleagues began a less than skillful rendition of ``old man river.''
they gave up after struggling through a few bars, called michel to the stage and resumed with the republican leader doing the leading
he is to singing what frank sinatra is to legislating,'' quipped white house chief of staff howard baker, one of the speakers toasting michel at the variety club of greater washington's awards dinner
the gop leader was presented with the humanitarian of the year award in recognition of his charity work during 32 years on capitol hill, said former secretary of defense donald rumsfeld, the chairman of the dinner committee and a fellow illinoisan who served with michel in the house
the variety club of greater washington, a non-profit, charitable organization which helps handicapped and underprivileged children, said proceeds from the $500 a plate event will provide money for children who need artificial limbs. platforms</head>
the arab american institute has launched a national campaign to put the issue of a palestinian state directly in platforms of both political parties this summer
every state that has a convention or caucus process we will be there,`` said james zogby, the advocacy group's executive director. ``and we will build a middle east peace caucus in each convention that will support this resolution.''
zogby explained that the campaign began as a trial program in iowa, texas and california. in california the group intends to introduce the resolution with petitions at the state's democratic convention this weekend
we chose the political system because we felt that's where issues get debated and that's where one begins to influence the shape and direction of policy in the '88 elections,'' he said
the three-year old institute, a planning and organizing center for electoral strategies for the arab-american community, already has published a report on the presidential candidates' positions on the middle east
officials hope to shore up the reputation of galveston beaches by shipping in tons of florida white sand to replace the native gritty brown variety
the developers of moody gardens on offatts bayou plan to use the sand to create their own palm beach, including a 1,000-foot boardwalk, two freshwater lagoons complete with a 12-foot waterfall and white sand bottom, more than 100 palm trees, a tramway, jogging trail and a covered eating and concession area
moody gardens administrator ralph mcpheeters said the choice of white sand over the hometown variety was easy. for years, people have complained about galveston's murky beach water and brown, narrow beaches, he said
we can't do anything about the water but we sure can do something about the sand,'' he said
within the next two weeks, two ocean barges full of white sand will arrive in galveston from orlando, where it was purchased from sand mines, he said tuesday
developers looked for sand of a certain consistency since the beach will have a 200-square-foot area specifically for sand castle construction, mcpheeters said
an ambulance attendant left his job early to aid his pregnant wife and ended up delivering their baby
mark loken, 32, was working the night shift when he got a call from his wife, debbie, early wednesday
she told him to come home because their baby, who was 11 days overdue, was going to be born _ soon. when he arrived, the baby's head was already starting to show
an ambulance arrived soon after, but it was obvious that this baby was not going to wait for a trip to the hospital, so the attendants left it up to loken
they gave him the sterile gloves, and minutes later he delivered his son, scott christian loken
he did a good job,'' said debbie loken, 29, who was reported doing well along with the baby at luther hospital
writer steve roberts says he doesn't feel tied down by the $75,000 piece of computerized equipment he uses in his work. it's a bicycle, and he has pedaled 10,000 miles across america
to me, the technology is liberating, not confining,'' the 35-year-old roberts said tuesday during a stop in tallahassee
as he pedals his 8-foot-long recumbent bicycle, he captures those catchy phrases that once vanished in the wind with the help of four keys on each handlebar, a computer screen in front of him, a program to translate his coded tappings into words and a radio communications system
someone asked if he had any idea of what he looked like on his bicycle and a puzzled expression appeared on his face. his traveling companion, maggie victor, chuckled
we look so absurd going down the highway that we really get better treatment than most bicyclists. our absurd look is really our security system,'' she said
roberts, from columbus, ohio, began his adventure when he had his first custom bike built in 1983. ``computing across america,'' his book about his first 10,000 miles, was published recently. scientist says</head>
scientists said today they have found embryo skeletons from two kinds of dinosaurs in montana, and that the bones give further evidence that some dinosaurs may have tended their young like birds
the discovery, some 60 miles southeast of glacier national park, is reported in the british journal nature
the animals lived some 75 million to 80 million years ago, john r. horner, curator of paleontology at the museum of the rockies in bozeman, mont., said in a telephone interview
nineteen embryonic skeltons were found in a clutch of eggs laid by a previously unnamed type of dinosaur, which horner and david weishampel of the johns hopkins university school of medicine in baltimore propose calling orodromeus makelai
that animal walked on its hind legs and grew perhaps eight feet long. the embryos would be about eight or nine inches long when stretched out, horner said
researchers also found parts of seven embryonic skeletons of the duck-billed maiasaura peeblesorum, which also walked walked on hind legs and grew to be 30 feet long, he said. the embryos were about one foot long, he said
juvenile and adult specimens of each dinosaur were found with the embryos
horner said embryonic bones of the newly named dinosaur were very well developed, while those of the duck-billed dinosaur had not developed on the ends
that is consistent with the notion that hatchlings of the newly named dinosaur could leave the nest soon after hatching, while those of the other would have been bound to the nest, counting on parents for care, horner said
an animal that is nest-bound doesn't have to walk around'' right after birth, so its bones need not have developed as much by that time, he said
kevin padian, associate professor of paleontology and biology at the university of california, berkeley, said the discovery was ``very important'' because few dinosaur embryos have been found
last month, other researchers announced they had found a dinosaur egg that may contain an embryo some 150 million years old. studies are continuing, but it does appear to contain an embryo, said paleontologist wade miller of brigham young university in provo, utah. ^eds: new thruout to update with details on service. no pickup.</head>
former nazi deputy fuehrer rudolf hess was buried today in the family plot in this bavarian town. concern about neo-nazi demonstrations had blocked his interment when he died last summer
rainer meier, a police spokesman in the nearby city of hof, said hess was buried early this morning with only immediate family members present. he did not name them and said he did not know from where hess' body had been brought
the wunsiedel cemetery was temporarily sealed off and police officers stood guard to prevent any disturances, meier said in a telephone interview. the hof police headquarters also is in charge of wunsiedel, 30 miles to the south
meier said that police had been informed of the burial well in advance
hess committed suicide in west berlin's spandau prison aug. 17 at age 93 by hanging himself. he was the last imprisoned leader of adolf hitler's third reich. after his death, dozens of neo-nazis converged on wunsiedel in far northeastern bavaria to show their support for the dead nazi
that prompted the hess family to move the body to an undisclosed location until the public interest declined
snow fell today from texas to new york state, while a cold snap sent temperatures to record lows in florida and prompted frost and freeze warnings in south carolina
key west, fla., recorded a low this morning of 53 degrees, tying the record for the date set in 1901
forecasters posted snow advisories for eastern colorado, northeast new mexico, the northern texas panhandle, northern texas, south-central nebraska and parts of missouri
the storm left as much as 6 inches at goodland, kan.; 3 inches at imperial, neb.; 4 inches at osborne, kan.; 2 to 4 inches across central kansas; and 4 to 5 inches at canadian, texas
snowfall during the 6 hours ending at 1 a.m. est included 4 inches at amarillo, texas; 2 inches at concordia and topeka, kan.; and 1 inch at casper, wyo., dodge city and wichita, kan., and pittsburgh
snow continued into the morning across southwest new york state, northern and western pennsylvania, west virginia and ohio. snow also extended from northwest missouri across nebraska, kansas, northwest oklahoma, the northern portion of the texas panhandle, northern new mexico, colorado and southern wyoming
rain fell from central and southwest oklahoma into north-central texas
today's forecast called for snow from the central plains to the middle mississippi valley. rain and thunderstorms will reach from the lower mississippi valley across eastern texas. highs will be in the 30s from the northern and central plains to northern new england. highs will generally reach the 50s and 60s west of the rockies, with 70s in southern california. highs also will reach the 50s and 60s from southern and central new mexico across louisiana and southern arkansas to the southern and middle atlantic coast, with 70s over the lower rio grande valley of texas
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 1 degree above zero at yellowstone, wyo., to 67 degrees at brownsville, texas
other reports:
_east: atlanta 33 fair; boston 32 fair; buffalo 25 fair; charleston, s.c. 35 fair; cincinnati 28 cloudy; cleveland 30 cloudy; detroit 25 partly cloudy; miami 56 fair; new york 35 fair; philadelphia 35 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 24 partly cloudy; portland, maine 29 fair; washington 34 fair
_central: bismarck 11 fair; chicago 31 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 52 cloudy; denver 16 snow; des moines 27 snow; indianapolis 29 cloudy; kansas city 32 snow; minneapolis-st. paul 30 cloudy; nashville 28 fair; new orleans 41 fair; st. louis 30 fair
_west: albuquerque 34 partly cloudy; anchorage 27 snow; las vegas 47 fair; los angeles 52 fair; phoenix 56 fair; salt lake city 29 fair; san diego 52 fair; san francisco 47 fair; seattle 44 fair
_canada: montreal 21 fair; toronto 21 fair. ``clerk.'' corrects category code.</note>
the defeats of extremist lyndon larouche and his followers in the illinois primary show the state democratic party learned a lesson two years ago and passed it on to voters, party officials say
the nation became aware of what happened in illinois in 1986, and i think we have pretty well put that to rest,'' said george sangmeister, who won his democratic congressional primary tuesday over a larouche-backed opponent, george m. laurence of romeoville
no one answered the telephone at laurence's home or at larouche headquarters late wednesday to comment on the primary results
sangmeister, of mokena, was one of two party-endorsed candidates who went down in a surprising defeat to larouche supporters in 1986, sending shock waves throughout the state democratic party
mark fairchild defeated sangmeister for the democratic nomination for lieutenant governor that year. another larouche disciple, janice hart, beat party candidate aurelia pucinski for the nomination for secretary of state
the party's state central committee declared the nominations void, and neither larouche candidate won office
this year, despite democratic court challenges, larouche and more than 20 of his supporters were on tuesday's primary ballot for offices from president to county recorder of deeds. democrats countered with a mail campaign
ms. pucinski defeated mrs. hart in the democratic primary race for cook county circuit court clerk, and sangmeister easily defeated laurence for the congressional nomination
unofficial vote totals gave sangmeister 26,979 votes to laurence's 7,518. in the clerk's race, ms. pucinski had 283,504, former mayor jane byrne had 199,306 and ms. hart had 12,530 for 2 percent of the vote
larouche got 6,036 votes in the presidential primary, according to unofficial totals _ not even 1 percent
two years ago, the fairchild victory caused adlai e. stevenson to give up his democratic nomination for governor, saying he would not run with a larouche extremist. stevenson, calling larouche's views ``neo-nazi,'' then formed the illinois solidarity party but subsequently lost to the incumbent, republican gov. james r. thompson
larouche, whose headquarters are in leesburg, va., is seeking the democratic nomination on a platform that includes quarantining aids patients and populating mars
larouche is on trial in boston on federal fraud and conspiracy charges
the party and i decided we were not going to afford these and other fringe candidates the opportunity to have a refuge here,'' declared vince demuzio, who became state party chairman after the larouche victories
the larouche forces did win an upset this month in houston, when claude jones was elected harris county democratic party chairman in the texas primary on march 8
premier-designate ciriaco de mita said he will form italy's 48th postwar government with a coalition of the same five parties that have governed the country for most of the past eight years
de mita, leader of the dominant christian democrats, was appointed to the temporary post wednesday by president francesco cossiga
premier giovanni goria, also a christian democrat, resigned last friday after heading a shaky five-party coalition for 7{ months
the 60-year-old de mita said he would begin negotiations friday with political leaders to form a stronger coalition of the christian democrats, socialists, social democrats, republicans and liberals. the five parties have governed together off and on since 1981
i know that the task that i am about to take up is difficult, laborious and complex,'' de mita said. ``there are many questions we have to face, and to confront them we need political stability and clear accords.''
once de mita obtains the party leaders' pledges of support, the next step is informing cosiga and parliament, where he must win approval to become premier. de mita cannot succeed without support of the socialists, the no. 2 party in the coalition
socialist leader and former premier bettino craxi said wednesday he was not opposed to the appointment of de mita, with whom he has often feuded, but that his final support would depend on government policy
among the divisive issues facing de mita is italy's nuclear policy. the government's decision last week to resume construction of a nuclear power plant near rome angered the socialists and helped force goria to resign
also in dispute are the fate of the secret vote in parliament and proposals for including the tiny radical and green parties in the coalition
de mita was elected in 1982 as secretary of the christian democrats, a post many consider the most powerful political position in italy. if he is confirmed as premier, he will keep the position until the party's congress later this year
de mita, son of a tailor, was born in nusco, a small hill town near naples. he entered politics in the 1950s after earning a law degree. he was elected to parliament in 1963 and has held his seat since then, serving as a minister in several governments in the 1970s
under pressure from several dakota indians and indian organizations, the minnesota historical society has apologized for displaying the remains of dakota chief little crow
the apology wednesday did not mention little crow by name, but expressed ``deep regret for the pain and anguish that the society's past actions have caused the indian people
little crow was killed in the summer of 1863, a year after he led the dakota, or sioux, tribes in the great dakota confict of 1862. the conflict came close to depopulating the minnesota frontier and ended with the hanging of 38 dakota braves the day after christmas in the largest mass execution in u.s. history
little crow was shot and killed by a farmer near hutchinson, minn., while picking raspberries
the historical society put little crow's remains on display from 1879 to 1915 and kept the remains until 1971, when they were turned over to family members in flandreau, s.d., for burial
a preamble to the resolution approved wednesday said, ``judged by society's standards today the exhibition of human remains and the treatment of them as museum artifacts is unthinkable.''
the resolution did not satisfy two of little crow's relatives, who angrily confronted executive director nina archabal after the resolution was passed, and threatened to go to ``higher ups'' to get a more specific apology
lee ann tall bear, a direct descendant of little crow, said she was ``really sorry that our family business had to be put on public display.''
the disposition of an ancestor was something that was done privately ... i do want to ask one thing; that you let this go, that we stop being put on display and treated like performing monkeys.''
the soviet union said it launched its first satellite for a paying customer today, lifting the indian-owned payload into orbit from the central asian republic of kazakhstan
the satellite was launched at 9:40 a.m. form the baikonur spaceport, said nikolai semyonov, an official in the international liaison office of the glavkosmos space agency
he said the launch was the first on commercial terms with a foreign country or company, adding that negotiations were under way for similar deals although no contracts have been signed yet
in new delhi, prime minister rajiv gandhi announced the successful launch to a cheering parliament. he called it ``a major milestone'' in india's space program and said india was the fifth nation to have a remote sensing satellite. the others are the united states, soviet union, france and japan
the satellite, called irs, will operate for three years studying india's forests, water resources and mineral deposits using remote sensing devices, radio moscow said
the soviets created glavkosmos in january 1986 to seek foreign customers for its launching services
commercial satellite launching is also offered by the united states, china and the european consortium ariane. but the u.s. space shuttle, meant to be the workhorse for satellite launches, is still grounded because of the january 1986 explosion of space shuttle challenger. the ariane program also has suffered setbacks
the soviets sent the first satellite into space, in 1957, and have the advantage of the most experience in satellite launching, sending aloft more spacecraft than any other country. the soviets' powerful booster rockets can also put into orbit heavier payloads than their western competitors
yuri n. salekov, deputy director of licensintorg, which works with glavkosmos and other soviet foreign trade organizations, declined to say how much the launching cost on the grounds it is a ``commercial secret.''
semyonov, in a telephone interview, said irs was launched aboard a vostok rocket booster and that the satellite reached orbit without problem
the flight was controlled by a soviet monitoring station near moscow and the indian space control center in bangolore, tass said
glavkosmos officials repeatedly complain that their efforts to seek western buyers for soviet satellite-launching services are severely hampered by western governments' restrictions on the flow of technology. the united states and other countries fear the soviets will steal western technology used in satellites
an afghan court sentenced an italian journalist to seven years in prison after convicting him of spying while accompanying anti-government guerrillas, the official soviet news agency tass reported
fausto balezlavo of trieste entered afghanistan illegally in july and followed ahmad shahom, one of the guerrilla leaders fighting afghanistan's soviet-backed government, tass said
balezlavo was a social sciences student at a university in trieste, tass said in a report wednesday. it did not say when he was convicted, but indicated balezlavo was sentenced wednesday in kabul, the afghan capital
it also did not say whether balezlavo challenged the charges or for whom he was accused of spying. tass also did not say for whom balezlavo was working
the afghan rebels are supported by pakistan and the united states
balezlavo is the second european journalist to be convicted of spying in afghanistan
alain guillo, a french freelance filmmaker, was convicted jan. 4 of spying while accompanying guerrillas. he was sentenced to 10 years in prison
two americans were killed last year while making a documentary film in afghanistan
western correspondents are not allowed into afghanistan except on government-arranged trips
the seven main afghan guerrilla groups, based in pakistan, routinely take western journalists into afghanistan illegally to report on the fighting against government troops supported by an estimated 115,000 soviet soldiers. bush</head> with 1 graf to correct spelling of `sow.' subs 16th graf, `how does ...,' to delete extraneous word `until.'</note>
even as george bush savors his apparently insurmountable lead in the race for the republican presidential nomination, the iran-contra affair is re-emerging as a grim political liability
bush had no immediate reaction to wednesday's indictment of two former white house officials _ oliver l. north and john m. poindexter _ on charges stemming from the arms-to-iran initiative
but pete teeley, his chief spokesman, said, ``they weren't unexpected.'' and he said that ``what is going on with those four gentlemen has nothing to do with this campaign.''
teeley insisted that the specter of indictments of former reagan administration figures had nothing to do with bush's statement last week that ``i am tired of being embarrassed'' by accounts of unethical behavior by high government officials
that may be so, but a federal grand jury and a special prosecutor have managed what presidential rival bob dole had been unable to do _ keep the iran-contra furor in the public view
the kansas senator had hoped to raise sufficient questions about bush's role in the iran-contra affair to sow doubts in the minds of republicans about bush's electability against a democrat in november
in the wake of the indictments of north and poindexter, along with arms merchants richard secord and albert hakim, bush may be thinking of alexander m. haig jr.'s tart warning of jan. 8
if you can't answer your friends, what in heaven's name is going to happen next november if you are our standardbearer and these democrats get after you on this subject?'' haig asked bush
in fact, rep. richard gephardt of missouri, a democratic presidential candidate, said wednesday, ``this will be an important issue in the campaign, regardless of whether new evidence is revealed to further implicate the vice president.''
george bush has already pleaded guilty to exercising bad judgment in what turned out to be the biggest american foreign policy debacle in decades,'' he said
to a certain degree, bush has answered questions about his role in the affair, although he has declined to spell out what reservations he had. but he must cope with some lingering questions:
_does he still consider lt. col. north ``a national hero'' despite the ``mistakes'' that north made?
_was it appropriate for him to invite both north and vice adm. poindexter to a christmas party at his house on the grounds of the naval observatory, even after both had been ousted by reagan?
_does he still retain confidence in his national security aide, donald gregg, a former cia agent whose name has cropped up in various reports linking him to north's behind-the-scenes efforts to manage the contra war against the sandinista regime in nicaragua?
gregg has been associated with felix rodriguez, another onetime cia operative, who had been involved in helping to run the secret resupply operation for the contras
_how does he resolve the seeming contradiction between his statements that he only became fully aware of the arms-for-hostages nature of the dealings with iran late in 1986, and statements by chief of staff craig fuller indicating that amiram nir, an israeli counter-terrorism expert, had briefed bush on this aspect of the initiative in may 1986?
i was told what they were doing, not what we were doing,'' bush subsequently said
_can he explain failing to recall the strenuous objections that secretary of state george shultz and then-defense secretary caspar w. weinberger raised about the arms sales? shultz told congressional investigators he became ``apoplectic'' when he learned about it
bush told reporters in adel, iowa, on jan. 9 that he would be willing to make public his notes and documents on the iran-contra affair, saying ``it doesn't bother me'' to declassify some papers
bush's reservations reportedly involved his concern, as a onetime cia director, over the possibility the united states was allowing israel to play too great a role a super-sensitive covert operation
reagan has corroborated bush's statement that the vice president voiced reservations about the deal, but neither has said what those reservations were
bush has acknowledged repeatedly that ``mistakes were made'' in the arms-to-iran initiative and the subsequent diversion to the nicaraguan rebels of the proceeds from the sales of anti-aircraft and anti-tank missiles. but he also has said that ``i was aware of the iran initiative and i support the president's decision.''
bush has said he never knew about the diversion of profits, and the congressional investigative committees produced no evidence to contradict him on that
i wish it hadn't happened,'' he said on dec. 19, 1986
merrill hartson, who regularly reports from the white house for the associated press, is covering the bush campaign
at least 90 members of a moslem wedding party died when their bus overturned and caught fire after the driver lost control while changing a cassette in the tape player, the united news of india said today
most of the victims in wednesday night's crash in central india were women and children
the news agency said the bus was carrying about 105 people when the accident happened near simga village in madhya pradesh state, 560 miles southeast of the indian capital
about 15 people, including the driver and the bridegroom, escaped by breaking the windshield, uni said. blacksmiths from simga were trying to cut through the wreck today to recover bodies, it added
the agency quoted ``reports received in new delhi'' as saying the driver lost control of the bus while changing a cassette in a tape recorder. the bus swerved and smashed against a culvert with a loud bang, uni said
some survivors said the bus caught fire because of an explosion in the diesel tank, but others said passengers' firecrackers set off the blaze
ten injured people were taken to a hospital in simga and were reported out of danger
authorities were investigating. ^by oldemar ramirez</byline>
president oscar arias called the reported sandinista incursion into honduras deplorable, saying it jeopardizes truce talks set for monday between the nicaraguan government and contra rebels
a contra spokesman said the talks would be suspended unless sandinistas halt the offensive against contra forces in northern nicaragua
being certain that the nicaraguan army invaded honduras, my government condemns it categorically and with firmness,'' arias said wednesday night
i deplore that this happens shortly before the meeting begins, and it appears to me lamentable because costa rica feels that the manner of resolving problems is through direct dialogue and not through war,'' he told a news conference in san jose
the cease-fire talks were scheduled to take place in the town of sapoa, near nicaragua's border with costa rica. arias won last year's nobel peace prize for authoring the regional peace plan under which they are taking place
carlos hurtado, an adviser to the nicaraguan resistance, the contra umbrella organization, told the associated press the talks would be suspended if the offensive continued
if the sandinistas pursue this offensive with the intention of destroying our forces, it is possible that the sapoa reunion will be suspended,'' hurtado said
arias said he had spoken by telephone wednesday with presidents daniel ortega of nicaragua, vinicio cerezo of guatemala and jose azcona hoyo of honduras about the situation
ortega has said sandinista troops pushed 2,000 contras into honduras, but has not confirmed that troops entered the neighboring country
after it cost us so much to have convened a reunion in sapoa . .. (nicaragua) resorts to military action a few days before realizing (the talks) with the proposition of coming to the negotiating table with a better position,'' arias said
we are putting in danger the much or the little that we have achieved in the central american peace process and the eyes of the world are placed on the isthmus to find out what we are capable of,'' he added
the peace plan calls for cease-fires in el salvador, guatemala and nicaragua, an end to outside support for the area's insurgencies, and negotiations aimed at installing democratic governments, among other points
the plan was signed by honduras, nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala and costa rica
amnesty international today accused panama's security forces of torturing and killing people who staged peaceful protests against the rule of gen. manuel antonio noriega
in a 15-page report, the international human rights group said more than 1,000 people have been injured in protests since last june, when widespread opposition to noriega began
demonstrations in the central american country started after a former aide of noriega accused the general of corruption, election fraud and the 1985 assassination of a political foe
panamanians turned into the streets last summer to demand noriega's resignation as head of the 15,000-member defense forces. noriega is considered the real power behind panama's civilian government
amnesty said hundreds of people, including scores of children, had been detained for sounding car horns, raising their right arm or waving white handkerchiefs _ all symbols of protest in panama
the report deals with rights violations in the country from june through january. since then, demonstrations against noriega have intensified, including rioting in the two largest cities wednesday after a coup was aborted
the report said the defense forces ``have used excessive force when responding to apparently non-violent opposition to current government policies.''
it said witnesses reported that police shot and killed eduardo enrique carrera, 24, after he shouted ``down with noriega'' at a rally last july 26
the report said said 54 former detainees and other sources had described ``a pattern of brutality by the security forces before, during and after demonstrations.''
noriega was indicted in florida last month on federal drug trafficking charges. the united states has imposed economic sanctions to force noriega's resignation that have left the government unable to pay public employees
amnesty said troops have harassed, beaten and arbitrarily detained opposition leaders and that scores of demonstrators have been stripped, starved and tortured in crowded and filthy prisons
armed paramilitary squads were reported to have shot and killed several protesters and attempted to provoke violence during demonstrations while government soldiers stood by, but the incidents could not be independently verified, the london-based group said
witnesses have identified members of these squads as prominent members of the ruling party or security force personnel in civilian clothes, it said
amnesty said its findings were sent to noriega in december but it has received no response. out of politics, other editing. no pickup.</note>
opposition leader kim dae-jung stepped down today in a last ditch attempt to reunite south korea's bitterly divided opposition parties before legislative elections next month
in a separate development, president roh tae-woo ordered the military to stay out of politics and concentrate on defending the nation. the former army general, who was elected president last december, said the military's role should be in keeping with democratic reforms under way in south korea
kim resigned as leader of the party for peace and democracy and appealed to the rival democratic reunification party to agree to an immediate merger
i have made up my mind to resign in the belief that everything must be done to ensure we do not miss the last chance for the merger which is our supreme task,'' the veteran leader said in a statement
kim dae-jung and his supporters seceded from the democratic reunification party after the two kims both insisted on running in the dec. 16 presidential election
they split the opposition vote and lost to government candidate roh, who took power feb. 25
kim's resignation was announced at a news conference by party officials and he was reported to be in seclusion. the party for peace and democracy said kim was not feeling well
it was not clear if his resignation would clear the way for reunification. the rival democratic reunification party discussed the resignation at a meeting and announced plans for a second meeting friday to consider merging with the party for peace and democracy
but some democratic reunification party officials privately expressed distrust and said they feared the resignation was a trick. some political observers were reluctant to accept kim was bowing out of politics
we are skeptical in view of kim dae-jung's duplicity in the past,'' said a democratic reunification party official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
park young-sook, a party for peace and democracy vice president who read kim's statement, became acting party president. she declined to answer questions about what would happen if the opposition merger fails. she expressed hope the opposition would unite by sunday
kim has been a major figure in politics for 30 years. he helped spearhead opposition to the country's successive authoritarian governments and gained international standing as a dissident and human rights activist
the departure of kim dae-jung follows the resignation last month of rival opposition leader kim young-sam
officials of the party for peace and democracy said they could not comment on kim dae-jung's future political plans. in his statement, kim said he would work for an opposition victory in national assembly elections expected to be held april 26
merger talks between the two parties collapsed last week after the democratic reunification party demanded kim dae-jung's resignation
roh was briefed today on the defense ministry's policies for the year
no one should try to use the military for political purposes, and the military itself should remain guarded against being used politically,'' roh said
south korea has been plagued by military involvement in politics since 1960 when the late president park chung-hee, then an army general, staged a coup. roh was one of the generals who helped ex-president chun doo-hwan seize power with military backing in 1980
a brother of plo chairman yasser arafat died today in a cairo hospital after a long bout with liver cancer, a third arafat brother said
mustafa arafat, 62, died at the palestinian red crescent hospital, said fat'hy arafat, who is the hospital's director
mustafa arafat, who was manager of the palestine automobile club in cairo, is survived by his wife. his funeral will be held in cairo on friday
both fat'hy arafat and spokesman ahmed abdul-rahman at palestine liberation organization headquarters in tunis said they did not know whether the 57-year-old plo leader will attend the funeral
mustafa arafat was born in jerusalem and went to school there and in cairo. he was in private business until the early 1960s, when he joined fatah, the largest of eight factions that make up the plo
yasser arafat founded fatah and officially launched it in 1965
the arafat brothers also have a sister living in cairo. she is known by her code-name um al-mumeneen, or ``mother of the faithful.'' butcher's appearance today on ``good morning america.'' picks up in 5th graf, `butcher finished ...'</note>
sirens wailed and hundreds of boisterous fans jammed the street to cheer susan butcher as she coasted to an unprecedented third straight victory in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race
bitterly cold winds raked nome as the flushed and perspiring 33-year-old alaskan cruised beneath the log-arch finish at 8:42 p.m. wednesday
it means a lot to me to win three years in a row,'' said a smiling butcher, the only musher to win three consecutive iditarods, as she hugged her frosty-faced lead dogs, granite and tolstoy
i very much want four,'' said butcher, who has competed in 11 of the grueling races and earned $30,000 for wednesday's victory. ``i guess i want five.''
although the weather ``was pretty nasty,'' butcher said this morning, it was to her advantage ``because my dogs are good in that type of conditions.''
butcher, who appeared with granite on abc-tv's ``good morning america,'' said the dog ``came through with flying colors. he's got to get a good bone for this one.''
butcher finished after 11 days, 11 hours, and 41 minutes, a record for the race's longer northern route from anchorage to nome. last year, her time of 11 days, 2 hours set a record for the shorter southern route
her closest rival, martin buser of big lake, trailed by 14 hours wednesday night
what gave me the jump on martin was that storm we had last night,'' butcher said. ``i knew, when i heard we were going to have winds, that was the best thing that could happen, because i knew mine would pull through it.''
buser's team, she said, had balked in light winds earlier along the coast. ``so i knew he couldn't make it through a storm,'' she said. wind and cold dropped the wind chill to minus 70 degrees
she said buser, battling for second place with four-time iditarod champion rick swenson of two rivers, will be a strong contender if he races next year
joe garnie of teller was running fourth wednesday. joe redington, a 70-year-old knik resident known as ``the father of the iditarod'' for helping in 1973 to found the race he has never won, was fifth
after the winner's take, the next 19 finishers will split $120,000 in prize money
people emptied out of bars and at least one church as butcher headed into this old gold-mining town, a regional hub for western alaska whose population roughly doubled in recent days because of the race
butcher has won the iditarod three times, finished second twice, and finished among the top 10 four other times. she is the second woman to win the iditarod. libby riddles of teller won the contest in 1985, the year butcher was forced to drop out after an angry moose stomped through her team
the iditarod, named after an old supply route to the gold mining districts of interior alaska, draws its inspiration from a 1925 relay of diphtheria serum to nome, which was hit hard by an outbreak of the disease
the race started march 5 on trucked-in snow in downtown anchorage, and the temperature fluctuated around freezing the next few days, which strained the cold-loving huskies. then, fresh snow slowed the leaders in the alaska range
redington, who has entered all but two of the race's 16 runnings, has placed as high as fifth. for 400 miles, it seemed as if he might finally win, but he lost the lead to buser on the frozen yukon river
as the race reached the windblown bering sea coast, butcher quickly caught up. she passed buser on tuesday near koyuk, 171 miles from the finish
five of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out. the remaining teams were strung 500 miles back along the trail and will be straggling into nome for a week or more
art students will have to stretch their imaginations in life-drawing class now that a county official has banned nude models
bob ash, head of the cobb county community services department, who a few weeks ago asked that models wear bathing suits, leotards or ``just basically anything,'' because of fear about how nude modeling might be perceived
the community might react in a negative way,'' ash said
my students don't understand,'' said stephen smith, an atlanta artist who has taught life drawing and life sculpting courses at the county-run steeple house arts center since shortly after its january 1987 opening. nude models had been used only in smith's advanced, adults-only art classes
the issue of nudity in art will be addressed tonight by the county's five-member arts commission. ash has said he will abide by the commission's decision, though he may disagree with it
i am surprised that it would become an issue in this day and time,'' said carolyn duncan, director of the marietta-cobb fine arts center, which is funded in part by cobb county but not bound by ash's decision. the steeple house is fully funded by the county
cobb arts commissioner pat wayman said prohibiting the study of nudes in art ``would take us back 300 years.'' she said the fact that a piece features a nude figure does not mean it is pornographic. ^by rodeina kenaan</note>
six israeli fighter-bombers blasted palestinian guerrilla bases in druse-held territory above beirut today in the deepest air raid into lebanon this year, police said
they said one guerrilla was killed and two other people, a fighter and his 2-year-old son, were wounded in the attack, the third against palestinian targets in lebanon since january
the jets dropped four shells on one base in the aynab village, demolishing a building used as a base for the democratic front for the liberation of palestine
the marxist front is one of the palestine liberation organization's eight main factions
palls of black smoke billowed from the stricken target and other bases hit in chemlan, bayssour and kabr shmoun, streching 10 to 15 miles southeast of beirut and overlooking beirut international airport
police said incoming and outgoing traffic at the airport was suspended for 15 minutes as a precaution
it was the first time this year that israeli jets hit targets that close to beirut. the sound of explosions could be heard across the city as the jets criss-crossed the skies, drawing anti-aircraft fire from guerrilla positions
police said the planes released air balloons to deflect heat-seeking, shoulder-fired sam-7 missiles unleashed by guerrillas. no planes were hit
in a brief statement, the israeli army command acknowledged the raid and said the targets had ``served as bases for planning and launching attacks against israel.''
all our planes returned safely and the pilots reported the destruction of the targets,'' the israeli statement said
the raid was launched one day after guerrillas in south lebanon fired soviet-made katyusha rockets into northern israel. the attack shattered windows and damaged citrus trees, but caused no casualties, according to israeli reports
the popular front for the liberation of palestine-general command and the fatah-uprising, both at odds with plo chairman yasser arafat, also have bases in the stricken villages
despite their own differences, the syrian-backed factions and arafat's loyalists are allied with druse warlord walid jumblatt in lebanon's nearly 13-year-old civil war
israeli warplanes raided targets near sidon, 25 miles south of beirut on jan. 2 and on march 12
twenty-one people were killed and 30 wounded in the first attack, and four were killed and 10 wounded in the second, by lebanese police count
a supreme court judge today granted a four-week stay of execution for the ``sharpeville six,'' blacks whose scheduled hangings friday prompted a massive international clemency campaign
shortly before the court hearing began, a car bomb exploded outside a courthouse and police station 25 miles away in krugersdorp. the blast killed three black men, one of them a policeman, and injured 16 people
black leaders had warned the hangings might provoke violence, although there was no immediate evidence linking the blast to the sharpeville case
justice w.j. human, who sentenced the five men and one woman to death three years ago, said there was evidence that a key prosecution witness had perjured himself during the trial
scores of people in the courtroom, almost all black, burst into applause when human announced his decision. several hundred more people on the steps outside cheered, raised clenched fists and sang freedom songs when they heard the news
the six were convicted of complicity in the 1984 mob murder of a black town councilor during anti-apartheid riots, even though there was no direct evidence they directly contributed to the victim's death. government leaders, churches and human rights groups around the world appealed for clemency
the judge based his decision on a defense application questioning the reliability of testimony by prosecution witness joseph manete. human cited a may 11, 1985 statement in which manete said he had been forced by police to identify two of the accused as having been at the scene
human said he was never made aware of that statement and, therefore, did not allow the defense to cross-examine manete on that point
if manete's statement had been available i would have allowed cross-examination,'' human said
he granted the defense until april 18 to prepare an application for a retrial for all six defendants
president p.w. botha told black anglican archbishop desmond tutu in a meeting wednesday night he would not intervene in the case. he said the only way the six could be reprieved was if human ruled there was significant new evidence
tutu was outside pretoria supreme court today with relatives of the convicted
both the trial court and the appeal court found no evidence that the sharpeville six committed the murder
they were convicted in a non-jury trial by white judges under the doctrine of ``common cause,'' which holds they were responsible for the sept. 3, 1984 death of sharpeville deputy mayor jacob dlamini because they were found to be part of a mob of 100 people who stoned and burned him to death
in durban and cape town, protesters demonstrated at u.s. and british diplomatic missions, urging stronger pressure by those countries to avert the hangings
cape town police arrested 21 white women from the black sash civil rights group who were demonstrating on behalf of the condemned prisoners in violation of a law barring protests near parliament
at johannesburg's university of the witwatersrand, two cameramen for the visnews television agency were detained while filming a protest against the hangings by about 1,000 students
the government's information ministry held simultaneous news conferences in pretoria and cape town, showing reporters videotapes of similar mob killings and issuing a nine-page background report on the case
referring to worldwide appeals for clemency, dave steward, director of the bureau for information, told reporters in pretoria, ``some of the requests came from leaders of countries for which south africa has the highest regard
there was a great temptation to intervene for humanitarian and political reasons. however, the responsibility of the state transcends'' those reasons, he added
in cape town, deputy minister of information stoffel van der merwe said, ``the government is ignoring political pressure in order to treat each case absolutely on its inherent merits.''
steward told reporters that since anti-apartheid violence and protests began in 1984, with the sharpeville riots in which dlamini was killed, 706 black south africans had been burned to death
no emergency meetings of the united nations security council have been held regarding the hundreds who have been killed by mob violence,'' said steward, adding there had been no international expressions of sympathy for dlamini
president reagan and the leaders of great britain, france, italy, west germany, the european community, the united nations and many international and domestic religious, labor and political groups have called on botha to grant clemency. the governments of japan and greece today announced they, too, asked south africa to reconsider its decision
a legal dispute over a $135 pair of glasses damaged on the seat of a fire truck will cost the city and firefighters union $1,157
if nothing else, it was a good learning experience,'' lt. cecil cornish, president of international association of firefighters local 2445, said wednesday of the union's $578.50 share
the union filed a grievance after frank neeld, vice president of the local, left his glasses on the seat sept. 19. the next day, firefighter timothy gutman sat on them as he climbed behind the wheel
neeld demanded reimbursement under a contract clause calling for repair or replacement of glasses damaged or destroyed ``in the line of duty.''
leaving glasses on the seat of a firetruck where anyone could have reason to drive it was negligent,'' contended city manager randall reid. ``and being on duty or at work was not what the contract intended by `in the line of duty
arbitrator j.a. raffaele of philadelphia sided with the city in a march 13 ruling on the grievance. ``the dignity of a collective-bargaining agreement,'' he wrote, ``should not be compromised by an interpretation that reduces its meaning to absurdity.'' inserts 2 grafs after last graf with detail, quote from news conference.</note>
an explosion rocked a testing laboratory today, sparking a fire that forced the evacuation of industrial plants a half-mile away. authorities said three people were killed and one injured
among the hazardous materials used at gollob analytical services are radioactive hydrogen and krypton, and the solvents xylene and benzine, said department of environmental protection spokesman jim staples. light industrial buildings within a half-mile downwind were evacuated as a precaution, and employees heading to work at neighboring buildings were sent home
volunteer firefighters, working upwind of the one-story lab, thought they had extinguished the blaze by 6:30 a.m., nearly 4{ hours after it began, but it flared up again a half-hour later, officials said
the identities of the victims were not known, said police chief ralph m. del duca. a 30-year-old man was in critical condition in surgery today at university hospital in newark, said nursing supervisor mary kwasek
police at first reported two dead in the fire, but officials said later at a news conference that three bodies had been recovered
i have no information as to why they were in there. the company does not have a night time operation. but it is not unusual for employees to work on special projects overnight,'' said philip solomon, union county emergency managment coordinator
state inspectors will check a nearby brook that runs into the passaic river for contamination, and a township crew built a sandbag dam around the plant to contain runoff water from the firefighting, staples said. the air around the plant also will be checked for chemicals and radiation, he said. up 7th graf pvs: `carlucci described...'</note>
defense secretary frank c. carlucci said he and his soviet counterpart briefly debated the reported nicaraguan incursion into honduras today before concluding three days of talks on an upbeat note
carlucci said he protested the incursion to soviet defense minister dmitri yazov, who ``made some attempt to defend the sandinista action.''
i would not characterize it as a vigorous defense,'' carlucci told a news conference before leaving bern for washington
carlucci said he consulted with the white house overnight and endorsed the decision to send an emergency u.s. force to honduras on exercises
the sandinistas said they had chased contra rebels to the honduran border, but the nicaraguan defense ministry denied sandinista troops entered honduras
the soviet union provides nicaragua with military and economic aid. at a news conference, yazov did not address the issue of nicaragua specifically
we spoke out in favor of greater predictability and stability in the soviet-u.s. military balance,'' he said. ``we tried to better understand the logic of and rationale for u.s. actions in the military field.''
carlucci described his talks with yazov, which were closed to reporters, as ``cordial and businesslike'' and said he had been invited to moscow to continue the discussions at an unspecified date
he said he had not obtained the apology he requested for the fatal shooting by a soviet soldier of u.s. army maj. arthur nicholson in east germany three years ago. yazov said the incident occurred before he became defense minister last may, said carlucci
he said he would undertake to investigate it'' through the soviet foreign ministry, which has been handling the issue carlucci said
to avoid such ``dangerous activities,'' carlucci said, ``gen. yazov and i agreed that more would be done in this area.''
both agreed that ``there is no need for shooting,'' said carlucci. ``gen. yazov was firm on that.''
carlucci said the chairman of the u.s. joint chiefs of staff, adm. william crowe, and the soviet chief of staff, marshal sergei akhomeyev, would meet soon, probably in washington, to work out guidelines to prevent friction between u.s. and soviet ground, air and sea, forces
yazov repeated kremlin assurances that soviet troops would be withdrawn from afghanistan, but was unable to set a timetable, pending the outcome of stalled peace talks in geneva, said carlucci
the two sides also discussed space-based missile defense, negotiations to reduce strategic nuclear arsenals, and regional conflicts, including angola, cambodia and korea, he said
the soviets proposed an experiment of a new method of determining the presence of nuclear-tipped, sea-launched cruise missiles aboard vessels, a technique mentioned last december by kremlin leader mikhail s. gorbachev but never explained to the west
carlucci expressed doubt about the technique, but said the united states was willing to review the propsed experiment, details of which were not available
the soviets want to impose a limit on such weapons as part of the strategic arms reduction treaty now under negotiation. return, other details. changes byline. no pickup.</note>
four israeli soldiers went on trial today on charges of brutality against palestinians in the first such cases to reach court since violence erupted in the occupied territories more than three months ago
two soldiers pleaded guilty to reduced charges in the burying alive of four palestinians in the occupied west bank, and two others pleaded innocent in the televised beating of two palestinians
also today, israeli warplanes raided plo bases in the chouf mountains south of beirut, and the army said all targets were destroyed. one guerrilla was reported killed and two people were injured
israeli newspapers said secretary of state george p. shultz might return to the middle east in late march or early april to continue his mission to reach an accord between israel and the arabs for starting peace talks
senior military officials said israel imposed new restrictions against palestinians, ruling for the first time that any arab wishing to bring $1,000 or more into israeli-held territories from jordan must receive permission
the measure was intended to curb palestine liberation organization-provided funding for the current unrest. the money has helped shopkeepers on strike and aided arab families whose homes were destroyed by the israeli army
in addition, dairy and produce deliveries were not permitted to enter the cities of nablus, tulkarm and jericho, arab reports said. the army said it was checking the report
in a military court in jaffa, pvts. yair nissimi and dror segen-cohen were accused of assault and abuse for helping bury alive four palestinians with a bulldozer after a feb. 5 demonstration in the west bank village of kfar salem
a third soldier, sgt. mjr. charlie danino, was being tried separately on the same charges, as well as unbecoming conduct
nissimi and segen-cohen accepted a reduced charge of shameful conduct under a plea bargain placed before a panel of three military judges. they were to be sentenced to two months and 2{ months in jail, respectively
i'm sorry about everything that happened,'' nissimi told the court. ``i know i made a mistake.''
attorneys for the two soldiers charged in the beating incident filmed by cbs television _ pvts. sagi harpaz and yehuda angel _ said the soldiers entered pleas of not guilty and the trial was recessed
attorney uri slonim, representing harpaz, said his client would argue he had carried out his mission of dispersing a demonstration ``in a way that seemed correct under the circumstances'' and had only used the ``amount of force needed to carry out his mission.''
about 250 reserve soldiers, meanwhile, submitted a petition to government leaders today supporting the israeli army in its attempt to quell the unrest in the territories
the dailies yediot ahronot, maariv, haaretz and jerusalem post all reported that shultz, having received an equivocal answer about the u.s. peace plan from visiting israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, is expected to return to the region either late this month or early next month
haaretz also reported that despite shamir's opposition to an international conference, shultz, who meets next week with soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze in washington, would propose the two leaders jointly appeal to the united nations to convene such a session
the attack on lebanon came a day after a volley of katyusha rockets was fired from south lebanon into a community in north israel. an israeli army spokesman said the rockets shattered windows and damaged citrus trees, but caused no injuries
in clashes wednesday, four arabs were shot and killed by troops, bringing the palestinian death toll to 100 since the uprising began dec. 8, according to the united nations
also wednesday, the occupied lands were paralyzed by a general strike, ordered by the plo-affiliated underground leadership of the uprising in a clandestine leaflet. most stores were shuttered, public transportation halted and most of the 110,000 arabs who work in israel stayed home
congressional republicans who investigated the iran-contra affair today criticized the indictments of two former white house officials and two other men, but democrats said the charges buttress last year's findings
i personally think that the indictment counts are pathetic,'' said sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
you have in this particular case 30 full-time lawyers, 50 investigators, millions of dollars being spent by the government, an overwhelming onslaught of legalities here, '' said hatch, one of the reagan administration's strongest supporters during last summer's hearings
rep. richard cheney, r-wyo., said on the nbc-tv ``today'' program, ``i don't think that men like poindexter ... and north deserve to end up being prosecuted on criminal grounds that deal with their service in government. ... i'm not sure the indictments are warranted but i'm sure at this point probably the only way to resolve it is to go forward with the trials.''
rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., chairman of the house iran-contra committee, who also appeared on abc, said the charges are similar to the conclusions reached by the legislative panels, although the committees didn't apportion criminal blame
when we set out, there were a number of laws that we thought had been broken. ... the indictments track these findings in our report very carefully,'' said hamilton
these are very serious offenses, said another democrat from the senate panel, sen. george mitchell of maine, on nbc
i think it should be noted that the prosecutor (lawrence walsh) is a lifelong republican, a former deputy attorney general in a republican administration, appointed to the court by a republican president so there are no political implications in the prosecution,'' said mitchell
rep. henry hyde, r-ill., an administration supporter on the iran-contra panel, said earlier, ``this is only the beginning of what will be a very long legal process that will question the sufficiency of the indictments and the constitutionality of the laws.''
he said ``the indictments are premised on some assumptions that may or may not be true, like title to the money. the prosecutors believe the money from the sale of weapons to iran belonged to the u.s. treasury and therefore it was misappropriated for the contras, but i think a very good argument can be made that the proceeds of the sale don't belong to the treasury.''
sen. daniel inouye, d-hawaii, chairman of the senate committee, said, ``i personally remain convinced that they (the four men) exhibited insufficient sensitivity to the rule of law, and to the fact that under our system of government the congress must make the laws.''
but he added that ``we must await the verdict of a jury of their peers as to whether this insensitivity was criminal in nature.''
sen. james mcclure, r-idaho, another administration defender during the hearings, noted that the white house was charging that nicaraguan troops had entered neighboring honduras to battle the contras
it's ironic that on a day when indictments were handed down in washington against the very people who tried desperately to keep the freedom fighters alive, sandinista troops were in honduras trying to wipe out the freedom fighters once and for all,'' mcclure said
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., a candidate for the democratic presidential nomination, said, ``whatever the outcome of these prosecutions, i think the special prosecutor has given as fresh evidence that the reagan administration generally has put the constitution of the united states through the shredder.''
this will be an important issue in the campaign,'' gephardt said, particularly the role of vice president george bush, who is the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination. touring enterprise. no pickup.</note>
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev was introduced today to the communist east's ``doorway to europe,'' an industrial region in northern yugoslavia that has realized his dream of joining the world trading community
gorbachev received a less enthusiastic welcome here than he did in belgrade, where he spent the first three days of his five-day tour of yugoslavia
more than 1,000 people gathered in ljubljana's revolution square, but the soviet leader and his wife, raisa, were greeted with only polite applause. cheering, shouting crowds welcomed the gorbachevs to belgrade
belgrade is the center of yugoslavia's serbian republic, which traditionally has had closes ties to moscow
at an electronics plant in slovenia, yugoslavia's northernmost republic and one of the most prosperous regions in the communist world, premier dusan sinigoj told gorbachev his semi-autonomous republic is bound to the west both culturally and economically and now concentrates on developing new technologies for export
slovenia represents a doorway to (western) europe,'' selling more than half the goods it produces abroad, he told the soviet leader. slovenia has only 8 percent of yugoslavia's population but produces 25 percent of the nation's exports
the soviet union is slovenia's second-largest trading partner, behind west germany
unders gorbachev's program of ``perestroika'' or restructuring, the soviet union is trying to encourage joint ventures with western firms, hoping to produce more goods for export and improve trade with hard-currency countries
gorbachev responded in good nature to criticism about his restructuring plan
franc sifkovic, general director of the iskra avtomatika plant that gorbachev was visiting, complained that decentralization undur perestroika had complicated the firm's dealings with the soviet union. now, he said, iskra must deal with individual managers instead of with a single government ministry, as in the past
then restructure yourself,'' the soviet leader said with a smile
during a tour of one branch of iskra, the largest electronics and appliance enterprise in yugoslavia, gorbachev was shown equipment made for export to the soviet union and was introducud to the research and development division of the plant
keeping up with western technology and developing improved, state-of-the-art equipment is central to iskra's business strategy and is what gorbachev hopes for soviet enterprises
if gorbachev was impressed with the advanced products and methods, he gave little indication publicly. his remarks were confined to expressions of friendship and a desire for improved soviet-yugoslav relations
yugoslavia has a $1.4 billion trade surplus with the soviet union but has beun unwilling to accept soviet manufactured goods in compensation for the debt. officials here say soviet products, notorious for poor quality, won't sell in yugoslavia
although the average wage in slovenia is about 500,000 dinars, or $365 a month _ nearly twice that of yugoslavia as a whole _ gorbachev's motorcade passed a shantytown near the iskra plan that illustrated the nation's economic crisis
yugoslavia's runaway inflation is pegged at 170 percent a year, and 15 percent of the country's workforce is jobless
western influence is apparent in slovenia shops, which sell a variety of west european products from flashlight batteries to automobiles. slovenia borders both austria and italy, and yugoslavs _ unlike soviets and most other east europeans _ may travel freely abroad
slovenians living along the border often do their shopping in austrian and italian stores, and many work in austria
the republic industrialized rapidly after world war ii and benefitted by being able to obtamn raw materials cheaply in yugoslavia and export manufactured goods to world markets
more than 300,000 people turned out under cloudy skies today for dublin's st. patrick's day parade in a celebration intensified this year by the 1,000th birthday of the irish capital
street vendors did a brisk trade selling sprigs of shamrock, and a hamburger chain sold ``shamrock-flavored'' shakes in the traditional irish color _ green
across the border in the british province of northern ireland, the festivities were overshadowed by wednesday's deadly attack on an irish republican army funeral in belfast. three people were killed and 68 wounded
but in ireland, theaters, pubs and hotels have been throbbing with traditional irish music, drama and folk dancing this week, which has been designated st. patrick's week
patrick, who tradition says brought christianity to the pagan irish in the 5th century, is the patron saint of ireland
about 6,000 people took part in the dublin parade, which winds along a three-mile route from st. stephen's green to o'connell street, the main thoroughfare
police estimated that more than 300,000 people, including about 10,000 tourists, mainly americans, turned out to watch the procession of dancers, marching bands and historical-theme floats pass by
prime minister charles haughey took his place on a reviewing stand outside the general post office in o'connell street and called the colorful carnival ``one of the best ever.''
government offices, schools, banks and most businesses were closed in the south for the national holiday, but many industries, offices and department stores remained open in northern ireland. churches were thronged for morning mass and pubs were packed with imbibers
organizers said the dublin parade was being televised by more than 80 tv stations in the united states and canada
patrick, the son of a deacon and apparently born in wales, was consecrated a catholic priest in a.d. 432 and sent to ireland, where he was largely credited with organizing the christian communities
in belfast, mourners wearing shamrocks and green armbands attended the funeral of a slain ira guerrilla a day after a man opened fire and hurled grenades in milltown cemetery during the burial of three ira guerrillas shot by british commandos in gibraltar march 6
on wednesday, haughey appealed to ulster's roman catholic minority to ``to respond with calm'' to the attack at the ira funeral
the ira, outlawed in britain and ireland, is fighting to drive the british out of northern ireland and unite the protestant-dominated province with the catholic irish republic. weapons</head> chemical weapons. pick up 2nd graf pvs: `the missile...'</note>
iraq fired another long-range missile into tehran today, and iran said iraqi troops used outlawed chemical weapons to halt an iranian advance into eastern iraq
iran's official islamic republic news agency said 28 civilians were killed in the attack on the capital and in iraqi raids on four other cities
the agency said iraqi troops lobbed chemical bombs into halabja and dojaila in the kurdistan region, ``killing many defenseless residents.'' it gave no other details
iran had reported overruning dojaila and that halabja, a town of 70,000 inhabitants near the border, was under siege
iraq denied there has been any fighting in the region, saying there were no iraqi armed forces there. it claimed the iranians moved into some kurdistan villages unchallenged
iran also reported air raids on the cities of bakhtaran, tabriz, miyaneh and abadan. it gave no breakdown of the civilian deaths
the missile strike was reported by the official iraqi news agency, which said iraq is bombarding ``the nest of evil, the hideout of the charlatans, because instead of accepting peace they have chosen the course of aggression.''
iraq says it has launched 23 missiles into the iranian capital since sunday, when the ``war of the cities'' reignited after a two-day truce
iran has reported firing seven missiles into baghdad and dozens into basra, iraq's second largest city
iran's official islamic republic news agency said iranian forces today fired seven short-range missiles into zoubair, an industrial town south of basra. it said the attacks were in response to ``iraq's latest atrocities,'' but did not elaborate. the news agency said long-range artillery also pounded a string of towns close to the 730-mile front
neither side has been precise on casualties, but iran said 70 people were killed in iraqi attacks wednesday on tehran and cities in western iran
iran claimed its ground offensive into northeastern iraq's sulaymaniyah province gained momentum with the capture shortly after midnight of dojaila, which irna said has a population of 20,000
the iraqi agency quoted an unidentified spokesman as denying there has been any combat in the region and that there are no iraqi troops in the area
he said iranian troops marched on halabja and leveled it
irna said iranian revolutionary guards also seized key road intersections, cutting off all supply routes to the region from baghdad, which is 160 miles to the south. iraq has not reported any major fighting in the snow-capped mountainous province
irna said 2,500 iraqi soldiers were killed or wounded and 1,000 captured in the fighting, raising the number of iraqi casualties in two days to 3,600 with 1,800 prisoners taken. it gave no breakdown for the dead and wounded and the figures could not be independently confirmed
the news agency said iranian combatants had seized 115 square miles of iraqi territory in the region, including about 40 villages and towns. it said the prisoners included maj. gen. ali hussein obaid al-algawi, who it described as the commander of iraq's 43rd infantry division
irna also said iranian warplanes struck economic targets in the region in pre-dawn raids and that two iraqi warplanes were downed
on wednesday, the u.n. security council in new york demanded an end to the missile attacks on baghdad and tehran and endorsed another round of negotiations by secretary-general javier perez de cuellar on implementing its july 20 cease-fire resolution aimed at ending the 7{-year-old war
iran has criticized the security council for failing to take action on the war of the cities and one diplomat said tehran has broken all ties to the body
both iran and iraq are known to possess internationally banned weapons, and iraq has been condemned by the security council for using chemical bombs
cathy evelyn smith, who admitted injecting comedian john belushi with the heroin-cocaine ``speedballs'' that killed him in 1982, has been released from prison after 15 months
ms. smith, 40, a native of canada who pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and three drug counts, faces immediate deportation, said joe flanders, a spokesman for the immigration and naturalization service
she was paroled wednesday from the california institution for women in frontera, said hal tanner, chief deputy superintendent. tanner called her an ``excellent inmate'' who ``abided by the rules.''
belushi, 33, was found dead march 5, 1982, in a bungalow at the chateau marmont hotel on hollywood's sunset strip
the portly comic, who gained fame on ``saturday night live'' and moved on to star in such movies as ``animal house'' and ``the blues brothers,'' had embarked on a drug binge with ms. smith that ended in the bungalow
ms. smith later admitted she and the comic injected ``speedballs,'' a mix of cocaine and heroin, but she denied responsibility for his death
she fled to canada, but returned in june 1986 and pleaded guilty. day of work</note>
on the day their deliberations would become part of their nation's history, 21 iran-contra grand jurors became the stars in an unusual media show
since grand jurors deliberate in secret, they rarely have to contend with dozens of reporters outside their meeting room. but wednesday was different
before the jurors arrived at the federal courthouse, rumors had spread through washington's press corps that indictments were imminent against the major players in the iran-contra affair
when independent counsel lawrence e. walsh entered the building in the morning, he told reporters to stick around. that was all they needed to hear. the vigil was on
dozens of reporters gathered behind rope barriers outside the normally quiet hallway used by the jurors
reporters didn't know the jurors' names, but studied their faces each time they emerged for a break, straining for signs that 14 months of grueling work had ended
this is it,'' someone would yell from the sometimes noisy press area, setting off a false alarm
during six hours of on-and-off deliberations, walsh and his prosecutors repeatedly entered and left the jury room, setting off new speculation that it was over
by late morning, walsh told reporters, ``these things can take a long time.'' he didn't say what the ``things'' were. he didn't have to
then, walsh was called down to the grand jury at 3:54 p.m. est. the jurors filed out, and their deadly serious faces sent reporters dashing to a fourth floor courtroom
twelve minutes later, the grand jurors and walsh were seated in the courtoom, and in came federal magistrate jean dwyer
your honor, this is grand jury 87-4, empaneled jan. 28, 1987,'' courtroom clerk maureen lawrie said
after the grand jury was polled, ms. lawrie said, ``mr. foreman, have you anything to report to the court?''
i do,'' said the foreman, who then handed the 101-page indictment to the clerk
the indictment was not read aloud
dwyer thanked the jurors for their service and reporters ran from the room like a thundering herd
the jurors left quietly _ thankful, presumably, that their long ordeal was over. 0693</first>
the federal deposit insurance corp. today advanced $1 billion to banks owned by first republicbank corp., a dallas holding company, in a rescue package that could ultimately rival the government's largest bank bailout
fdic chairman l. william seidman called the assistance ``an interim step'' to provide needed stability to first republic's subsidiaries and depositors
seidman said his agency, which insures deposits at commercial banks, would guarantee all of the subsidiary banks' deposits as well as money owed to general creditors of the banks. creditors of the holding company are not protected by this arrangement, he said
the action goes beyond the minimum the agency would normally be expected to back up, which is deposits of $100,000 and less
first republicbank is the 13th largest in the nation, with $33.2 billion in assets and 73 subsidiary banks. the holding company reported a loss of $656 million last year
first republicbank acknowledged tuesday it had been forced to seek federal aid because of a deteriorating loan portfolio and difficulty in raising deposits
a first republicbank spokesman said wednesday the bank had experienced a runoff of deposits the day before, but that the situation apparently had stabilized. an earlier drain of deposits and customer defections had forced it to begin preliminary discussions with the fdic, the spokesman said
seidman said the fdic was seeking a long-term solution to the holding company's problems and was talking to private investors who may want to participate in a restructuring of the company
he declined to be more specific, but in past transactions the agency has provided insurance money in conjunction with an infusion of funds from private investment groups
the largest-ever bank rescue was the $4.5 billion rescue in 1984 of continental illinois national bank &amp; trust of chicago. the fdic expects to recoup much of its initial outlay in that bailout, and expects its ultimate cost to be about $1.7 billion
seidman said he could not say what the eventual cost of the first republic rescue would be. however, he noted that first republic and continental are about the same size
he said that unlike the case with first continental _ a failure attributed to mismanagement _ ``it's very clear the primary reason for this problem is the economy of texas.''
seidman said the fdic will assume some control of the subsidiary bank's operations, although not day to day. he said the current bank's management will remain in place for now, but said changes could be discussed later
sen. phil gramm, r-texas, who appeared at a news conference with seidman, said that despite a record number of bank failures, the texas economy is on the mend. ``we feel we're in the backwash of a tidal wave that hit the texas economy about two years ago (with the collapse of oil prices). ... the basic economic future looks bright when compared to the recent past.''
the $1 billion advance is in the form of a six-month note from the fdic
the subsidiary banks are pledging their stock as collateral for the infusion, and the parent company is guaranteeing it
the collateral is being pledged by 29 of the subsidiary banks, representing about 80 percent of the holding company's assets
the largest subsidiary is first republicbank-dallas, with $19.5 billion in assets
federal reserve board member manuel johnson, who also appeared at the news conference, said first republic has been borrowing at the federal reserve's discount window for the past several days. he refused to say how much the bank had borrowed, but did say the bank had pledged its loans and other assets to back up its borrowings
the fdic reported a post-depression record of 184 bank failures last year, more than half in the oil-rich states of texas, louisiana and oklahoma
so far this year, 38 commercial banks have failed nationally
the first republic aid would not have a significant impact on the fund, seidman said. the fdic's insurance fund finished 1987 with $18.3 billion, up slightly from the end of 1986 despite the failures. guerrilla, number of whites injured. pick up 6th pvs, `the blast...'</note>
three blacks, including a policeman, were killed and 20 people injured today when a powerful car bomb exploded outside the courthouse and police station in krugersdorp, police reported
law and order minister adriaan vlok said police believed the bomb was planted by heinrich grosskopf, a white who allegedly belongs to the mostly black african national congress
vlok described grosskopf as a ``trained terrorist'' and blamed him for another car bombing last july outside army headquarters in johannesburg that injured 68 people. a $25,000 reward for grosskopf's arrest was announced
authorities said those killed in krugersdorp were a police warrant officer, a mortuary worker, and an unidentified man. the injured included 17 whites, among them a 15-month-old baby, and three blacks
the blast occurred a day before the scheduled hangings of six blacks, known as the ``sharpeville six,'' who were convicted of complicity in a 1984 mob killing during anti-apartheid riots. less than seven hours after the explosion, a judge in pretoria granted a four-week stay of execution
the six were detained in krugersdrop for a brief period between their arrest in 1984 and the start of the their trial in 1985
capt. reg crewe, a police spokesman, said the explosion at 8:30 a.m. destroyed three cars parked outside the court building. he said the blast was caused by a 55-pound explosive device placed in the trunk of one of the cars
later, police said they found two limpet mines in a toilet of the courthouse and removed them safely
the blast caused extensive damage to the courthouse and police station in krugersdorp, a farm and commercial center 20 miles northwest of johannesburg. adjoining buildings also were damaged and windows broken up to four blocks away
a bomb outside the magistrate's court in johannesburg in may 1987 killed four people
there have been more than 70 bombings in south africa since a nationwide state of emergency was imposed june 12, 1986
the government has blamed most of the incidents on the outlawed african national congress, the guerrilla group fighting to end domination of the government and economy by the white minority. electricity off again. pick up 8th graf pvs: `wednesday's protests...' edits to trim thereafter.</note>
the beleaguered government announced today it was taking over all public services a day after a failed coup attempt by rebel officers sparked anti-government rioting by thousands of people
soldiers loyal to military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega patrolled the streets after wednesday's rampage by people fed up with military rule and panama's financial crisis
the disturbances were the largest since civilian opponents began staging demonstrations calling for noriega's ouster last summer
dressed in battle gear and armed with shotguns, sidearms, tear gas cannisters and rubber truncheons, the soldiers were spread throughout the city and were on every corner in many areas
the coup attempt wednesday was led by panama's police chief, col. leonidas macias, but was quickly crushed
the united states has been using economic and political pressure to try to force noriega to step down as military leader and leave the country. as head of the 15,000-member panama defense forces, noriega is the power behind the civilian government
the government decree covered electric service, communications, ports, water services, airports, hospitals and the farm and dairy products marketing institute
the decree said defense forces were instructed to ``cooperate'' with the government agencies and insure that public order is maintained
electric power shut off by striking workers wednesday was restored early today, but then went off again
wednesday's protests erupted spontaneously throughout the capital and in the country's second largest city, colon, 50 miles to the north
security guards fired into crowds that ransacked stores and lit barricades of trash on fire in panama city, but no deaths were reported
by midafternoon, the demonstrators were dispersed, buses and taxis stopped running and the city was virtually deserted, except for patrolling soldiers
the attempted coup was the first indication of opposition to noriega within the panama defense forces
the coup attempt began an hour after dawn with the crackle of light arms fire inside the walled defense forces headquarters in the capital
after eight hours of official silence, the defense forces finally acknowledged at midafternoon that a coup attempt had taken place, blaming a handful of officers led by macias
a statement from the defense forces' press office said macias, three majors and a captain were arrested and that the revolt was put down ``without bloodshed.''
but maj. edgardo lopez, head of the military press office, told reporters that ``eight or 10 officers'' were involved in the aborted coup. he did not explain the discrepancy
an hour after the shooting began, noriega appeared at the top of a stairway outside the headquarters building, dressed in civilian clothes and accompanied by members of his high command
to shouted questions from reporters about what had happened, the general replied: ``what has happened is that you are visiting us here today
asked about the shots, he replied: ``they were kisses.''
despite official evasions, word of the coup attempt spread and people poured into streets of the capital that were strangely devoid of riot police and soldiers
demonstrators erected flaming barricades of trash and debris across hundreds of streets, roughed up suspected government informers and broke into stores believed to be owned by noriega and his supporters
in the central business district, a mob of hundreds pushed a parked car through the plate-glass windows of a store they believed is owned by noriega, then set the vehicle ablaze
security guards fired on the crowd from the building's upper windows, but no one was injured. flames destroyed the store
by midday, unpaid workers at the state-owned utility joined strikes called earlier by teachers, health department and other government employees. the entire nation was left without electricity
noriega was indicted last month by two federal grand juries in florida on drug trafficking charges that link him to colombia's infamous medellin drug cartel. spain formally offered him asylum
banks remained closed by government order for the 12th straight day on wednesday. most had closed days earlier because of a run on deposits and the government's inability to provide them with cash to cover withdrawals
the bank run began feb. 26, when the noriega-dominated legislative assembly dismissed the nation's civilian, figurehead president, eric arturo delvalle. the day before, devalle had ordered noriega to resign
the united states has halted all military and economic aid to panama and withheld $6.5 million in panama canal fees due this week. patients</head>
terminally ill nursing home patients will be able to reject forced tube-feedings under a new state rule that takes effect july 1
florida's department of health and rehabilitative services filed an admininstrative rule change wednesday that will allow nursing homes to continue care for dying patients who reject tube-feedings. homes now have to discharge patients if they don't accept forced feedings
it's important because it gives more options and more freedoms to somebody dying in a nursing home,'' said connie cheren, director of the hrs licensing office. she said seven people who testified on the forced-feeding issue at a january public hearing all favored the change
there are at least 50,000 nursing home residents in florida
it's better because sometimes forced feeding is more harmful to the person than helpful,'' ms. cheren said. ``sometimes taking the food during the dying stages is more painful for the person because the body is shutting down at this time.''
hrs spokesman ray wise said the department filed the rule change early to give the legislature time to look at it. the change does not require the legislature's approval but it could block the new rule
if there will be a challenge to it, we want to give the legislature the benefit of time to address this in the regular session,'' wise said
here is a summary of wednesday's indictment in the iran-contra affair naming former national security adviser john m. poindexter, lt. col. oliver l. north, retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and businessman albert hakim

conspiracy _ all four men were charged with conspiring to defraud the united states by illegally funneling money and other support to the nicaraguan contras at a time when such covert aid to the rebel group was banned by a law known as the boland amendment
the four also were accused of conspiring to commit fraud by ``deceitfully exploiting'' the sale of arms to iran ``for their own purposes'' rather than the purpose of the sales, which the indictment said included the release of american hostages in lebanon

theft _ the defendants were charged with theft of government property by converting ``to their own use'' proceeds from the weapons sales. the indictment said the arms sales generated proceeds of some $30 million but that the u.s. government was paid only about $12.2 million

wire fraud _ the four were accused of carrying out the diversion scheme by using wire communications in interstate and foreign commerce

other charges _ poindexter was charged with two additional counts of obstructing congress and two counts of making false statements. north was named in nine additional counts involving obstructing congress, making false statements, obstructing justice and a presidential inquiry, destroying official documents and conspiring to defraud the internal revenue service. in addition, an additional charge of obstruction of justice was lodged against north in connection with the fbi's investigation of the installation of a security system outside his home. secord was charged with three additional counts of conspiring to pay illegal gratuities to north, including financial aid to educate north's children and money to pay for the security system for the north home. hakim was named in two additional counts of conspiring to pay illegal gratuities to north

penalties _ the harshest penalty is 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for theft of government property. most of the other conspiracy and fraud charges carry a maximum term of five years and a $250,000 fine. the illegal gratuity charges are punishable by two years in prison and $250,000 in fines. pvs, ``president reagan</note>
a republican senator predicted today that the senate would override president reagan's veto of a sweeping anti-discrimination bill and said the administration has only itself to blame
sen. john mccain, r-ariz., said the white house should have proposed a compromise while the civil rights restoration act was in the hearing process or on the floor _ not after both chambers had passed it by overwhelming margins
reagan offered a less sweeping alternative to the bill wednesday along with his veto
but mccain said its chances of success were ``very poor... it's very tough around here to switch your vote. it's very, very difficult to ask people to take new positions when this whole issue has been percolating for four years.''
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., said he was hoping for a vote on overriding the veto today. but he said he had been hearing reports that the opposition strategy involved ``a long debate.''
civil rights leaders called the veto one more entry in a dismal civil rights record and said congress will prevail as it has before in the last seven years
this administration is compiling the worst civil rights record of any administration in half a century,'' officials of the 200-group leadership conference on civil rights said in a statement wednesday
this will hurt mr. bush more than anybody else,'' said rep. augustus hawkins, d-calif., chairman of the house education and labor committee, referring to vice president george bush's presidential candidacy
both the senate and the house passed the civil rights restoration act by huge margins that were expected to hold up during override votes in the senate and the house, which is scheduled to take up the matter tuesday. a two-thirds majority is needed to override
president reagan may want to turn the clock back on civil rights, but the american people do not,'' said house speaker jim wright, d-texas
sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, said congress has repeatedly thwarted administration officials' attempts to change the nation's civil rights course
he accused justice department officials, including attorney general edwin meese iii, of ``distorting the meaning of the bill, pandering to the republican right and engaging in an unseemly effort to escalate their long-standing anti-civil rights vendetta.''
the restoration act is also known as the grove city bill for the pennsylvania college involved in the supreme court case that started the controversy
the 1984 decision said only specific programs or activities receiving federal aid must comply with the anti-discrimination statutes. that meant discrimination could continue in a school's athletic department, for example, if only the english department received federal money
the new bill would require institution-wide compliance with civil rights laws by educational institutions, state and local government agencies and many corporations if any part received federal aid. it applies to discrimination against women, minorities, the aged and the disabled
the house passed the grove city bill 315-98 on march 2. the senate passed it 75-14 on jan. 28
supporters of the bill said congress had always intended wide protections in order to make sure taxpayers don't end up subsidizing discrimination
but reagan said the bill would ``vastly and unjustifiably extend the power of the federal government over the decisions and affairs of private organizations, such as churches and synagogues, farms, businesses, and state and local governments.''
the moral majority mounted a last-minute effort to win enough support to block a veto override. the group said wednesday it had sent a letter and a 40-page legal memo to the district offices of all house members this week echoing reagan's views on the bill
in a message last week to tens of thousands of pastors, the moral majority said failure to obey ``this perverted law could result in lawsuits costing millions of dollars being brought against our churches by militant gays, feminists and others who have no respect for god's laws.''
the writers guild of america has refused to approve temporary contracts with independent movie and television producers, a move that will keep in reruns such programs as ``the tonight show.''
both coasts have voted against granting interim agreements,'' guild spokeswoman cheryl rhoden said wednesday after the union's east coast board of directors voted in agreement with the west coast board's monday night decision
about 80 independent production companies, including carson productions, had sought interim agreements to continue work despite the writers' strike against the alliance of motion picture and television producers
he'd like to work. he's certainly unhappy,'' said johnny carson spokesman jim mahoney after learning of the decision. ``he doesn't like to stand around. but he certainly understands.''
another official strike casualty is ``late night with david letterman,'' which had its first unscheduled rerun tuesday night after a week-long scheduled hiatus. production already has been postponed on two new mid-season shows for cbs, ``the smothers brothers show'' and ``the dictator.''
the guild previously rejected a request to exempt from the strike the april 11 academy awards show
the 9,000-member guild went on strike against producers and studios march 7 over residuals from foreign distribution, creative control and a management proposal to restructure residuals for one-hour television shows sold into syndication. no new talks are scheduled
the continuation of the strike also is likely to shorten the season of some top television series, including nbc's ``l.a. law,'' ``the cosby show''' and ``cheers,'' and abc's ``moonlighting.''
the hollywood reporter said delays could affect some planned cliffhanger endings designed to draw viewers back for new-season debuts
moonlighting'' star cybill shepherd told the paper the show had no material beyond wednesday, and ``l.a. law'' star richard dysart reportedly said the last two shows of the season may have to be canceled
armenians stayed away from work and school for a second day today in a disputed region of azerbaijan, an armenian official said
an official radio report said the mayor was fired in in the azerbaijani city of sumgait, where government officials said 32 people were killed in ethnic rioting last month
the actions stem from a dispute over whether the nagorno-karabakh region of azerbaijan should be annexed to neighboring armenia. the region, north of iran and east of turkey, has a large armenian population
armenians touched off a wave of unrest to press that demand on feb. 13 in nagorno-karabakh's main city, stepanakert. protests spread to armenia's capital, yerevan, and led to violence in at least two cities in azerbaijan
gamlet kocharyan, an industrial worker and member of the governing council of the armenian city of kafar, said workers struck for a second day in stepanakert to demand annexation to armenia. factories and schools were closed because of the strike, and 40,000 people demonstrated outside communist party offices, he said
kocharyan said he received the information from armenian activists in stepanakert. he spoke in a telephone interview
the report could not be confirmed because the government has barred western journalists from traveling to the region, and telephone calls to officials of the area were cut off
the official media in moscow did not report the strike, and representatives of the azerbaijani government in moscow said they had no information about the matter
baku radio, the mouthpiece of the government in the azerbaijani capital, reported that the mayor of sumgait had been fired by the ruling council
the station, monitored by the british broadcasting corp. in london, said tavakkula yagub ogly mamedov was relieved of his duties for ``serious shortcomings in the work of maintaining appropriate law and order and discipline in the city, and for the lack of political foresight he has shown which has resulted in tragic consequences.''
government spokesmen have said 32 people were killed in rioting in sumgait on feb. 28 by ``young hooligans'' provoked by ethnic unrest elsewhere. armenian activists say the victims were armenians killed by ethnic azeris, the dominant group in azerbaijan that is mostly shiite moslem. armenians are predominantly christian
the regional party committee of nagorno-karabakh scheduled a meeting thursday at which the annexation demand was expected to be discussed, kocharyan said
the premiere of a film featuring john hurt, sarah miles and geraldine chaplin is among highlights of north america's oldest film festival, which opens here today
white mischief'' from columbia pictures is a murder mystery set against a backdrop of the british aristocracy in kenya's happy valley during the 1940s. the movie, based on the book by james fox and directed by michael radford, also stars charles dance, greta scacchi and the late trevor howard
the 31st san francisco international film festival will continue through march 27th, offering 86 feature films, from argentina, india, greece, egypt, the soviet union, china, denmark, australia and 24 other countries
french filmmaker robert bresson has been named winner of the 1988 akira kurosawa lifetime achievement award and a series of his films will be shown, including the american premiere of the comic short, ``les affaires publiques'' (1936). the film, bresson's first, was believed lost for nearly half a century
here are the latest statistics on acquired immune deficiency syndrome in the united states, as reported this week by the national centers for disease control:
total cases reported since june 1981: 56,212
cases, year to date: 5,861
total deaths: 31,420, or 56 percent of all cases
homosexual or bisexual males: 35,577, or 63 percent
intravenous drug abusers: 9,767, or 17 percent
homosexual male and drug abusers: 4,114, or 7 percent
heterosexual cases: 2,233, or 4 percent
transfusion or blood cases: 1,466 or 3 percent
hemophilia patients: 614, or 1 percent
undetermined transmission cause: 1,718, or 3 percent
childhood cases (under age 13): 897, or 2 percent
cases among whites: 33,604, or 60 percent
cases among blacks: 14,384, or 26 percent
cases among hispanics: 7,716, or 14 percent
cases among other: 508, or 1 percent

these statistics are through march 14 and have been rounded by the cdc to the nearest whole percent. cumulative totals are for aids cases reported since june 1981, and include 75 cases subsequently found to have occurred prior to that date. the ``other'' classsification under age and race includes asians, american indians and native alaskans
china agreed today not to block rescue ships from three vietnamese freighters it allegedly set ablaze, and vietnam proposed talks to resolve the clash near disputed islands in the south china sea, official media said
the vietnam news agency said beijing's ambassador to vietnam, li shuching, gave the assurance in a meeting in hanoi with vietnam's first deputy foreign minister, dinh nho liem
the chinese side has agreed not to let its warships prevent vietnamese rescue vessels from rescuing vietnamese sailors on board the freighters, which were set ablaze at the sinh ton group of islands of vietnam,'' said the report monitored in bangkok
vietnam had charged that the warships had intercepted two unarmed vietnamese vessels flying red cross banners
the freighters were allegedly attacked monday in the spratly islands, which vietnam calls the truong sa archipelago and china calls the nansha islands. both nations claim the islands
a vietnamese agency report wednesday said some vietnamese sailors were wounded in monday's clash and that 76 crewmen remained aboard the freighters, which continued burning after the attack. vietnam's ambassador to thailand, le mai, told a press conference in bangkok today that some vietnamese were killed
the chinese foreign ministry on wednesday said some chinese were wounded
the voice of vietnam radio, monitored in bangkok, said the proposal for talks came in a letter from vietnam's foreign ministry to its chinese counterpart. liem delivered the letter to li, it said
the vietnamese side ... advocates talks to solve disputes between the two countries concerning the truong sa archipelago as well as their common border, and the hoang sa archipelago,'' the letter said
the hoang sa, called the xisha by china and also known as the paracels, is the second major island group in the south china sea over which both countries claim sovereignty. vietnam and china also share a long, tense land border where they fought a war in early 1979
china was a major supporter of the vietnamese communists during the wars against the french and americans, but relations have been poor since the late 1970s, particularly after vietnam ousted a pro-chinese government in cambodia. adds quote from sinn fein. picks up 8th graf pvs, `during the ...</note>
mourners wearing shamrocks and green armbands today streamed through the streets of belfast in a funeral procession for a slain ira guerrilla
the irish republican army appealed for calm during the funeral for 33-year kevin mccracken, who was buried a day after gunmen killed three people and wounded 68 at another ira funeral
mccracken was shot to death monday by a british army patrol that he fired upon
mourners followed the coffin through west belfast to the roman catholic milltown cemetery, the scene of wednesday's attack by protestant gunmen
ira gunmen, in their traditional salute to their movement's dead, fired three volleys of gunfire in a side street near mccracken's home. they lined up on a sidewalk next to a photograph of mccracken, which was surrounded by wreaths
britain attacked us yesterday. ... let britain take a lesson from our presence here today: you can never defeat us,'' jim mcallister, a leading member of the ira's political wing, sinn fein, said at the graveside
the funeral passed quietly. the outlawed ira had advised police earlier to stay away, and they did
during the night, rioters enraged by wednesday's cemetery attack firebombed five houses in protestant north belfast and burned buses. one woman was treated for smoke inhalation, but there were no other injuries reported
the attack occurred during a funeral for three ira guerrillas who were shot by british commandos in gibraltar on march 6. they were unarmed and allegedly planning a bombing attack
police said they were holding a protestant, michael stone, who allegedly mounted the cemetery attack, and an accomplice. police gave no other details on the two, who can be held without charge for seven days
police kept out of sight as more than 1,000 mourners followed mccracken's coffin, draped with the irish flag, from his family's two-story rowhouse to the nearby holy trinity church for a mass
stewards from sinn fein removed mccracken's black beret and gloves from the coffin before it entered the church
black flags adorned the windows of homes along the route of the slow procession, headed by a piper playing a lament
relative calm returned to this british-ruled province in time for mccracken's funeral
overnight, police said catholic gangs stole 24 vehicles in belfast and two in londonderry, setting many of them ablaze. they said rioters bombarded security forces with gasoline bombs, rocks and bottles filled with acid
in belfast, police fired plastic bullets to disperse the rioters
there were no injuries reported
mainstream protestant organizations disavowed the cemetery attack. the rev. ian paisley, hard-line leader of the protestant democratic unionist party, said wednesday that all ``right-thinking protestants'' would condemn it
the british broadcasting corp. said an anonymous caller telephoned its belfast office and claimed responsibility for the attack on behalf of a little-known extremist faction, the protestant action force. the bbc said the caller gave no code word establishing authenticity
the group has claimed responsibility for previous sectarian assassinations
belfast city councilman brian feeney of the moderate catholic social democratic and labor party predicted in a bbc radio interview today that the funeral attack could trigger fierce new sectarian strife in the province
it was a dreadful provocation for the (irish) nationalist community. ... people who support the ira will be asking that there should be some retaliation,'' he said
authorities said 16 of the 68 people injured in the funeral attack remained hospitalized today. one was in critical condition with severe head injuries and four others were seriously wounded
the british government called the attack ``insane and depraved'' and appealed for calm. so did sinn fein
the gunman could have been emboldened by the deliberate absence of police at the funerals of mairead farrell, 31, daniel mccann, 30, and sean savage, 24
the royal ulster constabulary, the province's police force, said it had agreed to appeals by the families to keep away after the catholic church assured it there would be no graveside military displays by the ira
the mainly catholic ira is fighting to drive the british from northern ireland and unite the province with the maily catholic irish republic
armed with $1 million for a statewide media campaign and a beefed-up staff manning banks of toll-free telephone lines, the state will begin reuniting people with money left in dormant bank accounts
the final legal hurdle in a $47 million bank of america settlement was cleared wednesday when superior court judge a. richard backus approved an agreement worked out with the state controller's office
backus effectively ended the 13-year fight over bank of america accounts improperly charged, and in some cases totally wiped out, by service fees levied on dormant savings accounts. he ordered that nearly $1 million be used for controller office staffing increases to handle the added work load
controller gray davis must now try and find what may be millions of people whose inactive accounts were turned over to him under the state's unclaimed property law and return the money to them or their heirs
this is the biggest reunification project that we have ever undertaken and probably the biggest one in the united states,'' said d. robert shuman, chief counsel to davis
in 1975, then-state controller ken cory sued bank of america and other banks, contending they had no legal right to levy service charges on dormant accounts or to fail to credit the accounts with interest
levying service charges on inactive accounts has been outlawed since 1976 unless financial institutions give customers advance warning
under the 1959 unclaimed property law, financial institutions must search for customers whose accounts have been dormant for seven years. if they cannot locate them, the contents are turned over to the controller, who also must make a search
backus ordered the controller's office to mount an aggressive ``outreach'' effort, including the hiring of the los angeles public relations firm of rogers and associates to publicize the pay-back operation
to get the word out to bank customers, the controller's office will buy television advertising and announce the program in radio and television public service spots, shuman said. free trip</head>
passengers of the fire-crippled cruise ship scandinavian star, under tow to port in cancun today, will receive refunds and tickets for another mexican cruise, a company spokeswoman said
the 465-foot ship, built in france in 1971 as a ferry and converted to a cruise liner in 1984, was disabled by an engine fire early wednesday about 35 miles off isla mujeres in the yucatan peninsula. it was under tow today by a mexican naval destroyer, escorted by a u.s. coast guard cutter
capt. garcia silva, commander of the mexican naval base at isla mujeres, said the fire apparently was sparked by a broken fuel line
none of the ship's 449 passengers or 266 crew members was injured by the fire, although two passengers were flown to a hospital in st. petersburg
a 71-year-old florida resident was admitted in stable condition overnight for observation. a florida man was treated for a back injury and released
jill dechello of miami-based seaescape ltd., which runs the star, said the passengers would be reimbursed their $179 to $499 fares, and get a free cruise. when the ship reaches cancun, passengers will be flown on chartered planes to st. petersburg, the star's port, she said
it was unclear when the star might resume operations because damage couldn't immediatley be assessed, ms. dechello said
the co-pilot of a commuter aircraft that crashed near durango in january, killing nine people, had a history of alcohol abuse dating back to 1972, according to court records
ralph darrell harvey, who was killed in the crash, had been convicted twice of drunken-driving offenses, according to arapahoe county criminal files
harvey, 42, was considered a problem drinker and had been ordered to attend two alcohol education and therapy programs, said john toplenicky, chief deputy arapahoe district attorney
the continental express plane crashed jan. 19 near durango, 350 miles southwest of denver, killing both pilots and seven passengers. eight passengers survived
the backgrounds of the pilots have been under scrutiny since the national transportation safety board disclosed finding traces of cocaine in the body of the pilot, stephen s. silver, 36, last week
authorities said silver had used cocaine within 24 hours of the crash. but the ntsb does not know which pilot was flying the plane or why it crashed
faa documents obtained wednesday also showed silver did not report convictions of eight traffic infractions he had in the four years before the crash. federal law requires such disclosure. the traffic violations would not necessarily result in faa sanctions, but failure to disclose them could result in revocation of a pilot's license, officials said
harvey had reported at least one drunk driving conviction to the faa
tom byrne, an attorney representing trans-colorado airlines, declined comment on harvey's record
trans-colorado, based in colorado springs, employed the crew and leased the plane to rocky mountain airways, a continental subsidiary that flies under the name of continental express
byrne said he did not know if the airlines knew of the pilot's background when harvey was hired a few months before the crash. that she was granted immunity.</note>
lt. col. oliver north's former secretary, fawn hall, said charges against the marine and others in the iran-contra scandal are no surprise, as she defended him in a speech to a university audience
ms. hall conceded mistakes were made in the sale of arms to iran and distribution of some of the proceeds to the contras in nicaragua, but she added wednesday, ``you have to look at the intention. i think lieutenant colonel oliver north's intentions were good.''
the federal grand jury indictment ``was something that we have expected for some time,'' she told about 300 people at the university of puget sound. the mostly supportive crowd listened over the chants of 30 to 40 protesters outside carrying signs with messages such as ``fawn go home.''
ms. hall was granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for her testimony before the grand jury investigating the case
the issue ``is still quite emotional for me, especially today,'' she said. ``there are a lot of questions that i won't be able to answer tonight because there is a pending investigation going on.''
when a woman in the audience asked whether ms. hall believed two wrongs made a right, ms. hall raised her voice and replied, ``that's not what i said.''
she blamed the news media and congress for what she said were distortions, including ``sexual innuendoes repeated by our members of congress'' on her role in removing documents from her office
the iran-contra hearings were a circus,'' she said. the hearings could be considered a ``cleansing process to see where the policy went wrong, but there were many members (of congress) who wanted this to be another watergate and get their names in history.''
a group of 10 journalists was hurriedly assembled late wednesday night to accompany american soldiers ordered to honduras by president reagan, the pentagon said today
the group of reporters, activated under what is known as the department of defense national media pool, departed andrews air force base, md., outside washington at 3:45 a.m. est, the pentagon said
the reporters were then flown to fort bragg, n.c., the home of the 82nd airborne, and joined the first battalion from that division to depart for honduras at 7 a.m., the pentagon added in a statement
the pool deployment began at 11 p.m. last night with the notification of the bureau chiefs, and initial pool reports are expected to arrive at the pentagon later today,'' the statement said
president reagan ordered four army battalions to honduras on a ``no-notice'' emergency readiness exercise wednesday night in what the white house called a ``measured response'' to the presence of nicaraguan troops inside honduras
pentagon sources have said the nicaraguans crossed the honduras border in an attempt to destroy some large contra guerrilla supply camps. fighting was said to be continuing this morning
according to the white house, the u.s. troops will not be committed to combat, but rather will conduct some routine exercises while underscoring the american commitment to the region and deterring further nicaraguan attacks
the national media pool was created in the wake of the 1983 invasion of grenada, from which all american reporters were excluded by the defense department. the pentagon and press ultimately agreed to set up procedures whereby a small group of reporters could be scrambled, in secret, to accompany u.s. military units as they deployed in the future
before today, the media pool had been called out for six test exercises and one operational deployment. the deployment involved coverage of the first u.s. navy convoy operation in the persian gulf last july
while the sending of troops to honduras was not conducted under military secrecy, the pentagon said the national media pool was activated because it offered ``an excellent mechanism to provide coverage of this type of (short-notice) exercise.''
the pool concept has been employed seven times and has proven to be effective,'' the pentagon added in its statement
the pentagon identified the 10 individuals assembled for the pool as steven komarow of the associated press; douglas allmond, abc; karl inderfurth, abc; philip mishoe, abc; durrell kreisher, copley news service; jay sapir, upi; joseph marquette, upi; frederick kempe, wall street journal; robert cohn, newsweek, and colleen combes, reuters
pope john paul ii will visit five countries in southern africa as a messenger of peace and brotherhood, a vatican representative said today
the pope will not visit south africa, but will make brief stops in zimbabwe, botswana, lesotho, swaziland and mozambique from sept. 10 to 19
southern africa is ``an area of war, of violence and a place where, very often, the dignity of man and his rights are trod upon,'' said the announcement by the apostolic delegation in pretoria
the pope is scheduled to beatify a french priest during a mass at the race course in the lesotho capital, maseru, on sept. 15
the priest, the rev. joseph gerard, spent more than 50 years traveling by horseback to visit the shepherds and farmers in 19th century basutoland (now lesotho) and in the south african province of natal. in 1928, 14 years after his death, local people attributed a miracle to gerard _ the restoration of a blind girl's eyesight
the pope begins his trip in zimbabwe on sept. 10, where he will attend a regional meeting of roman catholic bishops
on sept. 13, he makes a one-day trip to botswana. he will meet with priests in the gaborone cathedral and celeberate mass in the national stadium
john paul will go to swaziland on sept. 16 and arrive in mozambique that evening. he will return to rome on sept. 19
house speaker jim wright today called a reagan administration decision to send troops to honduras unjustified, as lawmakers expressed skepticism about whether a reported nicaraguan military incursion is as large or as threatening as the white house claims
i know nothing that justifies sending troops,'' wright said, adding that the move was ``potentially dangerous.'' he said he hoped the troops would be kept well away from any fighting
sen. alan dixon, d-ill., emerging from a classified briefing on the situation, said lawmakers were assured that ``we're not going to be involved down there. that's the pledge given me.'' he said ``there had clearly been a penetration into honduras'' by sandinista troops who were not in hot pursuit of contras, but he said he opposed the sending of more u.s. troops to the area
senate majority leader robert byrd called president reagan's decision to send 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras an ``overreaction,'' and a number of other legislators said they were still waiting for hard evidence from the white house to back up its claims
we've heard the administration cry, `wolf, wolf,' before,'' byrd, d-w.va., told reporters. ``i don't know when they're crying wolf.'' byrd said that even by mid-morning today, he had neither been briefed nor contacted by the administration about the troop movement
i hope it does not prove to be counterproductive (and) does not derail the peace process,'' byrd said
rep. edward markey, d-mass., said: ``the white house has been playing politics with american aid, they have been playing politics with the contras, and now they are playing politics with american boys.''
sen. john mccain, r-ariz., generally a supporter of the administration's central america policies, said he was skeptical about the need for sending troops
he said the sandinista incursion into honduras represented ``a cynical abandonment of the peace process,'' but added that it does not pose any serious threat to the united states, and therefore did not clearly call for the sending of military forces
i think it's a move the president may come to regret because the spectacle of american troops moving into central america in convoy, flying down there, i think is going to remind the american people of why they don't want this,'' said sen. john kerry, d-mass., interviewed on nbc television
sen. richard lugar, r-ind., a member of the senate foreign relations committee, said the incident highlighted the need for new aid for the rebels, which has been twice rejected by congress this year. he said only renewed aid will keep a regional peace process going
the ... plan only works if the contras have some assistance and therefore there is some reason for the sandinistas to deal with them,'' lugar said in an interview on abc. ``i think it's very important that things get back to the table and i hope our policies will lead to that.''
house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif, said: ``i think you have to ask the question of whether 1,200 nicaraguans going across the honduran border is a threat to u.s. national security,'' as secretary of state george p. shultz had argued in a briefing wednesday for congressional leaders
in announcing reagan's decision late wednesday night, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said thousands of sandinista troops had entered honduras and the honduran government had appealed for help. he said that for the time being, the u.s. troops would remain about 125 miles from the area of hostilities
some lawmakers noted that reagan is making a renewed push for contra aid and recalled a similar situation two years ago, when nicaraguan troops went into border areas of honduras two days after a house vote against aid to the contras and just before a senate vote
they have cried wolf so many times ... even supporters of contra aid are somewhat skeptical,'' said sen. patrick leahy, d-vt. ``it is apparently a major raid on a contra camp in the jungles. now, that does not pose a threat to honduras or its capital.''
in the 1986 episode, president reagan claimed that 1,500 troops had gone across the border and used his emergency power to give honduras $20 million in military aid. other u.s. officials later put the number of troops at closer to 800, and it appeared that honduras had to be pressed to accept the ``emergency'' aid
this is not the first time the president has made use of his military authority after he lost a vote on the contras,'' rep. edward j. markey, d-mass., said wednesday night. ``president reagan's decision to send the 82nd airborne to honduras has more to do with politics than with american security.''
but assistant secretary of state elliott abrams, appearing on abc-tv's ``nightline'' program, held to the administration position that the sandinistas were trying to deliver a ``death blow'' to the contras, who use honduras as a haven. he said the administration would document the seriousness of the sandinista threat in material submitted to congress today
some republicans needed no convincing. rep. jack fields, r-texas, said, ``i don't think the president really had an alternative'' to sending in u.s. forces
the purpose is for them to demonstrate our commitment to regional peace and stability,'' fields said
but byrd said the administration was going too far
it's an overreaction,'' he said. ``the sandinistas have crossed over the border before and gone back.''
and jason isaacson, a spokesman for sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., said the senator saw the administration action as an effort ``to divert attention from the iran-contra indictments and to turn up the heat on congress for more aid to the contras.''
congressional leaders briefed wednesday by top administration officials on the cross-border fighting had said the white house offered no proof that u.s. interests were threatened or that the contras were on the verge of being wiped out
the officials _ shultz, white house chief of staff howard baker and national security adviser colin powell _ told of a 1,500-man incursion targeted at contra supply sources and the kidnapping of rebel leaders, participants in the meeting said
but the troops had destroyed no major supply sites and captured no top contra commanders, the administration conceded
i suspect this is a little more orchestrated hype on the part of the administration,'' dodd said after the meeting
house speaker jim wright said he was told by nicaraguan foreign minister miguel d'escoto that president daniel ortega had asked the united nations to send an observer group to the border area to insure that neither side breaches the border. populations of japan, united states. a version also moved on the financial wire</note>
japan's economy grew by 4.2 percent and its per capita gross national product overtook the united states' last year, the economic planning agency reported today
the agency said japan's per capita gnp _ the output of goods and services for each member of the population _ reached $19,642, compared with $18,403 in the united states. this was attributed mainly to the yen's rise against the u.s. dollar
in 1986, when calculations were based on a dollar trading at 168.51 yen, the u.s. figure was $17,464 and japan's was $16,330. in 1987, the calculations were based on a dollar for 144.62 yen. the dollar currently is trading at about 127 yen
japan had about 122 million people as of the middle of last year, half of the united states' 244 million. but its economic output is more than half that of the united states
the gnp growth of 4.2 percent in the calendar year 1987 compared with 2.4 percent the previous year, helped by gains in housing and industrial equipment investment
the economic planning agency said japan's gnp grew by an inflation-adjusted 1.7 percent in the october-december quarter from the july-september quarter, and the government's target of 3.7 percent growth for fiscal 1987, which ends march 31, was in reach
the original target was 3.5 percent, but it was revised upward in december based on signs of an encouraging recovery in the manufacturing sector. manufacturing earlier had been slumping because of the yen's rise, which makes japanese products more expensive and less competitive abroad. honduras, first troops leaving travis afb; picks up 6th graf, `the white...'</note>
troops in combat gear kissed their wives and girlfriends goodbye today as the united states sent 3,200 soldiers to honduras in what the white house said was a ``measured response'' to nicaragua's incursion into that central american nation
about 1,500 soldiers, or two battalions of the 7th light infantry division at fort ord, calif., will join two battalions from the 82nd airborne division at fort bragg, n.c., and support units, the white house said wednesday
the first of 26 c-141 transport planes left pope air force base in fayetteville, n.c., at 7:30 a.m. est, carrying troops to palmerola air base in honduras. the planes would leave 30 minutes apart, said lt. gen. john w. foss
the first planeload of troops arrived at palmerola at 11:15 a.m. est, according to local radio stations transmitting from there
the soldiers are well-trained and prepared for this mission,'' said foss, commander of the 18th airborne corps at fort bragg. ``they're excited but i would not say they are nervous. ''
dozens of trucks carried troops and supplies from ford ord to travis air force base. the first c-141 from travis lifted off at 11:29 a.m., loaded with two busloads of troops and pallets of supplies. ``i expect it to go on all day,'' said air force maj. wayne crist
several wives were told by their husbands that the battalions would be flown to florida, then to honduras. travis officials said they could not confirm that arrangement
the white house on wednesday ordered troops to honduras in ``an emergency deployment readiness exercise'' triggered by what it called the invasion of honduras by 1,500 to 2,000 nicaraguan forces pursuing contra rebels
military intelligence sources in honduras said late wednesday that about 2,000 sandinista troops were surrounded three miles inside honduras. nicaraguan president daniel ortega said troops had chased contra rebels into honduran territory, but would not say whether the soldiers had crossed the border
all 11,400 members of fort ord's rapid deployment force were engaged in a deployment readiness exercise when word came that two battalions, between 1,100 and 1,200 soldiers, would go to honduras, officials said
at fort bragg, soldiers kissed their wives goodbye at marshaling points on the sprawling base
it was really exciting,'' pfc. eugene rice, 21, told the charlotte (n.c.) observer. ``it was like, something's really going to happen. we're finally going to get a chance to use our training.''
another soldier told the news and observer of raleigh, ``they told us to get our stuff together. they're rigging trucks that they've never rigged before. people don't know what to think. they don't know whether we're going to war or just doing a little peace-keeping. they're on ends right now.''
if we're going to do it, let's do it,'' sgt. john jones of atlanta said as he waited to board a plane
lt. jim cooper was in a class when he got his orders, so he didn't get a chance to say good-bye to his wife. ``we are not allowed to do that,'' he said. ``but she understands.''
as he spoke, cooper put camouflage paint on the face of lt. steve swinley
it's like a job,'' swinley explained. ``we train to do our job.''
the men said morale was soaring
it's the best i've ever seen,'' said cooper. ``we're 100 percent ready.''
the rapid deployment force is trained to respond quickly to assignments around the world. the daylong exercise involved recalling troops to the base to check of weapons, vehicles and other equipment, spokesman paul boyce said
there are 21,000 soldiers at fort ord, 80 miles south of san francisco
we're just hoping and praying nothing serious comes from this,'' said karen brylewski, a civilian base worker, who said her husband told her that his unit was scheduled to fly to florida from travis this morning
fort bragg is home to the paratroopers of the 82nd airborne and the green berets and has sent troops to trouble spots around the world, including grenada during the the october 1983 u.s. invasion and to sinai for peacekeeping
eight hundred paratroopers will be dropped about five miles from the honduran base, said maj. gen. carl stiner, commander of the 82nd airborne. they will land in ``an area that's been cleared for drops. once they land, they will move to palmerola air force base. they then will establish liaison with the honduran military and begin conducting combined training exercises.''
lt. col david kiernan, a base spokesman, said the troops were joining joint task force bravo, which includes about 1,200 soldiers from fort bragg and other units already in honduras
kiernan called the action an ``off-post training exercise'' and said that troops would not take part in hostilities
the army also loaded a c-5 transport plane with equipment, including three light observation helicopters, four cobra gunship helicopters, one blackhawk uh-60 helicopter, a command vehicle and ammunition, stiner said
he said a battalion rigged for combat would remain at pope on alert status
in durham, n.c., about 50 people attended a candlelight vigil wednesday night to protest the deployment of troops, said mandy carter, director of the war resisters league, which sponsored the vigil with witness for peace
the pentagon said thursday it had assigned the code name ``golden pheasant'' to the deployment of troops to honduras and that the roughly 3,200 soldiers were carrying their normal weapons along with nine helicopters and two light tanks
the defense department, in a brief statement, said 55 air force cargo planes would be used to fly two battalions from the 82nd airborne division and two from the 7th light infantry division to honduras
the 82nd airborne units are staging out of pope air force base, n.c., while the 7th light infantry units are staging out of travis air force base, calif., the pentagon said
the pentagon said the four battalions would be assembled into an infantry brigade task force under the command of army brig. gen. daniel r. schroeder, the chief of staff of the xviii airborne corps at fort bragg
the battalions will conduct field exercises with honduran units after arriving today and friday, the pentagon said. the battalions are carrying three oh-58 observation helicopters; four ah-1 cobra attack helicopters; 1 uh-60 utility transport copter, and 2 m-551 sheridan light tanks, the pentagon added
the pentagon identified the individual units involved in the deployment as:
_headquarters and headquarters co., 1st brigade, 82nd airborne
_task force 1-504 infantry, 82nd airborne
_task force 2-504 infantry, 82nd airborne
_two batteries, 3rd battalion, 319th field artillery, 82nd airborne
_element from 1st squadron, 17th cavalry, 82nd airborne
_task force 2-27 infantry, 7th light infantry
_task force 3-27 infantry, 7th light infantry
_battery b, 6th battalion, 8th field artillery, 7th light infantry
a bus traveling a winding mountain road through heavy rain and fog plunged into a river on thursday, killing 27 people and injuring four, the sao paulo state highway department said
the bus was carrying at least 31 people when it fell into the shallow, muddy casqueiro river in southeastern brazil near the port city of santos, about 45 miles from sao paulo, said nilton de carvalho, the department's operations director
he said 27 bodies were recovered, and 19 were identified. of the four survivors, two were hospitalized in critical condition, carvalho said
buses that cover the sao paulo-santos route normally pick up other passengers along the way, so there may be more dead
carvalho said the bus was on the river bed ``with its wheels sticking out of the water.''
the cause of the accident was unknwon
kathleen noonan, who preserved the manuscript of her irish father's working-class novel, ``the ragged trousered philanthropists,'' has died at the age of 95
robert noonan's novel, written under the pseudonym robert tressell, describes life among his fellow house painters and decorators in the english south coast town of hastings, which he called mugsborough
it was first issued in 1914 after his daughter, a nurse, produced the manuscript from a tin box to show her employer and was introduced to publisher grant richards
ms. noonan, who died saturday in a nursing home in bristol, kept her maiden name after separating from her husband in canada in 1918, said her father's biographer, frederick c. ball
tressell died of tuberculosis in 1911 in liverpool while waiting to emigrate to the united states. he was buried in a pauper's grave
the first edition of his book contained about 60 percent of the original manuscript and a full version only appeared in 1955, after ball bought the manuscript
the book is revered among building workers for its portrayal of their life in edwardian england and is slowly becoming recognized as a masterpiece by literary historians,'' ball said
a two-toned 10-franc coin, a first in france, will go into circulation in the coming days and eventually replace the heavy coin now in use, the government announced thursday
finance minister edouard balladur also introduced a new symbol for the french franc, a capital ``f'' slashed with two bars, to be adopted in september
the new coin with a nickel center encircled by a copper alloy bears an engraving of the winged spirit of the bastille that tops an obelisk in the place de la bastille, commemorating next year's bicentennial of the french revolution. the reverse side is inscribed with the coin's value
the coin is the second 10-franc piece to be issued in two years. a small 10-franc coin distributed in 1986 was recalled because it too closely resembled the 50-centime piece, leading to confusion
ten francs currently is worth about $1.78
the new french franc symbol replaces the ``f'' currently used as shorthand for the franc. the two slashes across the capital ``f'' mean the symbol stands for franc and french, balladur said
four ex-guerrillas who fought for joshua nkomo's army in the independence war went on trial thursday on charges of plotting to overthrow president robert mugabe
tafara ncube, derby arab nyathi, lenin nyathi and judia ncube pleaded innocent to four charges under the law and order act. if found guilty, they could be sentenced to death
the state alleges the men, guerrillas in nkomo's zimbabwe african people's revolutionary army in the seven-year war that led to independence, were armed by south african agents to carry out terrorist acts and plotting the overthrow of mugabe's government. apparently ruling</note>
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir ended his talks here today after offering to go to moscow this spring to launch negotiations with the arabs as a way of breaking a deadlock over an international mideast
peace conference
but secretary of state george p. shultz, testifying in congress after a final session with shamir, said ``the arab parties require a conference to launch negotiations.''
therefore, shultz told the senate budget committee, ``there will be no negotiations without a properly structured conference.''
shamir, who had a one-hour breakfast session with shultz to wind up a four-day visit, flatly rejected a u.s. proposal for a full-scale mideast conference
it ``is not conducive to peace,'' he said wednesday after meeting for two hours with president reagan at the white house
shamir suggested direct arab-israeli negotiations be hold under u.s. and soviet auspices, but without a substantive role for moscow
shultz told the committee the united states has always been willing to consider any approach that could lead to direct negotiations
in fact, he said, ``the united states opposes, and will not participate in, an international conference designed to replace bilaterial negotiations.''
shultz said the u.s. proposal is designed to prevent interference by the hosts in the arab-israel talks
this is a time for decision,'' he said. ``the situation on the ground does not serve anyone's interests. rapid, positive change can occur.''
reagan on wednesday cautioned that ``those who will say no to the u.s. plan _ and the prime minister has not used this word _ need not answer to us. they'll need to answer to themselves and their people as to why they turned down a realistic and sensible plan to achieve negotiations.''
apparently ruling out any compromise, reagan said ``the united states will not slice this initiative apart and will not abandon it.''
shamir, however, reaffirmed his willingness to hold direct negotiations with jordan and palestinians under u.s. and soviet auspices
he said later at a news conference that reagan and soviet general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev, who will meet in moscow in the spring, could invite israel and the arabs to an ``international ceremony'' and then step aside, allowing them to hold direct negotiations
if there would be such a proposal, i am ready,'' shamir said. ``it would be useful.''
the prime minister said he would attend even if the soviets did not repair a 21-year break in diplomatic relations with israel. ``it has nothing to do with it,'' he said
such an international ceremony will give king hussein and other parties a clear international legitimacy for direct negotiations,'' shamir said
the idea of having the united states and the soviets convene the negotiations, but not participate in them, was broached to shamir in jerusalem last october by secretary of state george p. shultz
shamir accepted, but king hussein of jordan rejected the proposal. he called for an international conference held by the five permament members of the u.n. security council _ the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france
despite his own reservations, shultz included an international conference in the plan for negotiations he presented two weeks ago to israel, jordan and syria. it would be convened next month and set the stage for negotiations starting may 1
according to a senior u.s. official, reagan's meeting with shamir focused almost exclusively on the issue
the official, who briefed under rules of anonymity, said the two did not review israel's concerns about the u.s. proposal that it cede at least part of the west bank and gaza in exchange for arab recognition
shamir will report to the israeli cabinet on sunday on his talks here. until then, the prime minister refused to either accept or reject the u.s. proposal
whatever the outcome, shamir said, israel intends to work with the united states in behalf of peace in the middle east
sometimes there are differences between best friends,'' shamir said. ``and we regard the americans as our best friends. now we have such a situation we have some differences with them. we will try to overcome these differences.''
vice president george bush, hosting a dinner for shamir on wednesday night at the state department, assured him ``no wedge will be driven between the united states and israel.''
toasting shamir, the vice president said: ``we are like brothers; our two countries, friends and allies forever.''
shamir, in reply, said israel was proud of its record as the most consistent supporter of the united states in the united nations and of sharing military technology with washington. he said the u.s.-israeli relationship ``is stronger than ever.''
a 3-week-old boy was found hacked to death with a butcher's cleaver in his home on thursday, and italian news agencies reported the mother confessed the crime to police
neighbors said the woman, elettra mazza, suffered from a nervous condition that was aggravated by a difficult pregnancy, the news agency agi said
agi and the ansa news agency said after two hours of questioning, mrs. mazza confessed to killing her son, daniele
president reagan has not discussed pardoning his former aides indicted in the iran-contra affair, his spokesman said today
there's been no discussion of pardons,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said. ``we don't discuss pardons. period.''
fitzwater was asked about such an action in light of wednesday's indictments of reagan's former national security adviser john poindexter lt. col. oliver north, and two arms dealers on charges in the diversion of iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
the president has never criticized his aides for lying to congress, shredding documents or participating in a cover-up. and while he has steadfastly refused to discuss the possibility of pardons, he has been equally careful not to rule them out
but several presidential and constitutional scholars said that if he decides to pardon any of the iran-contra defendants, reagan probably will wait until after the november election to prevent the issue from hurting republican candidates
reagan is well aware of the example of his republican predecessor, gerald ford, whose watergate pardon of richard nixon on sept. 8, 1974, sent ford's popularity ratings tumbling and helped put a democrat into the white house in the next election
in the case at hand, reagan has made it clear _ particularly in his description of north as an ``american hero'' _ that he is giving the former national security council aide the benefit of the doubt
after congress completed its iran-contra investigation, reagan went on national television to say he thought north and poindexter ``believed they were doing what i would've wanted done.''
and when he was questioned at one point about the law barring direct or indirect military aid to the contras, reagan responded: ``i don't think that the law was broken.''
if reagan chooses to grant pardons to anyone connected with the affair, he would not even have to list a specific crime that is being pardoned
such sweeping power amounts to a legal grant of absolution, enshrined in the constitution. the founding fathers borrowed the concept from english common law
the constitution allows a president virtually unlimited authority to pardon involving ``offenses against the united tates, except in cases of impeachment.''
he's really very free,'' said c. thomas dienes, a professor of constitutional law at george washington university
a president is able to grant a pardon involving a federal crime solely on his own initiative _ he need not consult anyone nor even wait for an indictment or conviction before taking action, dienes said
dienes said the principal cost of a reagan pardon ``would be political.'' he said the president would have to make a case for the pardon by arguing that he believed his subordinates had acted in the cause of the national security, or that he wanted to spare the country a national trauma
i'm sure he'd catch a lot of political flak, and he wants to go down as a popular president _ but since north was perceived by some as a popular hero, i'm not certain there'd be such negative reaction,'' dienes said
during his nearly eight years in office, reagan has granted 333 pardons out of 1,894 requests, according to the justice department office in charge of handling them. but none of the cases has had anywhere near the high profile of the iran-contra indictments
although reagan is barred from running again, his decision could affect vice president george bush's chances and those of other gop candidates, according to stephen hess, a senior fellow and specialist in presidential affairs at the brookings institution in washington
hess predicts that if reagan decides to pardon any iran-contra figures, he will wait until after the november elections
since ford's action cost him the election, i doubt we'll see reagan move before november,'' hess said
reagan would not leave such a decision to a democrat, nor would he burden bush with it if he were elected, hess reasoned
i would be stunned if there isn't a pardon between election day and january 1989,'' he said
sikh militants shot and killed five hindu employees of a bank thursday after stealing the equivalent of about $3,700 from the cashier, police said
eight militants armed with chinese-made ak-47 rifles raided a branch of the punjab national bank at bholka village, 17 miles north of here, said district police chief izhar alam
the militants snatched the bank's cash box from cashier kulwant rai at gunpoint, he said. rai, bank manager juni lal and three other hindu employees were shot and killed after the militants separated them from sikh workers, alam said. the other victims were identified as amrit lal, 42, ramesh kumar, 36, and yog raj, 32
at least 466 people have been killed this year in attacks blamed on sikh militants. more than 1,000 people were killed last year in the sikh guerrilla war for a separate state
sikhs form 2 percent of india's 800 million people but are in a majority in punjab. the militants claim that sikhs are discriminated against by nation's hindu majority, which makes up more than 80 percent of the population
the national marine fisheries service on thursday ordered foreign nations that export tuna to the united states to reduce the number of dolphins killed during fishing
countries that do not reduce dolphin deaths will no longer be allowed to export tuna to the united states, the commerce department agency said
the order covers foreign fleets that catch yellowfin tuna in purse seine nets, and requires them to establish dolphin protection rules similar to those that already cover u.s. fishermen
the regulation will take effect in mid-april, and requires that the rate of dolphins killed by the foreign fleets be reduced to the u.s. fishing fleet level by 1991, the fisheries service said
the problem occurs primarily in the eastern tropical pacific ocean, where fishing vessels search for schools of dolphins. yellowfin tuna tend to congregate beneath the dolphins, and thus fishermen can more easily find the tuna
fishermen then encircle both groups of fish with their nets. the majority of dolphins are able to escape or are released by the fishermen, officials said, but some become tangled in the nets and drown
mary bea porter couldn't save her golf game, but she made a much more important save _ the life of a 3-year-old boy
porter was trying to qualify for next week's lpga tournament when she jumped a 6-foot fence and revived the boy, who almost drowned wednesday in a backyard pool bordering the moon valley country club course
porter, 38, said she was lining up her second shot on the 13th fairway when she saw jonathon smucker face down in the water. the child's father, christian, jumped into the pool fully clothed and pulled out his son
but when i saw the father begin to shake the child and yell at his wife (anna) if she knew cpr, i knew that we were in trouble,'' said porter, who added that she had no previous experience in cardiopulmonary resuscitation
porter said her caddy, who also didn't know cpr, helped her jump the fence and she approached the father, who handed her the child
i thought he was dead. he was turning grey,'' she said. ``i knew i had to do something. ... so i threw him on the ground, reached in and cleaned out his mouth, moved his tongue to the side and blew.''
finally, she said, she saw ``his little lungs inflate.''
the child was crying in porter's arms by the time paradmedics arrived. he was in good condition thursday at st. joseph's hospital and medical center. the boy was visiting phoenix from ronks, pa., with his parents
there is no doubt in our minds that porter saved his life,'' said fire department spokesman steve jensen
and the golf game?
porter, who has won $50,000 in 15 years on the ladies pro golf tour, bogeyed two of the next three holes, finished the round at 76 and missed qualifying for the standard register turquoise classic by three shots
still, she said, ``i feel like i just won a million tournaments.''
bus workers began an indefinite strike for more pay on thursday, forcing the capital's 5 million commuters to find alternate transportation
more than 550 employees of the delhi transport corp. were arrested under the essential services maintenance act, which prohibits employees of essential services such as police, hospitals and the fire brigade from going on strike, said police spokesman ravi pawar
the strike, which idled the city's 5,000 passenger buses, forced many people to walk or cycle to work
a lucky few managed to engage three-wheeled scooter rickshaws and taxis, which increased fares because of the strike. some private buses transported commuters for a flat rate of about 16 cents, double the normal city service fare
school examinations scheduled for thursday were postponed because of the strike
in parliament, transport minister rajesh pilot said the strike was illegal and said the government would take action against the workers
buses are the main form of transport in new delhi, a city of 8 million people. a rail system is used by few people because of its limited area of operation
a top nasa official warned the space community thursday that ``an absolute disaster to nasa'' looms if congress votes only a small increase in the space agency's budget for next year
president reagan has proposed a budget of $11.5 billion for the year that begins in october, an increase of 20 percent over the current year
dale myers, deputy administrator of the national aeronautics and space administration, told a symposium that where the 20 percent increase is concerned ``we are probably not going to make it.''
he said it probably will be closer to 2 percent
myers told the american astronautical society there probably wouldn't be any problem if nasa was dealing with only the congressional committees that have oversight responsibility for the agency
the problem is we're caught in this terrible budget crunch; decisions are being made by a budget committee which is not that familiar with the space program,'' he said at the goddard space flight center
last year we got hurt very badly,'' myers said. ``we got a budget cut and because of that now we are showing a 20 percent increase in outlays this year compared to last year, and the average increase is going to be something like 2 percent.''
if we get the 2 percent increase, which is an easy out for congress, it is an absolute disaster to nasa,'' he said. ``we have not even imagined what we would have to cut back if we are given a 2 percent situation. i just can't imagine that would happen _ but it could happen,'' he said
myers said it was unfortunate that space activities are in a part of the budget ``where nasa, the national science foundation and all the high technologies activity of the government are all tangled up with some social programs where tradeoffs are being made in a very isolated area.''
last week rep. edward boland, d-mass., chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee on housing and independent agencies, threatened to cancel money for nasa's proposed space station if housing programs were cut
myers said nasa has never been caught in such a difficult budget situation
the national geographic society released pictures today of an egyptian boat photographed with special equipment in a stone chamber where the royal vessel was entombed beside the great pyramid of khufu 4,600 years ago
national geographic officials said the photographs were taken with remote cameras lowered through a drill hole and that the chamber then was sealed, leaving the ancient craft undisturbed in its resting place
a similar boat was found in a chamber nearby in 1954. that 142-foot-long craft was excavated, reassembled and put in a museum specially constructed for its display. officials said that boat now is decaying rapidly
but new techniques permitted experts from the egyptian antiquities organization and from the united states to survey the new boat using remote cameras, the national geographic announced today. the boat was documented last october and its chamber then was sealed with the craft untouched
the national geographic said in a release that a joint u.s.-egyptian team of scientists had hoped that the chamber containing the new boat had remained airtight during the 46 centuries since it was sealed
in an effort to capture samples of that air, the scientists used a drill enclosed in an air lock. an arrangement of vacuum tubes was used to suck the chamber's air into storage tanks for analysis
the air in the chamber proved to be moderately polluted urban air,'' said pieter tans, a scientist from the national oceanic and atmospheric administration who analyzed the samples
he said this proves that the chamber was not sealed and possibily never was. samples of the cap of the chamber, said tans, showed that the rock was a light limestone
the rock was so permiable that this pit probably has never been sealed,'' he said
remote television pictures taken inside the chamber detected a beetle, which immediately proved, officials said, that the chamber had been unsealed for some time
tans said the insect was identified as a common desert beetle that feeds on fungi that is commonly found in decaying wood
television and still cameras lowered into the drill hole were able to document the entire interior of the boat chamber. the tv camera used fiber optics to light the chamber. in this way, the lights added no heat to tomb environment
photos released by the national geographic show a mound of cedar timbers collapsed to the floor of a long chamber that had been cut with precision out of solid limestone bedrock
scientists studying the pictures have identified various boat parts, including oar blades, deckhouse and hull planking. there was no sign of a mast, sail or rigging
the video camera detected hieroglyphic markings on the ceiling of the chamber. the national geographic interpreted these symbols as measurements and as the name of the team of workers who carved the stone used in the chamber
the national geographic announcement said the purposes of the boat, and of its sister craft excavated in 1954, remain a mystery
why did the ancient egyptians disassemble and bury two full-size royal ships at the base of the great pyramid?'' the announcement asks
the boats are thought to have been entombed to honor the pharoah khufu by his son and successor djedefre, according to the national geographic
but it is not known if the boats were used to bring khufu's body on the nile from his palace at memphis to the pyramid at giza, or if the craft were entombed in the belief that khufu would use them in an afterlife
a report on the exploration of the boat chamber is carried in the april issue of national geographic, the monthly magazine of the national geographic society
the state civil rights agency has ordered california polytechnic state university at san luis obispo to pay $20,000 to a woman for four years of ``vicious treatment'' in a campus industrial paint shop
the harassment of carol bowlby, the first woman hired by the shop, included name-calling, placing a pictures of a naked woman in her lunch box, and refusing to work with her, said the fair employment and housing commission
ms. bowlby's work environment was ``offensive, hostile, oppressive and intimidating,'' and contributed to her medical problems and need for psychiatric care, the commission said in a 4-1 decision released wednesday. it also said the university failed to investigate her complaints properly or discipline her co-workers
commissioner michael johnson dissented. he described ms. bowlby as a ``substandard employee'' and said the shop was ``a rough-and-tumble workplace where strong language and name-calling were common.''
the commission's majority said the university's ``sincere and laudable effort ... to bring a woman into a male-dominated field,'' did not excuse ``the vicious treatment she did receive because of her sex.''
the commission awarded her $20,000 for emotional distress, but concluded her departure from the job in 1982 was voluntary and refused additional damages for lost wages
attorney gloria barrios, who prosecuted the case for the state fair employment and housing department, said ms. bowlby, whose disability and rehabilitation costs have already been paid by the university, now works at a grocery in san luis obispo
university lawyer thomas trager said no decision has been made on an appeal to superior court. but he said the school denies that ms. bowlby was harassed because of her sex
the commission said ms. bowlby's difficulties began almost immediately after she was hired as the first woman in the university's new trainee program for women and minorities in its plant operations paint shop
her job evaluations were satisfactory at first, but got worse as time went on, and she was never rated as qualified to become a full-fledged painter. she reacted badly to criticism and was considered difficult to work with, the commission said
but those difficulties were caused at least in part by ``the hostility she suffered because of her sex,'' the commission said
nancy reagan, suffering from a bout of laryngitis, will remain with president reagan at the white house over the weekend, the president's spokesman announced today
presidential physician john hutton has ``recommended she take it easy,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters
the first lady was forced to cancel a planned trip to nashville, tenn., earlier this week because of her voice loss
mrs. reagan has been resting in the residence, ``resting and taking home remedies,'' said a spokeswoman, wendy weber toler
ireland cast aside its economic woes and the latest violence in ulster to stage its biggest ever st. patrick's day parade thursday, celebrating the irish patron saint as well as the capital's 1,000th birthday
a record crowd of 300,000 people, including thousands of american tourists, thronged the three-mile parade route from st. stephen's green to o'connell street, the main thoroughfare
many adorned their lapels with sprigs of shamrock, the wild clover that is ireland's national emblem
about 6,000 people took part in the parade of dancers, marching bands and historic-theme floats. skies were overcast but the rain held off
march 14-20 was designated st. patrick's week in honor of ireland's patron saint and dublin's millennium celebrations, with daily displays of irish folk music, dance and street theater
in northern ireland, st. patrick's day celebrations were heavily overshadowed by wednesday's outbreak of sectarian violence, when a protestant gunman shot and threw grenades at catholic mourners burying three irish republican army guerrillas in belfast. three people died and 68 were wounded
mourners wearing shamrocks and green armbands attended the funeral thursday of a slain ira guerrilla a day after the bloodbath at milltown cemetery. the service was peaceful
the violence had little visible impact on the dublin parade. it was a day to set aside thoughts of an unemployment rate near 18 percent, high taxation and an emigration outflow estimated at 30,000 a year
prime minister charles haughey reviewed the parade from a stand outside the general post office where rebels launched the easter rising of 1916 against british rule
organizers said crews from more than 80 tv stations in the united states and canada photographed the parade
government offices, schools, banks and most businesses were closed in the south, but many industries, offices and department stores stayed open in northern ireland, where the majority is protestant and doesn't regard st. patrick's day as a national holiday
the irish also took a somewhat bemused look at how the united states celebrates march 17
there's a bar in west 39th street that is advertising live leprechauns and bagpipe music tonight. ... there's even a jewish delicatessen on 47th street offering irish bagels,'' marveled the irish times correspondent in new york, eugene mceldowney
in dublin, botanist charles nelson remarked: ``we tend to think of the americans as being a bit eccentric in this regard.''
some u.s. customs seemed to be catching on here. an american hamburger chain was selling ``shamrock-flavored'' shakes
roman catholic churches were full for morning mass, and later the pubs filled up for celebrations
some irish newspapers marked the day by editorializing about it in irish, or gaelic, which is the country's first official language, although only a minority are fluent in it
the irish independent, editorializing in english, wondered what st. patrick, the 5th century missionary who christianized ireland, would think of the country were he to return
as a missionary he would have to come to the conclusion that the faith he worked so hard to spread here has come on bad times. there are plenty of churches but they are not always packed. there are many people who call themselves christian but may not be entitled to do so,'' it said
and if he went to northern ireland where he lived as a young man, ``what would he make of the violence, hate and bigotry?'' the paper asked
but it also noted that he would find a worldwide irish diaspora who ``carried with them into exile an attitude to life which was fashioned basically by what patrick taught our ancestors 1,500 years ago. that is a plus.''
greece will receive 97 used jet fighters free of charge from the united states and west germany in order to renew its air force's equipment, the defense ministry said thursday
defense minister yannis haralambopoulos said greece would receive 69 f-4c and f-4d phantom fighter bombers from the united states and 28 f-104g starfighter interceptors from west germany
greece has about 300 combat aircraft in seven air force combat wings
the defense minister also said that greece would take delivery of its first french-built mirage 2000 fighter bomber on march 21 in bordeux, france
greece has ordered 40 mirage aircraft and 40 u.s.-built f-16 fighter bombers to modernize its air force. up 10th graf, `before wednesday's...'</note>
gov. evan mecham testified today that he never ordered anyone to hamper an investigation into an aide's alleged death threat, but said he told arizona's top police officer not to cooperate with the probe
in his second day of testimony in his impeachment trial, mecham confirmed that in a nov. 15 conversation with department of public safety director ralph milstead, ``i said, `if you want my permission you don't have it.'''
mecham acknowledged he told milstead, ``the attorney general is trying to hang me and i'm not going to help him.'' however, he said he had never ordered anyone to hamper the investigation and denied any intent to break the law
he said he told milstead to tell attorney general bob corbin's office ``we have looked into this matter and there's nothing to it.''
the 63-year-old first-term governor said he had been told by department of administration director max hawkins that the alleged threat was ``a bunch of hot air'' that would go away
mecham said that when he was first told of the alleged threat, the head of his security details, dps lt. beau johnson, did not specify that it was reported to be an actual death threat
did you ever hear the words from lt. johnson `death threat'?'' asked defense attorney fred craft
i absolutely did not,'' said mecham. he insisted that johnson also did not say it involved a possible felony of tampering with a grand jury witness
johnson has testified that he told the governor the alleged threat involved a possible felony of tampering a grand jury witness
milstead testified last week that mecham ordered him not to cooperate with a corbin investigation. the attorney general was looking into an alleged death threat against former mecham aide donna carlson, who was about to testify before a grand jury on mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan
the governor, whose lawyers have been trying to undermine the credibility of the state's top police official, testified wednesday he would have had ample grounds to fire milstead. he said he also would have fired ms. carlson had he known she told milstead last year the governor was considering replacing him
i had to trust the people i was dealing with,'' mecham said. asked by craft if the governor still trusted those people, mecham answered, ``not some of them. ... it was a trust misplaced.''
the governor contended an internal investigation showed that milstead misused state vehicles for personal purposes and used a state secretary to type his masters' thesis
in response, dps spokesman sgt. allan schmidt said the investigators ``found no reason not to retain him (milstead) and no problems, save his management style.''
mecham appeared calm and soft-spoken during his testimony wednesday. all 29 senators, who are serving as mecham's judge and jury, stood when he entered the senate chamber and was sworn in. later, some said the action was suggested in a note passed around by president carl kunasek, a republican
before wednesday's session, mecham had been away from the capital for more than a month, operating out of a suburban office he calls his ``government in exile.''
mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, retains his salary and title, but secretary of state rose mofford, a democrat, has gubernatorial power pending the outcome of the trial
testimony so far has focused on the charge that mecham confidant lee watkins, a former state prison construction chief, made a death threat on nov. 12 against ms. carlson. watkins has denied any threat, and has pleaded the fifth amendment right against self-incrimination in refusing to testify
mecham said he did not consider watkins, who arranged the $350,000 campaign loan, to be a major fund-raiser for his 1986 campaign and that he did not seek to protect him, as ms. carlson said he did
protect him from what?'' the governor asserted. ``i'd like for somebody to tell me what i protected him from.''
the governor denied jobs were doled out in his administration based on how much money a person contributed or raised for his campaign
ms. carlson testified last week that when she once complained about watkins' position in the governor's inner circle she was told by the governor's then-chief of staff: ``we have to take care of lee. he raised a lot of money for the campaign.''
on wednesday, sam udall, mecham's former appointments secretary, testified that campaign contributions were a criterion, although not a major one, in making appointments to boards and commissions
mecham said he felt he could not trust corbin after the governor sought his advice on a legal issue early last year and the matter wound up under investigation
that's when i knew we were in big trouble,'' mecham said, adding that after that ``we had as little relationship with the attorney general's office as possible.''
corbin's office led the investigation that resulted in mecham's indictment on six felony counts of allegedly concealing the $350,000 loan. the governor faces an april 21 criminal trial on those charges, and a may 17 recall election
in the impeachment, a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham
kim dae-jung stepped down as leader of his party thursday, reviving hopes for reuniting the fractured opposition before crucial legislative elections next month
kim dae-jung said he was resigning as president of the party for peace and democracy to help unite the two leading opposition parties
the departure of kim dea-jung follows the resignation last month of rival opposition leader kim young-sam, who headed the reunification democratic party. both kims ran for president in december's presidential election, thus ensuring victory for the government candidate, roh tae-woo
since their presidential defeat, the two kims have been under pressure to step aside to clear the way for a merger of the two parties
standing at the crossroads of unification or division, i have decided to step down to help facilitate the opposition merger, which is our supreme task,'' kim said in a statement
park young-sook, who read the statement, said the 62-year-old kim could not make the announcement personally because he was not feeling well. kim was reported to be in seclusion
mrs. park was named acting party president. she declined to answer questions about what would happen if the opposition merger failed. she said time was running out and expressed hope the opposition would unite by sunday
it was unclear, however, whether kim dae-jung's resignation would lead to an opposition merger. unification talks are expected to start friday, but such thorny issues as power distribution remain to be solved
kim young-sam's party reserved official comment, but some party officials privately expressed distrust and said they feared the resignation would be a trick
we are skeptical in view of kim dae-jung's duplicity in the past,'' said one party official, who spoke on condition he not be identified
the two kims have been bitter rivals. kim dae-jung and his supporters split from the reunification democratic party to mount a separate presidential campaign
months of efforts to unite the opposition collapsed last week when kim dae-jung rejected a last-minute demand from the reunification democratic party that he step down and take a back seat if a unified opposition party is formed
kim dae-jung has been a major figure in south korean politics for three decades. he gained international fame with his unflinching opposition to the country's past authoritarian governments and devotion to human rights activity
kim dae-jung's party officials could not comment on their leader's political future but assumed he would continue to work for the opposition
kim dae-jung said in his resignation statement, ``i make it clear that i will make all the efforts i can in the vanguard of the people in order to win the general elections.''
richard v. secord, one of four men indicted in the iran-contra affair, vowed thursday to ``crush this whole case'' with a barrage of legal maneuvers against the independent counsel
shortly after a federal grand jury returned the indictments wednesday, secord, a feisty retired air force major general, embarked on a series of interviews with reporters to denounce the case
he called the charges initiated by independent counsel lawrence e. walsh a ``creation of fantasy ... ludicrous.''
secord, 55, an arms dealer who helped former white house aide oliver l. north sell weapons to iran and divert the proceeds to the nicaraguan contra rebels, has been charged with conspiracy, theft, wire fraud and conspiring to pay north illegal gratuities
after his arraignment next week, secord said his attorneys will file motions to dismiss the case on a number of grounds. for one thing, secord claims walsh did not follow all the justice department's guidelines for independent counsels
i am going to crush this whole case in hopes that nobody else has to go through what i have,'' secord said in a telephone interview. ``i view this in military terms: they have committed an assault on me and i am going to launch a counterattack.''
last month walsh hired herbert stern, a former federal judge, to handle legal challenges stemming from the iran-contra case
secord said he had not talked with north or the other defendants _ his ex-business partner, albert hakim, and former national security adviser john m. poindexter _ about a coordinated defense strategy
his big problem, secord said, is raising money for his defense. ``the only guys who win in this are lawyers,'' he said. bigamist</head>
a widow who learned that her husband of 27 years had been a bigamist has been asked to return $610 in social security benefits
mazella bouknight lever, 80, said she learned after her estranged husband noisey died july 29 that the woman who was living with him was his first wife, carrie. she filed suit in february seeking to evict the first mrs. lever
the government has written mrs. lever demanding repayment of $610 in social security widow's benefits. ``obviously, this is not something that she did intentionally. she thought that, in fact, she was the only mrs. lever,'' said her attorney, stephen g. smith
the point is, she received benefits as a basis of being married to this man,'' said berion mouton, social security assistant district manager. she must show she is unable to repay the money if she wants to avoid it, he said
mrs. lever said she hadn't seen her husband since she moved out in november 1982. they were married in 1960
since his death, mrs. lever said, she has thought much about noisey's motive for not divorcing carrie. ``i guess he was just using me,'' she said. ``i could always keep a good job.''
president reagan and his wife nancy will remain at the white house this weekend to give the first lady a chance to recuperate from a bout of laryngitis, the president's spokesman announced thursday
white house physician john hutton ``recommended she take it easy'' and advised the couple to cancel their regular weekend visit to the camp david, md., presidential retreat, spokesman marlin fitzwater said
the first lady canceled a planned trip to nashville, tenn., on wednesday because of her voice loss
mrs. reagan, who has been using a steam vaporizer to alleviate the condition, has been resting in the white house living quarters ``and taking home remedies,'' said a spokeswoman, wendy weber toler
in another era, it might seem an odd alliance _ the white southern political insider and the flamboyant black civil rights activist. but in what jesse jackson calls ``the new south,'' his relationship with bert lance is a sign of the times
lance, long a fixture on the georgia political scene and the budget director under former president jimmy carter, is one of jackson's closest advisers in his 1988 presidential bid
i have a relationship that's fairly well known with rev. jackson,'' lance said in a telephone interview. ``he is a very good candidate who has run a superb campaign.''
lance supported jackson in georgia's primary last week and, according to jackson aides, the two consult by telephone as often as once a day
jesse jackson has got a message that the country is concerned about _ especially about drugs, especially about economic common ground. these things are important to the country,'' said lance, who left the carter administration under a cloud of allegations about his previous activities as a banker
he declined to specify what advice he gives jackson, but said their relationship began during jackson's 1984 white house bid
the relationship demonstrates how the candidate who ran under an anti-establishment banner four years ago now is reaching out for establishment advice as he tries to craft a more mainstream campaign and expand his base beyond his core black constituency
so far, the gambit seems on course. jackson has made no significant gaffes in his campaign _ avoiding the kind of slips that alienated jewish voters in 1984 when he used the words ``hymie'' and ``hymietown.''
and he has been winning white votes in far greater numbers than he did in 1984
he also consults at times with such party leaders as jimmy carter, clark clifford, and shirley chisholm, according to his press secretary
among jackson's close advisers is political consultant ann lewis, former democratic national committee political director. one of his biggest boosters among political strategy types, she has given him pointers on jewish and women's questions, and campaign strategy, especially in the many months before he hired a campaign manager
lewis introduced jackson to carol o'cleireacain, an official of the american federation of state, county and municipal employees union who has become a key economic adviser. she was primarily responsible for conceiving one of jackson's central economic themes, a proposal to reinvest corporate pension funds in domestic jobs programs
democrat william gray, chairman of the house budget committee, is another jackson economic adviser
on foreign policy matters, jackson leans on bob borosage, who took a leave from his job as director of the liberal think tank, institute for policy studies, to advise the campaign and travel with jackson; rep. ron dellums, d-calif., a member of the house armed services committee; and jim zogby, head of the arab american institute
jackson signed up one of california's most powerful officeholders and savvy black politicians, assembly speaker willie brown, as his campaign chairman. another confidant is walter fauntroy, the non-voting house member from the district of columbia
texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower has endorsed jackson and advises him on farm policy. former new mexico gov. toney anaya and mississippi educator armando guitierrez specialize in hispanic issues
jackson's most senior aide is frank watkins, who met him in 1969. watkins is devoting himself to analysing and targeting states and congressional districts
one change from 1984 is a semblance of organization in the jackson campaign, thanks in large part to campaign manager gerald austin. the 11th-hour addition of austin last fall gave the campaign a sense that ``somebody is running the railroad,'' said lewis
he really has provided the structural underpinning to support jackson that i don't think jackson ever had before,'' she said
a no-nonsense political operative who managed gov. richard celeste's campaign in ohio, austin is jewish and said he had been offended by jackson's reference to jews as ``hymie.'' he confronted jackson on the topic before taking the job, and said he accepted the apology the candidate offered
austin has turned around the campaign's tendency toward indecisiveness, say some who deal with the campaign. he also developed jackson's tv commercials himself
a direct mail operation is in place, run by california mail consultant mal warwick. he is getting good results by targeting a spectrum of democratic voters, and the mail has become a major party of fund-raising for the cash poor campaign
yusra al shiah wrapped her 3-month-old daughter in a ragged blanket and took her nine other children into the rainy night. an israeli army bulldozer leveled their cinderblock house moments later
then the machine clanked along the dirt street in this west bank village, eight miles west of jerusalem, to the home of ibrahim hamed bedwan
bedwan said he and his wife, parents and nine children were ordered out. soldiers piled the furniture in the street and the bulldozer knocked down the two-story stone building
palestinians have begun to turn on alleged collaborators during the rebellion that has swept the occupied territories for more than three months, and the army is demolishing houses in response
leaflets distributed by the palestine liberation organization have ordered revenge attacks on collaborators. fellow villagers in qabatiyeh lynched a man feb. 24 who was suspected of aiding the israelis and another was stabbed to death last week in the aqbat jaber refugee camp
law in the service of man, a human rights group founded by palestinian lawyers says the army has knocked down 10 houses since the first killing
destroying or sealing the houses of those accused of terror attacks has been a common tactic since israel captured the west bank and gaza strip from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. the palestinian rights group said the total has reached more than 1,300 in the generation of occupation
an army spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: ``demolishing houses is very effective. it serves as a warning to everyone in a village not to take action against people they suspect of working with israel.''
people whose homes are razed are not allowed to rebuild them, so most have resorted to living in tents
among those opposing the policy are the united states, international committee of the red cross and united nations
they denounce it as collective punishment usually imposed without court review or due process. in most cases, the penalty does not affect the suspect, who may be dead, jailed or a fugitive abroad
in the case of bidu, the suspects were a son of mrs. al shiah and two sons of bedwan. the parents said they did not even know ibrahim al shiah, 17; nissam bedwan, 23, and mohammed bedwan, 20, were accused of anything until their houses were bulldozed the night of march 7
mrs. al shiah stood weeping beside the rubble that had been a five-room home and said: ``i begged the soldiers `tell me, for god's sake, what have we done?''' with her were three small daughters dressed in plastic sandles and thin, mud-caked dresses on the chilly morning
the soldiers wouldn't tell us anything,'' she said. ``they just took the children from their beds and carried them out of the house.'' her husband khalid is an unemployed handyman
pools of muddy rainwater covered the plastic floors of two white tents the red cross provided. tattered blankets were piled at the back of one, which reeked of mildew
discarded in a muddy olive grove were family furniture and possessions: two smashed beds, a refrigerator on its side, a mud-caked gas stove, two rain-soaked quilts, pieces of a cabinet, a child's red boot
metal chairs, pots, pans and a red pillow could be seen buried in the debris of the house
mrs. al shiah said the soldiers arrived at about midnight, put the village's 4,000 residents under curfew and cut off the electricity before bring in the bulldozer
bedwan said: ``now everybody in this village feels he is not safe.'' he stood quietly at the site of the 10-room home he had built over a period of 20 years. all that remained was part of one wall, painted bright pink
felicia langer, an israeli lawyer who represents palestinians, said leveling houses ``punishes people who are not accused of any offense, much less guilty.''
she says it violates the 1949 geneva convention on treatment of civilians in occupied zones, which forbids destruction of property as a punishment or deterrent
israel's supreme court has ruled the practice legal under emergency regulations issued in 1945 by the british administration governing palestine at the time. those regulations have been the basis for several extraordinary measures, including censorship
the nation's trade deficit widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion after two months of sharp improvements, the commerce department said today
the excess of imports over exports was up from the $12.2 billion deficit in december
exports, which had propelled improvement in november and december, fell by 10 percent in january to $22.3 billion
the reagan administration said the figures are better than they appear at first glance
at the white house, spokesman marlin fitzwater called it ``an excellent report.'' he said that ``in the last three months, we have seen a dramatic drop in the trade deficit.''
there was a seasonal decline in exports, which have dropped in january every year of this decade,'' said commerce secretary c. william verity in a statement. overall, he said, the figures ``confirm the improving trend'' of the past few months
there is obviously a long way to go to eliminate the trade deficit. but we are on the right track,'' verity said
private analysts generally agreed that the january figures should not be read as an indication of a worsening trade balance _ and noted that january's figure, although higher than december, was an improvement from both the $13.2 billion november deficit and the record $17.6 billion october shortfall
we tend to be very impatient and all expect dramatic improvements every month. but the trade numbers are very time consuming to change,'' said jay goldinger, chief economist for capital insight, a los angeles brokerage house. ``it's a large vessel and it can't move that quickly. but i believe the ship continues to travel in the right direction.''
analysts had expected a deterioration of the trade balance in january, noting that exports are traditionally down in that month
however, imports also fell in january, by 6 percent to $34.8 billion
thus, the deficit for the month _ eagerly followed by financial markets _ was somewhat better than most analysts had expected
it's hard for me to see how we can repeat the same magnitude of growth in exports that we had in the two previous months,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston company economic advisers ind
exports had incrased 9.4 percent in november and 4.2 percent in december to record levels
analysts claim that the overall trade deficit is shrinking, but that improvements will be agonizingly slow with many setbacks along the way _ like january's
still, the fact that imports were down was viewed as a bright spot in the report
the deficit with japan _ the country with which this nation runs its largest deficit _ fell by 17.6 percent in january to $3.9 billion, the lowest one-month level since december 1986
one major category of imports from japan _ new automobiles _ registered a 19.5 percent drop in january, to $1.6 billion
and the nation even showed its first surplus in nearly three years with britain in january, exporting $75 million more than it imported
despite the drop in january exports, manufacturing industry leaders have said that recent gains in exports point to a genuine boom, due in large part to a weaker dollar _ now worth just half its value of three years against other key currencies
a weaker dollar makes u.s. goods cheaper abroad and foreign products more expensive at home
the trade deficit with canada increased to $1.12 billion from $632.8 million in december
the deficit with western europe declined to $1.33 billion from $2.73 billion
the deficit with the newly industrialized countries of asia _ taiwan, south korea, singapore and hong kong _ was up to $2.92 billion, from $2.48 billion in december
the deficit with the organization of petroleum exporting countries rose to $1.03 billion from $887.2 million
the trade figures, unlike many other government economic statistics, are not adjusted to remove recurring seasonal effects, like the post-christmas dip in exports
because of this, many analysts claim the monthly trade reports can often be misleading _ even though they are closely watched in financial markets
beginning with april, the commerce department will seasonally adjust its trade figures
despite anticipated month-to-month fluctuations, most observers suggest that the overall trade balance definitely is beginning to improve. and, as import prices rise further because of the lower-valued dollar, the gap is likely to shrink even more
the trend has changed, but it's not going to happen overnight,'' said goldinger
last year the trade deficit reached record dimensions, no matter how measured. in terms of merchandise trade alone, the shortfall reached $171.2 billion
a broader measure of trade, the ``current account'' deficit, which also includes investment flows and trade in services, reached $160.7 billion last year, also a record
the commerce department released details on the current account deficit earlier this week
however, both sets of figures _ merchandise trade and current account _ showed improvements in the final three months of 1987
the tokyo district court sentenced 11 members of a radical leftist group thursday to prison terms ranging from three to eight years for an attack on a downtown railway station three years ago
minoru kajii was sentenced to eight years, while the other 10 received sentences ranging from three to five years, said a court official, speaking on condition of anonymity
the 11 have been identified as members of the chukaku-ha, or middle core faction, japan's most active extremist group
they were arrested after attackers set fire to the asakusabashi station in downtown tokyo on nov. 29, 1985, when saboteurs also cut telecommunications lines and cables controlling railway signals at various places across japan
the coordinated attacks paralyzed operations of the then government-run japan national railways, affecting about 6 million commuters
the radicals were believed to have acted in sympathy with former rail employees who were protesting government plans to turn the debt-ridden railway network into a private company. the railroad turned private in april 1987
authorities credit the first joint u.s.-chinese investigation for breaking up a drug ring that smuggled seven pounds of heroin into the united states in dead goldfish hidden in shipments of live fish
three men were arrested in san francisco, five in the people's republic of china and one in hong kong, the drug enforcement administration said
chinese authorities on march 9 discovered the heroin-laden fish in a shipment destined for the golfish aquarium in san francisco, the dea said. the chinese alerted u.s. officials and seized the heroin
authorities then sewed about 11 ounces of heroin back into some of the fish, placed them into each of 20 boxes containing 50 to 60 live fish and sent them on their way to san francisco with radio beacons attached to the boxes
two men picked up the boxes and delivered them to the business where agents arrested three men friday after getting a signal the boxes had been opened. the heroin had been inside condoms in the fish, the dea said
the agency said it was the first cooperative investigation of its kind
the heroin, believed to be pure, is worth up to $700,000 wholesale, said tom sheehan, assistant special agent in charge of the dea's office here
the university of california today began tearing down an abandoned house following a day of confrontations between rock-throwing squatters and baton-wielding police
a crane crumpled the roof and walls of the house a day after more than 350 protesters rampaged through the neighborhood south of the university setting trash fires and battling helmeted police in the worst clashes since 1986 anti-apartheid confrontations, the university said
the house was a continuing hazard and a target for street attacks,'' said university spokesman ray colvig. ``rather than have repeated attacks we decided to take it out.''
university police said the demonstrators are no longer occupying property and have dispersed
the protests wednesday started after university of california police evicted about 35 activists for the homeless from a house owned by uc-berkeley. protesters rampaged up side streets, knocking over garbage cans, setting trash fires and breaking the window on a police car
later in the day, protesters tried to lunge through city police barricades in an unsuccessful attempt to take back the off-campus house
the protesters contended that the three-story house, taken over by squatters march 9, should not stand vacant when the city has 800 to 1,600 homeless people. the school ordered the eviction after the city fire marshal tuesday declared the house a fire hazard, said spokesman tom debley
the school plans to demolish the house to make way for student housing in the next few days, debley said
john p. ``jack'' sutherland, former white house correspondent for u.s. news and world report, is dead at age 67
sutherland, 67, died wednesday of a heart attack at his home in suburban alexandria, va. he had reported on the u.s. presidency from harry s truman through gerald ford's administration. he then became associate editor of the u.s. news washington letter, the post he held when he retired in 1985
career diplomat john r. davis presented his credentials thursday as u.s. ambassador to poland, ending a five-year period in which washington had no top-ranked envoy here following the imposition of martial law
davis, who had been serving as charge d'affaires in warsaw, formally became ambassador at a ceremony at the government's belvedere palace, where he was received by kazimierz barcikowski, vice-president of the council of state
reviewing relations with poland prior to the ceremony, davis applauded polish steps toward economic and political reform and expressed hope for further progress in the area of human rights
the situation between the two countries has been ``unnaturally strained,'' in recent years, he said
the united states placed economic sanctions on poland after the dec. 13, 1981, imposition of martial law and the suppression of the solidarity independent trade union
soon after martial law, the polish ambassador to washington defected and was not replaced. the former u.s. ambassador, francis meehan, completed his tour in 1983 and poland rejected the u.s. nominee to succeed him
but following the release of political prisoners in 1986 and the lifting of the last of the u.s. sanctions last year, relations gradually warmed, culminating in the september visit of vice president george bush, who was allowed to address the polish people on national television
during his visit, bush announced that the two countries had agreed to exchange ambassadors
fortunately poland proclaimed a policy of national reconciliation and reform and that has changed the picture here as it's been implemented slowly,'' davis said in a meeting march 11 with journalists
we certainly find ourselves today in a position to support polish efforts for economic reform and political reform, and to applaud the steps they have taken,'' he said. ``we retain our interest in human rights and hope that progress in this field continues.''
davis said the u.s. economic sanctions were designed to persuade the government to lift martial law, release political prisoners and resume the dialogue with solidarity
by and large i think those objectives were achieved. i don't attribute that to the sanctions however, (but to) the decisions made by the polish government itself,'' he said
solidarity remains outlawed and davis said the government still has not invited the opposition as a group to participate in national decision-making, although overtures have been made to some individuals
nevertheless, davis said, ``the ideals of solidarity are very much alive and many of the objectives of solidarity have been obtained.''
the group is ``far from dead. it's remarkably lively considering the length of time that has gone by and the difficulties of communicating,'' he said
on the day davis presented his credentials, police around the country issued warnings to members of solidarity's national executive commission that they may be imprisoned if they persist in opposition activities
the ambassador said a meeting between solidarity leader lech walesa and wojciech jaruzelski, president and first secretary of the polish united workers (communist) party would be of ``tremendous symbolic value, not only here but abroad.''
he said he hoped the government would consider the possibility, because it would aid its efforts to enlist broader public support for its reform program
but he praised the progress poland has made in other areas. he cited recent publication of an interview by solidarity adviser bronislaw geremek, the end to jamming of western radio polish-language broadcasts jan. 1, and relaxation of censorship to an extent that in domestic affairs it is ``almost non-existent.'' graf, bgn `some 185...' to end with color on nyc parade.</note>
thousands of people marched along fifth avenue for new york's parade, green grits awaited celebrants in georgia, and the chicago river flowed green as americans celebrated a st. patrick's day clouded by violence in northern ireland
new york's parade drew an estimated 125,000 marchers and more than a million spectators were expected. it's the biggest of 185 held throughout the united states on the day when everyone is irish
in savannah, ga., parade organizers braced for up to 250,000 people to pack the coastal city's downtown historic district, where grits and public fountains flow green for the four-hour, three-mile parade that kicked off this morning
the chicago river also flows green today, thanks to 100 pounds of biodegradable dye, with 40,000 marchers and 50 floats stepping out in the windy city's annual st. patrick's day parade
in iowa, environmental officials nixed a plan to dye the mississippi river green to coincide with an interstate parade through the quad cities
it's hard for the department and state legislature to work as hard as we did last year to pass a water protection act and to allow something like that to occur,'' said larry wilson, director of the natural resources department
seattle's parade down fourth avenue follows a wide green stripe laid down in a tradition established by the late john doyle bishop, who used to paint the parade route only to be arrested annually for defacing the street. in recent years, that problem has been solved by using green tape
also scheduled was a mass for peace in ireland at plymouth congregational church
in butte, mont., the m&amp;m cigar store cooked up 1,500 pounds of corned beef and 15 cases of cabbage, doubled the length of its 30-foot-long bar, and scheduled 14 bartenders to work through the day and night
but the celebrations were clouded by violence at a gravesite in belfast, northern ireland, where three people were killed and 68 wounded by a protestant shooting a pistol and throwing grenades at services for three slain irish republican army guerrillas
we are very sad to hear the news ... that those people could not be buried in a peaceful way,'' said francis beirne, chairman of new york city's 227th parade honoring the patrol saint of ireland
i would like to feel exuberant. i would like to feel joyful,'' cardinal john j. o'connor said in a homily today at st. patrick's cathedral. ``i don't feel that way today. i don't feel like reviewing a parade. i suspect many of you don't feel like marching in a parade.''
but the parade was not canceled in mourning because ``that's not the irish way,'' o'connor said. citing st. patrick, ireland's patron saint, he said: ``in his name, we will not give up. ... the parade will go on.''
new york police said 3,247 officers were called to duty, with instructions to control public drunkenness around the parade, which disperses on third avenue, home of many festive irish taverns
some parade-goers only made it as far as halfway to fifth avenue; in the tgif bar on 51st street, near-spectators sucked down green beer and stuck out green toungues at passerbys
this is the parade!'' shouted one of the revelers
some 185 bands, including the st. patrick's independent accordion band from portadown, northern ireland, took part in the fifth avenue march
the parade's grand marshal, william burke, vice president of the bank of ireland, was joined on the reviewing stand by gov. mario cuomo, mayor edward i. koch and police commissioner benjamin ward
this year's parade was dedicated to the u.s. constitution and the liberty of one irish immigrant who has been held here without bail or trial for over four years
james mcnamara, parade spokesman, said the march would be dedicated to ``liberty and justice'' for joseph patrick thomas doherty, who fled to the united states after the 1980 ira killing of a british army captain in belfast
doherty has been held pending extradition proceedings
the parade was relatively sedate, with only a few pockets of green-faced and green-headed rowdies visible. sign-waving protestors demanded freedom for joe doherty and called for the end of british rule in northern ireland
i don't think the british are doing their job. their activity in northern ireland is heinous,'' said russ anen, of west caldwell, n.j. ``i hadn't planned on doing anything until yesterday, and now somebody has to protest.''
said kevin delacey, holding a sign with doherty's face on it: ``joe doherty has never committed a crime in this country. he shouldn't be held, he should be free.''
the largely catholic ira is waging a guerrilla war to drive the british from protestant-dominated northern ireland, and protestant paramilitary groups have grown up to fight against it. 6th pvs, `alejandro bendana...'</note>
president daniel ortega said today nicaragua will not withdraw troops from the area bordering honduras and demanded the immediate withdrawal of american troops arriving in honduras
he called for a meeting of the u.n. security council to deal with what he called ``one more escalation of the war against nicaragua.''
american troops began arriving in honduras today at 10:15 a.m., a u.s. embassy spokesman said. the united states and honduras had accused nicaragua of invading its neighbor in pursuit of contra rebels
the 26 c-141 planes carrying about 3,200 u.s. troops were arriving every 30 minutes at palmerola air force base, the main center of u.s. military operations in honduras
military officials in honduras said honduras troops continued to surround about 2,000 nicaraguan troops who they said entered the country. nicaraguan defense officials denied their troops crossed into honduras
ortega, speaking at a news conference before a meeting with 14 opposition parties, called the u.s. troop movement ``a dangerous act'' and said the united states was trying ``to use the honduran army to save the contra forces.''
ortega earlier warned the nation that u.s. forces may invade nicaragua to save contra rebels, whom he said were driven into honduras by sandinista troops
earlier, a foreign ministry spokesman said nicaraguan soldiers were withdrawing from the honduran border region and that the arrival of u.s. troops may damage government-contra cease-fire talks
alejandro bendana, secretary-general of the foreign ministry, told nbc's ``today'' that nicaraguan troops engaged in cross-fire along the border but did not enter honduras
we've been engaged in a routine military operation designed to push the contras back across the border where they came from, in honduran territory. that operation reached the border; there was firing at the border; there's been a cross-fire and there's been fighting alongside the border,'' bendana said
the operations have succesfully been concluded, and we don't plan to stay along the border region. in fact, this deescalation has already begun,'' he said
but honduras military officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said today that about 4,000 honduran soldiers were surrounding about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers and had been since late wednesday
the sources said the entire honduran military was on alert. they said
the sandinista soldiers had been in the border province of olancho, east of tegucigalpa, for 24 hours when honduran troops encircled them wednesday
bendana said the government had called for the united nations and organization of american states to visit the area of fighting to ``establish what the facts are end these accusations.''
he said the deployment of american soldiers ``bodes ill'' for cease-fire talks scheduled monday in nicaragua but ``makes the negotiations more urgent. we are bent on having the cease-fire talks begin on monday once again.''
the government took control of all radio stations and broadcast that nicaraguan troops were being mobilized throughout the country wednesday. the stations also broadcast revolutionary music
ortega told reporters: ``we are calling on the nicaraguan public to be alert, to be in combat readiness, ready to repel, resist, defeat whatever aggression from the united states.''
ortega has neither confirmed nor denied that nicaraguan soldiers crossed into honduran territory, but defense ministry spokeswoman maj. rosa pasos denied that sandinista troops did so
in a letter to reagan released by the white house, honduras president jose azcona hoyo said his government had ordered its armed forces ``to repulse'' the sandinista troops and asked for u.s military assistance
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater in washington said the u.s. soldiers were to carry out training exercises and be ``a signal to the governments and the people of central america.''
palmerola air force base is about 125 miles west of the border and 40 miles northwest of the honduran capital, tegucigalpa. the base is just south of the town of comayagua
the contras have maintained secret bases along the honduras-nicaragua border from which they have staged attacks on nicaragua in their 6-year-old war to overthrow the sandinistas
ortega said on wednesday that sandinista troops had pushed about 2,000 contra soldiers across the rio coco into honduras in a major offensive the began march 6, the largest this year
the contras have said they have 6,000 of their rebels inside nicaragua, out of a total force of 10,000. most of the 2,000 contras reportedly pushed into honduras had been fighting in nicaragua's central chontales province
nicaragua's defense ministry previously said the offensive involved about 6,000 sandinista troops in central and northwestern nicaragua. the sandinista total military strength of 75,000, including reserves and militias, is by far the largest in central america
ortega said the rebels have suffered 400 casualties, including 92 dead. he said 34 soldiers of the sandinista army, which is supplied and trained by cuba and the soviet union, were killed and 68 wounded
nazi leader rudolf hess was buried in his family's plot thursday, seven months after his suicide in a west berlin prison. police stood guard at the cemetery to prevent any disturbances
hess' burial was postponed last august after nazi sympathizers began gathering at the graveyard in wunsiedel in northern bavaria
germany was his life,'' read the inscription on a large bouquet of flowers left at the gravesite
the former deputy of adolf hitler hanged himself at age 93 on aug. 17 in spandau prison. he was the last imprisoned leader of nazi germany
hess' final wish was to be buried at the family plot in wunsiedel, in northern bavaria. but after the sympathizers began massing, his family decided to bury hess temporarily at a secret location
the family had kept secret the time and date of thursday's burial at wundsiedel until it was over
the wunsiedel cemetery was temporarily sealed off and police officers stood guard to prevent any disturbances, said police spokesman rainer meier
witnesses who later spoke to the associated press on the condition of anonymity said thursday's service was videotaped. hess' widow, ilse, has been in failing health for years and the witnesses said she was not present
among those attending were the former nazi leader's son, wolf-ruediger hess, and his wife, andrea, according to funeral home director charlotte koerzdoerffer
ms. koerzdoerffer told the ap that about a dozen people attended the burial. ``he was buried quietly and quickly,'' she said
meier said police had been informed of the burial well in advance and that authorities were able to ``take appropriate measures.''
he said he did not know where hess' body had been before thursday's burial
about half a dozen elderly people strolled near hess' grave later thursday
he should be left in peace,'' said a woman in her 70s. she declined to give her name
as another elderly couple walked up to view the grave, the woman muttered: ``after all these years he's home.''
hess' grave was covered with green ivy and several bouquets of flowers, including a large yellow one with a white ribbon
inscribed on the ribbon in bold gold lettering was the name ``rudolf hess,'' and the words ``deutschland war sein leben'' (germany was his life)
two policemen standing by their vans declined to discuss why they had been posted there. a typewritten sign encased in plastic and tied to the cemetery gate said that taking photographs in the cemetery was not allowed without the permission of the management
demonstrations in the cemetery are banned,'' the sign also said
at the nuremberg war crimes trial, hess was found guilty of ``preparing and waging an aggressive war.'' the court sentenced him to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole
hess had been the only inmate in spandau prison since 1966. he was nearly blind at the end of his life and spent most of the day in his cell
he had been imprisoned since 1941, when he parachuted into scotland in a bizarre, self-proclaimed bid to end world war ii
after his death, dozens of neo-nazis converged on wunsiedel, to show their support for the dead nazi
wunsiedel, a town of 10,200 people nestled in rolling hills 11 miles from the czech border, is known for fine porcelain
israeli warplanes divebombed a palestine liberation organization base in druse-held territory above beirut on thursday in the deepest air raid into lebanon this year
police said one guerrilla was killed and another was wounded along with his 2-year-old son. it was israel's third air strike against palestinian targets in lebanon since january
the air strike came a day after guerrillas in south lebanon fired soviet-made katyusha rockets into northern israel, shattering windows and damaging citrus trees. no casualties were reported
the new assault was mounted by six israeli fighter-bombers, demolishing a two-story building used as a base by the democratic front for the liberation of palestine with four direct shell hits, police said
the moscow-oriented front, headed by nayef hawatmeh, is one of the eight factions making up yasser arafat's plo
a red mercedes-benz was seen buried in the rubble of the stricken base in aynab in the chouf mountains overlooking beirut's international airport. the base is just eight miles from beirut
palls of black smoke billowed from the target and police said all traffic at the airport was suspended for 15 minutes
the sound of explosions could be heard across the city as the howling jets criss-crossed the skies, drawing anti-aircraft fire from guerrilla positions
pilots released balloons to deflect heat-seeking, shoulder-fired sam-7 missiles unleashed by guerrillas. white puffs of smoke dotted the sky around the planes, but none was hit
police said the jets staged repeated mock attacks on palestinian bases in nearby chemlan, bayssour and kabr shmoun in the 10-minute raid, sending hundreds of villagers as well as guerrillas diving for cover
but there were no bombing sorties against bases in those villages of the popular front for the liberation of palestine-general command and the fatah-uprising, both at odds with arafat
the israeli army command said the targets had ``served as bases for planning and launching attacks against israel.''
all our planes returned safely and the pilots reported the destruction of the targets,'' a short israeli statement said
the guerrilla who was killed was standing sentry outside the base when the jets struck at aynab, said the front's chouf commander, who goes by the nom de guerre of abu raad
he said the wounded child, who was identified only as mohammed, suffered wounds in the head from flying glass shards. his father, who is a front fighter, was injured in the face and waist. mohammed's mother was not hurt
one guerrilla crawled out of the debris unharmed. he stood over the rubble, flashing the ``v'' for victory sign with one hand and brandishing a soviet-made ak-47 assault rifle with the other
abu raad said the casualties were low because the plo had ordered all guerrillas in lebanon to brace for air attacks in retaliation for palestinian riots against israel's occupation in the west bank and gaza strip. the violence began dec. 8
israeli warplanes raided targets near sidon, 25 miles south of beirut on jan. 2 and march 12. police said 25 people were killed and 40 wounded in the two attacks. a zoo</head>
a campaign to replace a polar bear killed by police at vilas park zoo has drawn $50,000 in contributions, not counting a company's offer to cover the full cost of one bear, officials say
it's really unbelievable,'' zoo director david hall said wednesday
the zoo's only polar bear, chief, was shot and later destroyed by police sunday after a man with a history of mental problems climbed into the cage and was injured by the animal. the man, who authorities won't identify, sustained a head wound and is in a mental health facility pending a committment hearing
radio station wmgn reported raising $27,700 on wednesday, when it broadcast live from the zoo all day. in addition, the zoo has gotten direct donations of about $17,000, including two quarters ttaped to an index card and several dollar bills tucked inside a child's drawing of a bear, hall said
the wisconsin state journal said it had received checks and cash amounting to $2,400 through donations to a ``bring a polar bear back to our zoo'' fund
the rayovac corp., a madison-based battery manufacturer, pledged to cover the entire cost for one bear. ``we just decided that this thing has great support from the community,'' spokesman john daggett said
hall said he is hoping to obtain a pair of bears but, even if they are found, the money raised will more than cover the expense. he estimated the cost of a polar bear at $10,000 to $15,000. a young, mating pair would cost an additional $20,000 to $30,000
but hall said finding polar bears for the zoo may prove to be a much harder task than raising the money. ``we're working on it, but they're a difficult animal to acquire.''
polar bears in the wild are endangered, and records from zoos in the united states and europe indicate only eight were born in captivity in 1986
finding a mate the same age is not an easy task,'' hall added. ``if we can't get a cub, we'll try for an older animal.''
money left over will go to the construction of the new vilas zoo education building, which will cost about $450,000
three-time iditarod trail sled dog race winner susan butcher is shooting for a fourth victory next year, saying she can whittle a day off her record time to cover the 1,150 mile-course in just 10 days
i think it can be done, and i want to be the one to do it,'' she said
butcher left her nearest competitor miles behind on the windblown bering sea coast wednesday night to breeze into the record books with her third straight victory
the 33-year-old musher charged down front street in this old gold mining town at 8:42 p.m. (ast) wednesday. she covered the storm-wracked course from anchorage to nome in 11 days, 11 hours, and 41 minutes
her elapsed time _ the actual time on the course minus the time spent on mandatory breaks _ set a record for the race's longer, more arduous northern route. she broke her own record set in 1986. and last year she set the record for the southern route
it means a lot to me to win three years in a row,'' said the flushed and perspiring musher. ``but the win doesn't mean as much to me as knowing the dogs were able to do it.''
race officials presented her dog team's leaders, granite and tolstoy, with wreaths of plastic yellow roses. they said real roses would have wilted quickly in the 10-degree temperature fanned by 30-mph winds
the dogs, ice hanging from their muzzles, appeared perplexed by the glaring television lights and the press of the crowd chanting ``susan, susan.''
she was met by her husband, dave monson, who won the 1,000-mile yukon quest international sled dog race earlier this month
butcher received $30,000 for winning, down from last year's top prize of $50,000. the financial problems of the race committee during the past year caused her winning check last year to bounce, although she eventually collected all her money
butcher held an unthreatened lead since tuesday, when she blew by martin buser 171 miles from nome
she said she would be back for the 17th annual iditarod next year, but added she might give up the 200- and 300-mile intermediate races she ran this year
it's been a long year,'' she said
only one other musher, rick swenson, has ever won the race four times. butcher and swenson are the only ones in 16 years ever to win more than once
the jury in the cocaine-smuggling trial of carlos lehder rivas got its first look at a large amount of cocaine thursday _ 126 kilograms, worth $6.3 million
lehder, 38, a reputed colombian drug lord, is on trial on charges he and others conspired to bring 3.3 tons of cocaine into the united states from colombia via norman's cay in the bahamas
the 277 pounds of cocaine, brought into court on a cart covered with a sheet, was seized on march 5, 1980, from a large safe at a miami-area stash house, according to court testimony
extra drug agents were in the courtroom when the cocaine was displayed. the halls outside the courtroom were cleared as the cart was wheeled to and from the chamber
richard crawford, a federal drug agent with the new york drug enforcement task force, displayed a two-kilo package that carried the initials ``c-i-a.''
crawford said he came to miami in february 1980 to trace the source of cocaine coming into the new york area
in arguments earlier this week over the admissability of the cocaine as evidence, u.s. attorney robert w. merkle said the cocaine would be linked to lehder through testimony and documents
in 1980, tulio e. ayerbe was arrested in connection with the seizure, one of the largest in u.s. history
defense attorneys had argued that the cocaine was not tied to lehder and that its admission was ``irrelevant and prejudicial.''
the government has said it can tie the miami cocaine to lehder through car rental records and because the warehouse it was delivered to was used by one of lehder's business fronts
merkle has claimed the cocaine shown the jury was part of a 500-kilogram shipment from colombia that was flown to reidsville, ga., by lehder pilots ed ward and gregory von eberstein in february 1980 and then driven to fort lauderdale by paul alexander
alexander testified earlier this week that he delivered the cocaine to a lehder employee named jackie mowerman. mowerman took alexander's station wagon and returned three hours later in a blue ford mustang, saying there had been problems getting the stash house opened, alexander testified
crawford testified thursday that the mustang rented by mowerman was seen in late february at the opa-locka warehouse that was used as the stash house
he estimated the cocaine was worth $50,000 a kilogram in 1980
this is only the second time in the cocaine-smuggling trial, now in its 15th week of testimony, that the drug has been displayed in the courtroom. in december, two kilos seized from a suitcase in west palm beach were shown to jurors
lehder, said to be one of the leaders of the violent colombian medellin cartel, is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
co-defendant jack carlton reed, 57, of san pedro, calif., is charged only with being a part of the smuggling conspiracy
american infantry and airborne forces began arriving in honduras today as the reagan administration said outnumbered contra rebels were holding out against up to 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers inside honduras
the sandinista forces ``are not withdrawing at all,'' assistant secretary of state elliott abrams told reporters after a closed capitol hill briefing
members of congress in attendance said administration officials had also painted a picture of more than 1,000 rebels hemmed in at a base just inside nicaragua
a pentagon source said the sandinistas continued to pound the contras inside honduras as well. the source, requesting anonymity, said that ``the contra camps are under intense pressure.''
from managua, a nicaraguan foreign ministry spokesman said again today that his nation's troops had not crossed the border and called on the united nations and the organization of american states to ``establish what the facts are.''
and nicaraguan president daniel ortega, while not confirming that his troops had invaded honduras, told a news conference that he would not withdraw his forces stationed near the border until the u.s. forces left honduras
however, both the democratic chairman and the republican vice chairman of the senate intelligence committee said after a briefing that reagan had little choice but to agree to honduran president jose azcona's request for help
the senators, democrat david boren of oklahoma and republican william cohen of maine, also agreed that the nicaraguan move was an staged incursion, not a hot pursuit of fleeing contras
another lawmaker who was briefed, sen. alan dixon, d-ill., said that ``there has clearly been a penetration'' by sandinista troops ``in fair numbers'' into honduras
other democrats said president reagan was ``unjustified'' in his action, had been guilty of ``overreaction'' and called the reports of an invasion of honduras ``ridiculous.''
the american deployment, of 3,200 troops more than 100 miles from the fighting, was the most dramatic show of u.s. force in the six-year nicaraguan war
in managua, a nicaraguan foreign ministry spokesman said again today that his nation's troops had not crossed the border and called on the united nations and the organization of american states to ``establish what the facts are.''
the american forces _ about 2,000 troops in two battalions from the 82nd airborne division at fort bragg, n.c. _ began arriving shortly after 11 a.m. est at palmerola air base, about 125 miles from the reported hostilities, after a three-hour flight. they were being joined later in the day by two battalions from the 7th infantry divisions at fort ord, calif
the 2,000 men from the 82nd airborne were ``excited,'' said lt. gen. john w. foss, adding, ``but i would not say they were nervous.''
most of the men, being ferried on a total of 55 transport planes leaving at 30-minute intervals, were flying directly to palmerola, but about 800 would parachute into honduran territory about 5 miles away and then move toward palmerola, said the commander of the 82nd airborne, maj. gen. carl stiner
accompanying the 82nd airborne troops was a giant c-5 transport loaded with three light observation helicopters, four cobra helicopter gunships, one blackhawk helicopter, a command vehicle and ammunition
nicaraguan foreign ministry spokesman alejandro bendana, interviewed from managua on the nbc-tv ``today'' show, said nicaraguan forces battling the u.s.-backed contras had reached the border with honduras
there's been a cross fire and there's been fighting alongside the border,'' he said, adding that ``the operations have successfully been concluded and we don't plan to stay in the border region.''
bendana said nicaragua would fly reporters to the area later in the day. in addition, he said, ``we've called for an oas-un mission to go to the site and let them establish what the facts are.''
they can go and see for themselves,'' he said. ``don't take our word for it.''
but secretary of state george p. shultz, appearing before the senate budget committee, laid out this scenario:
_intelligence efforts detected preparations for a nicaraguan drive march 9. first contact between the sandinistas and contras inside honduras came the next day
_on tuesday, the contras reported heavy fighting and attacks from nicaraguan bombers inside honduras
_on wednesday, ``we saw a presence of 1,600 to 2,000 sandinista troops'' in honduras. aiding the nicaraguan ground forces were bombers and heavily armed helicopters, he said
shultz laid part of the responsibility for the contras' dire straits on the house, which last month voted not to renew aid to the rebels
the decision ... to deny aid to the resistance has dealt them and, in my opinion, the cause of freedom, a very serious blow,'' he said
but the drumbeat of democratic opposition continued
house speaker jim wright of texas said, ``i know of nothing that justifies sending troops'' to honduras
sen. john kerry, d-mass., called the u.s. move ``an overreacton,'' adding, ``i think the notion that there's a real invasion is just ridiculous
i think it's a move the president may come to regret because the spectacle of american troops moving into central america in convoy, flying down there, i think is going to remind the american people of why they don't want this.''
it's an overreaction,'' said senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va. ``we've heard the administration cry, `wolf, wolf,' before. i don't know when they're crying wolf.''
some members of congress noted that the deployment came as the administration was making a renewed push for aid for the contras
but rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., interviewed on ``cbs this morning,'' said he doubted the events would not change lawmakers' positions
`we're very evenly divided in the house and in the congress on aid, and i don't see that fundamentally changing,'' he said
shultz said the united states had dispatched its troops in part ``to get people's attention to what is happening in central america'' and to say to the honduran government, ```we are your friends. we stand with you.'''
he also told the committee, ``it's important that people know the united states will fight.'' but he added that the troops ``are not there in a shooting capacity. we haven't been asked for that.''
some congressional leaders had been briefed by telephone late wednesday, but byrd said today he was still waiting for hard administration evidence to back up its statements on the nicaraguan troop movements
u.s. aid to the contras ran out two weeks ago, and the administration is hoping the new situation will earn the contras greater sympathy in congress
fitzwater said the u.s. deployment came in response to a request from azcona. he said reagan was briefed on the request about 8 p.m. est in his residence and decided to send in u.s. forces
the u.s. merchandise trade deficit widened to $12.44 billion in january, the government reported thursday, but economists said the 1.9 percent increase was too small to cause alarm
both exports and imports fell _ exports by 10 percent to $22.33 billion and imports by 6 percent to $34.77 billion. the trade deficit is the difference between the two
analysts said the export drop was expected and happens every january. but the decline in imports was greeted as good news and a further indication that the trade balance is slowly improving
the commerce department said that january's deficit was up from $12.20 billion in december, but down from those of $13.21 billion in november and $17.63 billion in october
if the january level continued for 12 consecutive months, it would yield an annual trade deficit of about $149 billion. in 1987, the merchandise trade deficit was $171.22 billion
there was a seasonal decline in exports, which have dropped in january every year of this decade,'' said commerce secretary c. william verity. ``there is obviously a long way to go to eliminate the trade deficit. but we are on the right track.''
private economists appeared to agree
we tend to be very impatient and all expect dramatic improvements every month. but the trade numbers are very time consuming to change,'' said jay goldinger, chief economist for capital insight, a los angeles brokerage house. ``it's a large vessel and it can't move that quickly. but i believe the ship continues to travel in the right direction.''
the january report represented a slight setback after two consecutive monthly improvements and reclaimed some of the gains won from surging exports at the end of 1987. but there were some bright spots
for instance, the deficit with japan _ still the largest single-country imbalance _ fell by 17.6 percent in january to $3.95 billion, its lowest level since december 1986
imports of japanese cars registered a 19.5 percent drop in january alone, to $1.62 billion
and the nation showed its first surplus in nearly three years with britain, with exports overtaking imports by $75 million
for all western europe, the deficit declined 51 percent, to $1.33 billion
this is the first clear evidence that we are rooting out imported products from japan and western europe,'' said jerry jasinowski, chief economist for the national association of manufacturers
while disappointed by january's export figures, jasinowski said ``the trade numbers are fabulous on the import side.''
a weaker dollar _ worth roughly 50 percent less now than it was three years ago against japanese and european currencies _ is credited with making u.s. goods more competitive abroad and imports more costly at home
however, the deficit worsened in january with trading partners who have not seen the same degree of dollar devaluation against their currencies
it was up 77 percent with canada to $1.12 billion, up 20 percent with taiwan to $1.32 billion, up 19 percent with south korea to $910.9 million and up 16 percent with the organization of petroleum exporting countries to $1.03 billion
unlike many other government economic statistics, the monthly trade figures are not adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, although they will be starting with april
because exports always fall after the christmas season, analysts suggested that the january figures were misleading and overstated the actual trade deficit
robert ortner, under secretary of commerce for economic affairs, said that if a seasonal adjustment calculation had been applied to the january figures, instead of showing a $235 million deterioration from december, the figures would have shown roughly a $1 billion improvement
at the white house, spokesman marlin fitzwater called it ``an excellent report.'' he said that ``in the last three months, we have seen a dramatic drop in the trade deficit. today's report continues that trend.''
however the afl-cio argued in a statement: ``the figures are the reality, and no amount of theorizing can deny them. the u.s. trade deficit, up over last month, is more than enough to show that there's a need for a strong trade bill.''
the report comes several days after the commerce department reported that the current account deficit _ an even broader measure of the trade balance than the merchandise figures _ increased in 1987 to a record $160.7 billion
the current account deficit also includes investment flows and trade in services
in another economic report on thursday, the federal reserve said that america's factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity in february _ the same rate as in january and december. the level for the three months is the highest operating rate in more than eight years
following is an excerpt from the majority opinion written by justice hugo black in gideon vs. wainwright, handed down march 18, 1963. (three justices filed separate concurring opinions):
governments, both state and federal, quite properly spend vast sums of money to establish machinery to try defendants accused of crime. lawyers to prosecute are everywhere deemed essential to protect the public's interest in an orderly society. similarly, there are few defendants charged with crime, few indeed, who fail to hire the best lawyers they can get to prepare and present their defenses
that government hires lawyers to prosecute and defendants who have the money hire lawyers to defend are the strongest indications of the widespread belief that lawyers in criminal courts are necessities, not luxuries. the right of one charged with crime to counsel may not be deemed fundamental and essential to fair trials in some countries, but it is in ours
from the very beginning, our state and national constitutions and laws have laid great emphasis on procedural and substantive safeguards designed to assure fair trials before impartial tribunals in which every defendant stands equal before the law. this noble idea cannot be realized if the poor man charged with crime has to face his accusers without a lawyer to assist him.''
the publication date of a book by former white house chief of staff donald t. regan has been moved to may based ``on the revelations and scope'' of the manuscript, it was announced thursday
harcourt brace jovanovich said in a statement that regan delivered the manuscript of ``for the record: from wall street to washington,'' last week and it would be in stores by may 16
the book ``offers fresh insight into the dynamics of the reagan white house, including revelations concerning the unorthodox factors that influence the decision-making process,'' the statement said
the book had been scheduled to come out in september. harcourt brace jovanovich paid $1 million for the publishing rights
alexandria, va. _ president reagan paid a surprise visit to an irish pub in a washington suburb today, joining a noisy, hand-clapping crowd in singing irish songs to honor st. patrick's day
reagan sipped beer and munched on corned beef and cabbage at ireland's own, a restaurant and bar, with columnist james j. kilpatrick
the president, a moderate drinker, left most of the beer in his glass
he joined in singing ``when irish eyes are smiling'' and other favorites and in clapping to guitar and fiddle music
at the end of his stay, reagan, who like most presidents is seldom seen handling money, reached into his pocket for some currency and paid the check
after leaving the bar, the president was going the capitol to drop in on another st. patrick's day gathering hosted by house speaker jim wright, d-texas
individuals and businesses voluntarily paid only 83.2 percent of the federal income taxes they owed last year, leaving the government with a tax gap of $84.9 billion, the internal revenue service said thursday
more than half the shortage was attributed to individuals who file tax returns but fail to report income from moonlighting, a small business or other legal non-wage sources
irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs said closing the gap may require a basic change of attitude among taxpayers in much the same way, he said, that they came to consider drunken driving unacceptable
i think in this country we still have an attitude ... (that) it's socially acceptable to cut a corner here and there'' on taxes, gibbs told the house ways and means oversight subcommittee
we are going to destroy the system'' unless a way is found to ensure that everyone pays a fair share, said rep. j.j. pickle, d-texas, chairman of the subcommittee
pickle said the irs estimate is understated, even for legal income. he noted the irs made no effort to estimate the tax loss from narcotics, prostitution and other illegal sources of income
as serious a problem as the $84.9 billion gap represents, gibbs said, there was good news:
_the 1987 gap is $30 billion less than the irs forecast in 1983 that it would be. gibbs attributed the decline to new tax laws, improved data collection, lower estimates of cheating on tips and capital gains, and a decision not to count $7 billion in taxes that were acknowledged but not paid
_the rate of voluntary compliance, which had dropped to 81.1 percent in 1986, rose last year to 83.2 percent, virtually the same level as 1973. gibbs said compliance by individuals and corporations is expected to continue rising through 1992, but still remain below 85 percent
because of a growing economy and inflation, the dollar amount of the tax gap will keep going up, gibbs said. the gap, which totaled $28 billion in 1973, is expected to climb to $87 billion this year and almost $114 billion in 1992
the tax gap includes money that eventually may be collected by irs enforcement procedures. the irs collected about $475 billion in corporate and individual income taxes last year
inflated wages and economic growth will offset part of the tax-gap decline that could be expected because of tougher enforcement provisions enacted over the last several years, as well as the lower tax rates and smaller number of deductions that resulted from the big tax overhaul enacted in 1986
to the extent that, under new law, a subtraction from income is no longer allowed, a taxpayer cannot overstate it on the tax return,'' the report reasons. ``this reduces non-compliance. moreover, because rates at which individual incomes are taxed were reduced, the tax gap associated with any given amount of unreported income fell.''
the biggest single cause of the tax gap is the underreporting of income by individuals who file returns. that cost more than $48 billion last year, or almost 57 percent of the gap. almost $17 billion of that income was from non-farm businesses conducted as sole proprietorships. another $7.7 billion was attributed to such ``informal suppliers'' as moonlighting carpenters and roadside vendors
overstatement of individual deductions accounted for 4.1 percent of the 1987 tax gap, or $3.5 billion; claiming too many personal exemptions cost $2 billion
another $7 billion of the gap was blamed on people with taxable earnings who failed to file a return. another $1 billion was lost to taxpayers who make mathematical errors on their returns
individuals accounted for more than $63 billion of the gap; corporations, more than $21 billion. companies with assets of $10 million or more were responsible for three-fourths of the corporate gap
because of withholding and similar accounting, the irs said, individuals who file returns voluntarily report 99.5 percent of their wages and salaries, 98.4 percent of pension income and almost 95 percent of interest and dividends. for capital gains the figure is 88 percent
on the other hand, roadside merchants and moonlighting craftsmen report only 13.1 percent of their earnings
because the 1986 tax overhaul shifted $125 billion in taxes from individuals to corporations over five years, the irs projects the corporate tax gap to rise from nearly $15.6 billion in 1986 to $31 billion in 1992. sted 56 and that it ties the 1901 mark.</note>
with spring just three days away, the sunshine state is shivering, and forecasters say this week's unseasonable cold _ including some freezing temperatures and crop-damaging frost _ will be back again next week
overnight lows in north florida dropped below freezing today for the second day. but temperatures in central florida down to the everglades apparently did not dip low enough for a second night of scattered frost, as predicted
the mercury dipped to 25 in tallahassee, the lowest for march 17 since 28 degrees in 1981. a 53-degree reading in key west _ the southernmost city in the contiguous united states _ tied a 1901 mark
agricultural damage from the frost was slight and confined primarily to fragile, nearly harvest-ready winter sweet corn and other vegetables in western palm beach
r.c. hatton inc., near belle glade, lost 420 of 2,800 acres of sweet corn, worth about $189,000, a company spokesman said. hatton flew three helicopters over the crop tuesday night, circulating warmer air
about 3,000 acres of sweet corn, a fourth of belle glade's crop, suffered some damage, said sam scruggs of hugh branch inc
palm beach county's corn production was almost $33 million last season
patchy frost in immokalee, west of palm beach, caused some scattered damage to peppers, tomatoes and other winter crops, said chuck eggleton, meteorologist at the weather service's agriculture forecasting office
but temperatures weren't cold enough for long enough to harm florida's citrus industry
big ike, a pecan tree believed to be one of the world's largest, will escape a chainsaw after all, its owner says
it seemed i would lose big ike and i said, `god, if there's a door, let me find it,''' dewayne davis, on whose family farm near corinth the 150-year-old tree stands, said this week
davis has organized a prayer and letter-writing campaign to save the tree, which way in the way of a proposed widening of u.s. 45. finally, a professor at mississippi state university notified him that a team of forestry and horticulture experts could move the tree to safety, 50 yards away
john d. hodges, a professor of forestry at mississippi state and a member of the team that will move the tree, said chances were ``probably no better than 50-50'' that the tree will survive the move. no date for it has been set
highway departent officials determined earlier this year that it would cost too much for them to move the tree, which is 210 inches around at its base
davis, who now lives in richmond, va., said he read a newspaper account earlier his week about a 200-year-old magnolia in virginia that was being moved, so he called mississippi state and told his story to rodney foil, vice president of forestry and agriculture at the university in starkville
foil agreed to recruit a team to supervise the move
davis said fourth-graders in kossuth adopted the tree and others wrote letters to gov. ray mabus urging him to save big ike
youths at my church in richmond prayed and more than 150 children have formed what we call the big ike bunch,'' davis said. ``we have a newsletter and a big ike t-shirt.''
the irish republican army buried a guerrilla thursday alongside the trampled graves and tumbled tombstones where a protestant gunman killed three people and wounded 68 at an ira funeral a day earlier
wearing shamrocks and green or black armbands on a somber st. patrick's day, 3,000 mourners gathered in the roman catholic milltown cemetery to bury kevin mccracken yards from where the gunman opened fire and hurled grenades on wednesday
at st. patrick's day services, catholic leaders appealed for calm amid fears the cemetery killings will herald new and prolonged sectarian clashes. for the second day, police reported sporadic rioting and car burning in belfast's catholic districts thursday
police kept a discreet distance while funeral speakers, standing amid tombstones knocked over in wednesday's pandemonium, renewed charges that british authorities and northern ireland's mainly protestant police force colluded in the attack
britain attacked us yesterday ... let britain take a lesson from our presence here today: you can never defeat us,'' declared jim mcallister, a leading member of the outlawed ira's political wing, sinn fein
a british army patrol shot mccracken, 33, on monday night in belfast after he fired on them, the army said
before his funeral, three hooded ira gunmen fired three volleys _ the movement's traditional salute to its dead _ in a side street near his home. they fired over a makeshift shrine of his photograph surrounded by wreaths
firing the volleys in a side street avoided attracting police action at the funeral. britain has banned paramilitary displays by both catholic and protestant groups in the province
black flags fluttered from the windows of row houses in west belfast's cramped streets as mccracken's coffin, topped with the irish tricolor flag and his guerrilla insignia of a black beret and gloves, was driven to milltown
gerry adams, president of the outlawed ira's legal political wing, sinn fein, said the royal ulster constabulary's denial of complicity in wednesday's attack ``rings hollow.'' he claimed some police officers were also members of protestant paramilitary groups
northern ireland secretary tom king, britain's top official in the province, described the charges of police complicity as a ``disgraceful allegation.''
police said a protestant, michael stone, who allegedly mounted wednesday's gun and grenade attack with an accomplice, remained under armed guard in the hospital. the accomplice, who was not identified, also was in police custody
stone was grabbed by youths near the cemetery and badly beaten before police arrived
police can hold the two for a week without charge under anti-terrorist laws
the gunman opened fire wednesday from behind a gravestone as the coffins of three guerrillas shot march 6 by british commandos in gibraltar were being lowered into a single grave
the ira said one of the three men shot and killed during the milltown, 30-year-old kevin brady, was an ira member
eight of the people injured in the attack remained hospitalized, including four who were in serious condition
the ulster defense association, an umbrella organization of protestant vigilante groups, was quoted as saying stone was turned down for membership a year ago
he was just too extreme,'' said a uda spokesman, who spoke on condition he was not identified. ``there was no way a man like that could have been disciplined.''
catholics who packed a st. patrick's day rally in casement park soccer stadium thursday hung a poster with stone's picture and the word ``wanted,'' along with his name, address and telephone number
this st. patrick's day we are in mourning,'' adams told the crowd
more than 5,000 people marched behind pipe and drum bands to the rally to protest the jailing in britain of six irishmen convicted of bombing a birmingham pub in 1974, killing 21 people. they have long maintained they are innocent
black streamers fluttered from the drums as the parade wound through streets dotted with shells of cars burned in overnight rioting
sinn fein said brady, too, will likely be buried at milltown, the graveyard of dozens of guerrillas killed in the ira's nearly 20-year bomb and bullet campaign to end british rule
the ira aims to unite northern ireland, nearly two-thirds protestant, with the catholic republic of ireland under a socialist adminsitration
israel began its first major trials on thursday of soldiers charged with brutality in the arab rebellion, and palestinians wounded an israeli with gunfire for the first time since the violence began dec. 8
israeli warplanes raided palestinian guerrilla bases in the mountains south of beirut, and newspapers said secretary of state george p. shultz may return to the middle east early next month to promote the u.s. peace plan. the raid came a day after rockets landed in northern israel, causing light damage
authorities increased restrictions in the occupied territories, which already include travel bans and a cut-off of telephone service to the outside. a military official said must get approval to bring $1,000 or more from neighboring jordan, where most hold citizenship and have family
the rules are intended to hamper the palestine liberation organization in organizing and financing the protests
trials beginning thursday involved the burial alive of four arabs by an army bulldozer feb. 5 in kfar salem, a west bank village, and the beating feb. 24 of two palestinians near nablus, which was photographed by a cbs news crew
neighbors soon rescued the buried palestinians. the beating was televised around the world and aroused international protest
several weeks after trouble began in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, the army introduced a policy of beating rioters as an alternative to firing live ammunition. at least 100 palestinians have been killed in more than three months of violence, and hundreds wounded
yair nissimi and dror segen-cohen, both army privates, pleaded guilty in the burial case to reduced charges of shameful behavior. the plea bargain would give nissimi 2{ months in jail and segen-cohel two months, and both would be placed on probation
a three-judge panel is to rule march 29 on whether to accept the arrangement
sgt. maj. charlie danino pleaded innocent to assault and unbecoming conduct, and is expected to argue that he was not at the scene
mustafa hamdan, one of those buried, said of the plea bargain: ``they buried four people alive. if an arab did that they would have given him 200 years.''
defense lawyer josef danai said in court the burial was ``an instance of letting off steam, revenge and deterrence'' by soldiers in difficult circumstances
we have to view this in its proper proportion,'' he said. ``after all, what did they do? they spilled a little earth on them. the tractor driver said an ant could have gotten out of it.''
danai said the army was sending to the occupied territories ``young boys inexperienced in life who ... are unable to handle this difficult mission.'' sgt. amichai vaturi, who was at the scene but is not charged, testified that the arabs were covered with about two feet of wet earth but their heads and shoulders were exposed
hamdan said the heads of three men were covered
in the beating case, sagi harpaz and yehuda angel, army privates, pleaded innocent to assault and the case was recessed
angel's lawyer, david ofek, called the defendants scapegoats. ``the orders to soldiers were to break arms and legs of arab inciters they capture,'' he said
two other soldiers were sentenced tuesday to 10 and 21 days in jail for minor roles in the beating
in the gaza strip, arabs armed with a pistol and an assault rifle shot 44-year-old israeli contractor adi tzabaria several times in the legs near the jabaliya refugee camp, said ilana ziv, spokesman for barzilai hospital in ashkelon
the army confirmed the shooting. it was the first time an israeli, civilian or soldier, has been reported hit by arab gunfire since the beginning of what palestinians now call ``the uprising.''
an arab truck driver in the same area tried to run down an israeli soldier earlier thursday but he escaped without injury, the army said
arab reports from jabaliya said the army fired tear gas and rubber bullets at 800 schoolgirls who stoned soldiers, raised palestinian flags and burned tires
officials of a u.n. clinic said 25 girls were treated for minor injuries. the camp was placed under curfew
palestine press service, an arab-run news agency, said soldiers in the west bank arrested 150 palestinians overnight in nablus, jenin, qabitiyeh, ramallah and hebron. the army said it was investigating the report
arab reporters said the army blocked dairy and produce deliveries to nablus, tulkarm and jericho. an army spokesmen said the reports were being checked
a 25-year study of 1,969 men has shown a direct link between increased cholesterol in the diet and an increased risk of a fatal heart attack, researchers said thursday
many previous studies have shown that too much cholesterol in the blood raises the risk of dying from a heart attack, but this is the first study to show convincingly that cholesterol in the diet can raise blood cholesterol and in turn increase the likelihood of death from heart attacks, researchers said
furthermore, the study may explain why the incidence of heart disease is falling in the united states, said the study's author, richard shekelle of the university of texas school of public health in houston
the men shekelle studied, workers at a western electric co. plant in chicago, had a median intake of 737 milligrams of cholesterol per day _ roughly the amount in three eggs _ when the study began
average cholesterol consumption in americans is now about 400 or 450 milligrams per day, shekelle said
our data are consistent with the idea that this decline in the intake of cholesterol over the past 25 years may have contributed to the observed decline in coronary heart disease,'' shekelle said at an american heart association meeting
heart association figures show a 20 percent drop in coronary heart disease during the last decade
shekelle's study was praised by other scientists at the meeting. ``there haven't been many studies showing the link between dietary cholesterol and mortality,'' said suzanne haynes of the national cancer institute. ``this is one of the first and it's very important.''
dwayne reed of the national heart, lung and blood institute said, ``we all know that serum (blood) cholesterol is important. it's going back that one step from serum cholesterol to dietary cholesterol that's been so important. we've all looked at it, but we've never found it.''
shekelle said his findings, made in collaboration with jeremiah stamler of northwestern university in chicago, provide the most convincing demonstration so far that dietary cholesterol increases that risk of death from heart disease. he said that several other studies had suggested such a link
in shekelle's study, men who consumed more than 500 milligrams of cholesterol per day had a 22 percent higher risk of dying from a heart attack than did men whose cholesterol intake was low enough to rank them in the bottom fifth of the group
shekelle and stamler began following the western electric workers in 1957 and 1958. in 1981, the researchers reported a link between dietary cholesterol and fatal heart attacks
since then, he said, they have been combing the data to be sure that those men who consumed higher cholesterol did not have other dietary abnormalities that were contributing to the increased risk of fatal heart attacks
we tried to make that association (between cholesterol and mortality) go away, and we couldn't do it,'' shekelle said
the researchers found that the link persisted when they discounted the effects of known risk factors such as high blood pressure, smoking, alcohol consumption and family history of heart disease
two gunmen with irish brogues and wearing halloween masks, black tights and jumpsuits tied up the employees of a hollywood jewelry store thursday, then fled with $1 million in precious gems, police said
no one was injured in the robbery at dolly don quixote jewelers, officer don lawrence said
he added it wasn't immediately known how many people were tied up or if any customers were in the store
he said the bandits were seen fleeing in a van
store employees contacted police after they freed themselves from their bonds, lawrence said
iraq fired a missile into tehran and bombed other cities thursday, and iran said it seized two iraqi border towns despite chemical-bomb attacks. iran says the iraqi attacks killed 28 civilians
the renewed missile raid followed an appeal by united nations secretary-general javier perez de cuellar for a halt in the ``war of the cities,'' which has raged for more than two weeks apart from a fragile two-day truce
iranian prime minister hussein musavi said in tehran that the u.n. security council was no more than a tool in the hands of the major powers
iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980
in istanbul, two newspapers reported that premier turgut ozal said turkey closed its airspace to all military flights from iran or iraq, both neighbors of turkey
the u.s. defense department said the 17th persian gulf convoy operation of the year ended thursday morning. it said the u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tanker gas prince arrived safely off kuwait, escorted by the guided-missile frigate uss simpson
the missile strike was reported by the official iraqi news agency, which said iraq was bombarding ``the nest of evil, the hideout of the charlatans, because instead of accepting peace they have chosen the course of aggression.''
iraq says it has launched 23 missiles into the iranian capital since sunday, when the ``war of the cities'' reignited after a two-day truce. iran has reported firing seven missiles into baghdad
iran's islamic republic news agency said 28 civilians were killed in the latest missile strike and in iraqi warplane raids on four cities. both sides have reported scores of civilian casualties since feb. 29, but neither has given an overall figure
the agency also said iranian forces thursday fired seven short-range missiles into zoubair, an industrial town south of basra, and pounded border towns along the front
iran said its forces captured the town of dojaila, which irna said has a population of 20,000, and halabja, a town of 70,000 people. the towns are in sulaymaniyah province 160 miles north of baghdad
the iranian agency said 2,500 iraqi soldiers were killed or wounded in the fighting thursday. it gave no breakdown of the dead and wounded, and the figures could not be independently confirmed
the iraqi agency quoted an unidentified spokesman as denying there has been any combat in the region and calling the iranian claims ``cheap lies.''
tehran radio said iranian combatants had seized 300 square miles of iraqi territory in the region, including 102 villages. it said the prisoners included maj. gen. ali hussein obaid al-algawi, described as the commander of iraq's 43rd infantry division
the iranian agency said iraqi forces used chemical bombs against dojaila and halabja, ``killing many defenseless residents.'' it said the two towns were ``liberated under heavy bombing raids from the air by chemical bombs.''
the state-run agency also reported, without attribution, that 4,000 civilian residents of halabja were killed when the town was hit by iraqi chemical bombs wednesday. iraq did not comment on the claim and it could not be independently confirmed
ozal said the ban on flying through turkey's airspace applied to all iranian or iraqi planes with military cargo. turkey maintains relations with both nations and represents them in each other's capitals
ozal was quoted by the dailies sabah and cumhuriyet
two iranian cargo planes and two iraqi cargo planes reportedly loaded with arms were denied permission to use turkish airspace a week ago
a 29-year-old man who fell 220 feet from the golden gate bridge while trying to suspend himself in a trash can is believed to be the first person to survive an accidental fall from the span
it seemed like the fall lasted forever,'' paul alarab said from a hospital bed in this town about 30 miles northeast of san francisco. ``i was praying for god to give me another chance.''
there have been 851 known suicides from the 50-year-old bridge, and only 19 people have survived suicide attempts. alarab is believed to be the first to survive an accidental fall
i have been counting my blessings ever since i fell sunday night,'' he said, despite his two broken ribs and collapsed lungs
the unemployed salesman said he planned to occupy a 33-gallon barrel dangling from the bridge by a 60-foot rope to protest the treatment of the elderly and handicapped. but he slipped while lowering himself down the rope and hit the bottom girder of the bridge
i tried to cling to the girder but i did a flip and continued sliding down the rope. i hoped to land in the barrel but i missed and fell head-over-heels, tumbling all the way to the water,'' he said
i hit with my head and chest first. i remember hitting the water, but it knocked me out immediately. i was about 20 feet underwater when i regained consciousness and started to swim back to the surface.''
alarab said he felt no pain or fear, theorizing, ``the adrenaline and shock prevented the pain, and i just thought i didn't want to die like this. i didn't want to hurt my family.''
no one spotted his plunge, which he said happened about 10 p.m. sunday night. authorities found only the rope and barrel dangling from the bridge and found a taxi driver who reported dropping a man off on the bridge with the equipment
alarab said it took two hours to swim to shore through the strong current. seven hours later, shivering from the 58-degree water, he was spotted by a fishing boat and picked up by the coast guard
alarab said he plans to continue his activism for senior citizens and handicapped, ``but i'll never put my life on the line again because i feel so lucky to be alive today.''
house speaker jim wright and some fellow democratic leaders on thursday criticized president reagan's decision to send some 3,200 troops to honduras as unjustified and potentially dangerous, but others in congress said the president had little choice
i know nothing that justifies sending troops,'' said wright, d-texas, who has made himself reagan's most visible congressional critic on central america policy. ``some in the white house have been trying to do everything, desperately, in their power to keep the war going.''
but a leading backer of nicaragua's contra rebels, senate intelligence committee chairman david boren, d-okla., said the president had no choice but to send u.s. troops after the troops of the nicaragua's leftist sandinista government reportedly attacked rebel camps inside honduras
he called the incursion a reaction to defeat of contra aid legislation in the house on march 3
the sandinista government has given its answer to congress,'' boren said. ``this is their way of saying, `thank you very much. you have taken the pressure off of us. we think we have this won in washington. now we're going to do what we've always intended and crush the resistance forces.'''
members of congress on both sides of the divisive contra aid issue said the incursion and the u.s. response would have little effect on prospects for a new aid package
administration officials, including secretary of state george shultz, assistant secretary elliott abrams, undersecretary for political affairs michael armacost and cia representatives, went to capitol hill to brief lawmakers on the situation along the border
but some members were withholding judgment on the administration's troop deployment, saying there was too much conflicting information coming out of the region to know what is really happening and whether it was warranted
it is a little hard to tell where the truth is,'' said rep. leon panetta, d-calif
the problem with all of this is that our policy in central america has been mired in deceptions and partisan confrontation,'' he said. ``i think most members are suspicious ... this has the smell of a ploy to provide military aid to the contras.''
rep. william broomfield, r-mich., the senior republican on the house foreign affairs committee, said after a briefing that the situation is ``extremely serious. the longer the sandinstas stay (in honduras), the more it jeopardizes the peace process.''
he said lawmakers were being told that more than 1,000 contra troops were hemmed in by sandinista forces in the bocay region along the border, and were in jeopardy
the administration's actions have been very measured. it's just a psychological effect at this point,'' broomfield said
added rep. michael dewine, r-ohio: ``unless congress changes its position quickly, it's over. it's the beginning of the end. this was inevitable, and it's a real tragedy.''
house armed services committee chairman les aspin, d-wis., also called the incursion serious and said he supported the troop deployment. ``i believe it might do some good. the name of the game is to get the sandinistas to back off.''
house democratic leaders questioned the administration's handling of the entire affair, saying they had continually been briefed or notified of developments only after the white house had released information to the news media, and as late as a few hours before the decision to send troops to honduras were told no such action was contemplated
we were told that the administration was reviewing its options, but the sending of troops was not among them,'' said house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif
what we have seen over the past week is not an attempt to communicate with congress or build consensus,'' he said. ``it is a public relations campaign aimed at the media to resurrect the failed policy of military aid for the contras.''
similar comments came from sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the senate foreign relations committee
i am startled by the administration's decision to dispatch army units to honduras, particularly as there was no prior consultation with the congress on such a momentous act of escalation of the conflict in central america,'' pell said in a statement
... to call hot pursuit an incursion or invasion is an exaggeration,'' he said. ``this creates a crisis atmosphere which some may have thought would squeeze more money out of congress for the contras.''
the following dispatch was written by steven komarow of the associated press, a member of a pentagon news pool covering the arrival of u.s. troops in honduras
planeloads of u.s. soldiers and supplies began arriving here thursday in a show of strength ordered by president reagan to counter what he called an invasion by nicaraguan forces
two battalions from the 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c., and two battalions from the 7th light infantry division of fort ord, calif., were combined into a task force of 3,000 troops. the group planned joint exercises with honduran forces
the deployment was about 125 miles west of the area where reagan administration officials say the nicaraguan sandinista army has chased rebel contra forces over the border into honduras
maj. gen. carl w. stiner, commander of the 82nd airborne, said he knew of no plan to have u.s. troops enter into the sandinista-contra battle
we have not been told to do so,'' he said before leaving fort bragg. he said the force was capable of that, if needed
he also said there was no plan to use the troops if more trouble broke out in nearby panama
stiner said the sandinista movements did not appear to be a full-fledged invasion, but he saw the u.s. operation as a deterrent
lt. gen. john w. foss, commander of the 18th airborne corps, said it was ``playing with words'' to argue what constitutes an invasion. it was, he said, useful to send a signal
at what point does intimidation become a threat?'' he asked, referring to the sandinista actions
the bulk of the troops were flown in thursday by c-141 transport plane without any parachute operations because of high winds, stiner said. the final 800 troops would arrive friday by parachute, weather permitting
stiner said the 82nd airborne was put on alert for an exercise in honduras at 12:55 p.m. wednesday. the exercise was made public by white house spokesman marlin fitzwater at 10 p.m., but it wasn't until four hours later that the division received the final go-ahead
the duration of the exercise has not been determined
while in honduras, the soldiers will train with the local army on mountaineering, parachute and helicopter operations, communications and other skills. foss said the hondurans recently taught u.s. servicemen to use mules to help with mountain expeditions
in addition to the c-141 aircraft, a giant c-5a transport was loaded with helicopter gunships for the exercise
a group of reporters from washington was on the first c-141 to arrive. the reporters were part of a department of defense media pool that was set up following a ban on coverage of the 1983 u.s. mission in grenada
about 1,150 of the troops in the honduras operation were coming from fort ord and the rest from fort bragg, stiner said
the news media included douglas allmond of abc-tv, rick inderfurth of abc-tv, philip mishoe of abc-tv, otto kreisher of copley news service, jay sapir of upi radio, joseph marquette of upi photos, frederick kempe of the wall street journal, robert cohn of newsweek, colleen combes of reuters photos, and steven komarow of the associated press. ready to liquidate u.s. forces. pick up 4th pvs, ``here the...'</note>
u.s. troops began arriving in honduras today in a dramatic show of force against nicaragua. president daniel ortega of nicaragua vowed to liquidate the force
the united states sent the 3,200 troops from the 82nd airborne division and the 7th light infantry division after accusing nicaragua of invading honduras in pursuit of contra rebels
col. manuel suarez benavides, spokesman for the honduran armed forces, said the government and the army had given nicaragua ``a peremptory deadline'' of 24 hours to withdraw 2,000 troops from honduras
in managua, capital of nicaragua, president daniel ortega declared, ``we are ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division.''
but he refused to confirm or deny if sandinista troops had crossed the border
here the question is not if (nicaraguan) army troops penetrated honduran territory or not, but that we have dozens of camps of mercenary forces in honduran territory, in view of and tolerated by the honduran government,'' ortega said at a news conference
he called the u.s. deployment ``another escalation of the war against nicaragua'' and asked for a meeting of the u.n. security council
the first planeload of u.s. soldiers arrived at palmerola air base, the main center of u.s. military operations in honduras, at 10:15 a.m., a u.s. embassy spokesman said
palmerola is about 40 miles northwest of tegucigalpa, the capital, and about 125 miles west of where heavy fighting was reported wednesday
honduran military intelligence sources said about 4,000 honduran soldiers were still surrounding about 2,000 nicaraguan troops. the armed forces spokesman said the troops were six miles inside honduras
we will not allow the sandinistas to move further into the interior of our territory,'' said one honduras military source who spoke on condition of anonymity
we want to avoid a large conflict, but if it isn't possible, we will have to face the invading troops.''
the sources told the associated press that the sandinista soldiers had been in the border province of olancho, east of tegucigalpa, for 24 hours when honduran troops encircled them wednesday
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the entire honduran military was on alert
the u.s. embassy spokesman said 26 c-141 planes carrying the 3,200 troops were arriving at palmerola every 30 minutes in an operation code-named ``golden pheasant'' by the pentagon. other cargo planes were carrying equipment
in washington, president spokesman marlin fitzwater said the complete deployment would take about 27 hours. the two battalions will conduct field exercises with honduran units
the defense department said the soldiers were carting their normal weapons along with nine helicopters and two light tanks
it was the the most dramatic show of u.s. force in the six-year nicaraguan war and came in response to a request for help from honduras' president, jose azcona hoyo
since 1981, honduras has been a key ally for the united states in central america and for reagan administration policy aimed at containing nicaragua's government
until early 1987, honduras was the major staging ground for attacks into nicaragua by the u.s.-backed contras. the rebels now say most of their forces are inside nicaragua
the united states maintains about 1,100 soldiers at any one time distributed among several military installations in honduras. in addition, other national guard and army troops rotate through for joint exercises and road-building and other projects
ortega did confirm that heavy fighting was under way near the border
nicaragua's defense ministry denied sandinista troops entered honduras, and alejandro bendana, secretary-general of the foreign ministry, repeated that denial on nbc-tv's ``today.''
bendana said sandinista troops were on a ``routine military operation'' to push contras back into honduras and said it had been successfully completed. bendana said sandinista troops had begun withdrawing from the border region, and he invited the united nations and organization of american states to visit the area to see for themselves
the intelligence sources in honduras said the sandinista troops apparently entered honduras late tuesday to destroy a base camp of the u.s.-supplied contras, for whom president reagan has been trying to secure continued military funding
it was not the soviet-supplied sandinistas' first reported incursion into honduras. in march 1986, 1,500 nicaraguan troops reportedly penetrated honduran territory and u.s. helicopters ferried honduran troops to the border and provided honduras $20 million in emergency aid
the contras have in the past maintained support bases in honduras, but most moved their camps into nicaraguan territory last year
in december 1986, honduran warplanes and artillery pounded sandinista troops who had entered honduras to attack contra bases, and u.s. army helicopters again were brought in to ferry honduran infantrymen to the front
intelligence reports that nicaragua had sent forces into honduras set in motion a flurry of activity over a 30-hour period that culminated in president reagan's decision to send ground forces to honduras
for the previous two weeks, the administration had noted with alarm sandinista preparations for an offensive in the heavily jungled bocay valley in northern nicaragua. they had begun within days after the feb. 29 cutoff of u.s. aid to the contras
the administration kept quiet about the sandinista activities until tuesday, when state department spokesman charles redman said the preparations foreshadowed ``the largest offensive we have seen the sandinistas undertake.''
later in the day, two pentagon officials who briefed reporters at the state department seemed to undercut redman somewhat by being less categorical than the spokesman about sandinista intentions
but those discrepencies were quickly forgetten when, soon after the briefing ended, initial reports that the offensive had started began to reach washington. as outlined by secretary of state george p. shultz and other senior administration officials who asked not to be named, the ensuing period was one of intense activity as the government decided on an appropriate response
the magnitude of the attack surprised officials. several thousand sandinista troops attacked contra positions on the nicaraguan side of the border and upwards of 1,500 troops penetrated honduran territory. they also pounded contra positions with heavy artillery and aeriel bombardment
one apparent aim was the destruction of a contra military supply depot which the rebels consider vital to their survival. another was to enhance the sandinista bargaining position for cease-fire talks with the contras that are scheduled to begin monday in a southern nicaraguan town
on capitol hill, there were expressions of skepticism by democrats about the early reports. some felt that the administration claims were too self-serving to be taken at face value
after all, the administration had been trying for weeks to fashion a strategy for winning congressional approval for more aid to the contras
hours after the initial reports of the offensive had been received in washington, nicaraguan president daniel ortega confirmed them. but he made no reference to a sandinista border crossing into honduras
by wednesday morning, about 18 hours after the first reports of the sandinista penetration, the u.s. ambassador to honduras, everett briggs, met with president jose azcona and discussed the possibility of u.s. assistance to honduras
azcona consulted by telephone with the presidents of guatemala, el salvador and costa rica to tell them of his concerns. he also called nicaraguan president daniel ortega to demand the withdrawal of the sandinista forces
by early afternoon, a nicaraguan military spokeswoman denied than an ``invasion'' of honduras had taken place. at mid-afternoon, ortega went on national radio to say that there had been ``cross fire from honduran territory against our forces.''
he neither confirmed nor denied the presence of nicaraguan soldiers in honduras. but house speaker jim wright, d-tex., said nicaraguan foreign minister miguel d'escoto had confirmed by telephone the border crossing but that the sandinista forces were retreating back into nicaragua
in late afternoon, honduran air force pilots flew over the area and reported the sandinista troop concentrations back to azcona. at 5 p.m., azcona met again with briggs and handed him a letter asking for u.s. ground troops
briggs later relayed the request to assistant secretary of state elliott abrams, who passed it on to national security adviser colin powell
powell and white house chief of staff howard baker briefed reagan at his residence at 8 p.m., and the president then decided to comply with the request
the white house made the formal announcement at 10 p.m. wednesday, emphasizing that the 3,200 troops to be sent to honduras would be deployed far from the scene of hostilities and would not engage in combat
nine hours later, about 2,000 troops from the 82nd airborne division departed fort bragg, n.c., on the three-hour flight to palmerola air base in honduras, about 125 miles from the border area
by 11 a.m., two battalions from the 7th infantry division at fort ord, calif., began heading for the same destination
the deployment was aimed, shultz said, at telling the hondurans: ``we are your friends. we stand with you.''
cobb county officials have banned the buff _ at least for models in drawing and sculpting classes
officials said they feared negative community reaction to nude models in the art classes so they ordered them to wear bathing suits, leotards or ``just basically anything.''
my students don't understand,'' said stephen smith, who teaches life drawing and life sculpting at the county's steeple house arts center
models in his advanced, adults-only art classes are wearing bathing suits because of a rule by the county's community services department a few weeks ago. if the practice continues, smith said wednesday, he'll leave steeple house, the county's only fully funded arts center
bob ash, who heads the community services department, requested the cover-up because of how ``that kind of activity'' might be perceived. ash said he stopped the use of nude models when he became aware of them
the community might react in a negative way,'' by no longer using the arts center, he said
kathy hoppe, director of the cobb arts and cultural affairs department, has asked the county's arts commission to consider whether nudes should be permitted as subjects in art classes and displays sponsored and shown by the county
ash has said he will abide by the arts commission's decision
former national security adviser john m. poindexter, lt. col. oliver l. north and two arms dealers were ordered thursday to appear march 24 for arraignment on criminal charges arising from their roles in the iran-contra affair
the arraignment was scheduled by u.s. district judge gerhard a. gesell, who will try the case brought by independent counsel lawrence e. walsh against poindexter, north and retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his former business partner, albert hakim
a lone picketer circled the u.s. courthouse carrying signs that read ``free oliver north'' and ``hog walsh'' to protest the return wednesday of a massive indictment against the former national security council aide and his three co-defendants
the picketer's views reflected the sentiments of two congressional republicans who last year investigated the sale of u.s. weapons to iran and the diversion of proceeds to the nicaraguan contra rebels
i personally think that the indictment counts are pathetic,'' sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, one of the reagan administration's staunchest defenders during last year's congressional hearings, said during an appearance on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
i don't think that men like poindexter ... and north deserve to end up being prosecuted on criminal grounds that deal with their service in government,'' rep. richard cheney, r-wyo., said on the nbc-tv ``today'' program
rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., who chaired the house iran-contra committee, defended the indictment, saying it reflected many of the committee's findings even though the panel did not say criminal acts were involved
when we set out, there were a number of laws that we thought had been broken. ... the indictments track these findings in our report very carefully,'' hamilton said
in new orleans, meanwhile, david jacobsen, one of three american hostages released as a result of the weapons shipments to iran, opened an address to a convention of hospital administrators by saying he was ``angry that my friend terry anderson is entering his fourth year as a hostage.''
i am also angry that oliver north, who i also consider a friend, is being held hostage by a foreign policy dispute between the president and congress.''
anderson, who is the chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, is one of nine american hostages being held in the middle east. anderson was kidnapped on a west beirut street on march 16, 1985, and is believed being held by pro-iranian groups in lebanon
secord called the charges a ``creation of fantasy ... ludicrous.'' speaking in a telephone interview, he said he would ``crush'' the case with legal maneuvering ``in hopes that nobody else has to go through what i have.''
the massive 101-page indictment returned wednesday by a special grand jury that has investigated the case for 14 months charges north, hakim and secord engaged in a conspiracy to circumvent a statutory ban on u.s. aid to the nicaraguan rebels by setting up a private weapons supply network for the contras
the alleged conspiracy, which the indictment says was later joined by poindexter, also corrupted the arms-for-hostage deals with iran by diverting more than half the $30 million generated by the weapons sales to foreign bank accounts controlled by hakim and secord, the indictment said
this money was used for other activities of the alleged ``enterprise'' _ including diversion to the contras _ as well as the personal gain of hakim, secord and north, the indictment charged
hakim and secord were further accused of conspiring to give north illegal gratuities in the form of $13,800 security system at his great falls, va., home and setting up a $200,000 education fund for north's children
poindexter, a retired navy rear admiral and north, now assigned to marine headquarters, are charged with obstructing congressional inquiries by falsely denying that north coordinated the private arms network
both also are charged with obstructing the november 1986 congressional inquiry into the arms sales to iran as the iran-contra affair was unraveling by making false statements to the house and senate intelligence committees
north is also charged obstructing the nov. 21-23 presidential inquiry by attorney general edwin meese iii by destroying and falsifying classified documents and making false statements to meese's investigators
the indictment also alleges that poindexter deleted a file of all messages he sent and received in the national security council's computer system after a memo discussing a ``diversion'' was uncovered by meese's investigation
a federal prosecutor said charges of destruction of evidence, if proven, could make it easier for walsh to get convictions
without this element, walsh might have difficulty persuading a jury that the defendants were guilty of an essentially political crime of thwarting the will of congress by raising private money for the contras, said the prosecutor, who spoke on condition of anonymity
doctors at johns hopkins hospital said thursday they were encouraged by the rapid recovery of patrick binder, one of the siamese twins separated during a long operation in september
patrick, now 13 months old, stopped breathing sunday after choking while feeding through a nasal tube, according to hospital officials
the west german boy was listed in good condition, after spending several days in the intensive care unit, and was returned to the room he shares with his brother, benjamin
according to hospital spokeswoman lisa hillman, doctors were hopeful patrick will return to his previous level of functioning, which was that of an infant 3 or 4 months old
no decision has been made on when the twins might go home, she said
the twins, joined at the back of head at birth, were separated in a 23-hour operation. national guard movement; subs grafs 8-9 `no such...' with 3 grafs to correct that some fort ord troops did say goodbye, add quote on mood of troops.</note> ^by paul nowell</byline>
smiling and waving, hundreds of young paratroopers boarded transport planes thursday and flew to honduras for training exercises prompted by reports of an incursion by nicaraguan forces
we're 100 percent ready,'' said lt. jim cooper, smearing camouflage paint on the face of lt. steve swinley as they prepared to leave from neighboring pope air force base
give 'em hell,'' added sgt. dwight royal of fayetteville
president reagan on wednesday night ordered the deployment of an infantry brigade task force of 3,200 men consisting of two battalions of the 82nd airborne at fort bragg and two from the 7th infantry division at fort ord, calif
reagan called the move ``a measured response'' to the nicaraguan troops movement and to a request for assistance from the honduran president
the 2,000 combat-ready soldiers from fort bragg and 1,200 from fort ord were flying to palmerola, the main center of u.s. military operations in honduras and about 125 miles west of an area where heavy fighting was reported wednesday
meanwhile, the rhode island national guard said that 100 military police and engineers who had previously been scheduled to fly to honduras on friday will go ahead with plans for road-building exercises despie increased military activity in the country. adjutant gen. john w. kiely said the guardsmen will be deployed far from any potential conflicts between nicaraguan troops and the 3,200 u.s. infantry and airborne soldiers
troops began leaving pope shortly after 7 a.m. on the first of 26 c-141 planes that were taking off every 30 minutes, said lt. gen. john w. foss, commander of the 18th airborne corps. many of the soldiers kissed their wives and girlfriends goodbye at marshaling points on the sprawling base
no such farewells were possible for some of the troops at fort ord who were engaged in an exercise when word came that two battalions would go to honduras. many of the men taking part in the training exercise were unable to get in touch with relatives before departing
we've all got swollen eyes, and we're sticking together,'' said karen brylewski, a civilian base worker who runs a support group for families of servicemen at fort ord
she said she talked to her husband by telephone before he left and ``he said some of the guys are crying, but everybody has to be strong. we're just hoping and praying nothing serious comes of this.''
from fort ord, the troops and supplies were carried on dozens of trucks to travis air force base, where the first c-141 lifted off at 11:29 a.m. est. ``i expect it to go on all day,'' said air force maj. wayne crist
the first planeload of troops from fort bragg arrived at palmerola at 11:15 a.m. est in the operation code-named ``golden pheasant'' by the pentagon, according to local radio stations transmitting from there
in washington, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the complete deployment would take about 27 hours
about 800 of the paratroopers were to parachute into a landing area about five miles from palmerola on thursday night or friday morning, foss said
this is not a hostile environment,'' he said. ``the area has been cleared for drops.''
the u.s. troops will conduct training exercises with honduran soldiers, including patrols, small unit training, mock air assaults and airborne operations, said maj. gen. carl w. stiner, commander of the 82nd airborne division
stiner said the troops were also bringing three light observation helicopters, four cobra gunship helicopters, one blackhawk uh-60 helicopter, a command vehicle and ammunition
he said another combat-ready battalion from fort bragg had been placed on alert
as the young soldiers _ the average age is 23 _ began boarding the c-141s early thursday, many smiled and waved at television cameras and others raised their weapons in the air
if you're going to do it, do it,'' said sgt. john jones, who is married with two young children
his buddy, mark kelley, was more philosophical
let's get the job done and get back home,'' he said. ``another day, another dollar.''
thursday's operation was the latest opportunity for the 82nd airborne division to be called to one of the world's trouble spots
we are the finger in the dike,'' said fort bragg spokesman lt. col. rick kiernan. ``in the event of a crisis, we will fight the first 15 days. if there's sustained action, other conventional forces would be brought in.''
the division's most recent combat mission was in grenada in october 1983, when two brigades were sent to rescue american medical students
paratroopers from the 82nd airborne also saw extensive combat duty in vietnam, and some 15,000 paratroopers from fort bragg were sent to the dominican republic during a period of political instability in the early 1960s, kiernan said. no period, is cq</note>
the federal government on thursday moved to calm depositors' fears and protect the nation's banking system by advancing $1 billion to banks owned by an ailing texas holding company
the federal deposit insurance corp. said it was lending the money for six months to subsidiaries of first republicbank corp. as an interim step toward restoring the dallas-based company's health
ultimately the aid could rival the largest-ever government rescue of a bank, the $4.5 billion bailout in 1984 of continental illinois national bank &amp; trust co. of chicago
and in a move intended to stem any ripple effect on the banking system as a whole, fdic chairman l. william seidman pledged his agency to fully protect all depositors of the banks as well as general creditors
that goes beyond the minimum the agency would normally be expected to insure, which is deposits of $100,000 and less
the promise covers money borrowed overnight from other banks by first republicbank to meet the cash rules of the federal reserve board. however, it does not apply to the holding company and its bond and note holders
seidman said the fdic was working on a long-term solution to the holding company's problems and was talking to private investors about participating in a restructuring
but he declined to offer specifics and said he could not estimate the size of any eventual rescue package. private analysts, however, say a rescue of first republicbank could ultimately cost the government as much as $2 billion to $4 billion
the fdic expects to recoup much of its initial outlay in the continental bailout, ultimately spending about $1.7 billion
seidman, however, stressed the differences between continental and first republicbank. the chicago bank's problems were attributed to management misjudgment and wrongdoing
it's very clear the primary reason for (the first republic) problem is the economy of texas,'' seidman told a news conference
he said the fdic will assume some control of the subsidiary bank's operations, although not day to day. the current bank's management will remain in place for now, but changes could be discussed later, he said. the office of the comptroller of the currency hopes to finish an examination of the company's books within the next several weeks
first republicbank, the largest bank company in texas and the 13th largest in the nation, acknowledged tuesday it had been forced to seek federal aid because of a deteriorating loan portfolio, particularly loans tied to commercial real estate, and difficulty in stemming a runoff of deposits
the holding company, with $33.2 billion in assets and 73 subsidiary banks, reported a loss of $656 million last year
the company has no connection with the san francisco-based first republic bancorp inc
meanwhile, rep. fernand g. st germain, d-r.i., chairman of the house banking committee, said he planned to hold hearings on the first republicbank package and on $970 million offered last september to first city bancorp. of houston. that transaction is still pending because first city bondholders have been balking at plans to pay them 35 cents to 45 cents on the dollar
st germain said in a statement that the committee would seek ``to determine whether better regulation and greater vigilance could have kept any of these institutions off the assistance rolls.''
twenty-nine of republicbank's 73 subsidiaries, representing about 80 percent of the holding company's assets, are pledging their stock as collateral for the fdic loan, and the parent company is guaranteeing it
federal reserve board member manuel johnson, who joined seidman at the news conference, said first republic has been borrowing at the federal reserve's discount window for the past several days. he refused to say how much the bank had borrowed, but did say the bank had pledged its loans and other assets to back up the borrowings
the fdic reported a post-depression record of 184 bank failures last year, 50 in texas, which has been hard hit by the depressed energy market and the consequent bust in real estate prices
so far this year, 38 commercial banks have failed nationally, 15 of them in texas
seidman said the first republicbank aid would not have a significant impact on the fdic's insurance fund, which finished 1987 with $18.3 billion, up slightly from the end of 1986 despite the failures
analysts, however, say that cutting fdic losses by attracting private investors to first republicabank will be difficult
i think it's going to be tough. this is a monster of a turnaround,'' said paul getman, senior financial analyst of the wefa group, a philadelphia-area consulting firm
fbi director william h. webster may have been ``misinformed'' in 1985 when he defended continuing a terrorism investigation into a group opposing reagan administration policy in central america, a congressman said thursday
the fbi's investigation of the committee in support of the people of el salvador was closed just two months later for lack of evidence
at a congressional hearing thursday, rep. f. james sensenbrenner referred to webster's testimony of april 17, 1985, in which the then-fbi director, now head of the cia, justified continuing the cispes investigation
but the inquiry ended in june 1985 following a review by the justice department which concluded that cispes was involved in political activities involving first amendment rights and not international terrorism
sensenbrenner, r-wis., said the shutdown such a short time after webster supported the investigation raised the question of ``whether there was this review going on when webster made the statement.''
the congressman said he was certain that a decision ``was not made quickly or rashly'' to close the terrorism investigation, which had been going on since 1983, preceded by an earlier domestic criminal investigation begun in 1981
i don't know if webster was misinformed or what,'' sensenbrenner said after raising the issue with current fbi director william sessions at a hearing before the house judiciary subcommittee on civil and constitutional rights
sessions confirmed his own statements of last month about the investigation being closed in june 1985, but said any elaboration would have to wait until an internal fbi review of the bureau's handling of the cispes inquiry is completed
in his april 1985 testimony before the same subcommittee, webster said ``we are not keeping track of the membership of cispes as such. there are, as in many organizations, a wide range of individuals engaged in that organization, including some in whom we have a legitimate independent foreign counterintelligence interest.''
webster's comments came in response to complaints from rep. john conyers, d-mich., that a member of cispes who had traveled to nicaragua had been interviewed by the fbi for ``intelligence gathering'' purposes
telephone calls to the office of cia spokesman william baker, who also served with webster at the fbi, were not returned immediately
in january, the center for constitutional rights released fbi documents obtained under the freedom of information act showing that the fbi had investigated cispes extensively
the investigation included photographing protesters at peace rallies and recording their license-plate numbers, investigating nuns, union members and college students and checking up on church forums, according to the documents
last month, sessions denied that the bureau had mounted a massive surveillance campaign, but did acknowledge that the investigation ``was not properly directed'' in all instances. reaction. picks up 5th graf pvs, bgng: assistant secretary</note>
a forthcoming hour-long nbc television movie about hunger overlooks the contribution that government school lunch programs offer to needy families, the agriculture department said thursday
the network movie, ``a place at the table,'' is scheduled for broadcast the night of march 20 and focuses on children in school who may be hungry, officials said
dianne durant, a spokeswoman for the department's food and nutrition service, said the agency's complaint had been sent to nbc but that there had been no response
curt block, nbc vice president for media relations, said in a telephone interview from new york that the purpose of the film's producers ``was to take a broader focus of the problem of hunger'' among children and to ``get across to the public how pervasive the problem is.''
block said the intent also was to show that ``there are a number of ways we can get food to children.''
assistant secretary john w. bode, who oversees school lunch and food stamp programs, said in a statement that ``despite the laudable public service aspects of the movie, it contains serious inaccuracies'' about hunger
in the movie, children are encouraged to donate their brown bag lunches to classmates who are so hungry they attend a soup kitchen after school,'' bode said. ``the film does not acknowledge the existence of the national school lunch program, which provides free school lunches to children of low-income families.''
further, he said, preschool breakfasts are also provided in schools which participate in the usda program
school lunch is only one of a number of federal food assistance programs, including food stamps, which provide more than $20 billion worth of help a year to needy americans,'' bode said. ``that figure translates into $56 million a day in food help.''
further, he said:
_the school lunch program is one of the largest food service providers in the country, serving 24 million children daily, nearly half of whom receive lunches free of charge
_children from families with low incomes are eligible for the free school meals. the program's current upper income limit for a family of four is $14,560 a year
_since 1980, the federal budget for school lunches has increased 21 percent to the current annual level of $3.4 billion
secretary of state george p. shultz said thursday the 3,200 u.s. combat troops airlifted during the day to central america are not there in a ``shooting capacity'' but to signal opposition to nicaraguan aggression
senior democrats in congress quickly questioned president reagan's decision to send the troops, with senate majority leader robert c. byrd jr., of west virginia calling it an ``overreaction.''
officials on both sides of the issue predicted the military situation would reignite the controversy over contra aid that has divided congress for several years. and there was dispute among lawmakers as to whether nicaragua had indeed invaded honduras, the justification cited for the decision to send u.s. forces
shultz told a senate committee that the troops airlifted to honduras were dispatched to ``get people's attention to what is happening in central america'' and to say to the honduran government, ``we are your friends. we stand with you.''
but senior democrats challenged reagan's justification for the action
it's an overreaction,'' said byrd. ``we've heard the administration cry, `wolf, wolf,' before. i don't know when they're crying `wolf, wolf.'''
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, who has supported the peace plan drafted by president oscar arias of costa rica, said sending u.s. combat troops to the area was unjustified. he voiced concern that the white house may have overblown the incident for its own purposes
not all democrats agreed, and senate republican leader bob dole of kansas sprang to reagan's defense, declaring that contra rebels are being overrun and ``slaughtered by the hundreds.''
he called on the president to immediately resubmit a package of military and logistical aid for the contra rebels and said: ``does it make sense, even as thousands of communist troops cross the border of a free country in this hemisphere, for members of congress to make excuses for (nicaragua's) aggression, while accusing the president of the united states of fueling the fires of war in central america?''
officials of nicaragua's leftist sandinista government said their troops were not in honduras, but the administration said it dispatched u.s. forces at the request of honduran president jose azcona. officials said they received the request because sandinista forces were in honduras threatening to overrun contra bases
the contras have been battling the managua government for several years with the support of the reagan administration, but u.s. aid to them expired at the end of february and the house refused to renew it
shultz took note of that as he appeared before the senate budget committee. ``obviously the decision in the house of representatives to deny aid to the resistance has dealt them _ and in my opinion tha cause of freedom _ a very serious blow,'' he said
shultz said the u.s. troops from the army's 82nd airborne and 7th light infantry divisions aren't in honduras in a ``shooting capacity.''
it is important for people to know the united states will fight, but we don't plan to get involved in any military way,'' he said
shultz said that as of wednesday there were 1,600 to 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers across the honduran border. he said there had been heavy fighting, that two airfields had been seized and that the sandinistas had spearheaded their attacks on contra forces with airplane and helicopter strikes
shultz, noting that nicaraguan president daniel ortega had issued a denial of troop presence in honduras on wednesday, said wright had told him he had been called by the nicaraguan foreign minister and told that the sandinista troops would be withdrawn
underscoring the apparent contradiction, shultz said: ``i don't know which one is lying; maybe both.''
not all democrats objected to reagan's decision to dispatch troops
sen. alan dixon, d-ill., said after a classified briefing that ``there has clearly been a penetration'' by sandinista troops ``in fair numbers'' into honduras
shultz laid out this scenario:
_intelligence efforts detected preparations for a nicaraguan offensive drive beginning on march 1
_first contact between the sandinistas and contras inside honduras came on march 10
_on tuesday, the contras reported heavy fighting and attacks from nicaraguan bombers inside honduras
_on wednesday, ``we saw a presence of 1,600 to 2,000 sandinista troops'' in honduras aided by bombers and helicopters
the democratic chairman and republican vice chairman of the senate intelligence committee said after an administration briefing that reagan had no choice but to dispatch the troops
after listening to representatives of the intelligence agencies and assistant secretary of state elliott abrams, sen. david boren, d-okla., and william cohen, r-maine, agreed that a planned incursion had taken place, not a hot pursuit of contra forces
boren, saying the contras are ``outnumbered three or four to one,'' told reporters the sandinistas are ``reading the tea leaves in congress'' and ``taking a riverboat gamble that they can deliver a crushing blow. this was a reaction of the sandinista government to the defeat of contra aid
the sandinista government has given its answer to congress. this is their way of saying, ``thank you very much. you have taken the pressure off of us. we think we have this won in washington. now we're going to do what we always intended to do and crush the resistance forces.''
cohen said, ``the administration is responding to a request for political support (from honduras) at this point.''
but sen. john kerry, d-mass., said, ``i think the notion that there's a real invasion is just ridiculous
some members of congress noted that the deployment came as the administration was making a renewed push for aid for the contras
rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., said he doubted whether the outcome will be changed
`we're very evenly divided in the house and in the congress on aid, and i don't see that fundamentally changing,'' he said
america's irish paraded on st. patrick's day, but enthusiasm was muted by the awareness of fresh bloodshed in northern ireland
the violence, it's got to stop,'' declared william burke, grand marshal of the parade up new york's fifth avenue. ``you shoot me. i shoot you. ... this can't go on any more.''
across from st. patrick's cathedral, sign-waving protesters demanded ``great britain keep out of irish affairs,'' a day after three people were killed and 68 wounded by a protestant gunman who attacked a graveside service for three irish republican army members in belfast
mayor raymond l. flynn of boston said the root of the violence was ``the utter despair that british rule has perpetrated throughout the occupied six counties.''
what can we expect but senseless and renewed violence from both communities, when the british government itself has abandoned a code of law enforcement for a shoot-to-kill policy aimed at unarmed citizens,'' said flynn
in an emotional homily before his city's parade, new york's cardinal john j. o'connor proposed a pilgrimage to ireland to pray for ``peace with justice.''
i would like to feel exuberant. i would like to feel joyful,'' o'connor told a congregation of about 2,000. ``i don't feel that way today. i don't feel like reviewing a parade. i suspect many of you don't feel like marching in a parade.''
the parade went on, however, with o'connor adding heavy black gloves to his vestments to protect against a blustery wind. organizers estimated that 1.25 million people crowded fifth avenue to watch the parade, but police reported little of the drunken rowdiness which has marked past holidays
christine bittinger, 78, was walking up fifth avenue for two reasons: ``i'm walking for justice in northern ireland. and because old age has played a dirty trick on me. i've gotten smaller, and i can't see from behind the crowd anymore.''
the nation's highest elected son of ireland, president reagan, paid a visit to an irish pub in alexandria, va., sipping beer and singing along as revelers joined in ``when irish eyes are smiling.''
in new haven, conn., protests by the national organization for women, the naacp and other groups were planned outside the all-male knights of st. patric dinner, traditionally a must gathering for politicians
more than 200,000 people crowded the sidewalk in downtown chicago to watch the 40,000 marchers, 50 floats and 45 bands that made up the annual parade. portions of the chicago river were dyed green for the annual day of revelry. ``they make much more of it here than in ireland,'' said bridgid donnelly, 19, an irish citizen living in chicago
there were few mentions of belfast in chicago, where parade organizers strived for a holiday mood
even the grits were green as 300,000 people braved unseasonable 30-degree temperatures to see the 164th st. patrick's day parade in savannah, ga. it's the second-largest st. pat's parade, behind new york's
in new orleans, hundreds of people spent the day drinking, dancing and celebrating in the streets around parasol's bar and restaurant in new orleans' irish channel. even some of the neighborhood dogs sported green t-shirts and strings of green beads as they circled the crowd
i marched in my first st. patrick's day parade in 1922,'' said red jack burns, who wore a green derby, ``and i haven't missed one since. i'm 77 years old but i can still find the bars in the channel.''
in new york city, the friendy sons of st. patrick were dining for the first time with oratory by an irish-american. antonin scalia, a supreme court justice, and lou holtz, coach of notre dame's ``fighting irish'' football team, were the featured speakers
in his sermon, o'connor accused irish-americans, and priests and nuns in particular, of not expressing sufficient concern with the troubles in northern ireland
where are the 40 million irish-americans in this land?'' he asked. ``why have they not raised their voices on behalf of the suffering?''
and where are the voices of our priests and nuns?'' he added, especially those ``social activists'' concerned about latin america and other parts of the world
o'connor suggested a pilgrimage to the shrine of our lady of knock in the irish republic ``to show our concern, our continuing sense of shock. we must do something ... to contribute to the advance of peace with justice in northern ireland.''
cardinal bernard law asked worshippers at holy cross cathedral in south boston ``to call to mind the sad wages of sin in the violence and the terrorism which is only within hours hit once again in ireland.''
let us look into our hearts and see how it might be that like patrick we can be messengers of love of reconciliation of justice and of peace,'' law said
drummer archie francis on thursday won his 11th academy of country music award, and fiddler johnny gimble and steel guitarist j.d. maness each won their 10th trophies to lead winners in instrumental categories
the winners were announced thursday by academy executive director bill boyd; trophies will be presented during the 23rd annual academy of country music awards on monday in buena park
bass player emory gordy jr., guitarist chet atkins and keyboardist john hobbs won their second consecutive academy trophies, boyd said. winners were picked by ballots cast by the 2,500-member academy
david hungate tied gordy in the bass category, ronnie milsap tied hobbs in the keyboard category, and ricky skaggs, who plays mandolin, tied with jerry douglas, who plays the dobro, in the specialty instrument category
the strangers won their eighth touring band trophy and nashville now won the non-touring band award
the academy announced earlier that the nation's top country music radio station was in arizona, the favorite disc jockey was in tennessee and the wildest nightclub was in southern california
jim tabor of radio wmc in memphis, tenn., was selected disc jockey of the year, his first academy win, and knix radio in phoenix, ariz., was picked the top radio station. knix also won the award last year
the crazyhorse steakhouse &amp; saloon in santa ana won the nightclub of the year honor for a second consecutive year
the winners are voted by record company promotion executives, independent promoters, music industry trade publications and executives of the academy, said boyd
the academy of country music votes by secret ballot on the organization's major awards. leading the list of nominees are hank williams jr., randy travis and george strait
others with multiple nominations include alabama, newcomers k.t. oslin and ricky van shelton, the bellamy brothers, crystal gayle, the judds, reba mcentire and restless heart
winners will be announced during a two-hour nbc-tv special with williams and miss mcentire as hosts
the government has banned a church magazine that criticized last month's preliminary election as a ``mockery of democracy.''
attorney general matthew muli on tuesday banned ``all past and future issues'' of beyond magazine, which is sponsored by the national christian council of kenya
staff members tried wednesday to deliver a truckload of back issues to police, but officers refused to accept them, the deputy editor, rev. ibrahim dmondi, said
we were told we can keep them until the government makes a public announcement on what should be done with the old copies,'' omondi told the associated press
under kenya's penal code, it is illegal to print, make, import, publish, sell, offer for sale or supply, distribute, reproduce, or have in one's possession a prohibited publication. violation of the law carries a prison term of up to three years
the ban came one week after beyond, in a special edition, criticized the feb. 22 primary elections for parliament as ``a mockery of democracy.'' during the primary, voters were required to line up behind candidates or their agents, and beyond charged that some voters were intimidated by administration officials into voting for certain candidates
officials of kenya africa national union, the country's only political party, have acknowledged there were problems with the system, but they accused beyond of exaggerating the problems and of ``sloppy journalism.''
the general election is set for monday and voting will be by secret ballot
beyond editor bedan mbugua, who attended biola college in la mirada, calif., said in an interview that he stood by beyond's claims
when we saw something going wrong in our society, we commented without fear or favor,'' he said
i feel we have lived up to the journalism we were committed to,'' said mbugua
police special branch officers, who are responsible for internal security, questioned mbugua for two hours march 10, the day after beyond went on sale
beyond has been published since june 1985 and is sponsored by the national council of churches of kenya, a grouping of protestant churches
the only other local publication to be banned was the newspaper voice of kenya, which was published by nairobi north co. and sponsored by the libyan embassy. the government claimed the newspaper was being used for political means
young families trying to purchase their first home and low-income families struggling to meet escalating rental payments are two groups which have suffered the most from flawed housing policies in the 1980s, according to a new study released thursday
america is increasingly becoming a nation of housing haves and have-nots,'' said h. james brown, one of the authors of the report and the director of the joint center for housing studies at harvard university. ``while a majority of americans are well-housed, too many americans have not been able to share in this prosperity.''
the report, titled ``the state of the nation's housing,'' contended that the number of americans unable to secure decent and affordable housing was growing at an alarming rate. among its findings:
_since 1981, rental costs including utilities, have risen 14 percent faster than prices generally. after adjusting for inflation, rental costs are now at their highest level in two decades
_the steep increase in rental costs means that single-parent households must devote 58.4 percent of their incomes to rent, compared to 34.9 percent in 1974
_homeownership rates have fallen steadily during this decade, particularly among young people. in 1980, 43.3 percent of households in the 24-29 age group owned their own home, a figure that has now declined to 35.9 percent
_the after-tax cost of buying a typical first home in 1987 was $7,449, or 32.4 percent of the average annual income of potential first-time buyers, about 50 percent higher than the share of income required in the early 1970s
the study, which was financed by a grant from the ford foundation and several housing trade groups, did not make any recommendations for needed changes in government policy
the reagan administration has been criticized in the past for its efforts to scale back federal housing assistance programs, but brown said it was important to realize that the country's housing problems were a result of a number of forces which have been at work well before the current administration took office
in reacting to the report, carl d. covitz, undersecretary of the department of housing and urban development, said that the administration was proud of its efforts in the past seven years to boost housing subsidies to low-income families but realized ``much more needs to be done.''
it's never been easy for the typical family to buy their first home or for very low-income people to afford decent housing and the harvard study performs a valuable service by pointing up some of the very real problems still faced by many american families,'' covitz said in a statement
william apgar, another author of the report, said that one particular problem was that even minimal federal housing assistance was reaching only one in four families in need
only one in four rentor households with incomes at or below the poverty level live in public housing or receive some other form of federal housing assistance,'' apgar said

editors:
all ams budgets have cleared
we will expedite am copy on the boeing 727 jetliner crash in colombia, bc-colombia-crash, a0811 from cucuta, colombia
in addition to the stories listed on the am-news digest and am-news advisory, a0720, the following are among the top stories moved for ams:
moscow _ the mayor and the communist party chief of a city in azerbaijan where at least 32 people died in ethnic rioting were fired thursday, reports from soviet armenia said. am-soviet-unrest. sent as a0752
</head>
washington _ senate allies of president reagan, trying to sustain his veto of a popular civil rights bill, charged thursday that the anti-discrimination statute will subject churches, synagogues and shopkeepers to bureaucratic harassment. am-civil rights. sent as a0756
</head>
washington _ fbi director william h. webster may have been ``misinformed'' in 1985 when he defended continuing a terrorism investigation into a group opposing reagan administration policy in central america, a congressman said thursday. am-fbi-cispes. sent as a0791
</head>
washington _ sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, warned cable television operators thursday that congress will consider reregulating the industry if rates continue to rise and programming is withheld from competitors. am-cable tv. sent as a0711
</head>
washington _ treasury secretary james a. baker iii said thursday he was discouraged by congressional reluctance to drop some of the banking and investment features and some other provisions of a sweeping trade bill. am-trade. sent as 0722
</head>
washington _ president reagan and house speaker jim wright set aside their political differences over central america policy thursday and exchanged good-humored st. patrick's day toasts to one thing they have in common _ an ancestral irish homeland. am-reagan-st. patrick's. sent as a0805
</head>
the ap lake</head>
a citizens group upset over congressional action to rename a lake after sen. strom thurmond presented the south carolina republican with petitions signed by 42,000 people thursday urging that the original name be restored
but thurmond refused to become involved in the controversy after meeting privately for 35 minutes with representatives of the group and with south carolina legislators supporting the name change to honor thurmond
thurmond declined to answer questions as he left the meeting at his capitol office, referring them to his press secretary, christopher simpson
he told them he feels the matter is settled and since he did not instigate it or push for it, he feels it would be inappropriate for him to get involved now,'' simpson said
the dispute over the name of the army corps of engineers-built clarks hill lake, which straddles the south carolina-georgia border, began in december which congress, acting quickly and with no public hearings, enacted legislation changing the name of the lake, dam and road to strom thurmond
roy giles, a lincolnton, ga., restaurant owner and one of the leaders of the citizens group, said the petitions propose a compromise that would restore the name of the lake to clarks hill but would retain the new strom thurmond name for the dam and road
rep. doug barnard, d-ga., has introduced legislation paterned after the compromise, which giles said would permit thurmond to ``have his monument and the people will have their lake back.''
south carolina state sen. john drummond of greenwood said the legislators told the citizens group that it would be an embarrassment for thurmond to ``ask the whole congress and the president to reverse what they've done.''
drummond said he told the group the two states need to work together ``to save that lake, not the name'' because the low water level in the lake is threatening its recreational potential
giles said the name change will result in financial losses for businesses that have built their reputations using the clarks hill name. and he vowed that the group will continue its fight, even without thurmond's help. figures</head>
the chamber of commerce has apologized to the rev. joseph lowery for including stories profiling civil rights activists on a list of potentially negative stories journalists might write during the democratic national convention
chamber president jerry bartels had received complaints on lowery's behalf after reports that chamber officials regarded the president of the southern christian leadership conference as a public relations liability
a chamber official said wednesday the group made a mistake in putting the subject of profiles of civil rights activists on a list of potentially negative news stories about atlanta
barry king, the chamber's vice president for communication, said lists of ``positive'' and ``negative'' potential media topics were drafted to help the chamber prepare to respond to reporters' questions during the convention this july
the lists appeared in the chamber's newsletter last month. the atlanta journal and the atlanta constitution subsequently reported that chamber officials considered lowery among the ``negative'' news figures
negative subjects on the chamber's list include ku klux klan activity, nude dance clubs and textbook banning. on the positive list were southern hospitality, the book and movie ``gone with the wind,'' and atlanta's fortune 500 companies
following the news reports, bartels wrote lowery, saying the chamber considers him a positive force in atlanta. no other letters were sent, king said, because there were no other questions about the chamber's views on a specific civil rights figure
however, lowery said tuesday that he didn't consider the letter an apology. ``what he never did explain was how profiles of civil rights leaders get in a negative category,'' he said
we never mentioned the names of anybody on any of these lists,'' king said. he said he regretted that ``positive'' and ``negative'' labels were used
many of the stories, he said, could turn out to be flattering or derogatory depending on how they were written. a story about civil rights might be negative, he said, because the ``overall record of achievement could be questioned.''
if reporters ask about civil rights leaders, he said, ``we would simply put them in touch with the civil rights leaders.'' dropped word. picks up 4th graf pvs, the rules ... with minor editing to trim; 6 grafs sub for grafs 19-21 pvs, updating with new shooting, corrects israeli victim's name. picks up 22nd graf pvs, the army ....</note>
israel began its first major trials on thursday of soldiers charged with brutality in the arab rebellion, and palestinians wounded an israeli with gunfire for the first time since the violence began dec. 8
israeli warplanes raided palestinian guerrilla bases in the mountains south of beirut, and newspapers said secretary of state george p. shultz may return to the middle east early next month to promote the u.s. peace plan. the raid came a day after rockets landed in northern israel, causing light damage
authorities increased restrictions in the occupied territories, which already include travel bans and a cut-off of telephone service to the outside. a military official said palestinians must get approval to bring $1,000 or more from neighboring jordan, where most hold citizenship and have family
the rules are intended to hamper the palestine liberation organization in organizing and financing the protests
trials beginning thursday involved the burial alive of four arabs by an army bulldozer feb. 5 in kfar salem, a west bank village, and the beating feb. 24 of two palestinians near nablus, which was photographed by a cbs news crew
neighbors soon rescued the buried palestinians. the beating was televised around the world and aroused international protest
several weeks after trouble began in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, the army introduced a policy of beating rioters as an alternative to firing live ammunition. at least 100 palestinians have been killed in more than three months of violence, and hundreds wounded
yair nissimi and dror segen-cohen, both army privates, pleaded guilty in the burial case to reduced charges of shameful behavior. the plea bargain would give nissimi 2{ months in jail and segen-cohel two months, and both would be placed on probation
a three-judge panel is to rule march 29 on whether to accept the arrangement
sgt. maj. charlie danino pleaded innocent to assault and unbecoming conduct, and is expected to argue that he was not at the scene
mustafa hamdan, one of those buried, said of the plea bargain: ``they buried four people alive. if an arab did that they would have given him 200 years.''
defense lawyer josef danai said in court the burial was ``an instance of letting off steam, revenge and deterrence'' by soldiers in difficult circumstances
they spilled a little earth on them,'' he said. ``the tractor driver said an ant could have gotten out of it.''
sgt. amichai vaturi, who was at the scene but is not charged, testified that the arabs were covered with about two feet of wet earth but their heads and shoulders were exposed
hamdan said the heads of three men were covered
in the beating case, sagi harpaz and yehuda angel, army privates, pleaded innocent to assault and the case was recessed
two other soldiers were sentenced tuesday to 10 and 21 days in jail for minor roles in the beating
in the gaza strip, a 25-year-old khan yunis resident, subhi abu sharar, was shot in the chest and seriously wounded, said ilana ziv, spokeswoman for barzilai hospital in ashkelon
arab reports said israeli soldiers shot him during a demonstration
also in gaza, two arabs shot 44-year-old israeli contractor adi tzabari four times in the legs near jabalia refugee camp, ms. ziv said
tzabari told israel army radio ``i threw a hammer'' at one arab with a pistol, ``then another one appeared with a kalashnikov (assault rifle) and opened fire.''
the army confirmed the shooting. it was the first time an israeli, civilian or soldier, has been reported hit by arab gunfire since the beginning of what palestinians now call ``the uprising.''
an arab truck driver in the same area tried to run down an israeli soldier earlier thursday but the soldier escaped without injury, the army said
arab reports from jabaliya said the army fired tear gas and rubber bullets at 800 schoolgirls who stoned soldiers, raised palestinian flags and burned tires
officials of a u.n. clinic said 25 girls were treated for minor injuries. palestine press service, an arab-run news agency, said soldiers in the west bank arrested 150 palestinians overnight in nablus, jenin, qabitiyeh, ramallah and hebron
arab reporters said the army blocked dairy and produce deliveries to nablus, tulkarm and jericho
the army said these reports were being checked
paul simon, his democratic presidential candidacy rejuvenated by his homestate primary win, campaigned wednesday on the prospect of a brokered convention and said he was ``as acceptable as a second choice as anyone.''
simon toured wisconsin and michigan, both with important contests in the coming weeks, and expressed hope he'll be the mutual ``second choice'' who might emerge with the presidential nomination once the front-runners have fallen short of victory
we're not going to have a first-ballot winner in atlanta,'' he said
i will have a significant block of delegates. ... i think paul simon is as acceptable as a second choice as anyone,'' he said. ``i think i stand in a very good position.''
simon did not predict victory for himself in michigan's march 26 caucuses or wisconsin's april 5 primary, but he said he would pick up enough convention delegates to stay in the race
i've come to michigan not expecting to carry michigan, but i'd like to pick up as many delegates as i can,'' simon told a news conference near the state capitol
in milwaukee earlier in the day, he said, ``i can't tell you precisely where i think we'll come in, but i think we have a good shot of winning here and i am going to make every effort to win.''
simon won a lopsided illinois primary victory tuesday, followed by another favorite son, jesse jackson, in second, and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis relegated to a lackluster third
dukakis and jackson top the race for delegates with more than 400 apiece, sen. albert gore jr. is in second, while simon and rep. richard gephardt stand far back in the count
a domestic jetliner with up to 136 people aboard crashed during a storm in the northern colombia mountains thursday and burst into flames, with no immediate sign of survivors, officials said
the boeing 727 had just left cucuta, about 250 miles northeast of bogota, and crashed at nearby zulia, police at the town said, quoting witnesses
there was no immediate confirmation from the civil aeronautics agency, which reported the avianca flight missing soon after takeoff
zulia police said three witnesses reported that the plane clipped some trees, then slammed into the earth and burned, and they saw no survivors
according to the government air transport agency, it left cucuta near the venezuelan border at 1:16 p.m. for barranquilla, a caribbean port 250 miles northwest
how many people were on the flight was not clear. the agency said 136, including five crew members, but avianca said there were 78 passengers and six crew
the control tower at cucuta lost contact with the plane 15 minutes after takeoff as the aircraft traveled through the mountainous region in stormy weather, the aeronatics agency said, adding that it did not report mechanical problems
colombia's last major air crash occurred july 27, 1985, when an air force transport plane went down in the amazon jungle, killing 74 people. it was transporting passengers because of an airline strike
president francesco cossiga on wednesday asked ciriaco de mita, leader of the dominant christian democrats, to try to form italy's 48th government since world war ii
de mita, 60, indicated he would seek to put together a coalition of the same five parties that have governed off and on since 1981: christian democrats, socialists, republicans, social democrats and liberals
cossiga named de mita premier-designate after three days of consultations with political leaders following premier giovanni goria's resignation. goria, a christian democrat, stepped down friday after 7{ turbulent months in office
de mita told reporters at quirinal palace after meeting cossiga that he would open negotiations friday with the other parties
he said the christian democrats want solidarity ``among the same five parties of the coalition.''
the key to de mita's chances will be support of the socialists, the no. 2 party in the coalition. socialist leader bettino craxi said wednesday he did not object to de mita's candidacy but that his support would depend on the program outlined
among divisive issues facing de mita is italy's nuclear policy. a government decision last week to resume construction of a nuclear power plant near rome angered the socialists and helped force goria to resign
also in dispute is the fate of the secret vote in parliament. the socialists want the secret vote abolished
the bald-pated de mita was elected in 1982 as secretary of the christian democrats, a post many consider the most powerful political position in italy
de mita, son of a tailor, was born in nusco, a small hill town near naples. he entered politics in the 1950s after earning a law degree. he was elected to parliament in 1963 and has held his seat since then, serving as a minister in several governments in the 1970s
political commentators and cartoonists often poke fun at de mita's thick southern accent. he and his wife anna maria have four children
warplanes believed to be from honduras attacked a sandinista military headquarters in northern nicaragua near the honduran border, the nicaraguan presidential spokesman said thursday
manuel espinoza enriquez said there were no injuries and no damage in the attack. sandinista troops fired on the f-5 warplanes, forcing them to turn back to honduras, he said
he said the planes fired at least five rockets at the headquarters, but did not say if any hit it
president daniel, 1st graf pvs leslie dach, sted gearan</note>
the presidential candidates who made it through the costly super tuesday and illinois contests are now lining up fund-raising events to see them through the rest of the primary season
some of the most cash-draining states are yet to come _ new york, pennsylvania, california and ohio
vice president george bush has no money worries, and gop rival pat robertson has already shelled out nearly all he can legally spend. but the democrats continue hunting for cash for their generally lighter treasuries, and republican sen. bob dole is also seeking contributions
sen. paul simon of illinois and rep. richard gephardt of missouri both are scrimping along, looking to draw enough contributions to keep their campaigns afloat beyond caucuses on march 26 in michigan and primaries march 29 in connecticut and april 5 in wisconsin
the democratic money leader, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, has ``an active april fund-raising schedule,'' and remains in good financial shape, a spokesman said
democrat jesse jackson, whose fund-raising has trailed that of opponents, has been picking up money through an aggressive mail program, and will appeal for money in california this weekend
aides to sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee did not return calls thursday to discuss his financial picture
bush's schedule includes a handful of dinners and receptions through april, and then he can close up his fund-raising shop. that is because he will have brought in as much as he can spend on his primary campaign under election law rules, said campaign treasurer fred bush, who is no relation to the candidate
the limit is $27 million, and the campaign figures on another $2 million or so for legal and accounting costs, which are exempt from the limit
money has been pouring into the bush coffers as he heads to all-but-certain nomination this summer
the vice president's push down the fund-raising home stretch included a $1,000-a-person dinner thursday night in washington, for which 170 people were signed up and another two dozen had to be turned away, said the campaign treasurer
in addition to the events, bush will mail one more appeal to his 70,000 or so donors who have not yet ``maxed out'' with the $1,000 maximum contribution they are allowed to give
bush currently has more than $4 million in cash on hand, spokeswoman ede holiday said thursday. although he has nearly raised the limit, he can continue campaigning because he has not spent it all
in a different situation is gop rival robertson, the former tv evangelist, who must drastically scale back his campaign operation to avoid exceeding the spending limit
robertson has said he will rely heavily on volunteer efforts to see him through the rest of the campaign
dale tate, a spokeswoman for sen. dole of kansas said that after dole's poor showing on super tuesday and in illinois, receipts had not ``fallen off precipitously.''
in fact, she said, people have been calling unsolicited to pledge money and urge him not to drop out
these are republicans saying we think there should be a race,'' she said
on friday, callers pledged $140,000, on monday $95,000 and on tuesday $60,000, she said. still, she added, ``we're not bathing in dollars,'' and no decisions on tv advertising have been made for the campaign's next targeted state, wisconsin
dukakis spokesman mark gearan said the campaign raised $100,000 wednesday night in new york and is focusing on raising money for the new york and pennsylvania primaries. dukakis' strong showing in the 20-state super tuesday contests on march 8 has kept money flowing to him, he said
dukakis has about $1.5 million in the bank, not counting the more than $600,000 he got this week in federal matching funds, said spokesman leslie dach
for simon and gephardt, both of whom did poorly in the super tuesday races, the situation was not so bright, although both said they were not in debt
both also said they had record fund-raising months in february _ gephardt collecting $1.2 million and simon more than $900,000. a simon spokesman conceded, ``march will not be a record for us as february was.''
it's a day-to-day thing,'' said gephardt's spokesman mark johnson. ``we're using aggressive fund-raising'' techniques, mostly involving phone calls to contributors. ``you're at a point now where cash flow is very important, and you need a quick turnaround,'' he said
gephardt is is targeting michigan for a heavy advertising campaign, but johnson said he has no idea whether any loans will be taken out
simon spokesman david carle said that after paying off remaining bank debt thursday the campaign had around $300,000 in cash on hand. simon has scaled back his operation, laying off about 15 people at the campaign headquarters, on the heels of more than 250 layoffs after the iowa, new hampshire and super tuesday contests, carle said
simon collected about $60,000 at a chicago event monday night, and expected to bring in another $25,000 thursday night in new york
a mailing to simon's 50,000 contributors will go out next week, and unsolicited donations came in following simon's victory in his home state of illinois, carle said. he declined to give specific figures
simon will strongly contest wisconsin, with a large tv campaign, but will not buy ads in michigan, he said. response from webster spokesman, details on basis for probe</note>
fbi director william h. webster may have been ``misinformed'' in 1985 when he defended continuing a terrorism investigation into a group opposing reagan administration policy in central america, a congressman said thursday
the fbi's investigation of the committee in support of the people of el salvador was closed just two months later for lack of evidence
at a congressional hearing thursday, rep. f. james sensenbrenner referred to webster's testimony of april 17, 1985, in which the then-fbi director, now head of the cia, justified continuing the cispes investigation
but the inquiry ended in june 1985 following a review by the justice department which concluded that cispes was involved in political activities involving first amendment rights and not international terrorism
sensenbrenner, r-wis., said the shutdown such a short time after webster supported the investigation raised the question of ``whether there was this review going on when webster made the statement.''
the congressman said he was certain that a decision ``was not made quickly or rashly'' to close the terrorism investigation, which had been going on since 1983, preceded by an earlier domestic criminal investigation begun in 1981
i don't know if webster was misinformed or what,'' sensenbrenner said after raising the issue with current fbi director william sessions at a hearing before the house judiciary subcommittee on civil and constitutional rights
sessions confirmed his own statements of last month about the investigation being closed in june 1985, but said any elaboration would have to wait until an internal fbi review of the bureau's handling of the cispes inquiry is completed
in his april 1985 testimony before the same subcommittee, webster said ``we are not keeping track of the membership of cispes as such. there are, as in many organizations, a wide range of individuals engaged in that organization, including some in whom we have a legitimate independent foreign counterintelligence interest.''
webster's comments came in response to complaints from rep. john conyers, d-mich., that a member of cispes who had traveled to nicaragua had been interviewed by the fbi for ``intelligence gathering'' purposes
after thursday's hearing, cia spokesman william baker, who also served with webster at the fbi, noted that justice department reviews of such probes take place annually and that go-aheads for the cispes investigation had been given twice previously based on ``a valid predication'' that there was a conspiracy to commit terrorist acts
the investigation was based on circumstantial evidence, which the fbi was unable to document, that cispes members were sending money to the farabundo marti liberation front, the main insurgent group trying to overthrow the government of el salvador
in january, the center for constitutional rights released fbi documents obtained under the freedom of information act showing that the fbi had investigated cispes extensively
the investigation included photographing protesters at peace rallies and recording their license-plate numbers, investigating nuns, union members and college students and checking up on church forums, according to the documents
last month, sessions denied that the bureau had mounted a massive surveillance campaign, but did acknowledge that the investigation ``was not properly directed'' in all instances
py picks up 3rd graf pvs, ``we logically ...</note>
warplanes believed to be from honduras attacked a sandinista military headquarters in northern nicaragua near the honduran border, the presidential spokesman said thursday
manuel espinoza enriquez said the attack on bocay caused no injuries or damage. sandinista troops fired on the planes, forcing them to turn back to honduras, he said
he said the planes fired at least five rockets at the headquarters but did not say if any struck their target
the attack came a day after honduras charged that nicaraguan troops had entered its territory while pursuing u.s.-backed contra rebels
president daniel ortega said thursday that nicaragua was ready to ``combat and liquidate'' american troops sent to honduras after the reported incursion. he said his soldiers won't withdraw from the border region
ortega also called for a meeting of the u.n. security council to deal with what he called ``one more escalation of the war against nicaragua.''
we logically are going to maintain our offensive ... we are not going to withdraw our troops now that we have recovered our territory,'' he said
we are ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division,'' he said
earlier, a foreign ministry spokesman said nicaragua already had begun withdrawing troops from the border region after driving about 2,000 contra rebels back into honduras
the operations have succesfully been concluded, and we don't plan to stay along the border region. in fact, this deescalation has already begun,'' the spokesman, alejandro bendana, said on nbc's ``today'' show
ortega spoke to reporters before meeting with 14 opposition parties ``to explain to them the national and international situation.''
the 3,200 u.s. troops that began arriving in honduras on thursday include two battalions from the 82nd airborne at fort bragg, n.c
ortega called the u.s. troop movement ``a dangerous act'' and accused the united states of pressuring honduras into asking for the american presence
the c-141 planes carrying the u.s. troops were arriving every 30 minutes at palmerola air force base, the main center of u.s. military operations in honduras. the base is about 125 miles west of the border, where heavy fighting was reported wednesday
bendana denied u.s. and honduran allegations that sandinista troops entered honduras, and he invited the united nations and organization of american states to visit the area to ``establish what the facts are and end these accusations.''
ortega himself wouldn't say if sandinista troops crossed the border
here the question is not if (nicaraguan) army troops penetrated honduran tserritory or not, but that we have dozens of camps of mercenary forces in honduran territory, in view of and tolerated by the honduran government,'' he said
but honduran military officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 4,000 honduran soldiers were surrounding about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers thursday. the sources said the entire honduran military was on alert
ortega told reporters the nicaraguan ``invasion only exists in the warped imagination of the north american leaders'' and said the sending of american troops ``violates international law and the regional peace efforts,'' he added
we demand that the united states withdraw its troops from honduras immediately and, with this, contribute to the meeting that is going to be held in sapoa march 21 having positive results,'' he said
government and contra representatives are scheduled to begin three days of peace talks monday in sapoa, a town in southern nicaragua near the border with costa rica
ortega said the united states would use the current situation to give the contras logistical and military aid not approved by congress
at the united nations, the nicaraguan mission confirmed that the government plans to ask for a meeting of the 15-member security council, the highest u.n. body
u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuella called for restraint in the conflicts but had not decided whether to send in an observer team
five current or former school bus drivers were among seven people arrested in an investigation into drug dealing and marijuana use, officials said wednesday
more arrests are expected
the problem was so great, we decided not to end this operation,'' said officer wayne hoskins of the department's drug enforcement unit. ``to me, this is one of the biggest things we've done. these guys were driving busloads of kids around. that bothers me as a citizen, not just a cop. my kids have rode those buses.''
hoskins said officer harold robinson posed as a bus driver to gather evidence. robinson made a drug buy within a week of being hired jan. 8, police said
he let it be known he was looking and it went down that quick,'' hoskins said. ``it's really unbelieveable how bad it was. we're talking about a lot of people involved in drugs down there.''
linda ethridge, president of the waco independent school district board, said the police investigation was prompted by a school district request
she said the wisd conducts background checks on those hired as bus drivers, but that sometimes those reviews fall short. there are about 150 drivers in the district
board members have in the past discussed whether to start drug-testing of drivers and will likely take up the matter in the future, she said
jafus cavil, vice president of the school board, said he doubted if the board could establish a drug-testing policy because ``i think there are some legal problems to it.''
federal agents arrested the current and former drivers monday and tuesday. the three current drivers were fired
hoskins said police monitored the drivers suspected of using drugs to ensure they were capable of driving
the undercover officer found both marijuana and cocaine sold and used at the bus barn before morning routes, hoskins said. after 3rd graf bgng ``she likened.''</note>
a group of anti-apartheid activists called on the south african government wednesday to commute the death sentences of six blacks who were involved in a 1984 demonstration during which a black deputy mayor was killed
molly yard, president of the national organization for women and a member of the free south africa committee, said the government of prime minister p.w. botha was using the death penalty in an effort to intimidate the country's black protest movement
she likened such tactics to those of nazi germany, contending that the pretoria government is ``on the road to totally obliterating all blacks except those who accept slavery.''
secretary of state george p. shultz telephoned south african foreign minister roelof (pik) botha to protest the plans to execute the six, department spokesman charles e. redman said
a protest also was delivered to the south african government by u.s. diplomats in pretoria
as the president said yesterday, we do hope that the south african government will heed this call for clemency,'' redman said
speaking at a news conference, yard urged congress to approve stronger sanctions and require total withdrawal of american business interests from south africa
now was joined at the session by representatives from transafrica, the washington lawyers committee for civil rights and the national conference of black lawyers, as well as aides to presidental candidate sen. paul simon, d-ill., and rep. mervyn dymally, d-calif., chairman of the congressional black caucus
the groups praised the reagan administration for joining the british and west german governments in asking for clemency in a telegram to botha
at the same time, they urged president reagan to end diplomatic relations with south africa and ask the western allies to join in a trade embargo
we've seen what this government can do against poland and panama,'' yard said ``why not south africa?''
the south african prisoners, known as the sharpeville six, were convicted in the sept. 3, 1984 killing of black township councilor jacob dlamini in sharpeville, about 40 miles south of johannesburg
evidence at their trial indicated that the six were not among those who hacked and burned dlamini to death. they were convicted under the doctrine of ``common purpose,'' which holds that they were responsible for the killing by being part of the mob that gathered outside of dlamini's home with intent to kill him
michael prosper, of the lawyers committee, told the news conference that dlamini, who refused to leave his home when south african police tried to take him to safety, had incited violence by firing several shots into the crowd
the plea for clemency also is supported by amnesty international, the united auto workers, the national coalition against the death penalty, the national council of churches and other national religious groups
the soviet union has bought an additional 200,000 metric tons of u.s. corn for delivery this year under a long-term supply agreement between the two countries, the agriculture department said wednesday
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 200,000 tons of corn would be about 7.9 million bushels
corn prices recently have been averaging about $1.83 per bushel at the farm level, meaning that the sale could have a farm value of around $14.5 million
the corn is part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of the agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases are supposed to include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
with the latest purchases, the soviets now have bought 3.47 million tons of corn, plus more than 6.9 million tons of wheat; 813,300 tons of soybeans, and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal
christian lacroix scored a solid success in his first ready-to-wear show wednesday, keeping hemlines short and flirty
his show capped the first day of a big week for buyers and press who come to view what paris has to say about next winter's clothes. the consensus is that many influential designers plan to keep their skirts short. others will set hemlines zooming down
paris wonder-boy lacroix was most successful in his daytime clothes. his late-day dresses were inspired by moroccan folklore and the dance hall, a departure from the ``arlesienne'' look of previous collections
he had hinted he would show very simple clothes, but couldn't resist some occasional fantasy, and his offerings were anything but dull
the show started with a bang: hot-colored coats in all shapes from swirly trapeze to fitted, often with big fichu collars. the little suits in houndstooth checks or plaids with fitted jackets or tiny boleros were geared more to daily life then some of the costumey lines in his couture collections
simplicity, however, took away none of the pizazz of these outfits, which are priced ultra-moderately compared to his ``luxe'' or couture lines. made for him by genny of italy, the ready-to-wear ensembles are expected to sell for about $420 to $1,060
top sellers in this collection may be the fabulous silk jacquard full-skirted coat-dresses in coral, yellow and blue
lacroix was ebullient, with a fun-and-games approach in hats such as an animal-spotted stovepipe or tipped pyramids, to go with little satin beribboned ballerina shoes
he went in for some of his favorite full taffeta babydoll dresses with bows or pyramid shapes. his fluid black jersey waistless or fitted dresses with asymmetrical hemlines, topped by dresses with big white organza collars might appeal as well _ to those with conservative tastes
the fancier numbers included some ribbed sweaters with embroidered net tops over flying bright skirts. there were merry widow dresses too, complete with music-hall tights that had lace and garter effects under the full, bouncy skirts
in a circus vein, he branched out into some loud and crazy patchwork dresses with woolen balls and ribbons
the dressier silk or velvet outfits with moroccan jewelry and lace embroidery did not come off as well in this collection as the beautifully finished simpler clothes. but the audience loved it all anyway, and gave him a big hand for his peppy approach
in contrast to lacroix's exuberance, lolita lempicka's collection featuring mannish suits was down-to-earth to the point of boredom
in greys and black pinstripes with ties, the outfits had long pleated or short lean skirts, some of the jackets fitted, other spencer-style for office chic. more mannish looks featured trousers, making a comeback
streamlined long and loose princess coat dresses were winning in sober silvery grey, black or brown light wools
the satin and lace evening looks made an attempt at gaiety with their bubbling scalloped skirts, but they didn't quite hit the mark. and lace sleeves on man-tailored jackets over knit knickers were not quite successful in their androgynous aim for a masculine-feminine line
doby broda went in for sweaters on more sweaters _ a pullover v-neck topped by a cardigan with a shoulder shrug, sometimes over cuffed long or pedal-pusher pants. her skirt lengths in low-key outfits of mauve, beige or violet were either well above the knee or nearly to the ankle
kimijima's ``venetian carnival'' show was all in good fun, especially the evening wear with huge peplumed bright taffeta skirts, some harlequin-motif underskirts, and embroidered fitted tops
chantal thomass _ known as ``queen of lingerie'' _ toned down some of her risque touches in a bright, appealing show featuring lots of pink angora and black stockings with vine-like motifs up the front
her wrapped tops over very short lean or bubbled skirts were offset by some ankle-length numbers, often in soft pastel knits. equally appealing here might be the long and full cuffed pants and the coats _ either full trapeze style or in sober charcoal and white stripes fitted like short redingotes
in the first such cooperative effort with the people's republic of china, federal agents arrested three men in san francisco in connection with a 7-pound heroin shipment from china to the united states tucked away inside dead goldfish, the drug enforcement administration said wednesday
the goldfish were laden with southeast asian heroin which was sewn inside condoms, said dea spokesman cornelius dougherty. boxes of fish containing the heroin and bound for a business called the goldfish aquarium in san francisco were spotted by authorities in china on march 9
dea and u.s. customs service agents were alerted and authorities seized the heroin in china
most of the heroin was later resewn inside some of the fish, which were placed in the bottom of each of 20 boxes containing 50 to 60 live goldfish and shipped to the united states aboard an aircraft. a shanghai police official and a dea agent from hong kong accompanied the shipment to san francisco
the boxes were deposited in a cargo area and attached with transponders emitting a signal so that dea and customs agents could keep the boxes under electronic surveillance
two men picked up the boxes in san francisco and delivered them to the aquarium, where they were opened by three people then arrested by agents who had trailed them to the location. the three were arrested last friday. in addition, four people were arrested in china in connection with the shipment
the dea said it was the first time the united states and mainland china had worked together on a controlled delivery of heroin from china to the united states
tally bookmaking sheets also were recovered at the aquarium building, suggesting it was an illegal sports betting establishment, dougherty said
the house budget committee approved a $1.1 trillion federal budget for the 1989 fiscal year thursday that obeys congress' budget summit accord with president reagan, but scrambles some of his domestic spending priorities
the spending plan would leave a deficit of $134.1 billion, according to the budget panel, enough to avoid automatic spending cuts under the gramm-rudman budget-balancing law
the budget resolution, expected to be sent to the full house next week, was pieced together over the last several days during closed-door meetings among committee republicans and democrats. the panel approved the document, on a voice vote with no objections, during a five-minute public session
we've had a bipartisan process, with full participation by republican members,'' said committee chairman william h. gray iii
the bipartisan camaraderie was in stark contrast to last year, when republicans walked away from the budget resolution process and bickering lasted for months
but the budget pact reached last november between reagan and lawmakers locked in new taxes and spending levels for fiscal 1988 and 1989 for defense, foreign affairs and overall domestic spending
lawmakers are proving eager to avoid reopening those questions and sparking potentially bitter fights in an election year. thus, the main fight remaining has been over how to distribute the $169.2 billion the summit allows for the domestic programs that congress directly oversees and are not financed under automatic formulas
the key was the budget summit, which gave us the key ceilings for the spending categories which are usually most controversial,'' said rep. willis d. gradison jr. of ohio, senior committee republican at the meeting
in the 1989 budget he presented congress feb. 18, reagan proposed a 20 percent increase in spending on space and science programs to $13.1 billion. the budget panel, looking to restore proposed cuts to several other domestic programs, pared that increase to $12.2 billion
the committee felt that was a realistic figure for nasa to carry out its mission,'' gray said
where reagan proposed deep cuts in programs such as mass transit assistance and eliminating other programs such as federal aid to amtrak, the passenger railroad, the budget committee would retain current levels of spending or reduce it by 1 percent or 2 percent
for programs for low-income people such as job training and child health care, the budget panel's proposal would allow enough of a spending increase to keep up with inflation, expected to reach 4 percent this year
the committee's budget also rejects $1.2 billion in savings in medicare that reagan had proposed, spends $1.5 billion for aids research _ slightly more than the president proposed _ and retains previously planned levels of spending for education, fighting drugs and providing aid to the homeless
the panel also proposed a 3 percent pay raise for federal workers and civilian employees of the military. gray said lawmakers will have to decide later this year whether members of congress would qualify for the salary increases
the committee's budget leaves intact the summit agreement spending levels of $294 billion for military programs for the 1989 fiscal year, and $14 billion in new taxes. most of the levies are on corporations
the senate plans to write its budget resolution next month. the resolution does not need the president's signature, and it serves as a blueprint for actual spending legislation to be enacted later
the lawmakers chose the path of least political resistance in selecting the crucial economic assumptions that determine how healthy the government's balance sheet will appear
thus, to weigh the budget deficit, the lawmakers adopted the economic assumptions used by the president's office of management and budget. the committee chose not to use economic figures calculated by the congressional budget office, which has said red ink is actually $35 billion greater than omb estimates
under gramm-rudman, the deficit target for next year is $136 billion. the law states that spending would be automatically cut to that level if the deficit exceeds the target by $10 billion
the 1989 fiscal year begins oct. 1
the presidential candidates who made it through the costly super tuesday and illinois contests are now lining up fund-raising events to see them through the rest of the primary season
some of the most cash-draining states are yet to come _ new york, pennsylvania, california and ohio
vice president george bush has no money worries, and gop rival pat robertson has already shelled out nearly all he can legally spend. but the democrats continue hunting for cash for their generally lighter treasuries, and republican sen. bob dole is also seeking contributions
sen. paul simon of illinois and rep. richard gephardt of missouri both are scrimping along, looking to draw enough contributions to keep their campaigns afloat beyond caucuses on march 26 in michigan and primaries march 29 in connecticut and april 5 in wisconsin
the democratic money leader, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, has ``an active april fund-raising schedule,'' and remains in good financial shape, a spokesman said
democrat jesse jackson, whose fund-raising has trailed that of opponents, has been picking up money through an aggressive mail program, and will appeal for money in california this weekend
arlie schardt, a spokesman for sen. albert gore jr., said the campaign was ``in the black'' and had ``a sufficient amount of money to do what we need to do.''
we're in good solid shape,'' he said, but refused to provide any details
bush's schedule includes a handful of dinners and receptions through april, and then he can close up his fund-raising shop. that is because he will have brought in as much as he can spend on his primary campaign under election law rules, said campaign treasurer fred bush, who is no relation to the candidate
the limit is $27 million, and the campaign figures on another $2 million or so for legal and accounting costs, which are exempt from the limit
money has been pouring into the bush coffers as he heads to all-but-certain nomination this summer
the vice president's push down the fund-raising home stretch included a $1,000-a-person dinner thursday night in washington, for which 170 people were signed up and another two dozen had to be turned away, said the campaign treasurer
in addition to the events, bush will mail one more appeal to his 70,000 or so donors who have not yet ``maxed out'' with the $1,000 maximum contribution they are allowed to give
bush currently has more than $4 million in cash on hand, spokeswoman ede holiday said thursday. although he has nearly raised the limit, he can continue campaigning because he has not spent it all
in a different situation is gop rival robertson, the former tv evangelist, who must drastically scale back his campaign operation to avoid exceeding the spending limit
robertson has said he will rely heavily on volunteer efforts to see him through the rest of the campaign
dale tate, a spokeswoman for sen. dole of kansas said that after dole's poor showing on super tuesday and in illinois, receipts had not ``fallen off precipitously.''
in fact, she said, people have been calling unsolicited to pledge money and urge him not to drop out
these are republicans saying we think there should be a race,'' she said
on friday, callers pledged $140,000, on monday $95,000 and on tuesday $60,000, she said. still, she added, ``we're not bathing in dollars,'' and no decisions on tv advertising have been made for the campaign's next targeted state, wisconsin
dukakis spokesman mark gearan said the campaign raised $100,000 wednesday night in new york and is focusing on raising money for the new york and pennsylvania primaries. dukakis' strong showing in the 20-state super tuesday contests on march 8 has kept money flowing to him, he said
dukakis has about $1.5 million in the bank, not counting the more than $600,000 he got this week in federal matching funds, said spokesman leslie dach
for simon and gephardt, both of whom did poorly in the super tuesday races, the situation was not so bright, although both said they were not in debt
both also said they had record fund-raising months in february _ gephardt collecting $1.2 million and simon more than $900,000. a simon spokesman conceded, ``march will not be a record for us as february was.''
it's a day-to-day thing,'' said gephardt's spokesman mark johnson. ``we're using aggressive fund-raising'' techniques, mostly involving phone calls to contributors. ``you're at a point now where cash flow is very important, and you need a quick turnaround,'' he said
gephardt is is targeting michigan for a heavy advertising campaign, but johnson said he has no idea whether any loans will be taken out
simon spokesman david carle said that after paying off remaining bank debt thursday the campaign had around $300,000 in cash on hand. simon has scaled back his operation, laying off about 15 people at the campaign headquarters, on the heels of more than 250 layoffs after the iowa, new hampshire and super tuesday contests, carle said
simon collected about $60,000 at a chicago event monday night, and expected to bring in another $25,000 thursday night in new york
a mailing to simon's 50,000 contributors will go out next week, and unsolicited donations came in following simon's victory in his home state of illinois, carle said. he declined to give specific figures
simon will strongly contest wisconsin, with a large tv campaign, but will not buy ads in michigan, he said
susan butcher, winner for the third year in row of the 1,150-mile iditarod sled dog race, is a transplanted easterner who pursues the arctic sport with a passion
her victory was less than four minutes old wednesday night, but the intense, 34-year-old from manley hot springs already was thinking about next year's race _ and about breaking the magic 10-day mark
i think it can be done, and i'd like to be the one to do it,'' said butcher, who crossed the finish line in 11 days, 11 hours and 41 minutes, a record for the race's longer northern route from anchorage to nome
the record she broke was her own, set in 1986. last year, her winning time of 11 days, 2 hours set a record for the shorter southern route
butcher has run the race 11 times, finishing second twice and in the money _ or among the top 20 _ all but once, in 1985, when she scratched after a cow moose charged her 17-dog team, killing one animal and injuring five others
butcher is an outgoing, strongly built woman who works out daily along with teams from her 150-dog kennel. she once took four dogs to the summit of mount mckinley, at 20,320 feet, the highest peak in north america
dave monson, her lawyer husband, shares her passion for dog racing and several weeks ago won the equally challenging yukon quest international sled dog race from fairbanks to whitehorse in the yukon territory
butcher grew up in cambridge, mass., moving to colorado when she was 16 along with two siberian huskies she had bought as pets. there she worked as a veterinary technician
she moved to alaska in 1975 because she was looking for a wilderness lifestyle
butcher married monson two years ago and they live 140 miles from fairbanks in a 16-by-19-foot cabin with no running water and a gas-driven generator for electricity. she draws water for her 150 dogs from a nearby creek
of her $50,000 iditarod first-place prize in 1986, ``every cent went back into the kennels,'' she said
i train them 12 months of the year,'' butcher said in a recent interview. ``in summer i run dogs in harness pulling a four-wheel cart. once the snow starts falling, i run eight to 10 to a team from 10 to 50 miles a day.''
they're worth $1,000 to $6,000 apiece, so they're precious, besides the emotional involvement,'' she said
they love competition. they're professional athletes, and i'm more like a coach. coaching to victory is the job of a musher. the formula for winning is one-third musher, one-third dogs and one-third luck.'' to segen-cohen, not segen-cohel. picks up 9th graf pvs, a three-judge ...</note>
israel began its first major trials on thursday of soldiers charged with brutality in the arab rebellion, and palestinians wounded an israeli with gunfire for the first time since the violence began dec. 8
israeli warplanes raided palestinian guerrilla bases in the mountains south of beirut, and newspapers said secretary of state george p. shultz may return to the middle east early next month to promote the u.s. peace plan. the raid came a day after rockets landed in northern israel, causing light damage
authorities increased restrictions in the occupied territories, which already include travel bans and a cut-off of telephone service to the outside. a military official said palestinians must get approval to bring $1,000 or more from neighboring jordan, where most hold citizenship and have family
the rules are intended to hamper the palestine liberation organization in organizing and financing the protests
trials beginning thursday involved the burial alive of four arabs by an army bulldozer feb. 5 in kfar salem, a west bank village, and the beating feb. 24 of two palestinians near nablus, which was photographed by a cbs news crew
neighbors soon rescued the buried palestinians. the beating was televised around the world and aroused international protest
several weeks after trouble began in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, the army introduced a policy of beating rioters as an alternative to firing live ammunition. at least 100 palestinians have been killed in more than three months of violence, and hundreds wounded
yair nissimi and dror segen-cohen, both army privates, pleaded guilty in the burial case to reduced charges of shameful behavior. the plea bargain would give nissimi 2{ months in jail and segen-cohen two months, and both would be placed on probation
a three-judge panel is to rule march 29 on whether to accept the arrangement
sgt. maj. charlie danino pleaded innocent to assault and unbecoming conduct, and is expected to argue that he was not at the scene
mustafa hamdan, one of those buried, said of the plea bargain: ``they buried four people alive. if an arab did that they would have given him 200 years.''
defense lawyer josef danai said in court the burial was ``an instance of letting off steam, revenge and deterrence'' by soldiers in difficult circumstances
they spilled a little earth on them,'' he said. ``the tractor driver said an ant could have gotten out of it.''
sgt. amichai vaturi, who was at the scene but is not charged, testified that the arabs were covered with about two feet of wet earth but their heads and shoulders were exposed
hamdan said the heads of three men were covered
in the beating case, sagi harpaz and yehuda angel, army privates, pleaded innocent to assault and the case was recessed
two other soldiers were sentenced tuesday to 10 and 21 days in jail for minor roles in the beating
in the gaza strip, a 25-year-old khan yunis resident, subhi abu sharar, was shot in the chest and seriously wounded, said ilana ziv, spokeswoman for barzilai hospital in ashkelon
arab reports said israeli soldiers shot him during a demonstration
also in gaza, two arabs shot 44-year-old israeli contractor adi tzabari four times in the legs near jabalia refugee camp, ms. ziv said
tzabari told israel army radio ``i threw a hammer'' at one arab with a pistol, ``then another one appeared with a kalashnikov (assault rifle) and opened fire.''
the army confirmed the shooting. it was the first time an israeli, civilian or soldier, has been reported hit by arab gunfire since the beginning of what palestinians now call ``the uprising.''
an arab truck driver in the same area tried to run down an israeli soldier earlier thursday but the soldier escaped without injury, the army said
arab reports from jabaliya said the army fired tear gas and rubber bullets at 800 schoolgirls who stoned soldiers, raised palestinian flags and burned tires
officials of a u.n. clinic said 25 girls were treated for minor injuries. palestine press service, an arab-run news agency, said soldiers in the west bank arrested 150 palestinians overnight in nablus, jenin, qabitiyeh, ramallah and hebron
arab reporters said the army blocked dairy and produce deliveries to nablus, tulkarm and jericho
the army said these reports were being checked. raided</head> graf pvs, two battalions ... with minor editing to trim; insert 2 grafs after 20th graf pvs, a spokesman ... updating with air raid. picks up 21st graf pvs, heavy fighting ...</note>
planeloads of u.s. soldiers streamed into this air base thursday in a show of strength ordered by president reagan to counter what he called an invasion by nicaraguan forces
in northern nicaragua, warplanes raided a sandinista military headquarters thursday, but no casualties or damage resulted, nicaragua said. a reagan administration source, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed in washington that honduras launched the raid, but called it ``totally a honduran operation.''
two battalions from the renowned 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c., and two battalions from the 7th light infantry division of fort ord, calif., were combined into a task force of 3,000 troops
a honduran official said his government had given the sandinistas 24 hours to get out of the country, which they entered in pursuit of contra rebels
president daniel ortega of nicaragua responded that his army was ``ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division.''
maj. gen. carl w. stiner, commander of the 82nd airborne, said he knew of no plan to have u.s. troops enter into the battle between the sandinistas and the u.s.-backed -contras
we have not been told to do so,'' he said before leaving fort bragg. he said the force was capable of that, if needed
the american troops were to engage in joint exercises with the hondurans
stiner also said there was no plan to use the troops if more trouble broke out in nearby panama
the american forces began arriving at palmerola at 10:15 a.m. as part of what the pentagon called operation ``golden pheasant.''
the 26 c-141 transport planes landed in the intense heat at 30-minute intervals at this air base, headquarters of u.s. military operations in honduras, 40 miles northwest of tegucigalpa
the deployment was about 125 miles west of the area where reagan administration officials say the nicaraguan sandinista army has chased rebel contra forces over the border into honduras
col. manuel suarez benavides, honduran armed forces spokesman, said the deadline for the sandinistas to leave was final
he said 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers had crossed the border and penetrated about six miles in pursuit of contra rebels. a military intelligence source said earlier the nicaraguans were surrounded by about 4,000 honduran troopers
suarez benavides would not comment on pentagon reports of new nicaraguan attacks inside honduras
the sandinista movements did not appear to be a full-fledged invasion, stiner said, adding that he saw the u.s. operation as a deterrent
ortega would not say whether his soldiers had crossed the border in pursuit of the u.s.-supported rebels
here the question is not if army troops penetrated honduran territory or not, but that we have dozens of camps of mercenary forces in honduran territory, in view of and tolerated by the honduran government,'' he said at a news conference in managua
he said nicaraguan soldiers would not withdraw from the border area. ortega called the u.s. troop deployment ``a dangerous act'' and ``another escalation of the war against nicaragua.'' he demanded a meeting of the u.n. security council
a spokesman for the nicaraguan foreign ministry said before the news conference that nicaragua had begun pulling its troops back from the frontier region after driving about 2,000 contra rebels back into honduras. the defense and foreign ministries denied that nicaraguan troops entered honduras
nicaraguan presidential spokesman manuel espinoza enriquez later said that air attackers fired at least five rockets thursday at the nicaraguan military headquarters at bocay, near the honduras border. sandinista gunfire forced the planes to turn back, he said
the u.s. official in washington said two honduran air force f-5s and four super-mystere attack jets carried out the assault, destroying a soviet-built helicopter on the ground
heavy fighting was reported wednesday in the olancho border province about 125 miles east of palmerola
included in the american forces are two battalions from the 82nd airborne and two from a new division organized for quick movement around the world. the 82nd airborne and 7th light infantry are based at opposite ends of the country
the final 800 u.s. troops are to arrive friday by parachute, weather permitting
in addition to the c-141 aircraft, a giant c-5a transport was loaded with helicopter gunships for the exercise
the honduran intelligence source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: ``we will not allow the sandinistas to move farther into the interior of our territory. we want to avoid a large conflict, but if it isn't possible, we will have to face the invading troops.''
secretary of state george p. shultz said in washington the soldiers were not being sent in ``a shooting capacity'' but to ``get people's attention to what is happening in central america'' and say to the honduran government: ``we are your friends.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the complete deployment would take about 27 hours. the defense department said the soldiers had their normal weapons along with nine helicopters and two light tanks
it was the the most dramatic show of u.s. force since the contras began fighting in nicaragua six years ago, and came in response to a request for help from president jose azcona hoyo of honduras
since 1981, honduras has been a key u.s. ally in central america and a major element in reagan administration policy of fighting nicaragua's leftist government
about 1,100 american soldiers normally are stationed at several military installations in honduras. in addition, other national guard and army troops rotate through for joint exercises, road-building and other projects
a house committee chairman called wednesday for the resignation of a high-ranking education department official who was quoted in a published report as saying students at black colleges include ``a high level of thieves.''
rep. augustus hawkins, d-calif., chairman of the house education and labor committee, said the remarks by deputy undersecretary bruce carnes make him ``incapable of objectively carrying out his duties. he is not qualified for this or any position in federal government.''
in a story tuesday about a crackdown on student loan defaults, the wall street journal quoted carnes as saying: ``the sector that will be hit hardest by this will be black colleges. it's possible that their student bodies contain a high level of thieves.''
but carnes said in a statement that ``i have no recollection of saying that or anything remotely like that. it's completely at variance with everything i have said before on this topic, and with what i believe.''
gary putka, the reporter who wrote the story, said he has carnes' comment in his written notes and stands by the quote. ``he hasn't denied it to us nor has he asked us for a correction or retraction,'' putka said
in a letter to the journal, dated tuesday, carnes said the newspaper article ``has grievously misrepresented my views concerning black colleges and their students. in fact it ascribes to me a view that is precisely the opposite of the one i hold and have repeatedly stated.''
education department spokesman loye miller said the letter did not demand a retraction because the newspaper would have refused to publish it that way
hawkins called on education secretary william bennett to remove carnes from his position if carnes did not resign. hawkins also said he had written to president reagan about the incident
miller said carnes has repeatedly said he does not believe stiffer penalties and enforcement in the area of student loan defaults will be a special problem for historically black colleges
miller also said he has heard carnes rebuff people who say such colleges need an exemption from the default crackdown because their students are less reliable about paying back loans
in his letter to the journal, carnes said students at historically black colleges ``are as capable as others of meeting their commitments.'' he said the department is holding workshops and seminars to help historically black colleges with high default rates manage their student loans. dukakis endorsements</note>
democratic presidential contenders debated long-distance with republican bob dole thursday over the dispatch of u.s. troops to central america, with richard gephardt charging the administration had ``abandoned the rule of law.''
dole called for u.s. military help for the nicaraguan contra rebels, who he said were being ``slaughtered by the hundreds.''
but jesse jackson, campaigning in michigan, said, ``we are being told we have to be saved from the sandinistas. there are no sandinistas in detroit.''
jackson also included vice president george bush, the gop presidential front-runner, in his verbal attack. commenting one day after former white house aide oliver north and three other men were indicted for their roles in the iran-contra money diversion, jackson said, ``in a real sense, the mailmen have taken the rap for the postmaster.''
north and the others are fall guys in the process. ... this investigation must conclude the fact that this is president reagan's policy and the fact that mr. bush knew about the scheme,'' he said
sen. paul simon said of the troop deployment, ``i'm skeptical like a lot of my colleagues. i don't know what i can trust from the administration.''
massachusetts gov. dukakis not only criticized the administration's central american moves but also laid into bush for refusing to break with reagan over a civil rights bill the president vetoed on wednesday
reagan has complained the bill would expand federal power, and he has offered a substitute. but dukakis said, ``there's a very basic principle involved here. that is that institutions which receive money from the government should not discriminate.''
bush spokesman pete teeley said the vice president has not publicly discussed his views of the issue, and he said, ``we're not going to respond to dukakis.''
dukakis, meanwhile, made the rounds on capitol hill on thursday, picking up the endorsements of several lawmakers _ sen. barbara mikulski of maryland, sen. patrick leahy of vermont and sen. donald riegle and rep. howard wolpe, both of michigan
pat robertson, still in the gop race but apparently making only a token effort the rest of the way, was hoping to bring in needed cash at a california fund-raiser
bush and dukakis had fund-raising events on their schedules, too, and so did illinois democratic primary winner simon, as the candidates took advantage of a primary season lull to catch their breath and pick up campaign money for the series of big-state primaries next month
dukakis praised democratic national chairman paul kirk and new york gov. mario cuomo for their recent comments against deciding the party's nominee at a brokered convention _ as simon has said is inevitable _ and in favor of settling the matter beforehand. dukakis paraded new endorsements from two senators whose states have already voted _ barbara mikulski of maryland and patrick leahy of maine _ and sought support from two others _ bill bradley of new jersey and donald riegle of michigan
the massachusetts governor also compared himself to former vice president walter mondale, who lost the general election in a landslide to reagan after a tough fight to win the nomination in 1984
this is a long process,'' dukakis said of his wins and losses in primaries so far. ``mondale in '84 lost a whole string of primaries and pulled it out, numerically, with new jersey. if there's one campaign that's doing it primary by primary, caucus by caucus, it's this campaign.''
gephardt was campaigning hard in michigan ahead of march 26 caucuses there. the missouri congressman, who fell far behind dukakis, sen. albert gore and simon on super tuesday, is traveling the state in a bus while his 80-year-old mother, loreen, has been making the rounds of radio talk shows in detroit
gore was on the campaign trail, too, but was having weather problems in kansas, where democratic caucuses will be held saturday
the tennessee senator, who bypassed the year's lead-off contests in iowa and new hampshire, got a taste thursday of the cold, snowy campaigning he missed in those states. he greeted workers arriving at a boeing plant in wichita, which had been hit by late-winter snow. and his next stop in pittsburg, kan., was canceled because the airport there had no de-icing equipment
gore, in a news conference later in topeka, was less critical than several of his democratic rivals of the reagan administration's sending of troops to honduras. but he did say, ``i think it was wrong to mislead the congress and fail to provide the information about what led up to the decision.''
he also said, ``i think the president erred in not virgorously pursuing'' a peace plan offered by the president of costa rica
dole, in a speech on the senate floor, declared that the nicaraguan contra rebels were being overrun and ``slaughtered by the hundreds,'' and he said reagan should immediately resubmit a request for military aid
does it make sense, even as thousands of communist troops cross the border of a free country in this hemisphere, for members of congress to make excuses for (nicaragua's) aggression, while accusing the president of the united states of fueling the fires of war in central america?'' dole asked
gephardt, however, in a statement released by his office in washington, strongly criticized reagan for sending troops to honduras
now we have this overreaction that puts american troops in harm's way,'' he said. ``this `exercise' serves no purpose but to draw us into a war that the american people oppose.''
gephardt said, ``in pursuit of its failed policy of support for the contras, the administration has lost its sense of direction, abandoned the rule of law and failed to protect american national interests in a troubled region.''
dukakis said to reporters in boston that the decision to send troops was ``very regrettable.''
the army announced wednesday it had decided to begin purchasing a specialized west german military reconnaissance vehicle rather than continue development of its own
the decision ultimately could be worth $790 million to west germany and demonstrates the u.s. commitment ``to nato standardization and cooperation,'' the army said
the decision involves a unique type of wheeled reconnaissance vehicle outfitted for use in a battle zone contaminated by either nuclear radioactivity or biological and chemical agents
the west german version of the vehicle is known as the ``abc-spuerpanzer fuchs'' and is made by thyssen henschel of kassel, west germany. the u.s. army calls the german vehicle the ``fox nbc reconnaissance vehicle.''
the fox wheeled vehicle has been in service with german forces since 1979,'' the army said. ``a version of it has been recently fielded as a reconnaissance vehicle with imbedded nuclear and chemical detection, warning and navigation equipment
the army will adopt (this) vehicle ..., terminating funding for the xm87 nbc reconnaissance vehicle program.''
maj. randy morger, a pentagon spokesman, said the army intended to purchase six of the fox vehicles in the near future for about $1 million each in order to perform final acceptance tests
ultimately, the service may spend about $790 million to acquire 576 of the vehicles. that pricetag would include adding some additional sensor, data processing and radio equipment to the vehicle, morger said. planes into nicaragua; picks up 3rd graf pvs, ``more than ...; inserts 1 graf after 9th graf pvs, ``honduras has ... to update with details.</note>
planes from honduras attacked a sandinista military headquarters in northern nicaragua at noon thursday, but president daniel ortega's office said they caused no casualties or damage
reporters on the scene confirmed the raid, which came the day after honduras accused the nicaraguans of sending thousands of soldiers across the border in pursuit of u.s.-supported contra rebels
a reagan administration source in washington said the honduran air force had carried out the attack. however, a honduran armed forces spokesman in tegucigalpa, the capital, denied the armed forces had crossed into nicaragua and said rockets were fired at sandinista forces in honduran territory
more than 3,000 american soldiers began arriving in honduras in a show of support thursday. ortega declared his army ready to ``combat and liquidate'' the americans and said his soldiers will not withdraw from the border region
nicaragua has committed an estimated 6,000 soldiers to an anti-rebel operation in an area running from the central region to the border, with most of them at the frontier
manuel espinoza enriquez, spokesman for ortega, said the attack on bocay, near the border, caused no injuries or damage. he said nicaraguan soldiers fired on the planes, forcing them to turn back
at least five rockets were fired at the headquarters, he said, but did not say whether any hit the target
the u.s. official in washington said two u.s.-built f-5s and four super-mystere attack jets of the honduran air force carried out the assault, destroying one of nicaragua's soviet-made helicopters on the ground
this was totally a honduran operation,'' the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity
honduras has one of central america's smallest armies and relies on air superiority for defense. it and mexico are the only nations in the region with jet fighters
manuel suarez, the honduran armed forces spokesman, said in a telephone interview that the air force dropped at least five bombs inside honduras along the border region near bocay. he said he had no further information
ortega called the dispatch of u.s. troops to honduras ``one more escalation of the war against nicaragua'' and demanded a meeting of the u.n. security council
a council meeting thursday about british military maneuvers in the falkland islands became an impromptu debate of the u.s. action, with barbs exchanged by nicaragua and panama on one side and the united states on the other
in managua, ortega said: ``we logically are going to maintain our offensive. ... we are not going to withdraw our troops now that we have recovered our territory
we are ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division.''
earlier, a foreign ministry spokesman said nicaragua already had begun withdrawing troops from the border region after driving about 2,000 contra rebels back into honduras
the operations have succesfully been concluded, and we don't plan to stay along the border region. in fact, this deescalation has already begun,'' the spokesman, alejandro bendana, said on nbc's ``today'' show
ortega spoke to reporters before meeting with 14 opposition parties ``to explain to them the national and international situation.''
the 3,200 u.s. soldiers who began arriving in honduras on thursday include two battalions from the 82nd airborne at fort bragg, n.c
ortega accused the united states of pressuring honduras into asking for the american presence
the c-141 planes carrying the u.s. troops were arriving every 30 minutes at palmerola air force base, the main center of u.s. military operations in honduras. the base is about 125 miles west of the border, where heavy fighting was reported wednesday
bendana denied u.s. and honduran allegations that sandinista troops entered honduras, and he invited the united nations and organization of american states to visit the area to ``establish what the facts are and end these accusations.''
ortega himself wouldn't say if sandinista troops crossed the border
here the question is not if (nicaraguan) army troops penetrated honduran tserritory or not, but that we have dozens of camps of mercenary forces in honduran territory, in view of and tolerated by the honduran government,'' he said
but honduran military officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 4,000 honduran soldiers were surrounding about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers thursday. the sources said the entire honduran military was on alert
ortega told reporters the nicaraguan ``invasion only exists in the warped imagination of the north american leaders.''
we demand that the united states withdraw its troops from honduras immediately and, with this, contribute to the meeting that is going to be held in sapoa march 21 having positive results,'' he said
government and contra representatives are scheduled to begin three days of peace talks monday in sapoa, a town in southern nicaragua near the border with costa rica
ortega said the united states would use the current situation to give the contras logistical and military aid not approved by congress
u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuella called for restraint in the conflict but had not decided whether to send in an observer team
interior secretary donald p. hodel met with a group of estonian-americans protesting the visit of a soviet government minister, hodel's spokesman said wednesday
hodel ``listened to their concerns about threats to the environment from phosphate mining, and human rights,'' and reiterated american support for estonian aspirations, said spokesman david prosperi
estonia is one of the three baltic countries who declared independence on the breakup of the czar's empire in 1917 and were taken over by the soviet union in 1940 under the nazi-soviet pact of 1939. the united states still accords diplomatic recognition to the governments-in-exile of the three countries, estonia, latvia and lithuania
geology minister y.e. kozlovsky paid a courtesy call on hodel after visiting the u.s. geological survey, part of hodel's department
the interior department said wednesday a proposed 358-mile northeast natural gas pipeline is unacceptable because its route across the appalachian trail would create scenic and environmental problems
but the project developer vowed to work with federal park officials to find a new route across the hiking trail that would be acceptable
interior secretary donald p. hodel, in a letter to sen. lowell p. weicker jr. r-conn., said he rejected the iroquois proposal because the pipeline would cross the 2,000-mile appalachian trail at a point in new york near the connecticut border where it would have ``significant environmental and scenic impacts.''
gary b. davis, spokesman for the iroquois gas transmission system, said he was confident the company could find a route across the trail that would satisfy hodel
the plan now is to find a place along the new york-connecticut border where we can cross,'' davis said. ``we will have to sit down with the park service again and discuss our concern. ... something will have to be worked out.''
the pipeline, which would begin in ontario, would have to cross the appalachian trail at some point on any route to long island because the trail runs from maine to georgia. the pipeline would serve connecticut, new york and new jersey
the $384 million project is the first and most prominent northeast gas line proposal under consideration by the federal energy regulatory commission
but deputy assistant interior secretary susan recce said the u.s. park service, which is under the interior department, has jurisdiction over anything affecting the appalachian trail, which is part of the national park system
hodel's ruling was based on the recommendation of a park service survey in january
the pipeline would have crossed the appalachian trail at dover, n.y., in eastern dutchess county, n.y., near sherman, conn. davis said that site was chosen becaue at&amp;t telephone lines already cut across the trail there
meanwhile, the federal energy regulatory commission on wednesday took its first procedural step in reviewing the applications of 31 northeast projects. iroquois was the first application submitted, nearly two years ago
it's important because a procedure is now moving forward,'' davis said. ``after 22 months, finally ferc is starting to take some action on our application.''
the licensing consideration is going ahead under traditional ferc guidelines
iroquois had pushed to have the project considered under a ``fast-track'' procedure that would have avoided a series of lengthy hearings. but that attempt, opposed by weicker and other officials in connecticut, has been in effect been abandoned by the company, davis said
opponents argued that the fast-track procedure was designed for smaller projects. civil defense ending search thursday night. adds one graf with background on plane</note>
a domestic jetliner with 137 people aboard crashed during a storm in the northern colombia mountains thursday and burst into flames, with no immediate sign of survivors, officials said
the boeing 727 had just left cucuta, about 250 miles northeast of bogota, and crashed on a mountain near zulia, police at the town said, quoting witnesses. zulia is about 50 miles north of cucuta
the civil aeronautics agency, which reported the avianca flight missing soon after takeoff, said it could not confirm the crash. it said two search planes and three helicopters searched for the aircraft in the remote mountainous region where it was reported to have crashed
zulia police said three witnesses reported that the plane clipped some trees, then slammed into a mountain and burned, and they saw no survivors
passengers included a roman catholic auxiliary bishop and members of two colombian soccer teams
we heard a tremendous noise ... and ran toward the mountain where we saw the ruins of the plane,'' said victor pineda villamizar, a schoolteacher, in an interview with the radio network rcn
the teacher said local rescuers could not reach the crash site, which he said was at about 8,000 feet
in bogota, col. edgar lozano, a spokesman for the government air transport agency, said the search would continue at dawn friday. civil defense, police and red cross search teams suspended their efforts late thursday
according to the government agency, the plane left cucuta near the venezuelan border at 1:16 p.m. for barranquilla, a caribbean port 250 miles northwest, and then was to continue to the port city of cartagena
avianca and the government air transport agency reported the plane left with 131 passengers and six crew members. the agency and airline earlier had given different numbers
the agency said the control tower at cucuta lost radio contact with the plane four minutes after takeoff as the aircraft traveled in stormy weather. the agency said the plane did not report mechanical problems
it was on the route, but it was flying at a very low altitude,'' said a spokesman at the control tower, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the agency said the passenger list included a roman catholic auxiliary bishop, monsignor horacio olave velandia of tibu, and at least 31 soccer players from two teams who were flying to a tournament in cartagena
olave velandia, 44, was named an auxiliary bishop last month. the soccer teams were affiliated with the state petroleum company ecopetrol
colombia's last major air crash occurred july 27, 1985, when an air force transport plane went down in the amazon jungle, killing 74 people. it was carrying passengers because of an airline strike
the boeing 727 began flights in 1963 and is currently being flown by more than 170 carriers. the 727 was the best-selling jetliner in history until it was recently surpassed by the 737
upcoming in about 10 minutes, a 5th ld-writethru to am-colombia-plane, a0923, to update with civil defense confirming no survivors in crash
an explosion and fire touched off by a mislabeled or contaminated gas cylinder struck a chemical plant thursday, killing three men and seriously injuring one, officials said
the fire at the gollob analytical services plant burned out of control for more than 4{ hours. officer david bogert said he felt the early morning blast from the police station 1{ miles away
the blast occurred after an employee of a distributor arrived to remove the cylinder at gollob's request because tests showed it did not contain the nitrous oxide ordered, said state environmental commissioner richard t. dewling
the tank ``either was mislabeled or contaminated somehow,'' and gollob had asked it be removed immediately, dewling said
from there on we don't know what happened,'' he said. ``we don't know whether they were loading it onto a truck, moving it or what.'' he said it is not known whether the cylinder itself blew up or leaked gas that caused an explosion
the fire gutted the one-story, 10,000 square-foot cinderblock building and forced the evacuation of about 30 night-shift workers in nearby buildings, officials said
fire chief michael amodeo said the three men who died were found outside the plant and appeared to have been trying to escape
dewling would not identify the distributor of the gas, saying the matter was under investigation. gollob, which has been in business for 22 years, tests chemicals
a department manager and a technical director were killed in the blast and fire, officials said. the third person killed had not been identified
james diemer, 30, of leonia, was injured, and one leg was amputated below the knee at university hospital in newark, said a nursing supervisor
authorities said it was not immediately known whether he worked for gollob or the distributor
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ the government of president leslie manigat vowed wednesday to crack down on narcotics trafficking, but made no specific mention of the u.s. indictment of col. jean-claude paul on drug charges
a communique signed by martial celestin, the prime minister and minister of justice, and by foreign affairs minister gerard latortue, declared:
the government ... reiterates its determination to struggle against drug (trafficking) ... and confirms its desire to cooperate with foreign governments in the struggle against drug trafficking in which haiti could be used as a point of transit
in any precise case implicating an individual or institution . .. the government would appreciate receiving ... a complete file, solidly documented with evidence, which would be transferred to (judicial) authorities.''
a federal grand jury in miami on march 9 indicted paul, his brother and paul's former wife in connection with a 220-pound shipment of cocaine allegedly flown to the bahamas in a plane that left paul's ranch outside the capital port-au-prince. the cocaine was said to be florida-bound
paul, a battalion commander in port-au-prince, denied the charges, and haitian officials said they never were officially notified of the indictment
u.s. embassy spokesman jeffrey lite, however, said ambassador brunson mckinley personally notified manigat last thursday. lite said a complete judicial file will be delivered to the haitian government within two weeks
the indictment was seen as putting manigat in a touchy position. he came to power in a jan. 17 election that rival candidates said was rigged by the army
radio stations meanwhile reported wednesday that the chamber of deputies almost unanimously approved the cabinet proposed by manigat and celestin, with minor changes
manigat has been without an official cabinet since taking office feb. 7
parliament rejected a proposed cabinet last thursday, arguing that the state could not afford to maintain 14 ministries
agreement on a cabinet was reached tuesday evening
hundreds of british troops took off wednesday night on an 8,000-mile practice airlift to reinforce the remote falklands islands garrison in the south atlantic
the first of up to 10 transport planes carrying 900 troops departed at about 10 p.m. from brize norton royal air force base, 60 miles northwest of london, said a defense ministry spokesman, who was not identified in keeping with british custom
it was part of britain's controversial fire focus military exercise, which marks britain's first major drill in the falklands since it won a 1982 war with argentina over the islands. the 25-day exercise began march 7
phantom fighter jets and other planes will fly in from other british bases, royal air force spokesman michael hill said
argentina, backed by other latin american nations, has called the $690 million troop movement ``aggravating.'' britain insisted it is defensive
in the falklands, gen. neil carlier told reporters at mount pleasant airport ``it is much cheaper to mount an exercise like this than to hold a vast number of people down here at taxpayers' expense which might also, perhaps, send out the wrong signals.''
carlier called the nature of the exercise misunderstood and said the airlift was needed because ``we've just set up in a new base and not yet had the opportunity to prove the system for having reinforcements.''
the 2,000 troops stationed on the south atlantic archipelago were placed in a state of high readiness to prepare for the arrival of the reinforcements thursday and friday, he said
the reinforcements will include troops taking the role of the enemy. advance personnel, equipment and reporters arrived tuesday
britain built the airport after the 1982 war to accommodate wide-bodied jets which could be used to rush troops there in the event of a build-up of tension in the region
in 1982, argentine forces invaded the islands. lack of a suitable runway forced britain to form a naval task force that took weeks to reach the islands
britain recaptured the colony after a 74-day conflict which killed 712 argentines, 255 britons and three falkland islands civilians
argentina, 200 miles west of the islands, claims it inherited the falklands from spanish colonial days and that they were stolen by britain, which has ruled them as a colony since 1833
the 1,900 islanders, most of british descent, say they prefer british rule
this month, the organization of american states voted 25-0 to urge britain to reconsider the exercise. the united states and st. lucia, a former british colony, abstained
a federal energy official said wednesday the planned superconducting super collider is generating widespread interest abroad, but several lawmakers said the project is threatened by a lack of financing and firm commitments from interested foreign countries
james f. decker, the energy department's acting director for energy research, told a house subcommittee that the government hopes to get up to 40 percent of the estimated $4.3 billion cost from foreign and non-federal sources
decker said recent energy department missions to rome, paris, london, bonn, geneva, tokyo and ottawa found high interest in the project at every stop, with indications that financial support will be forthcoming
the discussions with japan and other countries were fairly significant and give us reason to believe there will be contributions,'' decker said at a hearing of the house subcommittee on international scientific cooperation
asked repeatedly about specific commitments, decker said it was premature to obtain them
all countries were interested in the scientific phase and some would contribute to the construction phase as well,'' decker said, predicting that contributions would be in goods and services rather than cash
potential contributor nations ``will be watching support in congress this year and your decision will guide theirs,'' decker said
that prompted rep. robert a. roe, d-n.j., to describe financing as a ``chicken and egg situation'' since congress is waiting to see how much outside money will be contributed
it's a ``catch-22 predicament in which the department says it can't get foreign money until domestic spending for ssc is approved, and we respond that we can't permit domestic spending until enough foreign money has been committed,'' said rep. sherwood boehlert, r-n.y
we've got to have some help from other countries,'' said roe, chairman of the full science, space and technology committee
the government is spending $25 million on super collider preparations this year and has requested $363 million for 1989
rep. ron packard, r-calif., said he has found in talks abroad that theoretical physicists were highly enthusiastic about the u.s. project and ready to lobby for financial support of it with the less-enthusiatic officials of their governments and research institutions
vietnam charged wednesday that chinese warships attacked three vietnamese freighters near disputed islands in the south china sea, then blocked rescue efforts
china blamed vietnam for the raid and said some chinese were wounded in the exchange of gunfire. foreign ministry spokeswoman li jihua refused to say how many people were hurt
vietnam has not reported any casualties
the official voice of vietnam radio said the freighters had been on fire since the attack monday near sinh ton island in the truong sa archipelago, which vietnam claims
the islands, also known as the spratly islands, are claimed by china, taiwan and the philippines
the vietnamese side sent lifeboats flying red cross flags to rescue those freighters, but they were obstructed by chinese warships,'' said the vietnamese broadcast, monitored in bangkok
the vietnamese side urged the chinese side to order its warships to move away from this area and not to prevent the vietnamese ships from coming to the rescue of the crews on these freighters. the vietnamese side wishes a favorable and early reply from the chinese side,'' it added
the radio said vietnam's foreign ministry made the charges in a meeting wednesday with li shuching, beijing's ambassador to hanoi
vietnam said the clash began when three chinese warships opened fire without provocation on two vietnamese freighters. the warships then fired on other vietnamese freighters that came to the rescue, the radio said
but ms. li of china's foreign ministry said vietnamese naval ships fired on chinese vessels and on teams doing a scientific survey on a reef
ms. li refused to disclose how many chinese were wounded, whether they were civilians or military personnel or other details
vietnam had charged that chinese naval vessels interferred with vietnamese cargo ships near the archipelago on jan. 31
there are believed to be oil deposits near the archipelago, about 300 miles south of china's hainan island
china was a major arms supplier to the vietnamese communists during the war against the french and the americans, but relations later deteriorated and the two countries fought a 17-day border war in 1979
china's most famous journalist, ousted from the communist party last year for his reports critical of the government, will spend a year in the united states on a fellowship, his wife said wednesday
liu binyan, a reporter and writer whose stories uncovered official corruption and inefficiency, was a winner of harvard university's prestigious nieman fellowship, his wife zhu hong said. she said he will leave friday
the former senior reporter for the official people's daily will teach at the university of california in los angeles for two months before going to harvard in the fall, she said
liu, 63, was expelled from the party in 1957 and again in january 1987, when he was accused of vilifying the party and attacking marxism. he was dismissed from his post at people's daily, mouthpiece of the communist party, in may 1987
however, he has remained vice chairman of the chinese writers' association
in a statement on liu's expulsion, the party charged that he ``confounded right and wrong and spread slanderous rumors.''
liu was one of three prominent intellectuals ousted from the party in the campaign against ``bourgeois liberalization,'' or the favoring of western ideas, that began after student demonstrations in support of democracy flared across china
astrophysicist fang lizhi, accused of inciting the student protests, and writer wang ruowang were also purged
liu, who taught himself english, had a standing offer from harvard since 1983 to take the nieman fellowship, which is given each year to a handful of american and foreign journalists, zhu said
publication of three of liu's books was suspended and a ban was put on the sale of a collection of his articles, called ``tell you a secret,'' after his ouster from the party
he has not been able to publish anything since
liu's writing, whether investigative reporting or fiction, has long irritated officials
during the ``hundred flowers'' movement in 1956, when intellectuals were encouraged to express themselves, liu wrote ``bridge worksite,'' in which he criticized a group of bureaucrats, and a novel, ``news behind the news,'' about the ideological struggles and politics at a newspaper
both works were branded ``poisonous weeds'' in the crackdown the next year, and liu was expelled from the party and sent to work as a janitor
he was barred from writing for more than 20 years
during the chaotic 1966-76 cultural revolution, liu was accused of being a soviet spy and a traitor, sent to a labor camp and forbidden to speak to his family for four years
he was quoted as saying it was the worst period in his life and only the thought that ``no one would know the truth'' prevented him from committing suicide
liu was rehabilitated in 1979 and joined the staff of the people's daily
that same year, he published his most famous work, ``between men and monsters,'' about a county party secretary who amassed a fortune by taking bribes and using her power to extort money from subordinates
a truck carrying a crane knocked out supports below a freeway overpass under construction wednesday, dislodging a 22,000-pound steel beam that killed the driver and pierced a car's roof, officials said
the driver of the car escaped injury, fire capt. ron cervantes
the truck driver, who was not immediately identified, was driving about 35 mph when the crane struck the beam's metal supports. the beam crushed the driver's compartment, cervantes said
wood and other construction debris from the overpass smashed on to the busy interstate 5 in the 1:30 p.m. accident 15 miles north of downtown san diego, closing the northbound route between san diego and los angeles
it was like lincoln logs, falling and collapsing all around the crane truck,'' said motorist ellen williams, who saw the accident from a freeway ramp
the truck driver had a state permit to use the freeway but apparently violated a prohibition against driving in areas with low clearance, cervantes said. the construction material had reduced clearance under the overpass, he said
construction crews working on the overpass were uninjured. prison</head>
cathy evelyn smith, the rock 'n' roll groupie who admitted giving comedian john belushi the heroin-cocaine ``speedballs'' that killed him in 1982, was freed from prison wednesday after serving 15 months
ms. smith, 40, a native of canada, faces immediate deportation, said joe flanders, a spokesman for the immigration and naturalization service
she was paroled from the california institution for women in frontera after serving the full term imposed, said hal tanner, chief deputy superintendent. she was a model prisoner, he said
ms. smith accompanied belushi, the manic comic who parlayed his popularity on the ``nbc saturday night'' tv show into starring roles in such movies as ``animal house'' and ``the blues brothers,'' on a drug binge that ended in a bungalow at the chateau marmont hotel on hollywood's sunset strip
belushi, 33, was found dead march 5, 1982, in the bungalow
ms. smith later admitted she and the comic injected ``speedballs,'' a potent combination of cocaine and heroin, but denied any responsibility for his death
she fled to canada but returned in 1986 to plead guilty to involuntary manslaughter and furnishing and administering a controlled substance. she originally was charged with second-degree murder and drug counts, but accepted a plea bargain
she will appear within a few days at a deportation hearing, flanders said
ms. smith has been a companion and backup singer for such entertainers as hoyt axton and gordon lightfoot and has been acquainted over the years with members of the rolling stones and the band
a united airlines 747 knocked the anti-collision beacon off a small, private plane at seattle-tacoma international airport as the jet taxiied for takeoff to hong kong, officials said wednesday
the jet sustained a 10-inch scratch tuesday but continued on its way after an hour and 45 minute delay for inspection. the private plane was unoccupied, said frank mcanulty, station manager for united airlines at the airport
no one was injured
the federal aviation administration and the airline are investigating. ^by oldemar ramirez</byline>
guatemala called wednesday for a meeting of central american foreign ministers to discuss crises in nicaragua and panama, but the planned session fell through, officials in costa rica said
a costa rican foreign ministry official, who spoke on condition he not be identified, did not say why the talks could not be arranged
he said guatemala's foreign ministry had called for the meeting of the five countries that signed a peace accord last august
the ministers were to discuss ways to mediate a solution to the panama crisis, in which opposition forces and the united states are pressing for the ouster of gen. manuel antonio noriega, head of the defense forces
the meeting also would have addressed nicaragua's military offensive against contra rebels on the country's border with honduras, the official said. honduran officials and the reagan administration said the sandinistas crossed into the neighboring country during the offensive
rodrigo madrigal nieto, costa rica's foreign minister, told the associated press earlier wednesday his government was particularly preoccupied with the increased fighting in nicaragua, which occurred just before the sandinista government and the contras were to hold three days of cease-fire talks
the talks are scheduled to take place in the southern nicaragua town of sapoa on monday
president oscar arias of costa rica won the nobel peace prize for sponsoring the peace plan, which called for talks between insurgents and governments in nicaragua, el salvador and guatemala
madrigal nieto also expressed concern about panama, where a group of officers tried unsuccessfully to overthrow noriega on wednesday. thousands of panamanians angry about his rule and the government's inability to pay their salaries poured into the streets
what happened today in panama shows there is a very delicate situation in central america that does not cooperate with the pacification efforts that have come about,'' the foreign minister said
the central american peace plan calls for cease-fires in el salvador, guatemala and nicaragua, an end to outside support for the area's insurgencies, and negotiations aimed at installing democratic governments, among other points
loma linda medical center said wednesday it has agreed to care for a second baby born with only a brain stem in hopes that her organs can be used for transplant
the newly arrived infant, a girl identified only as baby cassandra, was born tuesday at a small hospital in texas with a fatal condition known as anencephaly, in which most of the brain and skull are missing
at her parents' request, the infant was incubated and placed on a respirator,'' ms. mcclintock said in a statement
dr. joyce peabody, chief of neonatology at the medical center, said baby cassandra already is very close to meeting the clinical criteria for brain death. once that occurs, her organs will become available for transplant
an anencephalic infant already at the hospital, baby d, has not shown the required signs of brain death after six days on a respirator, lessening the chance that major organs can be taken from him, spokeswoman joyce mcclintock said
loma linda has developed the nation's first medical guidelines for preserving anencephalics' hearts and other vital organs for transplant to critically ill infants
under the guidelines, infants are placed on life-support systems for seven days. if doctors declare an infant brain-dead within that time, organ procurement agencies are alerted and a search for a suitable recipient begins
if the infant is not declared brain dead within seven days, it is taken off the respirator and allowed to die naturally. such a death causes the organs to deteriorate, rendering the heart and liver unsuitable for transplant
however, heart valves and corneas are usable and have been taken from other babies who died after being removed from respirators
the hospital's format was devised to address ethical questions surrounding the use of doomed anencephalics used as organ donors. ^by terence hunt</note>
president reagan said wednesday he will not revise or abandon an american plan for mideast peace talks even though israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir complained that it was ``not conducive to peace.''
ending two hours of talks with shamir in apparent deadlock, reagan warned that opponents of the u.s. proposal face certain consequences
they'll need to answer to themselves and their people as to why they've turned down a realistic and sensible plan to achieve negotiations,'' the president said, standing alongside an unsmiling shamir during a white house departure ceremony
reagan said shamir did not specifically say ``no'' to an international peace conference demanded by jordan's king hussein with u.s. support
however, shamir made clear that he rejected the idea. ``i have strong reservations concerning the proposed international conference, which in my view is not conducive to peace,'' he told reporters
shamir last october accepted a proposal by secretary of state george p. shultz to hold direct talks with jordan under u.s. and soviet auspices. ``i shall be ready to consider a similar proposal,'' he told reagan
however, hussein has rejected the idea, holding out for a full-scale international conference, and a senior u.s. official said: ``standing by itself, there would not be much point in presenting that again.''
the official, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity, said reagan and shamir dealt almost exclusively with differences over the international conference
he said they did not review israel's concerns about the u.s. proposal that it cede at least part of the west bank and gaza strip it has held since the 1967 six-day war in exchange for recognition by arab nations
shamir met for 20 minutes with a group of black congressmen who raised their concerns about israel's handling of the violence in the west bank and gaza strip and israel's ties with south africa
rep. mervyn dymally, d-calif., who heads the congressional black caucus, said he was ``dissatisfied'' with the short time alloted to the meeting, saying it precluded serious discussion
shamir will wrap up four days of talks thursday with another meeting with shultz. ``we are where we expected to be,'' the u.s. official said, since shamir did not come to washington with a decision by the israeli cabinet on the u.s. plan
shultz had hoped to convene the peace conference next month and to open negotiations may 1. he asked for a prompt reply from israel and the arabs. ``we are not setting our watches on any of them,'' the senior official said
but he stressed the need to make arrangements rapidly
at the departure ceremony in the east room, reagan promised to work to strengthen u.s.-israeli ties during his final months in office
without specifically mentioning the three months of palestinian rioting and the israeli crackdown in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, he said the talks focused on the search for peace in the middle east
we've seen a new sense of urgency on the part of many in the region, and a wide recognition of the reality that the status quo is unacceptable,'' the president said
he said ``the present situation is a challenge and an opportunity to move decisively to break the deadlock that has lasted far too long. i hope we will not lose this opportunity.''
reagan said the u.s. plan ``offers a realistic and achievable way to change the relationship between israel and the arabs. ... so let's be clear about several things: the united states will not slice this initiative apart and will not abandon it.''
explaining reagan's stand later, the senior u.s. official said, ``you start pulling it apart, it's not going to be workable.''
while rejecting the ntion of an international conference, shamir said, ``israel firmly believes that those who are prepared to live with each other in peace must learn to negotiate directly with each other.''
the u.s. official tried to put a positive face on the talks. he said ``there was essentially no slamming of the door'' by israel and that the tone of the talks was excellent
despite the apparent impasse, the president sought to reassure the hesitant israeli leader that the united states would not allow terms to be dictated at a peace conference and shared shamir's distrust of the palestine liberation organization
the official paraphrased reagan as saying that peace cannot be made under violence and terrorism
he said the plo is revealing its real intent: no to peace and yes to violence. we must find ways to give moderate palestinians and other arabs a stake in the process.''
vice president george bush, hosting a dinner for shamir wednesday night at the state department, assured him ``no wedge will be driven between the united states and israel.''
toasting shamir, the vice president said: ``we are like brothers; our two countries, friends and allies forever.''
shamir, in reply, said israel was proud of its record as the most consistent supporter of the united states in the united nations and of sharing military technology with washington. he said the u.s.-israeli relationship ``is stronger than ever.''
about 1,000 students and workers marched five miles through this capital wednesday to denounce approaching legislative elections and demand more money for the national university of el salvador
the march ended at the treasury ministry, where young men wielding nail-encrusted clubs, their faces covered by bandannas or ski masks, began jeering at troopers
the troopers fired tear gas, but the demonstrators set fire to a half-dozen vehicles before they dispersed
student groups at the university called the march to demand an increase in the school's budget. it was joined by labor unions and other organizations that sympathize with leftist guerrillas battling the u.s.-backed government
the demonstration became more of a condemnation of sunday's legislative and municipal elections than a demand for increased spending on education
marchers carried posters ridiculing candidates of the governing christian democrats and of the main opposition party, arena, a rightist group
voters will choose mayors and councils in 262 municipalities and fill 60 seats in the legislative assembly
leftist parties are boycotting the vote. the guerrillas and leftist union members say the elections are ``a farce,'' that no free and fair balloting can be held in the middle of a civil war
guerrillas from five leftist groups have been fighting since 1980 to overthrow the government. the war has killed about 65,000 people, displaced 500,000 and ravaged the economy. patients</head>
dying patients in florida nursing homes will not be forced to accept tube-feedings after july 1 under a rule change instituted by the state wednesday
it gives those choices back to those persons who are dying, and not the state saying we're going to force you to accept a tube-feeding,'' said connie cheren, director of the department of health and rehabilitative services' licensing office
currently the department permits life-support sytems to be turned off but does not allow feeding tubes to be withdrawn
that rule ``has basically been intrepreted that if the facililty does not do the forced feeding, it must discharge the resident,'' said ms. cheren
the new rule ``does not relieve a facility's responsibility to do all the palliative things like giving ice chips, holding hands and rubbing the back, easing somebody through the dying stages,'' said ms. cheren
it's better because sometimes forced feeding is more harmful to the person than helpful,'' she said. ``sometimes taking the food during the dying stages is more painful for the person because the body is shutting down at this time.''
church leaders in this country and abroad wednesday urged clemency for the sharpville six, scheduled for execution friday in south africa
church officials also expressed appreciation to president reagan for asking south africa to halt the execution on ``compassionate and humanitarian grounds.''
the six blacks, a woman and five men, all in their 20s or 30s, were convicted in the 1984 death of jacob dlamani, black council member of sharpville township, in a demonstration of about 2,000 people
the human rights office of the u.s. national council of churches, which includes most major protestant and eastern orthodox bodies, urged that the six be spared
their trial did not fulfill the norms of jurisprudence and their executions will not serve the cause of justice in south africa,'' the council said. ``in god's name, grant clemency to the sharpville six.''
in a telegram to the south african government, the executive council of the 1.7-million member united church of christ said:
since the judge in the case has admitted that none of the defendants in the case has contributed causally to the alleged crime, there is no basis for the proposed brutal punishment
we can only conclude that the planned executions are meant to serve a political purpose in continuing efforts of your government to deprive black south africans of their political and human rights.''
from geneva, switzerland, the rev. emilio castro, general secretary of the world council of churches, sent messages to ecumenical councils in a score of countries, urging them to ask their governments to intervene with south africa
castro said the impending execution for an ``alleged role in murder, which has not been proved in the case of any of the six accused, according to the appeals court judge, is disturbing to human conscience the world over.''
castro also urged continuing ``prayers of intercession for victims and families of the apartheid system. ... may god restore justice and peace to south africans.'' inadvertently.</note>
about 3,200 american infantry and airborne troops are flying to honduras today in the most dramatic show of u.s. force in the six-year nicaraguan war, causing the senate's top democrat to accuse president reagan of ``overreaction.''
the white house described the movement as ``an emergency deployment readiness exercise'' triggered by what it called the invasion of honduras by 1,500 to 2,000 nicaraguan forces pursuing contra rebels
the exercise involves two battalions of the 82nd airborne division from fort bragg, n.c., and two battalions from the 7th infantry division at fort ord, calif
members of congress are skeptical about whether the reported nicaraguan military incursion into neighboring honduras is as large or as threatening as the reagan administration claims
senate majority leader robert byrd called president reagan's decision to send 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras an ``overreaction,'' and a number of other legislators said they were still waiting for hard evidence from the white house to back up its claims
house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif, said: ``i think you have to ask the question of whether 1,200 nicaraguans going across the honduran border is a threat to u.s. national security,'' as secretary of state george p. shultz had argued in an earlier briefing for congressional leaders
military officials said honduran soldiers surrounded about 2,000 nicaraguan troops who crossed three miles into the country in pursuit of contra rebels, but had not engaged them in combat
the military intelligence sources told the associated press that the sandinista soldiers had been in the border province of olancho for 24 hours when honduran troops encircled them wednesday
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the entire honduran military was on alert
president daniel ortega said sandinista troops had forced 2,000 contras into honduran territory, and he warned the nation that u.s. forces may invade nicaragua to save the rebels
the united states, disrespectful of international law and disrespectful of the principles of the american constitution, is threatening today (wednesday) to directly employ its military forces to save the mercenaries,'' ortega said, referring to the u.s.-supported contra rebels
ortega was reacting to an initial report by the white house that the united states was considering ``everything ... short of invasion'' after president jose azcona hoyo of honduras accused nicaragua of sending troops across the border into his country and asked president reagan for help
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh is leaving the door open for further criminal charges in the iran-contra affair following the indictment of lt. col. oliver north and three others on charges of ``deceitfully exploiting'' u.s. weapons sales to iran
the 23-count indictment charging that north, former national security adviser john poindexter and two weapons dealers engaged in a criminal conspiracy ``is simply an interim report'' of the grand jury's 14-month investigation, walsh told reporters
the grand jury is not finished,'' walsh said wednesday after the panel returned the 101-page indictment against north, poindexter and arms dealers albert hakim and retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord
u.s. veterans are cheating the government out of tens of millions of dollars each year by lying about their incomes and collecting excessive benefits as a result, a congressional report says
the report by the general accounting office, the investigative wing of congress, compared veterans administration income forms filled out by pensioners with internal revenue service data
sen. frank murkowski, r-alaska, released the report wednesday and said congress should move to halt the abuses by giving the va access to same tax information so it can verify what veterans tell it about income from jobs and investments. murkowski is the senior republican on the veterans affairs committee
soldiers loyal to gen. manuel antonio noriega patrolled the streets of panama city today, one day after a failed coup attempt by rebel officers sparked rioting by thousands of panamanians
the rampage by citizens fed up with military rule and the nation's financial crisis was the largest disturbance since civilian opponents first began staging demonstrations calling for noriega's ouster last summer
wednesday's protests erupted spontaneously throughout the capital and in the country's second largest city, colon, 50 miles to the north
senators stood in respect as gov. evan mecham arrived for the first time at his impeachment trial to testify that he didn't cover up a death threat and did not sell appointments for campaign contributions
mecham told the arizona senate on wednesday that his trust in some aides was ``a trust misplaced'' and that he also had ``big trouble'' in relations with state attorney general bob corbin, a fellow republican
the 63-year-old first-term governor, who said his 1986 campaign theme was to ``rid the state of corruption,'' was expected to resume testimony today
sirens wailed and hundreds of boisterous fans jammed the street to cheer susan butcher as she coasted to an unprecedented third straight victory in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race
bitterly cold winds raked nome as the flushed and perspiring 33-year-old alaskan cruised beneath the log-arch finish at 8:42 p.m. wednesday
it means a lot to me to win three years in a row,'' said a smiling butcher, the only musher to win three consecutive iditarods, as she hugged her frosty-faced lead dogs, granite and tolstoy
a newly divorced carol leifer sits in her apartment amid moving boxes, sifting through the remains of her marriage
it's one thing to be divorced, she muses, but what about people who have their marriages annulled? ``that means the marriage never existed. talk about denial.''
she shows her wedding pictures. ``what do you tell people when they see this? `oh, that was just some play i was in?'''
leifer, a standup comedian best-known for her frequent appearances on ``late night with david letterman,'' gets to act out and expand on elements of her standup act in her first cinemax comedy experiment, ``carol doesn't leifer anymore,'' an ode to the trauma of divorce, co-written by leifer and ``late night'' writer fred graver
the half-hour show, airing tonight as well as on march 20, 23, 28 and april 5, follows leifer as she packs up to begin anew
i would say the motivation was definitely from real life,'' said leifer, who is divorced in real life, ``because the gist of the show is, oh, you get divorced and single life is going to be great. you think you're going to be `that girl!' you quickly find out you're really going to be more like miss hathaway from `the beverly hillbillies.'''
as the piece opens, leifer hits the road with enthusiasm, but soon every song on the radio is about lost love and loneliness. (that's will lee, the guitarist in the ``late night'' band, singing ``i'm mr. lonely.'') then she stops at a gas station only to find her moving men standing behind the van reading her diary
once ensconced in her new place, she goes grocery shopping, cleaning out the frozen dinner section and stocking up on cans of instant whipped cream, which she squirts directly into her mouth in times of stress _ like after strangling her aerobics teacher or selecting just the right kind of condoms
when she does date, she decides she can't be too careful and leads a prospective beau on a detailed recounting of his entire sex life, complete with charts and pointer
friends throw her a surprise party, and she meets a possible mr. right. but he turns out to have a herd of kiddies and thinks gourmet dining is to be found at the international house of pancakes. he orders the veal, prompting her to think, ``if he goes for the syrup, i'm gone.''
in real life, leifer assures, ``i didn't really have that nightmare of a date. i never really had a date who took me to get his car inspected. i mean, it's never gotten that bad _ almost.''
leifer aspires to have a comedy series of her own, perhaps something along the lines of ``it's garry shandling's show.'' for now, she still works the standup circuit, recently going as far afield as the university of alaska _ ``the woman who picked me up at the airport said, `i don't know why we can't get entertainers here.' i thought, `oh, i don't know, maybe it's the 10-hour plane ride?'''
the former ``saturday night live'' writer grew up on long island, and it is middle-class suburbia more than feminism that informs her comedy
i don't really think of myself as `a woman doing comedy,''' leifer said. ``that's not foremost on my mind. there a lot of jokes in my act that a man could do. but there are also a lot of jokes about my experience, which happens to be as a woman
i know when i go to watch comedy, i've never liked the kind of women comedians who go out, and they kind of foster that separation in the audience. they go out and it's a lot of, `am i right, ladies, am i right?' _ it's like, please, someone shoot me if i ever say that. i just cringe
there are also a lot more women doing comedy,'' she said. ``but i think it's just a reflection of the times. i mean, there are also a lot more women in prison, too.''
elsewhere in television:
country music on pbs _ as part of its programming for pledge month, the public broadcasting service is serving up a star-packed special on saturday, ``country music crossroads,'' featuring such up-and-coming c&amp;w crossover artists as randy travis, reba mcentire, lyle lovett and nanci griffith. the show is from the producers of ``austin city limits.'' ..
country music on nbc _ if the pbs special isn't enough, c&amp;w fans can tune in monday night for the ``academy of country music awards'' on nbc, with co-hosts reba mcentire and hank williams jr. performers will include alabama, merle haggard, the judds, tanya tucker and dwight yoakam
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
hot singles
1.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
2.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
3.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
4.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)
5.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
6.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
7.``i want her'' keith sweat (vintertainment)
8.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
9.``rocket 2 u'' the jets (mca)
10.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)
11.``the dock of the bay'' michael bolton (columbia)
12.``devil inside'' inxs (atlantic)
13.``girlfriend'' pebbles (mca)
14.``just like paradise'' david lee roth (warner bros
15.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
16.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
17.``wishing well'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)
18.``some kind of lover'' jody watley (mca)
19.``check it out'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)
20.``angel'' aerosmith (geffen)
top lp's
1.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)--platinum (more than 1 million units sold
2.``faith'' george michael (columbia)--platinum
3.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)--platinum
4.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)--platinum
5.``tiffany'' tiffany (mca)--platinum
6.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
7.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)--platinum
8.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)--platinum
9.``the lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)--platinum
10.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
11.``whenever you need somebody'' rick astley (rca)--gold (more than 500,000 units sold
12.``blow up your video'' ac-dc (atlantic)
13.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)--platinum
14.``whitney'' whitney houston (arista)--platinum
15.``appetite for destruction'' guns &amp; roses (geffen)--gold
16.``now and zen'' robert plant (esparanza)
17.``heaven on earth'' belinda carlisle (mca)--platinum
18.``nothing like the sun'' sting (a&amp;m)--platinum
19.``permanent vacation'' aerosmith (geffen)--platinum
20.``the joshua tree'' u2 (island)--platinum
more
country singles
1.``turn it loose'' the judds (rca-curb)
2.``love will find its way to you'' reba mcentire (mca)
3.``i wanna dance with you'' eddie rabbitt (rca)
4.``famous last words of a fool'' george strait (mca)
5.``shouldn't it be easier than this'' charley pride (16th avenue)
6.``life turned her that way'' ricky van shelton (columbia)
7.``i'll always come back'' k.t. oslin (rca)
8.``santa fe'' the bellamy bros. (mca-curb)
9.``timeless and true love'' the mccarters (warner bros
10.``it's such a small world'' rodney crowell &amp; roseanne cash (columbia)
11.``it's only make believe'' ronnie mcdowell (curb)
12.``i didn't'' johnny rodriguez (capitol)
13.``cry, cry, cry'' highway 101 (warner bros
14.``strangers again'' holly dunn (mtm)
15.``the last resort'' t. graham brown (capitol)
16.``touch and go crazy'' lee greenwood (mca)
17.``everybody's sweetheart'' vince gill (rca)
18.``i'm gonna get you'' eddy raven (rca)
19.``a little bit closer'' tom wopat (emi-manhattan)
20.``young country'' hank williams jr. (warner-curb)
adult contemporary singles
1.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
2.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
3.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
4.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
5.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
6.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
7.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
8.``what a wonderful world'' louis armstrong (a&amp;m)
9.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
10.``when we was fab'' george harrison (dark horse)
11.``dreams i dream'' dave mason (with phoebe snow) (mca)
12.``seasons change'' expose (arista)
13.``theme from `l.a. law''' mike post (polydor)
14.``without you'' peabo bryson &amp; regina belle (elektra)
15.``can't stay away from you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
16.``talking back to the night'' steve winwood (island)
17.``hungry eyes'' eric carmen (rca)
18.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
19.``one step up'' bruce springsteen (columbia)
20.``anything for you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
more
black singles
1.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
2.``fishnet'' morris day (warner bros
3.``wishing well'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)
4.``lovey dovey'' tony terry (epic)
5.``rocket 2 u'' the jets (mca)
6.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
7.``ooo la la la'' teena marie (epic)
8.``every drop of your love'' stacy lattisaw (motown)
9.``plaything'' rebbie jackson (columbia)
10.``thinking of you'' earth, wind &amp; fire (columbia)
11.``take good care of me'' jonathan butler (jive)
12.``wasn't i good to ya?'' da'krash (capitol)
13.``going back to cali'' l.l. cool j. (def jam)
14.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
15.``sweet sensation'' levert (atlantic)
16.``you are who you love'' gavin christopher (emi-manhattan)
17.``da `butt'' e.u. (emi-manhattan)
18.``all in my mind'' full force (columbia)
19.``lovin' on next to nothing'' gladys knight &amp; the pips (mca)
20.``that's where you'll find me'' deja (virgin)
top pop compact disks
1.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
2.``faith'' george michael (columbia)
3.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)
4.``now and zen'' robert plant (esp-atlantic)
5.``nothing like the sun'' sting (a&amp;m)
6.``lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)
7.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)
8.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
9.``past masters, vol. ii'' the beatles (capitol)
10.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
11.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
12.``past masters, vol. i'' the beatles (capitol)
13.``the joshua tree'' u2 (island)
14.``kingdom come'' kingdom come (polydor)
15.``more `dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
16.``phantom of the opera'' original london cast (polydor)
17.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)
18.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)
19.``intro. the hardline according to terence trent d'arby'' terrence trent d`arby (columbia)
20.``cloud nine'' george harrison (dark horse)
end
the following are the most popular videocassettes as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
videocassette sales
1.``lady and the tramp'' (disney)
2.``callanetics'' (mca)
3.``jane fonda's low impact aerobic workout'' (lorimar)
4.``an american tail'' (mca)
5.``jane fonda's new workout'' (lorimar)
6.``star trek iv: the voyage home'' (paramount)
7.``dirty dancing'' (vestron)
8.``start up with jane fonda'' (lorimar)
9.``sleeping beauty'' (disney)
10.``pink floyd the wall'' (mgm-ua)
11.``platoon'' (hbo)
12.``the wizard of oz'' (mgm-ua)
13.``hamburger hill'' (vestron)
14.``the sound of music'' (cbs-fox)
15.``robocop'' (orion)
16.``the godfather'' (paramount)
17.``top gun'' (paramount)
18.``jane fonda's easy going workout'' (lorimar)
19.``bon jovi: slippery when wet'' (polygram)
20.``scarface'' (mca)
videocassette rentals
1.``robocop'' (orion)
2.``dirty dancing'' (vestron)
3.``platoon'' (hbo)
4.``no way out'' (hbo)
5.``predator'' (cbs-fox)
6.``the big easy'' (hbo)
7.``la bamba'' (rca-columbia)
8.``spaceballs'' (mgm@ua)
9.``the lost boys'' (warner)
10.``dragnet'' (mca)
11.``hamburger hill'' (vestron)
12.``roxanne'' (rca-columbia)
13.``lethal weapon'' (warner)
14.``revenge of the nerds ii: nerds in paradise'' (cbs-fox)
15.``the secret of my success'' (mca)
16.``nadine'' (cbs-fox)
17.``outrageous fortune'' (touchstone)
18.``jaws the revenge'' (mca)
19.``the squeeze'' (hbo)
20.``the fourth protocol'' (lorimar)
above a pawn shop in downtown toronto, patti labelle rips into a group of lackadaisical brooklyn high school students
in her first major dramatic role, the pop star is playing an inspirational teacher in a movie musical based on sing, the annual song-and-dance competition in brooklyn's schools
the legendary program at such schools as erasmus hall gave rise to such talents as barbra streisand and neil diamond. but with the urban decay of the past decade, only a dozen schools now take part
the struggle to preserve that old brooklyn spirit has inspired the film, ``sing,'' with a plot centered on education board plans to close a beloved high school where generations of immigrants got their start
with songs from the writer of ``footloose'' and ``fame'' and a tempestuous love story between a street-smart italian kid and a jewish princess, the tri-star pictures production now shooting in toronto is scheduled for release in february 1989
i'm hooked on it. i'm one of those people who think about community and pulling together and family,'' said labelle, the rhythm and blues artist who first hit the pop charts in the 1960s with the blue bells and later in the '70s with the trio labelle. she has appeared in two previous films, ``a soldier's story'' and the tv movie ``unnatural causes.''
in ``sing,'' she plays mrs. devere, an adviser who shakes her junior class students out of apathy
she's very uplifting to the kids,'' labelle said between takes of her chart-targeted big number, ``total concentration,'' in which she demonstrates how to put over a song
producer craig zadan and screenwriter-lyricist dean pitchford, who won an academy award for ``fame,'' said they created the part with labelle in mind and waited until she found time to do it
there's a real honesty there, nothing phony about her. in her own way she's lived through what this teacher has gone through,'' said pitchford
labelle has charmed the crew by introducing them to her own home cooking _ fried chicken and potato salad. but she's not sure about life as an actress
i'm not a cher. i don't know if i'd have enough patience to do another movie,'' she said, complaining about the number of retakes. ``it hurts enough some times that you want to cry. i like to perform live.''
however, director richard baskin, who co-produced streisand's landmark ``broadway album'' and is making his first feature film, said labelle looked great in the first rushes
co-stars include lorraine bracco who played tom berenger's wife in ``someone to watch over me,'' louise lasser of ``mary hartman, mary hartman'' fame and george dicenzo who was rob lowe's boss in ``about last night.'' the young lovers are peter dobson and jessica steen
for co-producer neil meron, a brooklyn and sing alumnus, the project is a labor of love
in the high school i went to, sing no longer exists,'' meron lamented. ``brooklyn is one of the oldest communities in america, and the way those communities found to express themselves was through music and dance.''
to research the film, the production team talked with veteran teachers in brooklyn and attended a sing performance at midwood high school where faculty member bella tillis launched the program in 1947
sing competitions involved reviews or skits created and staged by a committee from each class. the musical skits were judged on sing night when freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors got to strut their stuff. in the 1950s and '60s, when sing was at its peak, the competitions were fierce
lyricist pitchford also found inspiration in england, where he's been working with the royal shakespeare co. on the broadway-bound musical, ``carrie.''
after `fame' the last thing i wanted to do was another high school film set in new york about kids who sing and dance,'' he said
but england has tradition and history we can only approximate in america. the closest thing to that kind of longevity is in east coast settlements like brooklyn. sing became a metaphor for that tradition
i developed an enormous affection for sing and the neighborhoods of brooklyn and a real despair for the passing of this tradition.''
paul dooley wanted to act in silent movies
he missed that by a few years, but he's done ok in the talkies and is a member of director robert altman's repertory company. he's also done fine right in television, most recently starring as super private eye william j. burns in the nbc miniseries ``the murder of mary phagan.''
now he is starring in a new series on cbs, ``coming of age.'' he plays an airline pilot who is forced, kicking and screaming into retirement in arizona
the half-hour comedy also stars phyllis newman as his wife and alan young and glynis johns as an incredibly happy couple in the retirement village
it's funny. here i am playing a guy who's winding down. in real life i've got a rejuvenation, a new family and a new job,'' said dooley
the whole reason i wanted to do movies was to do silent pictures,'' he said. ``of course, the silents were long gone. but when i did `the ed sullivan show,' my dressing room was across from buster keaton's. a few months later we did a commercial together. we played keystone kops. he was so sweet. he never seemed to gain any sophistication
the thing i loved about laurel and hardy was that they were so sweet to each other. one reason i didn't want to do a series was that in so many i saw people insulted each other. in this my character is retired, which is why he's unhappy. he complains about the heat of arizona and the boredom of retirement. i find the character enjoyable. he has his frustrations, but he doesn't insult people. most of my conflict is with alan young. why is he so happy?''
dooley, 60, has three college-age children from his first marriage. he remarried and has a 2{-year-old daughter, savannah
dooley says he often plays younger because his hair hasn't thinned or turned gray. ``it gives me a longer career,'' he said
he grew up in west virginia with the hope of becoming a cartoonist. ``i drew a lot,'' he said, ``and i kept that ambition until about halfway through college. i was at the university of west virginia at morgantown. i was doing plays and finally switched my major to drama. i had $50 when i graduated and drove an old dodge to new york. i had to keep it in a friend's driveway in brooklyn because i couldn't afford to run it
don knotts and i had been in college together and he got me my first job in new york. he mentioned my name and i got a job on a children's tv show, `bobby benson and the bar-b ranch.' i played don's nephew for about six months.''
dooley, who had been a teen-age juggler and magician, next landed the role of coocoo the clown on a saturday morning show. ``i'd pull a string and a bird came out of my hat,'' he said. ``i brought my whole bag of tricks with me and i'd perform at birthday parties. it paid the rent.''
he became a member of second city's new york improvisational group and at about the same time began to do television guest star work and small parts in movies. he was in an off-broadway play written by jules feiffer when director robert altman saw him
he was looking for the father of the bride in `a wedding,''' he said. dennis christopher played his son in that movie and later in a non-altman film, ``breaking away.''
dooley didn't do the tv series ``breaking away'' because by that time he was off to malta to play wimpy in altman's ``popeye.'' he wore a fat suit, a fake moustache and had to cut off most of his hair
for the last 10 years he's done mostly movies, such as ``sixteen candles,'' ``health,'' ``kiss me goodbye,'' ``a perfect couple,'' ``endangered species'' and ``big trouble.'' he was also a regular on ``the dom deluise show.''
comedian paul rodriguez says he has never been happy with television, either as a performer or a viewer, but is willing to give it another shot
rodriguez and eddie velez co-star in the new cbs comedy ``trial and error'' as two young hispanic men who share an apartment but little else in life. they are as mismatched as oscar and felix in ``the odd couple'' or balki and larry in ``perfect strangers.''
the only unique thing about this is that i'm in it,'' said rodriguez, a standup comic. ``it's contrived, but it's an attempt to get more latinos into television. who cares? it's a job. maybe it will open some doors to other latino actors. i'm happy with everybody for going out ot the way to make the show more accessible to latinos. i'm dubbing it in spanish for simulcast over radio stations in 10 cities.''
rodriguez plays tony rivera, a funky entrepreneur who makes his living selling t-shirts to tourists. velez is john hernandez, a clean-cut, ambitious young attorney
john is typical of a lot of latinos whose ambition is to cross over and assimilate,'' rodriguez said. ``he thinks if you get a college education, work 9-to-5, people are going to forget your background and ask you to join the california club
my character's philosophy is that if you have enough money you can do anything you want. his whole thing is to get enough money to tell the world where to get off. of course, neither of us are right.''
he describes john as the kind of young man all latinos want their sons to grow up to be. ``and my character is the kind most of them actually grow up to be,'' he said
his first series was the short-lived ``a.k.a. pablo'' on abc in 1984
i was not anxious to get back into television,'' he said. ``my experience with `a.k.a. pablo' was not happy. i was at the comedy store when norman lear came into my life. the show was over-hyped. when it failed i was blamed by latinos for its image
this time i said i wanted to be more involved. i wanted to do some writing. i suggested we call the show `east l.a. law.'''
trial and error'' originated as an idea by tommy chong (of the comedy team cheech and chong) and howard brown about an up-and-coming young latino attorney who still lived at home. it was called ``the family martinez.''
cbs liked the idea of the lawyer, but wanted the show recast and changed to a buddy show. it then became ``amigos.''
when they called me i said i wouldn't be in a show called `amigos,''' said rodriguez. ``i felt i had already over-stereotyped myself.''
rodriguez was born in mexico and was raised in various parts of this country as the son of migrant farm workers
as a kid i had a love-hate relationship with television,'' he said. ``television showed me the things i would never have, cars i would never drive, places i would never see. my favorite show was `route 66.' two single men driving a corvette down the highway, wind blowing in their hair and always a blonde around the bend. then i'd look around my neighborhood. i didn't see any corvettes or blondes
that worries me because now that i'm in tv i'll be a part of the problem as some latino boy sees me with nice clothes and the right people.''
besides tv and his concert appearances, rodriguez has been in five movies, ``d.c. cab,'' ``quicksilver,'' ``born in east l.a.,'' ``miracles'' and ``whoopee boys.''
my favorite is `quicksilver,' because it gave me a chance to do some dramatic acting,'' he said
rodriguez said he is constantly asked if the show will advance the cause of latinos
come on,'' he said, ``this is just another sitcom. and i'm not that altruistic. we're happy to be working. if a byproduct is that we help other latinos, i'm all for it. but that's not my goal. my goal is to become financially secure so that my kids don't have to harvest someone else's vegetables. not that that's not an honorable job, but let somebody else do it. i'm not the latino moses. i'm just a standup comic. my job is to make people laugh.'' empire</head>
exiled television evangelist jim bakker is dreaming of attracting a new flock to a christian retreat in the california desert, even as ptl, the ministry he left behind one year ago saturday, struggles to survive
ptl, under the control of a u.s. bankruptcy court in columbia, continues to spend thousands of dollars a day more than it takes in
the ministry's television network is in the middle of a ``march to victory'' telethon with a goal of raising $4.2 million by april 1 to meet expenses, and ptl is considering the sale of hundreds of undeveloped acres at the heritage usa theme park to pay creditors
the woman bakker admitted having sex with and paying money to keep silent, jessica hahn, is living in the playboy mansion in los angeles. she is writing more of her story for playboy magazine, spokesman bill farley said
the man bakker originally accused of using blackmail to cause his march 19 downfall at ptl, the rev. jimmy swaggart, is dealing with his own admitted sexual transgression that knocked him from the pulpit
and the evangelist bakker accused of stealing ptl, the rev. jerry falwell, is back preaching at his old time gospel hour in virginia
falwell, who led ptl for six months, said it's been a dismal year. ``it was obviously the toughest year evangelicals have ever faced,'' he said. ``credibility was gravely injured by the ptl scandal.''
the national religious broadcasters association met in washington last month to set stricter standards of moral and financial accountability
it is going to take me years to say all that i have learned through this,'' bakker told the charlotte observer recently. ``and i'm going to be a different minister. i'm going to be less judgmental.''
bakker calls his proposed new promised land heritage springs and says it would be a 1,600-acre complex that would be similar to heritage usa outside fort mill, s.c. he says it would be located in the california desert, but no specific plans have been made
the boyish-looking minister, newly ordained by a little-known oklahoma church, was used to preaching in a high-tech studio, his sermons carried via satellite
the scene was very different last week when bakker delivered his first homily since heading west
for 30 minutes, he preached to elderly retirees at a trailer park beside the salton sea in a desolate stretch of desert south of palm springs, where he and his wife, tammy, live
tammy, who wept after introducing her husband to the congregation in a tiny wooden chapel that doubles as a bingo hall, said it has been a hard year for them
some people will ask, `what have you learned in this last year that you could share? the thing that i have learned the most is that when everything is gone and what you worked 25 years to build has crumbled to your feet, god doesn't change,'' mrs. bakker said
and what of the evangelical empire bakker began building in 1978?
the devout still travel to fort mill to vacation at the 500-acre heritage usa, with its hotel, water park and stables. the cable television network still uses bakker's upbeat formula of entertainment mixed with preaching, prayer lines and pledges
but there are new faces and a new message: integrity and modesty
david clark, a former christian broadcasting network executive who was appointed ptl trustee by bankruptcy judge rufus reynolds, continually assures viewers the new guard isn't out for greed and glory
the people here are living modestly and conservatively,'' he said on the show recently. ``there are no seven-figure salaries here and there are no celebrities. we're willing to be accountable to you.''
an internal revenue service report filed in bankruptcy court said the bakkers and their top aides received $14.6 million in excessive compensation from 1984 to 1987
a federal grand jury in charlotte, n.c., is investigating bakker for possible tax, wire and mail fraud
last week, bakker fired his own salvo. he had a lawsuit filed in york county against roy grutman, a new york attorney who used to represent the ministry. bakker is charging that grutman tricked him into resigning and turning the ministry over to falwell
the bakkers, who are seeking more than $10,000 in damages, claim they did not know grutman also represented falwell at the time he advised the bakkers to step down
the suit says grutman told the bakkers that swaggart was heading a conspiracy to take over ptl
grutman said the allegations were ``utterly meritless.''
i think this is a publicity stunt by bakker and his lawyers. i was never retained by mr. bakker. i was not his lawyer,'' grutman said
in the year since jim bakker disclosed his sexual encounter with jessica hahn, many former friends have turned against her. she's angry and hurt, and she's planning to retaliate _ in print
i'm not exactly the most loved person. there are a lot of angry people. my mother never gave me a middle name and i finally figured out why, because it's `controversy,''' said the 28-year-old former church secretary
much has happened to her in the year since her tryst with bakker became public, forcing him to resign the ptl ministry
she was paid $1 million by playboy to tell her story. she claimed bakker had forcibly taken away her virginity, though he said she appeared to be sexually experienced and was a willing participant
her appearance in the pages of america's leading men's magazine was just the start of her relationship with the playboy empire. she moved into founder hugh hefner's los angeles mansion; she denied she had become his lover
she recuperated at the mansion after having her breasts lifted and her teeth and nose fixed. she bought a red mercedes 560 sl convertible
and she was forced to contend with a series of allegations that she was not the innocent bible belle that she claimed
one married man said he had slept with her before 1980 while two others said they had had affairs with her. she said all three lied
then, a long island woman claimed in a penthouse story that miss hahn had worked as a call girl for her. finally, the son of barbara bencivenga pietropaolo, a neighbor, claimed he had been seduced by miss hahn when he was 14
people have made a career out of my name. it's unbelievable,'' miss hahn said. ``it's mean what people are doing. it's really bad. the madam story, c'mon. i never left my house. i'm the one girl who didn't even go out nightclubbing.''
but ms. pietropaolo, who a year ago helped shield miss hahn from reporters, brought her messages and drove her on errands, is angry
she makes herself like a madonna. but i still say she's like the anti-christ,'' she said
miss hahn has ``forgotten all her friends,'' ms. pietropaolo said. ``there were times she seemed so sweet and so nice.''
ms. pietropaolo said her 12-year-old daughter, tiffany, still misses miss hahn. ``tiffany was so close to her that she said, `if i ever make it big you'll be dripping in furs and diamonds.' she didn't even say goodbye.''
jessica hahn is working on her own kind of farewell _ another magazine story she says will explain why so many people who used to be her friends have attacked her. she spends her days writing at the los angeles mansion, where she has her own room and can stay indefinitely
she occasionally goes shopping, jogs and takes trips to new york, where photographers have caught her at publicity parties. recently, she said, she bumped into entertainer liza minnelli at a los angeles restaurant. she was pleased to learn that miss minnelli did not believe the attacks on jessica hahn
still, miss hahn said she thinks ``this other story needs to be told.''
i have to defend myself,'' she said. ``i'm going to have the last word, believe me.''
u.s. industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in february as reductions in output at auto factories and coal mines offset gains in other areas, the government reported
the federal reserve said wednesday that the february advance, which followed a 0.3 percent january gain, was the poorest showing since output declined by 0.2 percent in september
but private economists said the gains, even at a much slower pace, represented good news for the economy
the housing industry, after staggering for two months following the october stock market crash, enjoyed a sharp 8.9 percent increase in construction activity in february, the biggest gain in more than a year, the government said
the commerce department said the increase boosted construction to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.49 million units last month following declines of 15.8 percent in december and 1.9 percent in january
those setbacks raised concerns because housing is often the first industry to weaken at the onset of a new recession
directors of american standard inc. met to review several alternative proposals to a hostile, $2.1 billion buyout bid from black &amp; decker corp., including an offer topping black &amp; decker's proposal
earlier wednesday, a judge in delaware granted black &amp; decker's request to temporarily prohibit american standard from altering its retirement and severance pay plan as a defense against the takeover bid
black &amp; decker had argued the changes unfairly would add to the cost of acquiring american standard
embattled koppers co. said it was studying a cash payout to shareholders, asset sale or employee stock ownership to battle a takeover attempt by british investor brian beazer and a new york investment bank
but before koppers details the options under study, the company is expected to launch a publicity campaign criticizing investment banker shearson lehman hutton inc
also on wednesday, pittsburgh filed suit in federal court alleging that shearson, as underwriter of city bonds, violated its duty not to do anything to hurt the pittsburgh economy
despite the threat of a presidential veto, the house labor committee approved and sent to the floor legislation to raise the current federal minimum wage of $3.35 an hour to $5.05 over the next four years
the democratic-controlled house labor and education committee approved the measure wednesday after defeating several republican proposals, one of which would have established a ``new hire'' wage of $3.35 an hour
congressional action on the measure is expected to be completed by the end of april
job prospects for both production and service workers are the brightest they have been in three years but are declining slightly for technical, professional and office workers, according to a private survey
twenty-one percent of the 398 corporations polled in the survey published wednesday said they anticipate expanding their production and service work forces from april through june
but only 19 percent of the companies surveyed by the bureau of national affairs said they plan to increase their technical and professional staffs, down from 21 percent for the first quarter of this year
a federal judge upheld ohio's anti-takeover law, blocking an italian tire maker's attempt to strike it down as part of its takeover bid for firestone tire &amp; rubber co
u.s. district judge alice m. batchelder ruled wednesday that the ohio control share acquisition act does not violate federal law by discriminating against interstate commerce, or causing inconsistent state regulation
pirelli societe generale sa of italy made a tender offer of $58 a share last week for firestone
back interest payments on brazilian loans could add $250 million to citicorp's 1988 earnings, chairman and chief executive officer john s. reed said
i believe brazil is likely to reach an agreement with the banks, but it is difficult to be assured of it,'' reed said wednesday
citicorp, the nation's largest bank holding company with assets of $203.6 billion, is the leader of negotiations between banks and the brazilian government aimed at restructuring that country's debt
stung by bankruptcies among its most prosperous denizens, a record clip of bank failures and a massive criminal investigation of its savings and loan industry, texas' fabled financial brilliance has dimmed further now that the state's largest bank holding company is seeking a federal rescue
analysts said wednesday that the worst isn't over for texas' hobbled financial industry
dallas-based first republicbank corp., with $33.2 billion in deposits and 134 banking facilities across the state, acknowledged tuesday that its deteriorating loan portfolio and difficulty in raising deposits forced it to seek federal help
a west virginia physician filed consumer fraud complaints in all 50 states charging four major publishers with selling achievement tests that give a misleadingly rosy picture of student progress
the complaints were filed wednesday by john jacob cannell
cannell gained prominence last november as a test gadfly with a 26-page report accusing publishers of the iowa test, the metropolitan achievement test and similar tests of giving ``children, parents, school systems, legislatures, and the press misleading reports on achievement levels.''
residents of mid-sized cities in the west no longer will get detailed figures on monthly price changes in their communities
in new york and los angeles, monthly household surveys of employment and unemployment are being cut back sharply. tracking of trends among blacks, hispanics, teen-agers and women in the two cities will be less current
the government is changing the numbers it collects and crunches to measure whether times are good or bad
the stock market rose in a late rally wednesday. the dow jones average of 30 industrials closed 16.91 points higher at 2,064.32
the dollar rose slightly against most major currencies. gold prices edged lower in domestic trading after climbing overseas
bond prices tumbled on government reports indicating growth in the economy
most grain and soybean futures prices turned weaker. crude oil prices closed higher in a volatile session following reports of unrest in central america
reports of unrest in panama and nicaragua set off sharp fluctuations in crude oil prices, but near-term futures contracts managed a moderate gain by the close of trading
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, rose 32 cents to settle at $16.00 per barrel on wednesday
among refined products traded on the exchange, wholesale gasoline for april delivery rose 0.86 cent to 45.24 cents per gallon and the april contract for wholesale heating oil gained 0.61 cent to close at 44.08 cents per gallon
the april price of crude jumped as high as $16.18 a barrel and sank as low as $15.75 during the session amid reports of an attempted coup in panama and of a nicaraguan attack on contra rebels in honduras
traders were concerned about a disruption in oil supplies because of the vulnerability of an oil pipeline that runs through panama from the atlantic to the pacific, said madison galbraith, senior energy specialist with merrill lynch energy futures
as the reports crossed news wires, prices spurted upward, galbraith said. prices later fell back as calm and sellers returned to the trading floor
galbraith attributed some of wednesday's price fluctuations to technical factors, including covering of short sales
in a short sale, a trader borrows a contract and sells it, hoping to replace it later with another contract bought at a lower price. a price rise can cause a flurry of buying as traders attempt to cover their positions. atlanta dateline, are asked to use the following story.</note>
the associated press erroneously reported tuesday that coca-cola co. is buying h.p. hood inc., a boston-based citrus and dairy company. the agreement is only for coca-cola to buy hood's citrus food operations in florida
shareholders are waiting for koppers co. to say how much they could get under the company recapitalization plan being considered as a defense against an unsolicited $45 per share takeover bid from a british investor and the investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc
that's what i'm waiting for,'' robert kanters of legg mason wood walker inc. of pittsburgh said wednesday. ``we really don't know how much better the deal is until we get the particulars.''
koppers on wednesday rejected as inadequate the $1.3 billion tender offer from bns inc., a group led by shearson and british investor brian beazer, and said it was studying a recapitalization as an alternative
the disclosures came as shearson faced increasing state and local government pressure over its unusual role in the takeover bid
koppers stock dipped 87{ cents to $53.62{ a share wednesday in heavy new york stock exchange trading
koppers said its recapitalization _ which analysts have speculated could pay cash and securities worth $55 to $60 a share _ would include a substantial cash dividend to holders of koppers' nearly 28 million common shares, plus stock in the recapitalized company
recapitalization _ essentially making a major adjustment in a company's relative levels of debt and equity _ has been used often in recent years as a takeover defense. a recapitalizing company generally must make huge borrowings to finance the special dividend to shareholders, making a takeover much more expensive
charles r. pullin, koppers' chairman, said the company also would explore the public sale of all or a part of its construction materials business _ one of its two business lines _ to help boost the special dividend. it also would consider the sale of its common stock to a new employee stock ownership plan
a koppers spokesman said the board of directors set no timetable for settling details of any recapitalization plan
beazer quickly criticized koppers' announcement, and claimed that if koppers explored a recapitalization the company was obligated to give confidential corporate information to bns
beazer said that based on recent court decisions in similar recapitalizations, kopper essentially would be bidding for itself. koppers therefore was obligated to give bns access to the same confidential corporate data koppers _ or any other bidder _ would get for formulating the plan
shearson, which holds a 46 percent share in bns, came under further fire from city and state lawmakers
shearson's equity participation is an aggressive variation of investment bankers' traditional role as adviser and financier in hostile takeovers
the city of pittsburgh filed a federal suit claiming that shearson _ an underwriter of city bonds _ by joining with beazer had violated its duty not to hurt the pittsburgh economy
under beazer's plan to sell koppers' chemical business, about 1,100 jobs could disappear in pittsburgh, city officials contend
separately, mayor richard caliguiri ordered department heads to exclude shearson from consideration as an underwriter of future financing, said spokesman david welty
in addition, pennsylvania treasurer g. davis greene jr. suspended his department's dealings with shearson. the state purchased $565 million in commercial notes and bonds from the firm in the past six months, according to greene
separately, pennsylvania's state employees retirement system approved a resolution expressing concern over the takeover attempt. the system holds 544,650 shares of american express, shearson's parent, and 17,900 shares of koppers
some analysts speculated koppers soon would join the negative publicity campaign against shearson
i would expect the first thing you'll see...will be some newspaper advertising that'll peel the hide off shearson,'' said donald a. pattison of cyrus j. lawrence inc. of new york
koppers alleged in a federal lawsuit filed march 11 that shearson violated disclosure requirements of securities laws and that it offered to sell koppers its services defending the company against hostile takeovers after laying plans with beazer to raid the company
a federal judge, pressing for quick payments of damage claims stemming from the dalkon shield birth control device, has approved the merger of a.h. robins co. and american home products corp
u.s. district judge robert r. merhige jr. signed an order wednesday to allow the merger between robins, which sold the dalkon shield in the early 1970s, and new york-based american home
attorneys for robins, its shareholders and the 195,000 women who have filed injury claims stemming from use of the device, endorsed the merger of the two drug makers, which includes creation of a $2.475 billion dalkon shield trust fund to compensate victims
before approving the deal merhige had to be satisfied that some claims would be paid before final approval of robins' bankruptcy reorganization plan. robins has been under chapter 11 protection from creditors since august 1985
the judge approved the jan. 19 merger agreement only after robins offered to provide $100 million to cover administrative start-up costs for the trust fund and to begin sending payments to some of the victims
merhige said he was concerned about a provision in the merger agreement that allowed american home to pull out of the deal if appeals of the final reorganization plan remained pending a year after the plan was confirmed by the court
the judge suggested american home put up $100 million to cover the start-up costs, and said he would not approve the merger agreement without it
later in the day, robins offered to provide the $100 million and the judge agreed to the merger deal. roscoe e. puckett jr., a robins spokesman, said the first payments will involve smaller amounts for women who claimed lesser use and injuries from the dalkon shield
any payments still are at least several months away. court approval of the merger is only one step in the reorganization of robins, a richmond-based pharmaceutical manufacturer
the company's final reorganization plan also requires approval by robins' stockholders and creditors, including the dalkon shield claimants
the merger with american home involves an exchange of $700 million of american home common stock and full payment to robins' trade creditors, in addition to the provision of the dalkon shield trust fund
merhige said he would conduct a hearing later to review a filing by the rorer group inc., which had sought to acquire robins, for a $25 million breakup fee stemming from a previous merger agreement between robins and fort washington, pa.-based rorer
after merhige set the $2.475 billion figure for dalkon shield claims late last year, robins had three corporate suitors. robins rejected the rorer deal and a similar proposal from france's sanofi sa in favor of american home, which offered a substantially quicker settlement of dalkon shield claims
texaco inc. says it will turn over information sought by several small shareholders who have objected to the company's bankruptcy reorganization plan
the company's largest shareholder, financier carl icahn, also has objected to provisions of the plan that would release officers of texaco, getty oil co. and various getty trusts from any liability in texaco's acquisition of getty oil
a texas jury decided in 1985 that texaco had wrongly interfered with pennzoil co.'s agreement to merge with getty and awarded pennzoil $10.53 billion in damages
texaco filed for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code a year ago to avoid having to post a potentially ruinous bond to appeal the decision
as part of its plan for emerging from chapter 11, texaco would pay pennzoil $3 billion cash to settle their case
the documents sought by the small shareholders covered discussions on why the reorganization plan would release the texaco, getty and trust officials from liability
the 16 shareholders had filed suit against those parties to seek reimbursement of the settlement costs from them, and the reorganization plan would cause those suits to be dismissed
daniel krasner, a lawyer for one of the shareholders, said the attorneys for the shareholders would study the documents and decide by monday whether to continue opposing the plan
texaco shareholders are voting on the reorganization proposal and a bankruptcy court hearing is scheduled for next week to hear the results of the vote as well as arguments on whether the judge should confirm the plan
in papers filed with bankruptcy judge howard schwartzberg, icahn, who controls about 14.8 percent of texaco's shares, said he would vote for the reorganization proposal but urged the judge to drop the liability release
the releases are a purely gratuitous act and an unconscionable act of self-dealing by texaco's directors,'' he said
continued uncertainty in the financial markets has not greatly undermined u.s. business executives' expectations for second quarter sales and profits, according to a survey published today by dun &amp; bradstreet corp
the business research company polled 1,500 executives nationwide between feb. 9 and feb. 23 for its latest quarterly business expectations survey
based on the survey, dun &amp; bradstreet's sales optimism index for the second quarter remained strong at 69, down only slightly from 70 in the first three months of the year
the executives' outlook for higher profits in the coming quarter improved modestly, with the profit expectations index rising to 64 from 63 in the first quarter
expectations for higher sales and profits are still at the highest levels since 1984, when the current business expansion was at its peak,'' said joseph w. duncan, corporate economist and chief statistician for dun &amp; bradstreet. ``business people remain confident in the future, despite lingering uncertainty in the financial markets.''
expectations for higher prices remained stable at an index of 41, unchanged from the first quarter
results by industry sector differed widely. among executives from manufacturing companies, the price expectation index fell to 38 from 40 in the first quarter, while the index for retailing companies moved up to 42 from 36
expectations for increased business inventories were higher, with the index rising to 28 from 23, with most of the gain anticipated in the manufacturing sector. the employment expectations index fell to 23 from 26, mainly because of anticipated declines in retailing and wholesaling, while the index for new orders rose to 69 from 67
bankruptcies, bank failures and a criminal investigation of texas' savings and loan industry continue to bash the state's financial image as the nation's biggest and the best, and analysts say the worst isn't over
banking analyst herb jones of the investment firm eppler, guerin &amp; turner says texans used to brag that everything in the state was bigger, better, the best
we can't say that now. we look at the northeast and see their growth is far superior to ours. that was never supposed to happen,'' jones said wednesday
as the state's largest bank-holding company seeks federal rescue, the nation's perception of texas has become more negative, analysts say
dallas-based first republicbank corp., with $33.2 billion in deposits and 134 banking facilities statewide, acknowledged tuesday it was seeking federal help because of a deteriorating loan portfolio and difficulty in raising deposits
gerald w. fronterhouse, chairman and chief executive officer, said a loss of $1 billion in deposits since the beginning of february contributed to the bank's decision
there are signs the state's battered economy is rebounding and that the energy industry is revitalizing, but analysts say the banking industry still lags, coping with mistakes made one to three years ago and the continuing troubles in real estate
real estate is still a real thorn here,'' jones said. ``i expect some further weakness in the real estate sector.''
also hurting the state's image are the bankruptcy court petitions of such texas notables as former gov. john connally, who was u.s. treasury secretary under president nixon; connally's lieutenant governor, ben barnes; oil heir cullen davis of fort worth; famed heart surgeon denton cooley; some businesses of the billionaire hunt brothers; former dallas cowboys owner clint murchison; and the western co. of north america, owned by texas rangers owner eddie chiles
the number of texas bank failures, meanwhile, continues soaring, nearly doubling from 26 in 1986 to 50 in 1987, and stands at 15 so far this year
we do have some other banks that are in trouble. i have no reason to think we've hit the bottom of the problem. there could still be some more (banks) to be heard from,'' jones said
staggering losses continue at other banks _ with the state's seven largest bank-holding companies losing a combined $2.6 billion last year. by contrast, all texas banks lost $883.2 million in 1986
regulators also say more than one-third of the state's 281 savings and loan institutions are insolvent. the fbi and the u.s. justice department are in the midst of a criminal investigation of some of the state's thrifts, called the largest white-collar probe in the southwest's history
tuesday, houston-based first city bancorporation of texas inc. extended its deadline for debt holders to redeem their securities at a discount under a rescue plan representing the second-largest bank bailout in u.s. history
jones said he believes a major financial institution will come into texas and take over first republicbank, if the federal deposit insurance corp. makes it an attractive deal
it's a very desirable institution, at a price,'' jones said. ``a lot of worms are in there still. will the fdic pick them up? that's the question. i think they will. they're going to have to.''
first republicbank's plea for federal aid is a ``bittersweet story,'' said alan coleman, director of the southwestern graduate school of banking at southern methodist university
the good news is that new capital will be brought into the state, along with new faces and new investors. but the bad news, he said, is that ``it's very tough on the people struggling with the problems here.''
firestone tire &amp; rubber co. has gained a court victory in its attempt to thwart a takeover by italian tiremaker pirelli, with a federal judge's refusal to block ohio's anti-takeover law as unconstitutional
u.s. district judge alice m. batchelder ruled wednesday that the ohio control share acquisition act does not violate federal law by discriminating against interstate commerce, or causing inconsistent state regulation
pirelli societe generale sa had sought a preliminary injunction against the law in attempting to press an unsolicited $58 a share, or $1.9 billion, takeover bid for firestone, which has its north american tire headquarters in akron
firestone stock closed at $63.12{ a share wednesday on the new york stock exchange, unchanged from tuesday's close
the ohio statute requires a hostile bidder to wait up to 50 days for shareholders to vote before it may purchase tendered shares. federal law requires that any tender offer remain open for no less than 20 business days
judge batchelder said it was possible for companies to comply with both ohio and federal law
the ohio act... by allowing the shareholders collectively to evaluate the fairness of the tender offer and to vote as a group, ...furthers the policy of investor protection,'' ms. batchelder wrote in a 14-page opinion
the ohio statute does not discriminate against interstate commerce or cause inconsistent state regulation because it has the same effects on bidders from inside and outside of ohio, she stated
pirelli's $1.9 billion offer is contingent on firestone dropping its plans to sell 75 percent of its tire business to bridgestone corp. of japan
firestone officials said pirelli's offer effectively killed earlier plans to sell most of the firestone tire-making business to bridgestone, but it again was talking with bridgestone about other options
the u.s. tire maker said it would advise shareholders by friday on the pirelli offer
henley group inc., a two-year-old holding company, says it plans to split into two public companies and buy back 22 percent of its stock
the stock buy-back announced wednesday would cost about $512 million at current prices
henley jumped $1.75 a share to close at $25.625 a share in over-the-counter trading
henley is an amalgam of 35 construction, environmental, energy, chemcial, manufacturing and finance businesses spun off in april 1986 by allied-signal inc., which itself was formed by a $5 billion merger in 1985
henley has gained a reputation for tightening operations to boost profits in individual units and then taking those units public. the current market value of henley's investments in its subsidiaries that have publicly traded shares and its other long-term investment securities is $2 billion
in recent months henley has been involved in a so-far unsuccessful bid for santa fe southern pacific corp., the chicago-based railroad, land and natural resources giant
under the restructuring, which was approved in principle by the company's board on wednesday, henley's assets would be divided between two public companies:
_wheelabrator group inc., which already is publicly traded, would take over henley's stake in its successful wheelabrator technologies inc. subsidiary and other assets related to the refuse-to-energy business
wheelabrator group would have the flexibility and resources to speed up the expansion of its businesses through mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures
_a newly created entity, to be called henley group inc., would own signal capital corp., signal landmark holdings inc., henley manufacturing corp. and henley's stake in fisher scientific group inc., plus other assets
this program will enable our shareholders to participate directly in henley's $650 million investment in wheelabrator technologies, the nation's leading refuse-to-energy business,'' said michael dingman, henley's chairman and chief executive
shares of the new entity that will be created for henley's other holdings will be distributed to stockholders as a partially taxable special dividend, the company said
henley's board also authorized the repurchase of 20 million of the company's 90 million outstanding shares. the number of outstanding shares peaked at 129 million in november 1986 before the company initiated a series of stock buy-backs
after the buy-back is completed, henley will have repurchased nearly 43 percent of its stock
separately, henley said it decided to waive protection under a recently enacted delaware statute providing that a holder of 15 percent of a company's stock is prohibited from merging with the company or undertaking certain other actions for three years
we do not believe it is in the best interests of shareholders to impose these restrictions,'' dingman said. ``we prefer to give investors a free hand to make those decisions.''
henley's top management owns about 6.5 million of the company's shares. that stake would rise to 9.3 percent with the completion of the stock repurchase
henley spokesman norman ritter said management wasn't considering a bid to take the company private
henley also said it intends to raise $1 billion by issuing notes, then using the proceeds to pay off its current $980 million in bank debt. that will allow the company to arrange $2.5 billion in new bank credit, henley said
sears, roebuck and co. has agreed to buy western auto supply co. in a $402 million deal that some industry watchers call the biggest step sears has taken to increase its specialty retailing operations
sears, the nation's largest general retailer, announced wednesday it would pay $19 a share to acquire 52.3 percent of western auto's 13 million outstanding shares that are held by company management and the investment firm wesray capital corp
if western auto's board of directors approves the merger, sears would acquire the remaining shares at the same price. sears said it reserved the right to cancel the deal if the western auto board of directors fails to give its approval to the tender offer by friday
the stock buyout totals $250 million, and sears also would assume $152 million in debt held by the auto supply company
this is the first really significant step sears has made into specialty retailing,'' said john landschultz, an analyst with mesirow &amp; co. in chicago
sears previously had acquired other specialty operations, including its eye care centers of america, pinstripe petites, its paint and hardware store and sears business systems stores
sears chairman edward a. brennan called the acquisition ``an important part of sears' previously announced plan to expand its presence in specialty retailing.''
brennan said western auto is ``an ideal complement to sears merchandise group, which for decades has been one of the nation's leading retailers of automotive parts and services.''
western auto share jumped $6 to $18.50 a share in national over-the-counter stock trading. sears rose 12{ cents to $37.87{ on the new york stock exchange
western auto will continue to operate under its name and management, sears said
the kansas city-based company sells auto supplies, tires, appliances and lawn and garden equipment through 278 retail stores it owns and through 1,570 independently owned western auto outlets, which buy the products wholesale
sears said john t. lundegard, western auto's chairman and chief executive officer, would remain as head of the auto supply unit and would report to alfred g. goldstein, president of sears' specialty merchandising
last year, western auto had a profit of $10.5 million on sales of $930.8 million
sears earned $1.65 billion and had revenue of $48.4 billion last year, including sales of about $2 billion in automotive parts and services
tokyo's main stock market barometer climbed today to a level higher than just before the october crash, while the dollar fell slightly in lackluster trading, traders said
the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues closed at 25,872.29, up 167.86 points, or 0.65 percent. on oct. 19, the index closed at 25,746.56, before plunging by 3,836.48 points the following day
individual investors played a big role in the strong market activity,'' said an exchange dealer at a major commercial bank, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``it is the first time the index has gone beyond the level recorded just prior to the oct. 20 crash.''
he said last minute transactions by many local businesses in preparation for the fiscal year beginning april 1 also contributed to the market's bullish performance
today was the third consecutive trading day that the index climbed. the nikkei posted a 228.76-point, or 0.90 percent, gain wednesday
investors are bullish for high prices lying ahead, and the market will have to find some negative factors about the japanese economy before investors are going to back off,'' said masahiro umemori, a stock analyst with nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage firm
meanwhile, on the tokyo foreign exchange market, the dollar closed at 127.43 yen, down 0.06 yen from wednesday's close of 127.49 yen
the currency traded in a narrow range between 127.40 yen and 127.71 yen as market participants waited for the release later today of u.s. trade figures for january
the dollar has been pressured lower in the past by u.s. trade reports showing a growing imbalance of imports over exports. but as recent reports have shown improvements in the trade gap, the u.s. currency has stabilized
basically, the foreign exchange market is real quiet,'' said a trader from a major investment firm, speaking on condition of anonymity
there was no ``real action,'' he added
the united states posted a $12.1 billion deficit in december
share prices were lower at midday thursday, but well above their worst levels, helped by a cut in bank base lending rates
trading was subdued, however, amid nervousness ahead of the release of u.s. trade data for january
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was down 6.2 points, or 0.3 percent, at 1,819.5 at midday
volume was a light 277.4 million shares at midday, compared with 314.1 million shares at the same time wednesday
britain's major commercial banks cut their base lending rate by half a percentage point to 8.5 percent after the bank of england signaled that it wanted such a cut by cutting its own money market intervention rates
the cuts took the market by surprise and triggered a wave of buying, lifting share prices from their lowest levels, dealers said
the rate cut came as the pound moved above 3.10 west german marks and seemed to confirm a new unofficial government cap for the pound at that level, which was seen as a positive development, dealers said
but some dealers said the rate cut also raised worries about overheating in the economy
the market is very vulnerable to bad news at the moment,'' a dealer said
unemployment in britain fell to a seasonally adjusted 9.1 percent of the work force in february from 9.2 percent in january, the government said thursday
the figure was down from 11 percent in february 1987, the department of employment said
seasonally adjusted unemployment was estimated at 2.53 million people in february, down from a revised 2.56 million people in january and 3.07 million people in february 1987. up 3rd graf pvs, bentsen said ...</note>
the federal deposit insurance corp. is planning to pump about $1 billion of capital into first republicbank corp. to offset a two-day drain of deposits, according to a report published today
the dallas morning news quoted unidentified banking sources as saying the run on funds would force the fdic to transfer about $1 billion in interim assistance, perhaps as early as today
sources also said such interim assistance is likely to include a blanket guarantee of all deposits by the fdic
without a blanket guarantee from the fdic, the deposits are going to leave,'' a banking analyst who asked to remain unidentified told the newspaper. ``you have to stabilize the patient before you can do the surgery.''
officials of the bank and the fdic declined comment late wednesday on the report
meanwhile, texas sen. lloyd bentsen estimated it could cost up to $5 billion to prop up first republicbank, but he says federal regulators were prepared to help the bank holding company avoid a financial collapse
bentsen said wednesday he spoke with federal reserve chairman alan greenspan, robert l. clarke, the comptroller of the currency, and l. william seidman, chairman of the fdic
i've been assured that all of those financial institutions are standing by to help,'' bentsen said. ``they're going to do all they can to see that this situation is stabilized.''
bentsen said the senate banking committee gave him the $5 billion figure, but he also said he did not believe there were any definitive figures yet on the cost of a rescue plan
first republicbank, the state's biggest banking company, acknowledged tuesday it had been forced to seek federal aid because of a deteriorating loan portfolio and difficulty in raising deposits
a first republicbank spokesman said wednesday the bank experienced a runoff of deposits on tuesday, but that the situation apparently had stabilized. an earlier drain of deposits and customer defections had forced it to begin preliminary discussions with the fdic, the spokesman said
tuesday there was a significant amount of activity, and there were some deposit outflows,'' the spokesman said. ``but there were no lines or confusion in our branches or banks.''
the spokesman did not quantify the size of the deposit outflows
the fdic is prepared to assist with capital and the federal reserve with liquidity, bentsen said
each of these regulatory powers have assured me they will do everything they can that is necessary to keep that situation from unraveling,'' he said
bentsen said the agencies would ensure first republicbank branches statewide remained open, but would not comment on the status of the holding company
the nation's trade deficit widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion after two months of sharp improvements, the commerce department said today in a report that left financial markets uncertain
the dollar and the bond market rallied after the report, but gave back most of their gains after a few minutes
the excess of imports over exports was up from the $12.2 billion deficit in december
exports, which had propelled improvement in november and december, fell by 10 percent in january to $22.3 billion
analysts had expected a deterioration of the trade balance in january, noting that exports are traditionally down in that month
however, imports also fell in january, by 6 percent to $34.8 billion
thus, the deficit for the month _ eagerly followed by financial markets _ was somewhat better than most analysts had expected
within half an hour of the report's 8:30 a.m. est release, the treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was yielding 8.58 percent, little changed from 8.60 percent late wednesday. and the dollar was barely higher against the japanese yen, british pound and west german mark
on wednesday, the federal reserve said industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in february despite output reductions at auto factories and coal mines
economists said the gain, although slower than the january rise, represented good news for the economy and further dampened concerns about a severe slowdown in the aftermath of the october stock market crash
a more positive signal came from the commerce department, which said the housing industry after staggering for two months enjoyed an 8.9 percent gain in construction activity in february, the biggest rise in more than a year
with interest rates at low levels and the economy growing and no recession in sight, we think we have all the ingredients in place to generate a strong spring building season,'' said warren lasko, executive vice president of the mortgage bankers association
nevertheless, the news hurt the bond market, a barometer of interest rates and the economy. stronger growth implies future inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income investments
the treasury's key 30-year issue fell $10 per $1,000 in face amount. its yield jumped from 8.51 percent to 8.60 percent, its highest level since late january
but the stock market closed largely higher. the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks, which most of the day showed a modest loss, ended with a 16.91 point gain at 2,064.32 in slow trading
the dollar was mixed against major foreign currencies in european trading following today's release of u.s. trade figures for january
gold prices fell
the u.s. commerce department reported that the merchandise trade deficit widened slightly to $12.4 billion in january from $12.2 billion in december
the increase followed two consecutive months of sharp improvements
the market had expected the deficit to widen to $12.8 billion
in trading before the report, the dollar was bolstered by wednesday's announcement that the reagan administration is sending 3,200 soldiers to honduras in response to an alleged nicaraguan incursion in pursuit of u.s.-backed contra rebels based in honduras
in london, the british pound was quoted at $1.8520 after the trade report, compared to $1.8505 late wednesday
the dollar rose to 127.85 japanese yen in london after the report. earlier in tokyo, the dollar dipped to a closing 127.43 yen from 127.49 yen at wednesday's close
other dollar rates in europe in afternoon trading, compared with late wednesday's prices, included: 1.6765 west german marks, up from 1.6690; 1.3870 swiss francs, up from 1.3810; 5.7025 french francs, up from 5.6782; 1.8845 dutch guilders, up from 1.8750; 1,243.50 italian lire, up from 1,238.45; and 1.2493 canadian dollars, down from 1.2518
the dollar was also higher in new york trading following the commerce department's announcement
london's major bullion houses fixed a recommended gold price at midmorning of $445.35 a troy ounce, down from $446.20 late wednesday
in zurich, gold was bid at $445.25, down from $447.00 late wednesday
earlier, the metal had closed in hong kong at a bid of $448.75, up from $447.79
silver bullion fell in london to a bid of $6.31 a troy ounce, down from $6.36 late wednesday
stock prices rose in active trading early today, reflecting an initially favorable investor response to the government's report of a lower-than-expected january trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 3.98 points to 2,068.30 by 10 a.m. on wall street
advancing issues outnumbered losers by about a 3-to-2 margin on the new york stock exchange, with 618 up, 390 down and 464 unchanged. volume on the big board came to 27.18 million shares after the first half hour
although the trade deficit widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion from $12.2 billion in december, market economists had expected an even greater gap. the news therefore provided an optimistic tone to stock trading
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose 0.17 to 151.45. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.29 to 297.80
on wednesday the dow jones industrial average rose 16.91 to 2,064.32
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 5 to 3 on the nyse, with 945 up, 540 down and 481 unchanged. big board volume totaled 153.59 million shares, against 133.17 million in the previous session
here is a geographical breakdown of the january trade balance, based on figures released on thursday by the commerce department. all numbers are negatives, reflecting trade deficits, unless otherwise indicated
up'' connotes a worsening, or widening, of the deficit. ``down'' connotes an improvement, or narrowing, of the deficit
total trade deficit: $12.44 billion, up from $12.20 billion in december
canada: $1.12 billion, up from $632.8 million in december
western europe: $1.33 billion, down from $2.73 billion in december
japan: $3.95 billion, down from $4.79 billion in december
newly industrialized countries of asia (taiwan, south korea, hong kong and singapore): $2.92 billion, up from $2.48 billion
organization of petroleum exporting countries: $1.03 billion, up from $887.2 million
mexico: $553.1 million, up from $442.6 million
brazil: $508.6 million, up from $390.2 million
all other: $1.02 billion, up from a surplus of $154.4 million
stock prices rose this morning, buoyed by corporate takeover maneuvering and favorable investor response to the government's report of a lower-than-expected january trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials advanced 14.76 points to 2,079.08 by 11 a.m. est. broader market barometers also rose
advancing issues outnumbered losers by nearly 2-to-1 on the new york stock exchange, with 843 up, 442 down and 502 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 81.56 million shares after 90 minutes
although the trade deficit reported by the commerce department widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion from $12.2 billion in december, market economists had expected an even greater gap of about $13 billion
the news therefore provided an optimistic tone to stock trading and substantiated other evidence that the economy is growing despite fears of a slowdown raised by the october crash
i think the trade number was just what everybody liked,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon, read &amp; co. in new york. ``it brought a sigh of relief.''
nevertheless, puccio and other trading strategists said investors still were reluctant to commit large amounts of cash to the stock market until the conclusion of so-called ``triple witching hour'' on friday
that quarterly event is so-named because of the near-simultaneous expiration of contracts to buy or sell stock-index futures, stock options and futures. it has played a role in wild price swings in the past
chemical, forest-product and drug companies all did well, reflecting optimism that their export businesses will continue to improve. dow rose 1 to 87], international paper rose | to 44| and lilly rose 2 to 84
takeover related buying also played a role in lifting stocks today. rumors of impending acquisition attempts on pillsbury, philips petroleum and u.s. shoe sent those stocks sharply higher in active trading. pillsbury rose 2\ to 44\; phillips rose } to 17 and u.s. shoe rose 2 to 24{
american standard rose 1[ to 76| after investment firm kelso &amp; co. agreed to buy the company for $78 a share, topping a hostile $73 a share offer from black &amp; decker corp
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose 0.77 to 152.05. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.67 to 298.18
on wednesday the dow jones industrial average rose 16.91 to 2,064.32
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 5 to 3 on the nyse, with 945 up, 540 down and 481 unchanged. big board volume totaled 153.59 million shares, against 133.17 million in the previous session
grain and soybean futures prices opened mixed this morning on the chicago board of trade, then began trending a little higher
traders said the support for soybeans came from aggressive commodity fund buying
and those improving prices gave a lift to corn futures, which had been under light pressure from commercial and speculative selling, according to dale gustafson, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc
trading was very light in the wheat pit, but that grain received some help from the belief that it had been oversold
in early dealings, wheat was 1{ cent to 2{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in may at $3.03 a bushel; corn was \ cent lower to 1 cent higher with march at $1.98 a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to 2{ cents higher with march at $1.90} a bushel; and soybeans were 1 cent to 3{ cents higher with march at $6.13{ a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mixed on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .22 cent lower to .08 cent higher with april at 73.75 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to .38 cent lower with march at 82.02 cents a pound; live hogs were .02 cent lower to .20 cent higher with april at 44.75 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .23 cent higher with march at 52.50 cents a pound
on wednesday, live cattle futures were mostly higher but other livestock and meat futures declined
the factory operating rate remained unchanged in february for the third consecutive month as cutbacks in auto production and coal mining held back gains in other areas, the government reported today
the federal reserve said that america's factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity, the highest operating rate in more than eight years
while the february rate was unchanged, the government revised upward the operating rates for december and january. a month ago, the government had put the operating rate in those months at 82.2 percent
analysts said the fact that the overall rate has been frozen for three months was consistent with their view that production slowed in the early part of 1988. businesses were cutting back on orders in an effort to reduce a backlog of unsold goods which piled up during the final three months of 1988
the backlog was particularly high in the auto area where auto makers have had to resume incentive programs to spur sales
in february, the operating rate at manufaturing plants remained unchanged at 82.5 percent of capacity. this reflected an operating rate of 80.1 percent at plants making durable goods, unchanged from january, and a rate of 85.9 percent at factories making nondurable goods, down 0.2 percentage point from the january rate
auto plants operated at 77 percent of capacity in february, down from 77.4 percent in january and a full 5 percentage points below the operating rate in october
the mining industry operated at 80.6 percent of capacity in february, down from 81.1 percent in january. the decline was attributed to a drop in production at coal mines
u.s. utilities operated at 82.2 percent of capacity last month, up from 81.7 percent in january
the overall operating rate of 82.4 percent was more than two percentage points higher than the 79.7 percent operating rate in february 1987. it was the highest level since march 1980, when production hit 83.7 percent of capacity. pickup</note>
jb's restaurants inc. says it will withdraw from the big boy franchise system and operate its 110 restaurants in 10 western states independently
jb's chairman clark jones said the decision came after careful evaluation of the company's relationship with big boy franchisor, elias brothers restaurants inc
during our 27 years in business, we have internally developed the systems and organization necessary to operate as an independent regional restaurant chain,'' he said. ``we believe that we can best maximize our shareholders' interests by eliminating the territorial restrictions and franchise fees required under our current franchise agreement.''
the salt lake city based jb's operates restaurants in utah, idaho, montana, washington, wyoming, oregon, arizona, new mexico, south dakota and hawaii, the company said thursday
jones said the company does not expect to have significant costs in connection with the withdrawal
under the agreement, we have an option to withdraw from the system without cost, and we had already planned to repaint all of our buildings and change all of our signs in connection with the re-imaging of our concept,'' jones said
however, we will take a one time non-cash charge during the third quarter of approximately $1.5 million for the write-off of related intangible territorial franchise rights,'' he added
jones said elimination of franchise fees will allow the company to recover the write-off over a two-year period
under the terms of its agreement, jb's has six months to change its signs and eliminate the references to big boy from its menus
clark said most of the changes will occur during the second half of the six-month period because the company has the option to re-enter the system before june 15, 1988
stock prices rose in active trading this morning, buoyed by corporate takeover maneuvering and favorable investor response to the government's report of a lower-than-expected january trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials advanced 13.43 points to 2,077.75 by 12 noon est
among broader market barometers, the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose 0.73 to 152.01. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.78 to 298.29
advancing issues outnumbered losers by nearly 2-to-1 on the new york stock exchange, with 858 up, 495 down and 478 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 110.51 million shares in the morning session, vs. 68.46 million wednesday morning
although the trade deficit reported by the commerce department widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion from $12.2 billion in december, market economists had expected an even greater gap of about $13 billion
the news therefore provided an optimistic tone to stock trading and substantiated other evidence that the economy is growing despite fears of a slowdown raised by the october crash
i think the trade number was just what everybody liked,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon, read &amp; co. in new york. ``it brought a sigh of relief.''
nevertheless, puccio and other trading strategists said investors still were reluctant to commit large amounts of cash to the stock market, at least until the conclusion of so-called ``triple witching hour'' on friday
that quarterly event is so-named because of the near-simultaneous expiration of contracts to buy or sell stock-index futures, stock options and futures. it has contributed to wild price swings in the past
takeover related buying played a role in lifting stocks today. rumors of impending acquisition attempts on pillsbury, philips petroleum and u.s. shoe sent those stocks sharply higher in active trading. pillsbury rose 2| to 44|; phillips rose ~ to 17[ and u.s. shoe rose 2{ to 25
american standard rose 1[ to 76| after investment firm kelso &amp; co. agreed to buy the company for $78 a share, topping a hostile $73 a share offer from black &amp; decker corp
digital fell 3| to 114, apparently in response to merrill lynch's reduced earnings estimates for the computer company
the canadian dollar traded above 80 u.s. cents today for the first time in four years
buoyed by wednesday's report of an increase in canada's foreign trade surplus, the canadian currency was quoted as high as 80.08 u.s. cents in mid-morning trading on foreign exchange markets
the canadian dollar last traded above 80 u.s. cents on feb. 24, 1984. it is now more than 10 cents above its all-time low of 69.13 u.s. cents recorded in february 1986
the currency, which ended 1987 at 76.93 u.s. cents, has risen steadily this year
the trend is good news for canadians who buy goods imported from the united states and who travel south of the border. but it is bad news for canadian manufacturers, who send 80 percent of their exports to the united states. general news wires</note>
allowing private companies to go into the mail delivery business could improve service, but such a drastic change must be phased in gradually, the president's commission on privatization says
over time, the government monopoly on delivering letters should be ended, with immediate steps to allow private firms to deliver advertising and to operate in rural areas, the commission recommends
the mail recommendations are part of a detailed report on privatizing various government operations, scheduled to be released friday at the white house
other aspects of the study include developing a system of private air traffic control towers; issuing vouchers for low-income housing instead of building public housing units; selling the government's $250 billion loan portfolio; and issuing vouchers for public school education
in general, the study reports, the benefits of switching to a competitive mail delivery system would outweigh the problems, although the changeover could be confusing and costly
the overall costs of postal service should be reduced through competition, the commission concluded, and efficiency could be improved. the report noted that the growth of competition in parcel delivery has provided consumer with more alternatives and price competition
officials of the u.s. postal service said thursday they could not comment on the report until they have had a chance to study it
however, major unions representing postal workers already have fired a volley at the study based on preliminary reports of what it would contain
if mail delivery is opened to competition, private companies will skim off the money-making city delivery routes and leave the more expensive rural deliveries to the postal service, the national association of letter carriers contended. the american postal workers union also has opposed privatization plans
such a change would destroy the nation's system of universal service, the letter carrier's union charged, ``rural and inner-city residents would not be served by private firms and-or would receive reduced service at exorbitant postage rates.''
former postmaster general preston r. tisch last fall termed the idea of privatization a ``dubious'' solution, contending that the changeover would be ``chaotic and impractical.''
the conservative heritage foundation, however, has lent its support to at least limited privatization, calling for rule changes to allow private firms to deliver third-class advertising mail and for increased contracting out of postal services
the recommendations of the privatization commission are more sweeping, however, if tempered with the caution that the changeover could be confusing, as was the switch from a telephone monopoly to a system of competing systems
changing to a private system could cause problems for many of the postal services' 800,000 workers, and tax money could be required to assist in finding new jobs and in retraining, the study indicates
in addition, the change could result in varying postage rates according to which company a mailer used, perhaps including differing rates depending on distance traveled
questions also arise about liability for lost mail and the process of notifying a variety of companies about changes of address, the study noted
even so, it contends, the long-run benefits should outweigh the problems associated with a change
the recommendation comes at a trying time for the postal service, caught in a public relations bind between congressional budget cutting which has forced it to reduce window hours and collections at the same time rates are being raised
here is a rundown of the basic postal service recommendations of the commission:
_open mail delivery to competition, but on a gradual basis with compensation for postal workers and managers for loss of benefits and earnings
_consider turning the postal service itself into a private business, perhaps by selling stock in the agency to its employees
_immediately end restrictions on private firms delivering third-class advertising, widely known as ``junk'' mail
_immediately open up rural delivery to competition
_end restrictions on private firms placing mail in letter boxes at people's homes
_ease restrictions on delivery of express mail
_actively pursue all possibilities for contracting out services
the u.s. dollar rose against all major foreign currencies except the canadian dollar in european trading thursday following the release of better-than-expected u.s. trade figures. gold prices fell
the u.s. commerce department reported that the merchandise trade deficit widened slightly to $12.4 billion in january from $12.2 billion in december. many traders had expected a trade deficit in the range of $12.8 billion
the market was very nervous immediately after the release (of the trade figures) because the dollar didn't immediately shoot up,'' said a foreign currency dealer in frankfurt, west germany
but gradually the dollar started moving up and that built up some momentum.''
in tokyo, before the trade figures were announced, the dollar dipped to a closing 127.43 yen from 127.49 yen at wednesday's close. in later london trading, it was quoted at 128.15 yen
in london, the dollar gained more than one cent against the british pound. one pound cost $1.8385 in london late thursday, down from $1.8505 late wednesday
the pound began falling thursday morning after major banks cut their base lending rates to 8.5 percent from 9 percent
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late wednesday's rates, included: 1.6775 west german marks, up from 1.6690; 1.3940 swiss francs, up from 1.3810; 5.7175 french francs, up from 5.6782; 1.8885 dutch guilders, up from 1.8750; 1,244.37 italian lire, up from 1,238.45; and 1.2493 canadian dollars, down from 1.2518
gold prices eased in sluggish european trading as the dollar's rise made gold less attractive for investors
gold fell in london to a late bid of $443 a troy ounce, compared with late wednesday's $446.20. in zurich, it closed at a bid $445, slightly lower than $445.25 late wednesday
earlier, gold closed in hong kong at a bid of $448.75, up from $447.79
silver bullion prices dipped on the london market, where silver was trading at a late bid of $6.34 a troy ounce, compared with wednesday's $6.36 an ounce
the canadian dollar, buoyed by higher interest rates north of the border, rose to 80 u.s. cents thursday for the first time in four years
analysts said the possibility that central american instability might drive prices higher for oil and other commodities was one reason the canadian currency's overnight rise from 79.9 u.s. cents to 80.08 cents
because of canada's dependence on oil, grain, mineral and lumber exports, the canadian dollar is viewed on international exchanges as a semi-commodity based currency
it had been testing the psychologically important 80-cent mark for the past two weeks
the fundamentals support the canadian dollar right now,'' said money market specialist june riley of the royal bank of canada
the fact that we have not had strong intervention by the bank of canada suggests that as long as the canadian dollar is moving in an orderly fashion, it could go higher.''
she also attributed some of the overnight strengthening to speculators, riding the canadian currency's recent upswing
the higher canadian dollar is bad news for american tourists, who got $1.40 for their u.s. dollars two years ago and now get $1.20 at hotels and stores. but for thousands of canadians making their annual late-winter pilgrimage to florida or arizona, the new exchange rate is a windfall
the two dollars were last at par in 1976, and the canadian currency dipped to an all-time low of 69.13 u.s. cents in february 1986. it was last worth 80 cents on feb. 24, 1984
it has risen 15 percent since then, with a 4-cent surge this year after governor john crow of the bank of canada made it clear that high interest rates will prevail until inflation is virtually eradicated. canada's annual inflation rate is now 4.1 percent
prime minister brian mulroney's conservative government has been more equivocal on the issue, under pressure from exporters whose goods cost more as the dollar appreciates. nearly 80 percent of canadian exports go to the united states
finance minister michael wilson said last week that interest rates may dip as soon as inflation falls below 4 percent
but exporters' concerns were undermined this week when the government reported better-than-expected merchandise trade figures for january. canada's surplus of 633 million dollars, or $506 million u.s., was up from december's surplus of 207 million dollars, or $165 million
key canadian interest rates, such as for eurodollar deposits, are 1.5 percent higher than u.s. dollar rates
other factors behind the canadian currency's rise include the anticipated strengthening of oil and commodity prices in the wake of u.s. troop deployment in honduras and the closing of the trans-panama oil pipeline, riley said
a strike by electrical workers cut off power to the trans-panama oil pipeline wednesday, halting the flow of alaska north slope crude oil to markets on the u.s. gulf coast, state officials said
electrical service was restored early thursday, but then was interrupted again, prompting the panamanian government to announce it was taking over all public utilities
the pipeline carries 650,000 barrels a day of alaska oil, roughly 10 percent of u.s. domestic production. a barrel is equivalent to 42 gallons
bp america inc. and its subsidiary sohio oil own two-thirds to three-quarters of the oil flowing through the pipeline. the rest is owned by exxon co. usa
the flow was halted at 2 p.m. est wednesday when electrical workers joined a widespread strike against gen. manuel antonio noriega, said tim reynolds, a bp america spokesman in washington, d.c. the strike cut off power to a pump station at the foot of a mountain, he said
bp america has a one-day supply of oil already on the gulf of mexico side of panama, and does not expect to initiate contingency plans yet, reynolds said
nonetheless we are taking steps to set up a ship-to-ship transfer operation so if necessary we can put at least some oil through the panama canal,'' he said
bp america is not sure how much oil it could move through the canal. the amount would depend on the availability of small tankers and canal congestion, reynolds said
state officials, the alaska congressional delegation and oil companies also are studying alternatives including taking the oil around africa's cape horn or getting a waiver to the federal ban on exports of alaska oil
state officials have been worried about a panama pipeline shutdown because it could slow sales of alaska crude, which account for the bulk of state revenues
west coast oil markets are glutted with alaska oil, and the federal export ban prevents its sale overseas
chuck logsdon, chief oil revenue analyst for the state, said the gulf coast markets have been handling more than 600,000 barrels of the total daily alaska production of 1.8 million to 1.9 million barrels. trend</head>
an increase in mortgage foreclosure and delinquency rates in texas is further evidence of regional economic problems, the mortgage bankers association said
the nationwide foreclosure and delinquency rates are improving, but mba spokesman tom marder said the figures, released wednesday, show that economic problems remain, particularly in the oil and farm states
the trend nationally for two years has been toward lower delinquency and foreclosure rates,'' marder said. ``obviously, some of the regional problems still exist.''
the association's figures show that at the end of the last quarter, 1.56 percent of the mortgages surveyed in texas were in foreclosure, up from 1.53 percent for the same period last year
this gives texas the ninth-highest foreclosure rate in the nation
another 8.72 percent were at least 30 days delinquent as of december, a substantial increase from the 7.92 percent delinquent as of the year before
foreclosures nationwide represented 1.06 percent of the total home loans, and 5.37 percent of the loans were delinquent
the association speculated three months ago that problems in the oil patch appeared to be drying up after an improvement in the third quarter. in that quarter, the survey showed 1.19 percent of the loans in texas were in foreclosure and another 7.64 percent were delinquent
the mba reported that although some regions have had disappointing foreclosure and delinquency levels, ``the solutions to these regional problems are of a long-term nature ... there is reason to expect delinquencies to resume their previous downward trend in due course.''
alaska and wyoming ranked first and second on the list of foreclosure and delinquency rates, while rhode island was last
alaska, which also has been severely affected by the plunge in oil prices, had 5.92 percent mortgages in foreclosure, up from 3.55 percent for the same period of last year. alaska's delinquencies also increased, to 11.85 percent in the past quarter, up from 10.18 percent
next on the list was wyoming, with 5.39 percent in foreclosure last quarter, a decline from 5.84 percent in the same period of last year. wyoming also saw a slight improvement in its delinquent loans, to 6.26 percent, a decline from the 7.90 registered last year in the same quarter
rhode island had the lowest foreclosure rate of all states at 0.09 percent
stocks rose in active trading today, buoyed by corporate takeover maneuvering and favorable investor response to the government's report of a lower-than-expected january trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials advanced 11.28 points to 2,075.60 by 2 p.m. est
among broader market barometers, the nyse's composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.80 to 152.08. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.83 to 298.34
advancing issues outnumbered losers by slightly more than a 3-to-2 margin on the new york stock exchange, with 902 up, 556 down and 466 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 150.48 million shares with two hours of trading left
although the trade deficit reported by the commerce department widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion from $12.2 billion in december, market economists had expected an even greater gap of about $13 billion
the news therefore provided an optimistic tone to stock trading and substantiated other evidence that the economy is growing despite fears of a slowdown raised by the october crash
i think the trade number was just what everybody liked,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon, read &amp; co. in new york. ``it brought a sigh of relief.''
nevertheless, puccio and other trading strategists said investors still were reluctant to commit large amounts of cash to the stock market, at least until the conclusion of ``triple witching hour'' on friday
that quarterly event is so-named because of the near-simultaneous expiration of contracts to buy or sell stock-index futures, stock options and futures. it has contributed to wild price swings in the past
takeover related buying played a role in lifting stocks today. rumors of impending acquisition attempts on pillsbury, philips petroleum and u.s. shoe sent those stocks sharply higher in active trading. pillsbury rose 3[ to 45[; phillips rose 1| to 17~ and u.s. shoe rose 2] to 24~
american standard rose 1[ to 76| after investment firm kelso &amp; co. agreed to buy the company for $78 a share, topping a hostile $73 a share offer from black &amp; decker corp. black &amp; decker rose 1 to 19{
digital fell 4] to 113\, apparently in response to merrill lynch's reduced earnings estimates for the computer company
west germany officially gave its support to the proposed establishment of a western european central bank that would be independent of common market governments
finance minister gerhard stoltenberg said thursday that the 12-nation common market should free all movements of capital within its borders and strengthen the european monetary system in its efforts to achieve closer economic cooperation and integration
free capital movement without controls and limitations is the most important monetary policy reform for the near future,'' stoltenberg said
in a memorandum prepared for his fellow cabinet ministers and other western european governments, stoltenberg reaffirmed west germany's commitment to closer economic integration among the member nations of the european economic community
he also said that, at the end of the process, there should be a european central bank
stoltenberg's statement came less than three weeks after west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher proposed setting up a european committee of experts to outline a course of action for further european economic integration
the document adds further momentum to a discussion that started late last year when french economics minister edouard balladur proposed establishing a european central bank
stoltenberg said in his memorandum that a european central bank should be committed to price stability and should be independent of both common market authorities and member governments
the central bank issue is expected to be discussed at the eec summit in hanover, west germany, on june 27 and 28
sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, warned cable television operators thursday that congress will consider reregulating the industry if rates continue to rise and programming is withheld from competitors
some of us feel we were had'' by the congressional decision that freed most cable operators of municipal rate control in january 1987 and let them set their own prices, metzenbaum said
this congress is ready to re-examine that whole issue,'' said metzenbaum at a hearing of the senate judiciary's subcommittee on antitrust, monopolies and business rights, which he chairs
metzenbaum, the only senator present during much of the hearing, said congress is concerned that cable tv operators, an $11 billion a year industry that serves 51 percent of american households, enjoy a monopoly that can freeze out competing tv distribution systems and raise prices
james p. mooney, president of the national cable television association, disputed metzenbaum's charge that cable prices have ``zoomed upwards'' by up to 400 percent in some areas since deregulation
mooney said an ncta study shows that the average cable subscriber's monthly bill rose 6.7 percent in the first six months after deregulation. while basic service prices rose about 10.6 percent, rates for premium or pay channels, like home box office, dropped 2.5 percent, according to the study
mooney said that while some people saw large increases in their rates as cable companies realigned their services, most people paid only a small increase and also received more channels than they did before deregulation
metzenbaum also said he was concerned about complaints by cable competitors that distribute tv programming via microwave and satellite that they are being strangled by the cable industry's control over programming
cable operators have a stake in many of the major satellite programmers, like hbo, showtime, turner broadcasting and mtv, he said
george kocian, spokesman for the home satellite television association, which represents owners and dealers of home satellite dishes, told the committee the cable industry has tried to prevent the growth of the home dish market by controlling access to and the price of programming
about 2 million households receive tv directly from backyard dishes. most programming is now scrambled, so a dish owner must purchase a decoder costing about $400 to unscramble the signals
kocian said the association does not oppose scrambling, but he said dish owners should not have to pay the same prices as cable subscribers since they have to incur more of the cost of service, like buying a decoder and maintaining their dish antenna
consumers are willing to pay a fair price,'' he said. ``but we are not being treated fairly or equally.''
joseph collins, president of hbo, the nation's largest pay tv company, said backyard dish owners can subscribe to hbo's scrambled signal directly from hbo or from a cable operator. dish subscribers pay about two-thirds the price that cable subscribers do, he said
there is no denial of access,'' he said
however, he said the company has had problems with microwave-based tv delivery systems that distribute hbo programming unscrambled. in such cases, nonsubscribers with an appropriate antenna can intercept these transmissions and watch hbo for free, he said
opec president rilwanu lukman said thursday he will announce new measures to bring stability to dropping oil prices on march 22
lukman's two-paragraph statement did not say what the measures would involve. the statement said the measures would be announced at a 10:00 a.m. (4 a.m. est) press conference and should bring stability to the volatile oil market
on tuesday, lukman accused the western press of trying to destabilize the oil market to bring down prices. he said opec would not be stampeded into taking emergency measures to stop the fall of oil prices
he said the cartel would stand firm on its decision to produce 15.6 million barrels of oil a day. a barrel is the equivalent of 42 gallons
ministry sources, who declined to be identified, said lukman would call an emergency opec meeting soon after the march 22 press conference if consultations between members promised meaningful discussion at the meeting
the sources said price stability would be the main topic of discussion if the meeting were held. a report by a private audit team on the level of oil production among cartel members would also be an issue
grain and soybean futures prices posted strong gains thursday on the chicago board of trade
soybeans were up more than 14 cents a bushel and wheat gained as much as a nickel
a large speculator bought sizeable amounts of beans and soybean products to offset earlier sales, said dale gustafson, an analyst with drexel, burnham lambert inc
that ignited it,'' he said. ``it prompted a lot of short covering by commission houses.''
corn and wheat futures were helped by the rally in beans, said gustafson
wheat also did well because there are indications the chinese are chartering some vessels, so maybe there's some new buying coming in,'' he said
on the close, wheat was 3{ cents to 5 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.97{ a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 2 cents higher with march at $1.99 a bushel; oats were 2} cents to 4\ cents higher wit march at $1.94 a bushel; and soybeans were 14{ cents to 16\ cents higher with march at $6.26 a bushel
the securities and exchange commission dealt r.h. macy &amp; co. inc.'s bid for federated department stores inc. a setback today by recommending to a federal judge that campeau corp's. revised tender offer for federated be regarded as an amendment to a previous offer rather than a new bid
if the judge agrees, the campeau bid could expire as scheduled, more than two weeks before macy's competing offer. macy fears that federated shareholders will feel pressured to tender their shares to campeau because of the earlier deadline
in a ``friend of the court'' brief, the sec told u.s. district judge leonard sand the revised bid announced by campeau march 2 was not a new offer, and as such did not have to remain open for 20 business days past its publication
the revised offer changed the number of shares campeau was seeking and the price to be paid for those shares
macy has asked sand to declare the latest campeau bid a new offer, which would keep it open past its scheduled expiration
campeau announced today it was extending its offer beyond friday to midnight march 22. however, sand ruled earlier this week that both companies' offers must remain open for three business days after his decision on the macy challenge and on a campeau suit that seeks to invalidate federated's shareholders rights plan
sand had sought the sec opinion on the macy argument. it was not known when he would make his ruling
macy had no comment on the sec's opinion, said maureen milano, a spokeswoman for the retailer
a campeau spokeswoman, joele frank, said ``we're pleased'' about the sec's opinion, but ``it's really up to the judge.''
macy, whose bid expires on april 4, wants a later expiration for the campeau offer because it would put the competing bids on a more equal footing
campeau claimed its offer cannot go forward while the rights plan, known as a ``poison pill,'' remains in effect. the plan allows current federated shareholders to buy more of the company's stock at a steep discount, making a takeover prohibitively expensive
macy is offering $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $6.3 billion. macy will exchange shares in the merged company and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares
campeau is offering $75 in cash per share for 70.5 million federated shares, or a total of $6.18 billion. the remaining of federated stock would be acquired later for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger, giving the deal an aggregate value of $68 per share
the stock market rose today, buoyed by corporate takeover maneuvering and favorable investor response to the government's report of a lower-than-expected january trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 5.81 points to 2,070.13 by 3 p.m. est
among broader market barometers, the nyse's composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.48 to 151.76. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 1.04 to 298.55
advancing issues outnumbered losers by slightly more than a 3-to-2 margin on the new york stock exchange, with 857 up, 614 down and 480 unchanged. volume on the big board totaled 169.45 million shares with one hour of trading left
although the trade deficit reported by the commerce department widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion from $12.2 billion in december, market economists had expected an even greater gap of about $13 billion
the news therefore provided an optimistic tone to stock trading and substantiated other evidence that the economy is growing despite fears of a slowdown raised by the october crash
i think the trade number was just what everybody liked,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon, read &amp; co. in new york. ``it brought a sigh of relief.''
nevertheless, puccio and other trading strategists said investors still were reluctant to commit large amounts of cash to the stock market, at least until the conclusion of ``triple witching hour'' on friday
that quarterly event is so-named because of the near-simultaneous expiration of contracts to buy or sell stock-index futures, stock options and futures. it has contributed to wild price swings in the past
takeover related buying played a role in lifting stocks today. rumors of impending acquisition attempts on pillsbury, philips petroleum and u.s. shoe sent those stocks sharply higher in active trading. pillsbury rose 3 to 45; phillips rose 1 to 17\ and u.s. shoe rose 2[ to 24|
american standard rose 1 to 76{ after the investment firm of kelso &amp; co. agreed to buy the company for $78 a share, topping a hostile $73 a share offer from black &amp; decker corp. black &amp; decker rose 1 to 19{
digital slumped 5~ to 111}, apparently in response to merrill lynch's reduced earnings estimates for the computer company. some other key computer stocks also fell, including industry leader ibm, down 1[ to 114[, and hewlett packard, down 1} to 63[
managers at fairfax publications (u.s.) ltd. said thursday they are negotiating to buy ms. and sassy magazines from the company's australian parent
john fairfax ltd. of sydney, which acquired ms. in september and launched sassy five months later, officially put the magazines on the block wednesday. it was not known who else might be bidding for the properties
sandra yates, president of fairfax u.s., said she and vice president anne summers began discussing a management-led buyout with executives in australia last december. yates said a bid is now on the table, although she declined to reveal any figures
yates labeled as ``optimistic'' rumors that the australian company paid as much as $15 million for ms., which was founded by gloria steinem and pat carbine 16 years ago
in an interview last month, yates acknowledged that start-up costs for sassy, a monthly magazine aimed at teen-age american girls, totaled $10 million
the decision to sell the magazines is part of a wider sale of assets to help finance the privatization of john fairfax ltd
twenty-six-year-old warwick fairfax, who took his father's company private last december, ``had to borrow significant funds to buy out shareholders and has a large debt and needs to liquidate assets,'' yates explained
mr. fairfax has announced other belt-tightening measures at company holdings in both australia and london
ms. circulation is holding steady at about 484,000 copies a month, yates said. sassy was expected to have an initial circulation of 250,000 and a goal of 1 million within five years. because only two issues of sassy have been published, it is too early to assess its circulation
yates said both the acquisition of the badly undercapitalized ms. and the launching of sassy by fairfax were her idea. ``so obviously i've always been very firmly convinced they could work.''
still, both magazines will require ``a substantial amount of investment over the next couple of years _ many millions of dollars before they come into profit because one is a turnaround and the other is a start-up,'' yates said
she said she did not think finding investors would be a problem
manufacturing and retailing conglomerate wickes cos. inc. on thursday posted a turnaround in fourth-quarter earnings and a 116 percent jump in profits for its fiscal year
however, earnings for the year ended jan. 30 were boosted primarily by $126.7 million in gains on assets sales and extraordinary items
for the fourth quarter, the company netted $8.3 million, or 15 cents per share, compared to the year-earlier period when it had a loss of $2.5 million
revenues for the period were up 9.6 percent to $832.5 million from $759.8 million, reflecting wickes' acquisition of collins &amp; aikman corp., the new york-based textile concern, in december 1986 for $1.16 billion
for the full year, the wickes earned $180.5 million, or $3.68 per share, compared to the previous year when it earned $83.7 million, or $1.65 per share. the per-share figures for fiscal 1987 were restated to reflect a one-for-five reverse stock split that took effect last august
revenues for the past year were up 61.9 percent to $3.48 billion from $2.15 billion
the company's income from continuing operations, which does not include taxes or gains from assets sales and extraordinary items, rose to $14.6 million from $3.1 million for the quarter, and slipped to $69.1 million from $69.6 million for the year
the stock market closed higher today, helped by takeover-related buying and a better-than-expected report on the nation's trade deficit
but wall street strategists said the volume of trading did not reflect a surge of investor confidence and probably was caused by fears about the market's unpredictable behavior on ``triple witching hour'' friday
that quarterly event, so-named because of the near-simultaneous expirations of contracts to buy or sell stock-index futures, options and futures on individual stocks, has injected wildness into the market in the past
i suspect traders are waiting for the triple witching hour to get out of the way,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon, read &amp; co. in new york
japan overtook the united states last year in economic output per person, according to a report thursday that highlighted that nation's relentless rise as an economic superpower
the report by japan's economic planning agency was the latest in a string of reports on the island nation's growing wealth. for example, the tokyo stock exchange has become the world's largest, and most of the world's largest banks are japanese
the agency said japan's per-capita gross national product _ the output of goods and services for each member of the population _ reached the equivalent of $19,642 in 1987, compared with $18,403 in the united states
japan's ascendance was made possible partly by a strong 4.2 percent increase in its total gross national product. more important, though, was a 17 percent rise in the value of the japanese yen vs. the dollar from one year to the next
when the yen is strong, it makes japan's economic output more valuable in terms of dollars. it also increases japan's financial muscle in the united states and other markets
as an economic power, the united states has already been surpassed,'' ezra vogel, a harvard university expert in east asian affairs, said in reaction to the report
the critical question is who has the leverage, who has the strategy, who has the critical assets that influence the course of world economic development,'' vogel said
the key people who are able to make new loans are the japanese. people begin to look to the rules of the game as the lender defines it,'' he said
unfortunately, it's continuing to happen,'' he added. ``japan is continuing to collect more chips and the united states is continuing to lose chips.''
the report drew a different reaction from japanese observers, who contended it gives an unrealistic picture because it is based on what they regard as an overvaluation of the japanese yen vs. the dollar
it's kind of magic _ numerical magic. it has no sense in real life,'' said yoshihisa kitai, the economist in the new york office of the long-term credit bank of japan
japan has indeed grown wealthier, but the japanese people still feel poor when they compare their buying power with that of americans, kitai said. land costs are high because of overprotection of farmland, and an inefficient distribution system keeps retail prices high, he said
in 1986, when calculations were based on $1 trading at 168.51 yen, the u.s. gross national product per capita was $17,464 and japan's was $16,330. in 1987, the calculations were based on $1 for 144.62 yen. the dollar currently is trading at about 127 yen
it is difficult to tell what nation has the highest gross national product per capita because of drastic fluctuations from year to year caused by exchange-rate shifts and the rise and fall of oil prices
the united arab emirates was the world's leader in 1985 at $19,120 per capita, followed by the sultanate of brunei at $17,580, the united states at $16,400 and switzerland at $16,380, according to world bank atlas 1987. japan ranked well back at $11,330, the atlas said
although more recent numbers are not available, it is known that the oil-producing nations have fallen in rank because of lower oil prices, while western europe and japan have risen because of stronger currencies
japan had about 122 million people as of the middle of last year, half of the united states' 244 million. but its economic output is more than half that of the united states
japan's inflation-adjusted gnp growth of 4.2 percent in the calendar year 1987 was up from 2.4 percent the previous year, helped by gains in housing and industrial equipment investment
the economic planning agency said japan's gnp grew by an inflation-adjusted 1.7 percent in the october-december quarter from the july-september quarter
the agency said the government's target of 3.7 percent growth for fiscal 1987, which ends march 31, was in reach
the original target was 3.5 percent, but it was revised upward in december based on signs of an encouraging recovery in the manufacturing sector. manufacturing earlier had been slumping because of the yen's rise, which makes japanese products more expensive and less competitive abroad
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.72 points to 2,086.04. much of the gain came in the last hour of trading
gaining issues outpaced losers by about 9-to-5 on the new york stock exchange, with 969 up, 544 down and 465 unchanged
big board volume totaled 211.92 million shares, against 153.59 million in the previous session
the nyse's composite index rose 1.40 to 152.68. 
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 1.48 to 298.99
h.j. heinz co. said wednesday it acquired the lone producer of toilet and laundry soap in the african nation of botswana
kgalagadi soap industries of gaborone, botswana, which heinz got from overseas development enterprises ltd., operates a 33,000-square-foot facility that makes soap in various forms, including cakes, bars, pieces and pellets
we are happy to begin operations in botswana, a nation with an expanding economy and with an interest in promoting free enterprise,'' said heinz chairman anthony o'reilly
heinz withheld terms of the deal
heinz and the government in neighboring zimbabwe operate olivine industries ltd. a private producer in harare of edible oils, margarines and soaps
may department stores co. said wednesday its earnings rose 8 percent in the fourth quarter and 16.5 percent for 1987 as a whole
may, the nation's seventh-largest retailer, reported earnings of $230 million, or $1.52 a share, in the quarter ended jan. 31, compared with earnings of $213 million, or $1.38 a share, during the same period a year earlier
sales for the latest quarter totaled $3.34 billion, up from $3.1 billion during the final quarter of fiscal 1986
for all of 1987, earnings totaled $444 million, or $2.90 a share, up from $381 million, or $2.44 a share, in fiscal 1986
sales totaled $10.31 billion for the year, up from $9.5 billion in the previous year
may operates 2,960 department, discount and specialty stores. its divisions include lord &amp; taylor and may department stores, venture and caldor discount stores and volume shoe stores
may president thomas a. hays said the company plans to open seven department stores, seven discount stores and about 240 specialty stores in 1988
a food and medical supply irradiation company pleaded guilty wednesday to covering up safety violations, and authorities revealed that its founder _ a leading spokesman for the preservation process _ was negotiating a plea arrangement with prosecutors
radiation technology inc. admitted that a false memorandum saying it had stopped bypassing safety measures at its rockaway plant was prepared and given to nuclear regulatory commission investigators
both the company and federal authorities have said no employees or members of the public were injured because of the violations
the morris plains company, represented by its president, allan booth, also admitted telling the nrc that a radiation safety monitor was removed for only one night when it was actually removed for several days while the plant was irradiating products
radiation technology, which also has plants in west memphis, ark., haw river, n.c., and salem, uses radioactive cobalt-60 to sterilize medical supplies and foodstuffs, mainly spices
on tuesday, prosecutors said thomas powell, who worked as operations manager at the rockaway plant from 1980 to 1985, pleaded guilty to related charges
powell admitted conspiring with others to have employees bypass devices called conveyor door safety interlocks required under its license. the safety locks automatically lower the highly radioactive cobalt-60 materials into a safety pool if they sense the presence of people. powell faces five years in prison, said assistant u.s. attorney jacqueline wolff
the company, which faces a $1 million penalty, admitted that company officials prepared and backdated a memo dated sept. 21, 1984, falsely saying that its employees had been ordered to stop bypassing the interlock system
during a hearing, u.s. district judge maryanne trump barry asked if there was a problem with plea negotiations with the company's founder and former chairman, martin welt
ms. wolff responded that welt had signed a plea agreement admitting to related charges but had decided not to enter the plea
later, ms. wolff said welt's attorneys and her office had been negotiating over a plea and that she did not know the reason why welt did not enter it
welt has spoken frequently in the national media about the value of food irradiation, and even traveled to china last year to promote the process
welt was forced to sever his links to radiation technology in mid-1986 along with powell after the nrc briefly suspended the company's license for the interlock safety violations
ms. wolff said the safety systems were bypassed ``to keep the business going
the interlocks were not operating properly. the thing to do is shut it down,'' she said
in a prepared statement, the company said:
by this guilty plea, rti has acknowledged its legal responsibility for the actions of an officer who submitted false information to the nrc relating to known deficiences in equipment designed to insure operator safety at rti's rockaway facility.''
the company referred all further comment, including who the official was, to its public relations firm, solakian associates
mary solakian said she was not familiar enough with wednesday's hearing to comment, and said her husband was out of the office and could not be reached
in exchange for the company's guilty plea, the government agreed not to further prosecute the firm on the matter and take no position on sentencing unless the judge asks, said ms. wolff
the two broadest measures of the nation's money supply rose in the week ended march 7, the federal reserve board reported thursday
the fed said the measure known as m2 rose to a seasonally adjusted $2,954.5 billion in the latest week from $2,947.4 billion te previous week
an even broader measure, m3, increased to a seasonally adjusted $3,725.4 billion from $3,721.6 billion
the narrowest measure of the money supply, m1, rose to a seasonally adjusted $755.6 billion from a revised $755 billion
m1 includes cash in circulation, deposits in checking accounts and non-bank travelers checks. m2 is m1 plus accounts like savings deposits and money-market mutual funds. m3 is m2 plus less-liquid accounts, such as certificates of deposit in minimum denominations of $100,000
in judging its monetary policy, the fed has indicated it is monitoring the value of the dollar, commodity prices and the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. it also has shifted its attention from m1 to the two broader money supply measures
the fed said in early 1988 that it would like annual growth for m2 and m3 to be between 4 percent and 8 percent, which is slightly lower than the 1987 target of 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent. the fed has not set a specific target range for m1 since early 1987
in other reports:
_the federal reserve bank of new york reported commercial and industrial loans at major new york city banks fell $1.24 billion in the week ended march 9, compared with a gain of $1.3 billion a week earlier
_the federal reserve said bank borrowings from the federal reserve system at the discount window averaged $153 million a day in the week ended wednesday, compared with $378 million in the previous week
_the federal reserve bank of st. louis reported that the monetary base, the seasonally adjusted total of member bank reserves held at federal reserve banks and cash in bank vaults and in circulation, was $272.1 billion in the two-week period ended wednesday, down from $272.4 billion two weeks earlier
bond prices advanced thursday in active trading, lifted by a report on the nation's trade deficit for january that was better than expected
the treasury's closely watched 30-year bond rose about } point, or $7.50 for every $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to its price, dropped to 8.53 percent from 8.60 percent late wednesday
in a long-awaited report, the commerce department said the merchandise trade deficit widened slightly in january to $12.4 billion after two months of sharp improvements. the news cheered the credit markets despite the wider deficit, since most analysts had expected a trade shortfall of around $13 billion
the numbers were pretty juicy,'' said maria ramirez, a managing director of drexel burnham lambert inc
bond prices have been pushed and pulled in recent months by data on the nation's trade performance, mimicking the impact of the figures on the value of the dollar. a positive trade showing tends to bolster the u.s. currency and increase the value of dollar-denominated investments such as bonds
analysts said the market was unaffected by another government report thursday that u.s. factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity in february, the third consecutive month the operating rate has been at that level
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term government issues rose 5-32 point to \ point, intermediate maturities advanced 7-16 point to 17-32 point, and 20-year issues gained 11-16 point, according to figures provided by telerate inc., a financial information service
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 0.38 to 112.93. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, jumped 5.20 to 1,182.20
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, edged up 0.76 to 284.27
in the municipal bond market, the bond buyer index of 40 actively traded general obligation and revenue bonds rose 5-32 point to 88 27-32 as of 3 p.m. est. the average yield declined to 8.07 percent from 8.09 percent late wednesday
yields on three-month treasury bills, meanwhile, declined 4 basis points to 5.56 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills fell 7 basis points to 5.72 percent and one-year bills dropped 8 basis points to 6.18 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was quoted late in the day at 6 7-16 percent, up from 6] percent late wednesday
back interest payments on brazilian loans could add $250 million to citicorp's 1988 earnings, chairman and chief executive officer john s. reed said wednesday
citicorp, the nation's largest bank holding company with assets of $203.6 billion, is the leader of negotiations between banks and the brazilian government aimed at restructuring that country's debt
i believe brazil is likely to reach an agreement with the banks, but it is difficult to be assured of it,'' reed told a news conference before a luncheon address to the economic club of detroit
whatever the success of the debt-restructuring talks, brazil's resumption of interest payments will be a boost, reed said
and he said, ``we are quite positive about our own situation.''
they have paid the interest for the fourth quarter of last year. they are paying now the interest due for the first quarter of this year but no one has booked it yet,'' he said. ``we are short $200 million after tax, $333 million before tax, from brazil. so we have the potential of booking in this year one-quarter billion dollars.''
brazil, which owes more than $112 billion abroad and has not repaid any principal since 1983, stopped paying interest on bank debts in february 1987
citicorp was the first bank to respond, in may 1987, by boosting loan-loss reserves, increasing them during the year by about $3 billion
that and other steps ``confused'' citicorp's earnings picture for 1987, reed said. citicorp reported a loss of $1.13 billion for 1987, compared with net income of $1.05 billion in 1986
in 1988, he said, ``we expect to return to a normal year.''
reed said predictions of slower consumer-spending growth this year may have been excessively conservative, as indicated by healthy auto sales and home mortgage activity thus far
mortgage applications to citicorp, which accounts for 6 percent of the nation's single-family home loans, have been higher than expected in the past 30 days, he said
chrysler corp. would like to begin early contract negotiations with the united auto workers on april 18 _ that is, if chrysler's top bargainer isn't serving on a jury
anthony st. john, the company's lead negotiator, said wednesday that chrysler has settled on the tentative date for the start of talks on a contract covering 59,500 active and 8,000 laid-off workers and wants a settlement deadline for sometime in june
uaw spokesman bob barbee said the date won't be confirmed until uaw vice president marc stepp is sure it will fit into a schedule crammed with negotiations with other companies including general dynamics
in general, barbee said, ``it sounds reasonable.''
but st. john, chrysler's vice president for human resources, also has a conflict: he's been called to jury duty in oakland county circuit court for april 18-19
i'm trying to get out of jury duty,'' he said. ``this is my third summons. i asked to postpone one to attend a board meeting.''
as a lawyer _ he began his labor relations career arguing cases for the national labor relations board _ st. john said he is automatically excluded from jury duty in most states, but not in michigan
next week, the uaw's elected 10-member bargaining committee meets in tampa, fla., with stepp and other union officials to prepare demands. its 140-member national chrysler council meets april 5-7 in missouri to approve them
chrysler's three-year contract expires sept. 14. talks normally begin in mid-july, but chrysler asked for the early start after the uaw forced it to reverse a plan to sell its 28,000-worker acustar inc. parts subsidiary
in cooperative union-management programs that reach from the executive suite to the plant floor, the two sides have begun working together to find ways to improve chrysler's production quality and efficiency
they are considered crucial to the survival of any auto company battling for its share of an intensely competitive market. but ``negotiations tend to put everything into a kind of holding pattern,'' st. john said
chrysler will work within the job-protecting pattern contracts established for the industry last fall at ford motor co. and general motors corp., but will try to mold the pattern to chrysler's needs, he said. up 7th graf, while high...</note>
the nation's factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity in february, the third consecutive month the operating rate has been at that level, the federal reserve said thursday
even though the february rate was the same as december and january, those two months were revised up slightly in the newest report, a fact that private economists said was encouraging
slowly, but surely, capacity utilization is marching higher, showing that the industrial sector remains strong,'' said allen sinai, chief economist of the boston co
before the revision, the operating rate in december and january had been put at 82.2 percent
the report said that the february operating rate was held back by further cutbacks in production at auto plants and a big drop in coal production
before the year began, analysts expressed fears that the economy could weaken significantly due to widespread cutbacks in production as businesses tried to work off a huge supply of unsold goods which had been built up in the last part of 1987
while high inventories have led to cuts in auto production, many other industries, such as textiles, chemicals, and paper, have continued to have high operating rates
analysts have recently been boosting their forecasts for growth in the first quarter of 1988 based on a belief that the weakness from production cutbacks was overstated
manufacturing, which was in a virtual recession in 1985 and 1986 because of the country's large trade deficit, began to rebound last year as the weaker dollar made american products competitive once again on overseas markets
continued strength in manufacturing this year is expected to be the principal force keeping the country out of a recession
the 82.4 percent industrial operating rate is the highest overall operating rate since march 1980. the operating rate plunged to 69.5 percent during the depths of the 1981-82 recession
in february, the operating rate at manufacturing plants remained unchanged at 82.4 percent of capacity, reflecting an operating rate of 80.1 percent at factories making durable goods and a production rate of 85.9 percent of capacity at plants making nondurable goods
paper, a non-durable good, had the highest operating rate of any industry at 95.8 percent of capacity, with textile plants close behind at 91.9 percent and chemical plants at 86.5 percent
auto plants operated at 77 percent of capacity in february, down from 77.4 percent in january and a full 5 percentage points below the operating rate in october. sales have rebounded in recent weeks and analysts believe that auto operating rates should start to move higher
the mining industry operated at 80.6 percent of capacity in february, down from 81.1 percent in january. the decline was attributed to a drop in production at coal mines
u.s. utilities operated at 82.2 percent of capacity last month, up from 81.7 percent in january
the overall operating rate of 82.4 percent was more than two percentage points higher than the 79.7 percent operating rate in february 1987
south korea is considering making an infusion of money to the international monetary fund's lending operations, the finance ministry said thursday
ministry officials said the proposed funds would be for the imf's structural adjustment facility, which extends loans to help finance economic development in the third world
officials said the government had not decided how much korea should provide, but that the sum might be close to the $90 million cited in local news reports
ministry officials also said the government was studying additional capital subscriptions to the imf, the world bank and the asian development bank in response to requests from the three organizations. but they said the size of the capital contributions remained to be negotiated
