ling</head> with daley statement.</note>
a judge on friday quashed a subpoena in which a prosecutor sought to force a prominent medical journal to reveal the name of a doctor who wrote an anonymous first-person account of a mercy killing
we're very pleased with the decision. we think it vindicates the decision to publish it,'' kirk johnson, counsel for the american medical association, which publishes the journal of the american medical association, said
we continue to believe that the debate over euthanasia _ which we oppose _ will help in determining the proper treatment of the terminally ill,'' added johnson
terry levin, a spokesman for cook county state's attorney richard daley, said daley had no immediate comment on whether he would appeal
but in a statement, daley charged that the journal is ``protecting the identity of a killer who may kill again _ indeed who may well have already killed again.'' he said the article ``appears to be a confession to murder.''
chief cook county circuit judge richard fitzgerald ruled the state's attorney's office failed to prove a crime was committed, and had not exhausted all other avenues to obtain the information _ as required by the state's free press-law
fitzgerald also said the state's attorney had not demonstrated the information being sought was essential to the public interest, another requirement of the illinois reporters' privilege act
the article, ``it's over, debbie,'' was published in the jan. 8 edition of the journal in its regular ``a piece of my mind'' column
in the article, a doctor described injecting a lethal dose of morphine into a woman dying of ovarian cancer. he wrote that he did not know the patient, but was asked to check on her and was moved by her plea of ``let's get this over with.''
ama officials said they did not verify the account, but believed it was based on fact. they said the author had requested his name be withheld. the essay did not indicate where the doctor lived or where the incident occurred
the state's attorney's office served the subpoena in mid-february and ama attorneys moved to quash it the following week
dr. george lundberg, editor of the 105-year-old journal, said he received unanimous support from the ama board on his decision to run the article
lundberg has said he believed the essay describes an actual event, but noted, ``the account does have enough vagueness to welcome critical analysis as to whether it happened, or happened in this way.''
whether the case is valid or not is irrelevant,'' he added, ``as long as the discussion is purposeful or educational for the people involved.''
between 90 and 100 letters sent to the journal commenting on the decision to publish were about evenly split
the ama is the nation's largest physician organization, with about 280,000 members, including about half the doctors in the united states
the milagro beanfield war'' is a story of one man's battle for the right to water for his northern new mexico fields, but it has a universal theme _ the fight to preserve a traditional way of life, the author says
the story, and the film version produced by robert redford and moctesuma esparza that opened friday, will reinforce people who oppose the impersonal march of progress, says john nichols, author of ``milagro.''
yeah, hopefully books like mine or a film like `milagro' can ... help to create an atmosphere where people struggling at all levels of society have just a little more on their side,'' the taos resident said in a telephone interview
nichols, who won't see the movie until its new mexico premiere today, said the story celebrates the fight against the ``fascist, nihilistic, anti-hero, everybody-out-for-themselves-oriented'' aspects of society
the main character, handyman joe mondragon, bucks the political and economic system when he illegally diverts water from a resort development into his once-abandoned beanfield
such wars have punctuated the modern history of northern new mexico. in nichols' and redford's view, the buying or stealing of water and land for commercial enterprises threatens to wipe out the traditional, subsistence farmers, descendants of spanish settlers, by making their simple lifestyle impossible
in most of his 19 years in new mexico, nichols has embraced and participated in traditionalist causes
in the early 1970s, he lampooned state water officials in editorial cartoons, designed and distributed protest flyers against the construction of a dam and researched titles to find out who really held the land and the power in taos valley. in recent years, the fight has been against a proposed mining slurry reservoir and a bypass road that is eating up farmland around taos
it is not acceptable for progress, american style, to throw away cultures or human beings; to commit cultural genocide on anybody that gets in the way,'' nichols said
nichols expected to be treated well by redford and esparza in their film version of his 1974 novel
i've always had a real trust for moctesuma esparza's and redford's instincts. and both of them certainly have a long track record of real concern and involvement in everything from the environment to culture, things i believe are important causes,'' said nichols
redford is well-known for his environmentalist work and esparza is a film chronicler of the hispanic world
the new mexico premiere of the movie will be joined by parades, art shows, contests, and $100 and $500 receptions to benefit a sheep and wool cooperative, a private community grant foundation, an albuquerque theater group and the legal aid agency of northern new mexico
obviously, my hope is that once all the glamour and the hoopla die down over the film, that it will be a loving and compassionate movie with, you know, important cultural and political points to make that will endure,'' said nichols
many residents of truchas, the mountain village where the film was shot, got parts in the movie or had other jobs with the production and will attend a special showing of the film
truchas embraced the film after the project was rebuffed by residents of chimayo, a small village about 30 miles northeast of santa fe
redford had approached residents of chimayo because the town's old buildings and central plaza were ideal for scenes in the movie
but a small group of chimayosos opposed the project, saying it would disrupt their lives, and redford was forced 10 miles upstream to truchas
nichols said he was not surprised
i thought they had every right in the world to protest the filming in their town, and what's more, the people, the press and everyone else should have respected that right without question,'' said nichols. ``believe me, i think the integrity of the community is a lot more important than making temporary bucks off a film.''
a study using ultrasonic heart scans called echocardiograms has found that people with an enlarged left side of the heart are two to three times as likely as others to have a heart attack or stroke, researchers said
the defect, called left ventricular hypertrophy, has previously been associated with congestive heart failure. but this is the first time it has been identified as an independent risk factor for strokes and heart attacks, said dr. william castelli, who presented the findings friday at a meeting of the american heart association
the size of your left ventricle is going to be the price you pay for high blood pressure and overweight,'' castelli said. ``that should be recognized now as a powerful risk factor. it's as powerful as cholesterol, blood pressure and smoking, and indeed in the short term it's even slightly more powerful than some of those traditional risk factors
it means that person is headed in a big way for heart attack or stroke,'' he said
the left ventricle is the main pumping chamber that sends blood through the body's arteries. the mass of the ventricle _ representing both its size and the thickness of the muscle _ is what is correlated with increased risk
castelli is the director of the framingham heart study in framingham, mass., one of the nation's longest-running and most influential studies of heart disease. the identification of the risk associated with left ventricle enlargement was made by following framingham residents for a long period of time while monitoring their heart size with echocardiography
in that technique, ultrasonic sound waves bounced off the heart are used to produce a picture of the heart, much as sonar provides a picture of the sea floor
those with an enlarged left ventricle faced double or triple the risk of heart attacks and strokes, depending upon their age and their other risk factors, castelli said
it gives us another guide to treatment, to aggressive management of the patient,'' said dr. jerome cohen of st. louis university medical school. ``we can't treat left ventricular mass, but we can be more aggressive about looking for factors that contribute to it.''
castelli said left ventricle enlargement shows up much more commonly in echocardiograms than it does in the more conventional electrocardiograms, which record electrical pulses from the heart and can be used to identify abnormalities
there's been very little information out on echocardiography demonstrating risk,'' said dr. philip liebson of rush medical college in chicago. ``this is a first step, but it's an important step.''
however, echocardiographic determination of left ventricular mass requires care, liebson said. ``the technician has to be well trained,'' he said. ``it's not routine like electrocardiography.''
furthermore, 10 percent to 20 percent of people won't get accurate results from echocardiography, liebson said
nevertheless, in people with high blood pressure, echocardiography identifies an enlarged left ventricle three to five times as often, he said
echocardiography, which was incorporated into the framingham study in 1979, is widely available around the united states, castelli said. a thorough echocardiographic examination takes about an hour and costs between $275 and $375, he said
echocardiograms should probably be done in people with high blood pressure or those who are overweight, he said, to see whether their left ventricles are enlarged and therefore whether they face imminent risk of a heart attack
those with enlarged left ventricles should be treated aggressively to lower blood pressure and lose weight, castelli said
this should encourage the doctor really to set rigid goals and attain them,'' he said
on a clear day in dallas, you can't see forever
in fact clear days in dallas are becoming about as scarce as construction cranes
a study released friday by federal and state air pollution experts shows that visibility of 15 miles or greater has fallen from about 320 days a year in 1950 to 70 in 1986. the study was prompted by the apparent deterioration in the city's air in recent years
the pollution that drapes the city's skyline has two forms: the brown cloud phenomenon, a locally produced effect that usually occurs in the winter, and a white haze phenomenon, which drifts in from industries elsewhere in the state year-round
the cloud and the haze are equally effective in obscuring the city's vistas, officials say. but their health effects, if any, aren't clear
we do not feel there is an acute health effect,'' said william hathaway, director of the air, pesticides, and toxics division of the regional environmental protection agency. ``long term, we do not know.''
scientists with the epa, texas air control board, and sandia national laboratories of albuquerque, n.m., said the brown cloud contains pollution from vehicles, particularly those with diesel engines, and from wood burning
the cloud appears on calm, cold mornings and often completely obscures the city from a distance of 12 miles
about 70 percent of the vehicle pollution in the brown cloud comes from diesel trucks and cars, although diesel engines account for a small fraction of the vehicles, according to the report. ``a diesel vehicle is the equivalent of 25 cars as far as emissions,'' said wayne einfield, of the sandia national laboratories
hathaway said the epa will require manufacturers to install controls on diesel emissions on cars and pickup trucks beginning next year. he also said his agency is working on converting city bus systems from diesel to natural gas or methane fuel, and perhaps will eliminate diesel buses in 10 to 12 years
he said the brown cloud also could be reduced by restricting wood burning, as has been done in denver. that would have to be decided by city officials
the white haze is most noticeable when winds prevail from the south and east, hathaway said. it is composed mostly of sulfate aerosols that probably come from coal- and lignite-fueled power plants in east texas and petroleum industry operations on the gulf coast
as the results of the study, which ran from december 1986 to march 1987, became evident, hathaway said he began to review emission levels from these plants, but has found no violations. he declined to say whether he thought existing standards are adequate
neither the cloud nor the haze are unique to dallas, officials said, but the nature of the two phenomena gives the city little relief. if the still, cold conditions which produce the brown cloud aren't prevailing, the white haze usually blows in from the south and east, they said
a ``bill of rights'' approved by the senate finance committee aims at improving the odds for taxpayers who find themselves in trouble with the irs
but the committee, fearing the original version of the legislation was so restrictive that tax collections might suffer, watered down the bill significantly before approving it without dissent on friday. its future is still in doubt because of opposition from the reagan administration and some members of the house ways and means committee
even after being weakened, the measure would require greater notice before the internal revenue service seizes taxpayers' property; prohibit imposition of penalties that result from faulty written advice from the irs; and formally bar the agency from requiring employees to meet a collection quota in order to win promotion
sen. david pryor, d-ark., chief author of the bill, said he has received 11,000 letters from disgruntled taxpayers since raising the issue. one that he read aloud while the bill was being debated asked simply: ``please put me in contact with a human being at the irs.''
sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, chairman of the committee, said ``a bully mentality'' infects parts of the irs. ``this bill is not an attempt to bash the irs ... but to protect taxpayers from heavy-handed abuse,'' he said
sen. daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y., recalling abuses of taxpayer privacy during the johnson and nixon administrations, asked irs chief counsel william nelson whether officials of the reagan white house have pressured the agency for political purposes
they are afraid to even speak to us on the street ...,'' nelson replied. ``but on several occasions members of congress have given us names of individuals or groups and asked us to investigate.''
he said the irs does not audit a taxpayer just because a member of congress makes the request, and the agency ``would scream loudly'' if the white house made such a demand
the legislation is considerably weaker than when it was introduced early last year. dropped from the original were a requirement that the irs carry the burden of proving that its tax assessments were wrong; a directive that taxpayers be given miranda-type readings of their legal rights anytime they are called before the irs; and a vast increase in the value of income and property that would be exempt from irs seizure
key provisions of the committee-approved bill would:
_prohibit the irs from judging employees on the basis of how much tax they collect. this would write into law an irs policy that agents say is violated in some areas of the country
_require the irs to waive any penalty imposed because of a tax underpayment that was caused by erroneous written irs advice. the irs generally follows such a rule. this change would not affect a taxpayer who asks irs for advice by telephone; neither would it allow the waiver of interest charges on any late payment
_increase from 10 days to 30 days the advance written notice the irs generally must give a taxpayer before seizing property
_allow the irs ombudsman, or consumer advocate, to issue orders stopping the agency from acting against a taxpayer about to suffer unnecessary and significant loss if the irs failed to carry out its duties under the law
_require the irs to explain in detail how any interest or penalties attached to a notice of tax deficiency were arrived at
_allow a taxpayer to sue the irs and recover litigation costs and at least $100 for each day the agency wrongfully fails to remove a claim from the taxpayer's property
_permit a taxpayer who defeats the irs to recover attorneys' fees unless the irs could prove it had substantial justification for its position
designers karl lagerfeld and jean-paul gaultier _ at opposite poles in the fashion world _ have thrown out the miniskirt in favor of longer skirts in their winter ready-to-wear shows
lagerfeld's graceful collection drew inspiration from the middle ages as he softened everything from shoulders on down. his historical touches at friday's show were subtle and looked like clothes rather than costumes
from robin hood hats and swirling capes to empire dresses, the elegant clothes were often in grey, black and white
the pants were very wide or as narrow as tights, worn with white sweaters, pearl chokers, beaded necklaces and elaborate cummerbunds. others were topped by bright quilted jackets
lagerfeld also showed flaring pyramid coats and full pleated skirts cut to the knee rather than mid-calf
to temper the lean sweater-dresses, lagerfeld exhibited some puffball coats of mongolian lamb
dinner dresses with clinging tops and flowered silk skirts topped by tulle were graceful. and the high-waisted renaissance dresses in black velvet and white silk with their scalloped edges were romantic enough for any juliet
lagerfeld black chantilly sheath enveloped in a cloud of tulle makes an appealing change from bows, bustiers and ruffles seen so often recently
gaultier, once the rogue designer of wild shapes, has toned down to very soft fabrics and wearable silhouettes. the clothes were topped by knit beanies with pompons for a flippy note
his long, loose coats with gold buttons and capes came out in sober dark tones. but olive, cinnamon, bordeaux and dusty yellow added a little color
the only day dresses at gaultier were pleated long pinafores, for a yuppie who wants to look like a maid
chloe's show, with the clothes designed by martine sitbon, was a mixture of bright plaids and lame-plastered trouser suits
there were big-collared coats and shawl-wrapped dresses with pleated full skirts in lengths short or hovering around the knee
jean-charles de castelbajac went to the nursery for inspiration in sporty clothes. he appliqued naive motifs of houses and trees on duffel coats, or had hand-painted animal spots on fluffy long jackets over striped tights
primary colors dominated, but he also used ivory and pastels, especially in big mohair coats
bernard perris jazzed up his collection with bright colors in a group of miniskirts and shorts topped by shawls
he also showed slim-lined longer brown dresses with bertha collars, fur wraps and muffs
paul-louis orrier is better-known in america than in france for his dressy clothes, and his show at the grand hotel had plenty of americans in the audience
his models displayed puffy, draped silks and satins with flowers cascading out of some of the drapes. the short evening wear came in amethyst, bright green and iridescent taffeta
senate majority leader robert byrd and three influential committee chairmen are pushing for an amendment to the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty that would limit future administration interpretations of the accord
the amendment, which the administration says would be unconstitutional, was sparked by senate democrats' wrath over president reagan's interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. they have charged that he interpreted the pact too broadly so he could justify development of the ``star wars'' missile defense system
under their proposed attachment to the inf treaty, future interpretations would be based not just on the text of the treaty, but also on the voluminous testimony given during weeks of ratification hearings since reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed the pact in december
a congressional source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the decision to tack the amendment on was made at a luncheon friday attended by byrd, foreign relations committee chairman claiborne pell of rhode island, armed services committee chairman sam nunn of georgia and intelligence committee co-chairman david boren of oklahoma
the original author of the proposal was sen. joseph biden jr., d-del
their condition will be presented to the foreign relations panel during consideration of the treaty next week, the source said
in a commentary attached to the proposed amendment, the senators have said their purpose was not to resolve the dispute over the abm treaty
rather the provision is intended to reaffirm certain constitutional principles which have been brought into question during the `reinterpretation' debate,'' the commentary said
many democrats have argued that the abm treaty, as outlined during the ratification hearings in 1972, prevents certain star wars testing and development. the administration has asserted that its interpretation _ based on the text and the record of negotiations with the soviets _ permits the development
the democratic chairmen already have expressed their support for the inf treaty provisions, which would eliminate all land-based missiles with ranges between 300 and 3,125 miles
ratification by the required two-thirds of the senate is expected, but the attachments of conditions opposed by the administration would be a complicating factor that could require renegotiations with the soviets
in a letter to sen. richard lugar, r-ind., a member of the foreign relations panel, the white house reiterated its fears about the amendment and said its views were endorsed by the state, defense and justice departments and the arms control and disarmament agency
the letter, signed by arthur b. culvahouse, counsel to the president and made public friday, said the resolution is ``seriously flawed.''
he acknowledged that for domestic purposes a president would adhere to an interpretation generally agreed to by the senate, but he said the proposed amendment would go too far, by binding an administration to ``all statements made by officials of the executive branch during ratification proceedings.''
these would include ``answers to over 1,000 questions submitted by members of the senate, no matter how trivial or how unimportant the issue addressed may be to the senate's advice and consent deliberations.''
the result might be two inf treaties, one binding domestically against the president and a second one binding internationally between the united states and the soviet union,'' culvahouse said
that would favor moscow ``because the soviet union is not and cannot be bound by our domestic processes.''
the proposal ``only serves the interests of confusion, ambiguity, confrontation and uncertainty,'' he said
torn and bloodstained from battle, regimental flags that led union soldiers into the breach at gettysburg and antietam face a new fight against the ravages of time, say museum curators trying to save them
many of the 30 silk banners at the civil war museum and library here remain rolled around their poles, as they were at the end of the civil war in 1865, with little protection against aging
some of the flags were wrapped with paper about 15 years ago to preserve them, but acids in the paper apparently foiled that effort. when several were gingerly unfurled last month for the first time since then, some turned to dust or broke apart
to me they are sacred. ... they are symbols of the ultimate sacrifice and love of country,'' said andy waskie, a member of the grand army of the republic, a group of descendants of union veterans which operates the museum
some of the 6-by-6{-foot banners have the names of battles written or sewn on them, and many bear patriotic symbols, such as an eagle bearing swords in its claws
many of the flags were scarred in war; some bear bullet holes and others are stained with blood
some had their centers cut out, presumably by color sergeants who carried the flags in battle and wanted a souvenir, according to elmer atkinson, president of the gar and great-grandson of three union soldiers
it was a great honor to be the color sergeant. most of the time he wouldn't live too long. (the flag) became more or less personal property to them,'' he said
many flags were hand-painted, a practice that has contributed to their decay, atkinson said. acids in the paint have slowly dissolved the silk over the years
the museum is talking to textile experts on how to prevent further deterioration, he said. richard a. sauers, a restoration expert involved in a similar effort to preserve 315 civil war flags stored under glass in the capitol rotunda in harrisburg, is also advising atkinson
preservation techniques include laying the flags flat in acid-free paper or plastic, atkinson said
at a minimum, the gar hopes to stop the decay, which would cost about $1,000 per banner, he said. attempts to restore them would cost much more
when the colors are unfurled, it will be in a vacuum with increased humidity ``to try to bring some life back into the silk,'' atkinson said
there's no way to get them back to hanging off poles again,'' he said
the gar is considering different ways to raise the money, but won't decide until the total cost of preserving the banners is known, he said
the flags were authorized by the state government at the start of the civil war in 1861. the state raised 215 regiments, which were organized along county lines
many of the flags were returned to the state at a july 4, 1866, parade in philadelphia. the state wanted the flags back in case regiments had to be raised again, atkinson said. 03-19 0689</first> morton thiokol of failure to implement safety measures; picks up 4th graf pvs, `the plant's ...'; subs 14th graf pvs, `rocky raab ...' to update with comment.</note>
an air force report friday on a fatal fire at an mx missile assembly plant said morton thiokol inc. failed to provide an adequate remote-control system or fully implement other safety measures recommended after a ``near miss'' six months earlier
the fire dec. 29 killed five workmen who were manually removing the steel core from the first stage of an mx motor into which propellant had been poured and hardened
the air force concluded the fire was caused either by friction or static electricity. in the accident, 100,000 pounds of solid rocket fuel ignited in a fireball at the company's wasatch operations plant 90 miles northwest of here
the plant's remote control system includes a video monitor to allow workers to perform the procedure from a bunker a quarter-mile away, but ``design deficiencies'' prevented them from using it as specified, the air force said
the video system ... did not provide the required visibility. thus, remote operation requirements were circumvented,'' according to the report, which said it was common practice among workers not to use the camera
morton thiokol officials have said such deviations were only occasional and were not known to management
installation of a video camera for remote-control use was among the air force's recommendations after a ``near miss'' on may 20, 1987, consisting of ``a flash, followed by a loud report, smoke and fumes,'' the air force said
later inspection indicated a small piece of the solid propellant had ignited, possibly from friction caused by grit, said the report issued by the air force inspection and safety center at norton air force base in california
in both cases, the operators were raising the core, and the probable causes were similar,'' the air force said. ``many of the recommended changes resulting from (the may incident) had not been fully implemented at the time of the (december) mishap.''
other air force recommendations stemming from the ``near miss'' included grounding and other measures to reduce static
when the dec. 29 fire broke out, the recommended grounding was incomplete, and operators didn't understand the requirements or follow them properly, the report said
the manual used by the workers to remove the core ``was vague, written at a reading level well above that of the average operator, confusing, hard to follow (sometimes impossible), contradictory and incomplete,'' the report said
the findings were released a day after morton thiokol officials released the results of their own investigation and vowed to appeal state citations, alleging willful and serious violations, that carry $30,000 in penalties
rocky raab, morton thiokol spokesman, denied air force allegations company routinely failed to follow written procedures. ``we would take issue with the word routinely,'' he said. ``we would say sometimes, or occasionally.''
the company said thursday that its procedures were clear and that it did not know why the five men failed to follow them by entering the assembly building during an operation that should have been handled by remote control
the rocket motors are filled with fuel in a semi-liquid state. the core is raised from the rocket motor by a hydraulic lift after the fuel has hardened
the air force recommended among other thigns that operating procedures be rewritten, remote operations be properly designed and enforced and that the company ensure compliance with procedures
since the accident, morton thiokol and the air force have been studying ways to reduce the risks of ignition by friction or static
the accident has held up mx missile production until the cause and corrective measures could be determined. the fire caused $6.2 million damage to the assembly building
ed garrison, president of the company's aerospace group, said morton thiokol hopes to reach an agreement on corrective measures with the air force within two weeks. 03-19 1013</first> property damage to recruiting office in minneapolis, picking up 5th graf pvs, `friday's arrests...'. subs 10-11th grafs, bgng `on a...', with 6 grafs to add detail on minneapolis, san francisco protests, picking up 12th graf pvs, `in washington...'. adds 2 grafs on end with other protests.</note>
opponents of u.s. policy in central america staged demonstrations across the nation friday to protest the sending of u.s. troops to honduras, and more than 350 people were arrested for blocking traffic and other disruptions
i think it is a serious mistake. it's another example of where president reagan is exaggerating the situation for his own purposes,'' former president jimmy carter said of the military action while addressing the southern university conference, a meeting of university presidents
in minneapolis, several hundred protesters marched on a military recruitment building friday evening, and some hurled bowling balls, eggs and paint, broke four windows and ripped up a uniformed mannequin. scuffles broke out between protesters and counterdemonstrators, but there were no arrests or injuries, police said
more than 250 people were arrested in san francisco, 60 in chicago and one in boston on the second day of protests, police said. twenty-four people were arrested for blocking traffic in front of the white house, and 25 were arrested in los angeles when they refused to leave a federal office building when it closed for the day
about 50 protesters were arrested thursday, the day 3,200 soldiers were sent to honduras in what the white house called a ``measured response'' to nicaraguan forces reportedly crossing the border into honduras
friday's arrests in san francisco came when a crowd of 500 chanting people blocked traffic and the entrance to the federal building. helmeted police at one point blocked a street, rerouting rush-hour traffic
at least half a dozen violent confrontations erupted when demonstrators tried to grab police equipment, including batons. some officers lashed back, jamming batons in demonstrators' stomachs and chests
those arrested were handcuffed with plastic ties, photographed and booked on the street, then taken to the hall of justice. police said they would be cited by federal authorities and released
many of those arrested had sat down across the entire width of the street outside the building and refused to move after police ordered them to disperse. among them were several elderly people, a woman with a sleeping infant on her back and well-dressed business people
about 600 protesters participated in another boisterous march through san francisco streets in the evening. the demonstrators, representing the gay community, said the money spent on sending troops would be better spent on aids research
in minneapolis, deputy police chief david dubrotka said police believed that arrests would have just inflamed the situation
col. curtis burg, a recruiter at the office that was damaged, said it would be closed temporarily for repairs. ``i think most of them (the protesters) are radical, ignorant people who don't know any better,'' he said
on a smaller scale, about 15 people paraded quietly in front of the federal building in orlando, fla. spokeswoman beth rapps said the u.s. military presence in honduras was an attempt by the reagan administration to persuade congress to continue financial support to the contras fighting nicaragua's leftist sandinista government
we should support the people down there by reversing our policies and provide aid to the poor and the hungry rather than the contras,'' she said
it was a different story in the nicaraguan immigrant enclave of sweetwater, fla., where more than 100 people marched with signs supporting u.s. policy and mutilated an effigy of nicaraguan president daniel ortega
in washington, d.c., 150 to 200 people demonstrated outside the white house, said police officer tom randolph. twenty-four people were arrested after the protest spilled into pennsylvania avenue. they were to have been fined $50 for blocking traffic, but that was cut to $25 for disorderly conduct because they didn't use a vehicle, randolph said
the chicago arrests, on misdemeanor disorderly conduct charges, came after demonstrators pasted 8{-by-11-inch orange stickers on first-floor windows at the downtown federal building and sat in intersections, police said. many of the stickers bore skull-and-crossbone symbols and the message ``stop u.s. intervention in central america.''
the 400 protesters also chanted ``reagan sent the troops today, get them out is what we say.''
bring the troops home. no contra aid, no war,'' the boston protesters chanted
about 80 people rallied in front of a military recruiting center in boston, blocking two lanes of traffic and interrupting the morning rush hour, and about 10 of them occupied the recruiting center peacefully while the rest of the demonstration broke up, police said
i believe our actions in central america are wrong,'' said lenore azaroff, 22, of somerville, mass. ``i believe sending troops to honduras is the first step to another vietnam.''
the demonstrators in the recruiting center were dragged outside at midafternoon without being charged and the doors were closed behind them, said robert dove, a spokesman for the pledge of resistance, which sponsored the rally. ``everybody's gone home,'' said a man who answered the phone in the navy section of the building and wouldn't give his name
about 200 people gathered at bates college in lewiston, maine, and at augusta, maine, about 15 people quietly gathered at memorial circle where the city's busiest streets converge, holding up signs saying ``stop the reagan war machine'' and ``u.s. troops out of honduras.''
in sioux falls, s.d., about 70 people opposed to the sending of troops to honduras demonstrated outside the main post office while about 15 people supporting the reagan administration shouted taunts through bullhorns. three people were arrested
in seattle, about 40 cars circled the federal building to show their opposition to the troop movement, jamming streets for about an hour. the protest also attracted about 100 people on foot. in providence, r.i., a protest attracted about 60 demonstrators
a 101-year-old mexican who was smuggled into the united states in the back seat of his son's car 14 years ago became the oldest alien to gain legal status under the amnesty program, officials said friday
gracias, muchas gracias a todos (thank you very much everyone),'' carlos romero-gaitan said as he was presented a temporary residency permit, or green card, by howard ezell, western regional director the immigration and naturalization service
in recent weeks, ezell and other ins officials have taken pains to publicize the impending may 4 deadline to apply for amnesty
romero-gaitan, who was born in san pedro, worked on a hacienda and as a rodeo rider, and operated a guadalajara tortilla shop until his retirement at age 82 in 1968
when his wife died in 1974, his son carlos jr. of watsonville, calif., flew to guadalajara and took him by plane to tijuana, where they got into a waiting car. with the father asleep in the back, carlos jr. drove to the border
they (the border patrol) asked everyone else in the car for identification, but they didn't want to disturb the man who was asleep, so he got through clean,'' ins spokesman joe flanders said
flanders said romero-gaitan has lived ever since in watsonville, tending the family's garden, watching cowbody shows and boxing matches on television and venturing out to an annual rodeo in the salinas area
romero-gaitan said friday that he decided to apply for amnesty now ``so i can feel free to go out of my house and not be afraid of being picked up.''
four of his five children are alive and live in the united states and mexico. he has 30 grandchildren and 40 great-grandchildren
trumpet player billy butterfield, whose melodic horn was heard in recordings by some of the biggest names of the swing era, died of throat cancer friday, his wife said. he was 71
butterfield played with benny goodman, bob crosby, artie shaw and les brown
he joined the crosby band in 1937, recording their hit ``moonlight in vermont.'' three years later, he went with shaw, joining in the recording of ``stardust.'' with goodman, butterfield soloed on ``la rosita.''
born in middletown, ohio, butterfield started out playing the violin, bass and trombone before finding his true passion, the trumpet. he studied medicine in college for two years, giving it up to play full time
once a member of the cbs and nbc studio bands, butterfield often free-lanced with his own group. in 1968, he became a charter member of the world's greatest jazzband, a group of traditional jazzmen reunited in the 1960s
in recent years, butterfield was often a featured performer at jazz festivals throughout the united states and europe
in addition to his wife, dorothy, survivors include two sons; two daughters, and five grandchildren
a memorial service was scheduled for sunday
here are tentative schedules for the presidential candidates for the week beginning march 20. the information was provided by the candidates

sunday, march 20:

democrats:
dukakis _ michigan
gephardt _ detroit; afternoon off
gore _ new york city
jackson _ palm springs, oakland and mendocino, calif
simon _ michigan

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ wisconsin
robertson _ san jose, los angeles and santa anna, calif


monday, march 21:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston
gephardt _ michigan (detroit area)
gore _ new york; connecticut; pennsylvania
jackson _ denver, colo.; washington, d.c
simon _ texas; san francisco

republicans:
bush _ new jersey; connecticut; washington, d.c
dole _ wisconsin
robertson _ los angeles and riverside, calif


tuesday, march 22:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston; hartford, conn
gephardt _ traverse city and marquette, mich
gore _ harrisburg, pa.; michigan
jackson _ michigan
simon _ wisconsin

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ wisconsin
robertson _ california; va. beach


wednesday, march 23:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston
gephardt _ washington, d.c
gore _ michigan; wisconsin
jackson _ michigan
simon _ wisconsin

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ connecticut
robertson _ washington, d.c


thursday, march 24:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ michigan
gore _ washington, d.c
jackson _ 1@2 day off; michigan or wisconsin
simon _ michigan

republicans:
bush _ hartford, conn
dole _ connecticut
robertson _ fairfax, va


friday, march 25:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ michigan
gore _ michigan
jackson _ michigan
simon _ michigan

republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
robertson _ va. beach


saturday, march 26:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ wisconsin
jackson _ wisconsin
simon _ wisconsin

republicans:
bush _ los angeles and palm springs, calif
dole _ open
robertson _ va. beach


sunday, march 27:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
jackson _ connecticut
simon _ open

republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
robertson _ va. beach
the united states claimed nicaragua began planning a military incursion into honduras when congress cut off contra aid, and managua accused washington of creating an ``artificial crisis'' to justify direct military action against it
this invasion was no accident,'' u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun told the security council friday. ``it was not hot pursuit .. . it was and is a planned offensive conducted ... in clear violation of international law and conventions.''
the urgent session was sought by nicaragua to protest the united states' sending 3,200 troops to honduras on exercises managua called a threat to its leftist sandinista government and to international peace and security
the united states claims it sent in soldiers at honduras' request after nicaraguan troops crossed the border in an effort to wipe out the u.s.-supported contras
okun said the presence of u.s. forces was a measured response to the alleged incursion that ``does not constitute either a threat or the use of force against nicaragua.''
ambassador jorge ramon hernandez of honduras said nicaragua is trying to create confusion and chaos in central america
we denounce this invasion as the expansionistic, aggressive attitude of nicaragua, not only to my country but to others,'' he said
okun added: ``the sandinistas have been preparing for this operation since the beginning of march, moving equipment, vehicles, supplies, fuel and troops closer to the border and establishing a forward staging area within 45 miles of the honduran border
they apparently began planning this attack in reaction to a vote in the u.s. congress that ended aid to the nicaraguan resistance.'' on feb. 3, president reagan narrowly lost a house vote on continuing contra aid. a democratic alternative was defeated, 216 to 208, a month later
the sandinista government has said the offensive began march 8 and had succeeded in driving hundreds of contra guerrillas back into honduras, where they have base camps
nicaraguan envoy rita delia casco denied during friday's session that sandinista troops were in honduras and said the united states is to blame for any conflict between the two central american neighbors
she accused the white house of being out to justify direct military action against nicaragua: ``this is a crisis artificially created by the u.s. administration ... the military actions we have taken are limited to the defense of our territory and sovereignty.''
in managua, a sandinista military official indicated privately that nicaraguan troops had cross the border. and hernandez said sandinista troops were still in honduras on friday
ms. casco claimed the united states was preparing ``to step up its military presence on central american soil.''
she said a u.s. congressional delegation would be welcome to visit nicaragua on a fact-finding mission, including border areas
if truly the government of the united states wishes to support the peace process in central america,'' the nicaraguan envoy said, ``it is not by sending american young men to risk their lives ... it should put an end to its policy of state terrorism.''
okun said the united states supports the regional peace plan authored by president oscar arias of costa rica, but claimed nicaragua has failed to abide by it by discussing substantive issues with the opposition
he said it does not want negotiations with the contras _ but their surrender: ``the events which have unfolded in the past few days have confirmed our worst fears about nicaragua's true intent.''
ms. casco said it is the united states that wants to block a cease-fire and sabotage the peace plan, which calls for an end to outside aid to insurgents
she accused president reagan of cynically employing a ``pack of lies'' and generating hysteria to help gain congressional approval for further aid to the contras
the 15-member security council adjourned without a resolution or vote
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar is considering a nicaraguan request to send a joint fact-finding mission with the organization of american states to the nicaraguan-honduran border
the peace plan, signed aug. 7, calls for cease-fires, democratic reforms and negotiations to end civil wars in el salvador, guatemala and nicaragua
an ape billed as the world's largest lowland gorilla in captivity got its first look at the outside world since it was captured as an infant 20 years ago
he's never really had the wind in his face, the rain in his face, the sun on him in 20 years,'' said pat quinn, director of the zoo
colossus, estimated to weigh at least 550 pounds, moved cautiously and clutched a security blanket in his powerful hands friday as he ventured from his cage into an outdoor enclosure
the 6-foot, 2-inch ape never strayed more than a few feet from the cage door for the first hour, but soon was roaming throughout the 6,000-square-foot pen
the lumbering gorilla pounded his fist against the 1\-inch-thick glass enclosing the observation area, causing spectators to recoil. one woman was so stunned she dropped her camera
until he was moved here sunday, colossus had spent nearly all his life in a 240-square-foot indoor cage at benson's animal park in hudson, n.h. the zoo bought him for $37,800 at auction when benson's closed last october, but he remained there until the new facilities could be built
colossus was brought sunday to the zoo but kept inside until friday so he could become accustomed to his new suite of two adjoining cages before being reintroduced to the outdoors
when the door to his cage was opened, colossus clutched his blanket for security and peeked out several times before extending his right hand through the opening
he did this several times, putting one arm out and then both, before he finally climbed out. then he withdrew several more times into the cage
come on, son, come see me,'' quinn shouted
at one point, the ape bent over to smell the grass just outside his door before bounding back inside
he doesn't know what it is,'' quinn said. ``he's figuring out what this new texture is under his feet.''
in new hampshire, the gorilla never felt anything underfoot except concrete and steel, said quinn
the zoo plans to breed colossus. but first the giant ape will have to learn how to behave like a gorilla _ he has not seen another member of his species since his capture, quinn said
quinn said he wants to obtain another bachelor male or a non-productive female as a mentor for colossus before selecting a mate
more avalanches crashed down on mountain villages in the northern kashmir state, killing at least 145 people and injuring more than 100, united news of india reported today
the casualties in friday's snow slides brought to at least 217 the death toll from avalanches in the mountain state since snow storms hit march 10
uni said the friday's avalanches hit three villages in in kargil district, about 90 miles northeast of the state's capital of srinagar
the agency said senior government officials made aerial survey of the affected areas and relief operations were under way. it said roads to many of the affected villages were blocked by snow
francis bacon, whose paintings of hideously distorted human figures have made him the highest-paid living british artist, will show his works in the soviet union, the british council said
the council, which promotes britain abroad, said friday that 43 bacon canvases will be displayed in a two-month exhibition opening in moscow in september
the show, requested by the union of soviet artists, will be the first in moscow by a contemporary british artist
bacon himself was delighted to hear that soviet artists admire him, and he will go to moscow with his paintings,'' said council spokesman john nickson
a record $1.7 million for a work of the 78-year-old artist was offered last may. the offer was for his 1953 picture, ``study for portrait 1-8,'' one of eight paintings of pope innocent x. rico</head>
kansas and puerto rico claimed political center stage for the weekend as democratic presidential candidates sought to gain ground on one another and george bush expected to bolster his already commanding lead by adding a few offshore delegates
on the democratic side, 39 delegates were at stake in kansas caucuses today and another 51 were up for grabs in sunday's primary in puerto rico
among republicans, the vice president was expected to dominate the winner-take-all vote in puerto rico and pick up all 14 gop delegates. kansas republicans already have made their wishes known, favoring home-state contender bob dole
michael dukakis, albert gore jr. and jesse jackson all campaigned in kansas during the week, while richard gephardt instead focused his energies on michigan's march 26 caucuses and paul simon straggled along behind
dukakis, his prospects enhanced by a strong organizing effort, had a slight edge heading into today's kansas caucuses
we've been organized in kansas for eight months,'' said dukakis' state campaign chairman, state sen. paul feleciano. ``... i think we'll get 20 to 24 of the 39 delegates still to be picked.''
gore's state campaign chairman, state sen. joe norvell, was hoping the tennessee senator's late forays into kansas ``could minimize what i would consider an early lead for gov. dukakis.''
jackson had out-organized gore, but supporters conceded that not enough counties were organized to claim a majority of the delegates
gephardt, struggling to recover from the thrashings he took on super tuesday and again in illinois, was hoping michigan would revive his flagging campaign
eighteen members of congress flew to michigan on friday to campaign for the missouri congressman but a poll showed him trailing well behind dukakis and jackson
we're going to make political history in michigan, just as we did in iowa,'' said gephardt, who had his best showing to date in iowa's leadoff caucus
cash-poor simon was in pennsylvania on friday for a series of fund-raisers. he continue to predict none of the democrats would lock up the nomination before the national convention in july
if you're talking about buying the nomination, i can't do that,'' he said. ``if you're talking about winning the nomination, i can do that.''
gore spent friday vote-hunting in puerto rico, where he said that he would consider allowing the territory to be exempt from the federal minimum wage and that he favored letting the territory decide itself whether to become a u.s. state
dukakis released a videotaped address in spanish in which he pledged to work to increase payments to puerto ricans under the medicaid, aid to families with dependent children and supplemental social security programs
bush was the only republican to mount an organizing campaign in puerto rico
dole's weakened campaign, meanwhile, continued to shrink, with only about 10 to 12 aides left on the payroll, according to spokeswoman dale tate
pat robertson, campaigning in california, conceded bush had an overwhelming delegate lead but pledged to stay in the race because ``there has to be a rallying point for conservatives.''
other political activity on tap today: gephardt hoped to turn his victory in last month's south dakota primary into delegates at today's state convention, and dukakis and jackson, the front-runners in the texas primary on march 8, were expected to divvy up most of the 64 delegates at that state's caucuses. disruption</head>
a congressional delegation was bound for el salvador today to monitor legislative and municipal elections that leftist forces have threatened to disrupt
president reagan selected the group of republicans and mostly conservative democrats to watch sunday's election and report back to him, officials said friday
our presence there is mainly one to deter any fraud (by the participating political parties) and to objectively and fairly report what we see happening,'' said rep. john g. rowland, r-conn., a delegation member
andy fisher, an aide to sen. richard g. lugar, r-ind., said the lawmakers will visit polling places in san salvador and the countryside despite the pinpointing of the polls as military targets by the leftist forces
but rowland said the threats may keep the delegation away from the polls. the delegation's presence at the polls would ``show the voters we're not afraid,'' he said, but added ``i'm not sure if we're doing that.''
we cannot stop violence,'' rowland said
the delegation, headed by lugar and rep. john p. murtha, d-pa., was scheduled to leave andrews air force base today and return late sunday night or early monday morning
the u.s.-backed salvadoran government headed by president jose napoleon duarte is holding elections sunday for mayors and councils in the country's 262 municipalities and for all 60 seats in the legislative assembly
leftist groups have vowed to ban road transportation during the elections to disrupt voting, and said polling places will be ``military objectives.'' the rebels maintain that peace must be achieved before any election is held
the main electoral opposition to the ruling christian democratic party is arena, a rightist group
this particular election is a test for democracy, not only because of the hazards proposed by the rebels, but perhaps because many citizens of el salvador, after five elections, have lost some of their enthusiasm for democracy,'' lugar said in a statement
rowland said the election, which has not gained widespread attention because it does not include a presidential race, is important because duarte's party could lose its slim majority in the assembly
there could be a definite change in the makeup of the assembly,'' the congressman said in a telephone interview from connecticut
the congressional group will be briefed by state department officials in san salvador before monitoring the elections
the house members include reps. rowland; murtha; beverly b. byron, d-md.; john r. kasich, r-ohio; mickey edwards, r-okla.; and alan b. mollohan, d-w.va., according to rowland aide harry phillips
senators include lugar, frank h. murkowski, r-ala.; christopher s. bond, r-mo.; said fisher
the salvadoran defense ministry said about 53,000 troops will be deployed to provide election security
a new jersey developer and a wild west show owner are among the western history buffs who bought up the largest collection of ``buffalo bill'' cody memorabilia ever auctioned _ with some pieces fetching more than twice their appraised value
who better symbolizes the american west than buffalo bill?'' said buyer r.l. wilson, a historical consultant to the colt firearms co. of hartford, conn., who bid friday on one of eight guns in the collection
the prices paid ranged from $175 for a telegram sent by the legendary roughrider and showman to $22,500 for a silver-handled plains rifle
in all, more than $500,000 was spent on the collection of over 300 items, which were perserved by cody's sister, julia cody goodman, auction officials said
the collection was sold by san francisco gun collector greg martin, who bought the artifacts for $300,000 last year, removing them from storage in billings, mont., for the first time in 20 years
the collection was unique for its large number of personal items, including cody's buffalo-hide coat that sold for $18,000 and a letter that sold for $3,575 in which cody discusses the death of his son. the prices included a 10 percent fee for the auction house, butterfield &amp; butterfield
also up for auction were other letters to cody's sister discussing his marriage and other intimate events
we are interested in the correspondence because it is so revealing and personal,'' paul fees, curator of the buffalo bill museum in cody, wyo., said before the bidding began. ``we have a strong biographical interest.''
other bidders for the letters included thomas b. morrison, of the buffalo bill ranch historic park in north platte, neb. cody descendant walter goodman of dallas, julia cody's grandson, was expected to bid for the letters by phone, fees said. the names of the successful bidders were not known
a pair of chaps worn by cody sold for $1,400 and a rope lariat went for $500. other items included cody's silver-handled toothbrush, a family bible and dozens of photographs, show bills and theater tickets chronicling william f. cody's life as the indian fighter, buffalo hunter and scout who, along with shooting champion w. ``doc'' carver, founded the first wild west show. cody died in 1917
ned gillette's first thought after being knocked into the treacherous waters off cape horn was not about his fate, but whether the ``sea tomato'' would survive the wintry gale in its quest to sail to antarctica
moments later, gillette was pulled back aboard the high-tech rowboat _ never fully tested in open ocean _ to join three other adventurers who hoped it was possible to row 600 miles across the treacherous drake passage from south america
on march 7, after suffering three knockdowns in heavy seas and skirting icebergs, the four waddled about nelson island off antarctica like the penguins that greeted them at the end of the voyage
you should see what it's like to try to walk on land after being thrown around at sea for 12 days,'' said gillette, whose arrival in antarctica ended a 4{-year quest that included an unsuccessful expedition last year
until we made it, we weren't really sure it could be done,'' gillette, 42, a native of stowe, vt., said friday
while the crew bailed out flooded cabins and rowed their 28-foot boat through 100-foot swells, a massachusetts weather station each day fed them with sophisticated forecasts and the boat's location was tracked by satellite
the ``sea tomato,'' so-called because of its red color, was built for $17,000 and equipped with state-of-the-art navigational and survival equipment. after waiting for nearly a month for proper weather conditions, the expedition almost ended in disaster feb. 22 off the chilean coast. twelve hours after leaving under sail, a heavy squall erupted and tipped the craft, sending gillette overboard. gillette, an experienced moutaineer, was saved by a line fastened to the boat
in the next several days, the boat took two more spills, casting crew members jay morrison, 34, and fred trombly, 32, into the sea
three days out, the crew took down the sails and began to row in shifts, sometimes all night. they creeped southward at an average rate of 2.3 knots, about walking speed
crew member mark eichenberger, 35, said the raging drake passage seas and variable weather made the expedition more challenging than other rowing voyages across the atlantic and pacific
why did we do it?'' said morrison. ``because nobody had ever done it before. that's a pretty good reason.'' risk</head>
grocery store managers, construction foremen, mine inspectors and other low-level and middle managers have a greater risk of heart attack than blue-collar workers or other white-collar workers, a study shows
previous studies have found that blue-collar workers are more likely to die of heart attacks than white-collar workers. but robert brackbill, the author of the new study, said friday that the managers with increased risk of disability from a heart attack are in some respects more like blue-collar workers than white-collar workers
they had the lowest mean level of education compared to other professional groups,'' said brackbill, of the national institute for occupational safety and health in cincinnati
brackbill said the group's socio-economic status and wages were also closer to those of blue-collar workers and, like them, the middle and low-level managers might not have good access to medical care
brackbill, who presented his findings at a meeting of the american heart association, studied samples from 446,000 social security disability records covering the periods 1969-1973 and 1975-1976
during the first period, low-level and middle managers had 43 percent more chance of having a heart attack than other white-collar workers and blue-collar workers. the risk was 63 percent higher for them in the second period
the study also found that educators, lawyers and entertainers had among the lowest risks of professionals while medical professionals _ doctors, nurses and technicians _ had a slightly higher risk than blue-collar workers
brackbill had no information on the smoking and eating habits and alcohol consumption of the workers he studied, so it's possible that the increased risks he identified were due to those factors rather than jobs
had that been the case, however, he said it would have been unlikely for a single occupational group to have increased risk. the risk would more likely have been spread among all professionals or all blue-collar workers, rather than be specific to certain subgroups, he said
the study suggests that occupation is associated with disability, but does not prove it, he said
the american heart association includes stress as one of the risk factors for heart disease, and notes that stress may increase the likelihood of getting heart disease when combined with other risk factors, such as smoking, high blood pressure and elevated levels of cholesterol in the blood
dr. peter schnall of cornell university medical college in new york city reported in a separate study that high blood pressure was associated with ``job strain'' _ a combination of high psychological demands on the job and little latitude in making decisions
in another study, suzanne haynes of the national institutes of health in bethesda, md., said that women in high-demand, low-control jobs operating computer terminals all day reported a higher occurrence of angina, a chest pain associated with heart disease. requested</head>
president jose azcona hoyo said he was sending troops to rugged mountains near the nicaraguan border to oust sandinista forces, and a white house source said u.s. helicopter assistance was requested
azcona said friday that 2,000 troops had begun moving into the bocay jungle region on orders to drive out the sandinistas, adding that his government was preparing ``an operation to bomb inside honduran territory.''
he told a news conference he was `counting on the support of the united states'' to deter sandinista aggression. he called the arrival in honduras thursday and friday of more than 3,000 u.s. troops a ``warning'' to nicaragua
at the united nations on friday, nicaragua's leftist sandinista government denied u.s. and honduran claims that its troops invaded honduras, where the rebels maintain base camps
managua's u.n. envoy accused the reagan adminstration of creating ``an artificial crisis'' in a bid to get congress to restore military aid to the contras
on thursday, honduras mounted air raids in the border area where sandinista troops allegedly penetrated honduran territory in pursuit of contra rebels. azcona said his forces would bomb sandinista positions until an estimated 1,000 remaining nicaraguan troops withdraw
u.s. embassy spokesman michael o'brien said friday evening that the united states was considering airlifting honduran troops to non-combat areas. in washington, administration sources said the honduran request would likely be approved. the sources spoke on condition of anonymity
the united states helped honduras move troops to the border in december 1986, after nicaraguan forces attacked contra camps in honduras. no americans were involved in combat
the u.s. embassy said about 800 american paratroopers _ the last group of the 3,200 troops sent to honduras _ were dropped onto palmerola air base friday morning. the defense department said the u.s. troops would be in central america for about 10 days
azcona said he expected the ``simple presence and immediate response'' of u.s. troops would scare the sandinistas into withdrawing. he repeated what u.s. officials have been saying, that u.s. troops would not be involved in any fighting
on thursday, honduran warplanes struck at nicaraguan positions tegucigalpa says were inside its borders. but managua says rockets hit inside nicaragua, near the sandinista's border military encampment at san andres de bocay
sandinista troops retook san andres de bocay from the contras in an offensive managua says began march 8 and drove hundreds of guerrillas into honduras. privately, a sandinista military official indicated nicarguan troops had entered honduras
a high-ranking honduran officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said about 2,000 soldiers were moving friday into the area of hostilities from a base at juticalpa, about 90 miles west of san andres de bocay, and warplanes were on call
the officer said about half of the original force of 2,000 sandinistas who crossed the border had returned to nicaragua, while the rest penetrated deeper into honduran territory and were spread over an area of about 40 square miles
another source in tegucigalpa, who asked not to be identified, said the sandinistas stopped penetrated deeper into honduras when the united states publicized the incursion earlier this week
the source said the only activity reported in the region friday involved sandinistas he said fired highly flammable white phosphorus at contras inside honduras, estimated at 600 fighters
the main objective of the sandinista offensive was to destroy a contra headquarters and a large rebel supply depot in the jungle north of san andres de bocay, the source said, declining to name the site
president daniel ortega of nicaragua said thursday that his soldiers were ready to ``combat and liquidate'' the 82nd airborne and would continue the anti-contra offensive in an area from central nicaragua to the border
in their 6-year-old insurgency, the contras have had secret bases in honduras from which they have attacked nicaragua
at the u.n. security council meeting friday, nicaraguan envoy rita delia casco said the united states would be to blame if war broke out, saying the crisis was ``artificially created by the u.s. adminstration.''
u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun said managua had planned the anti-contra offensive after congress denied further aid last month. he denied u.s. forces sent to honduras constitute a threat or use of force against nicaragua
ambassador jorge ramon hernandez of honduras said nicaragua was trying to derail peace efforts in central america
sandinista-contra talks set for monday are now doubtful
foreign observers of czechoslovak-soviet military exercises will be allowed for the first time to use cameras and tape recorders, lt. gen. jiri brychta told a news conference
he said 22 countries have applied to send a total of 43 observers to the maneuvers to be held by 17,400 soviet and czechoslovak military personnel in western czechoslovakia march 22-28
brychta, first deputy chief of the general staff, said friday that the use of cameras and recorders by the observers ``should make their work easier and goes beyond the framework of conditions provided for by the stockholm document.''
under the stockholm agreement on security and cooperation in europe, the soviet-led warsaw pact and north atlantic treaty organization are to allow foreign observers to view large military maneuvers
a former wedtech corp. executive says a friend of attorney general edwin meese iii told him that meese intervened with the pentagon to help get a $24 million navy contract awarded to the bronx contractor
mario moreno made the revelation friday in his fourth day of testimony in the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi and six others accused of bribery and influence peddling involving wedtech
moreno said he met meese's friend, san francisco lawyer e. robert wallach, in december 1983. he said he asked wallach to get meese ``to change the navy's mind'' about awarding wedtech only the less lucrative part of a contract to build bridge pontoons. meese was presidential counselor at the time
meese said he would ask then-defense secretary caspar weinberger to call then-navy secretary john lehman, wallach told moreno
in january 1984, a month after wallach told moreno of meese's alleged intercession, wedtech received the approval making it eligible for the entire pontoon contract, which it signed in april 1984
moreno testified previously that wallach told him meese also had interceded on wedtech's behalf with the commerce department over another defense contract
moreno had described meese's alleged intervention for the pontoon contract in an affidavit disclosed last october at a senate hearing in washington. at that time, both meese and weinberger said they did not remember the incident
the contract was to build floating bridge units to link supply ships with u.s. rapid deployment forces
wedtech, a $100 million-a-year defense contractor before it filed for bankruptcy in 1986, grew from a small bronx machine shop through a series of no-bid defense contracts
the company was able to obtain those contracts through a small business administration program for minority-controlled businesses, but federal prosecutors claim that wedtech falsely portrayed itself as being eligible
wallach, meese's former personal lawyer, is under indictment for allegedly taking bribes from wedtech officials in exchange for trying to influence meese and others
last december, a special prosecutor in washington said there was insufficient evidence to charge meese with wrongdoing in the wedtech case
moreno, one of four ex-wedtech officials who have pleaded guilty to bribing public officials and other crimes, also testified that the company paid former bronx borough president stanley simon and biaggi's law firm $50,000 each for their help in a real estate deal with the city
moreno said wedtech did not have the proper facilities to assemble and test the pontoons and wanted to lease city-owned land in the bronx
the reagan administration, looking for an ``early response'' to its mideast peace plan, is sending special envoy philip habib to jordan, egypt, saudi arabia and morocco to discuss the proposal
the state department said habib will consult next week with officials in the arab countries and brief them on the discussions held this week in washington with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir
he also is expected to ask jordan for its response to the proposal formulated by secretary of state george p. shultz for israeli-arab talks about palestinian self-rule in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
we're looking for an early response to our proposals from the parties in the region,'' department spokesman charles redman said friday
shultz's plan envisions that talks on self-rule would begin may 1 between jordan, israel, palestinians and any other arabs wishing to take part, under the auspices of the united states, the soviet union, china, england and france. the plan also calls for talks to start dec. 1 about the future of the west bank and gaza strip that israel captured from the arabs in the 1967 mideast war
we have an ambitious timetable,'' redman said. ``this is an active process. ... we're intensively engaged in it.''
shamir already has rejected the idea of an international peace conference, fearing it would bring pressure on israel to cede occupied lands, but he promised to bring up the plan next week for a vote by his divided cabinet
we continue to be encouraged by the active and serious consideration being given to this proposal by all the parties concerned,'' redman said
habib, a retired ambassador who negotiated between israel and the arabs in the early 1980s, undertook a one-day trip to jordan at the end of january to sound out king hussein about the shultz plan. this time he will spend less than a week on his mission, redman said
the united states also is consulting with syria on the shultz plan, but this is being done through the embassies in washington and damascus, according to a state department official who spoke only on condition of anonymity
habib's stop in morocco is designed to bring that country into the process as a moderating influence. morocco, a former french colony, enjoys good standing with both the arabs and israel
five former passenger service agents for airlines have been convicted of participating in an eight-year conspiracy to smuggle $1.5 billion worth of cocaine through kennedy international airport
after five days of deliberations, a jury in u.s. district court in brooklyn returned guilty verdicts friday against the five men and another defendant on all counts of the nine-count indictment
the defendants were among 56 people arrested last year in connection with the drug smuggling operation. of those arrested, most have either pleaded guilty or been convicted in state and federal courts. six others remain fugitives
all six defendants were convicted of the most serious charge of conspiracy, which carries a possible life sentence. sentencing is expected to take place within six weeks
federal prosecutors charged during the six-week trial that four of the airline employees used their positions to circumvent customs in the united states and brazil to bring several tons of cocaine into the country between 1979 and 1987
the two lead defendants _ jean marie chapoteau, 50, of queens, a former passenger service agent for pan american world airways, and pedro dasilva, 49, of miami, who held a similar position at varig airlines _ were charged with running separate smuggling operations at their respective airlines
two other pan am service agents _ vincent cicali, 29, of queens, and bruce duignan, 31, of massapequa _ were accused of working for a third smuggling operation at kennedy run by another former pan am employee, aart vanwort
vanwort pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge earlier this year and was one of the prosecution's key witnesses during the trial. he is awaiting sentencing
the other defendants were also convicted of purchasing portions of the cocaine smuggled into the country. they are michael crown, 34, of queens, a former passenger service agent for pan am, and steven finn, 33, an auctioneer from boston
the case stemmed from an investigation by the federal drug enforcement agency, the u.s. customs service, the internal revenue service and the port authority police
two decades ago the kerner commission said news organizations were ``shockingly backward in seeking out, hiring, training and promoting'' blacks. they still are, according to a group of black journalists
despite some industry attempts to improve black employment prospects, ``what has resulted in far too many instances can simply be characterized as a lot of motion and little movement,'' the group said in a report released friday
the national association of black journalists formed a panel to compare the status of blacks in journalism today with the late 1960s, when race riots prompted president lyndon johnson to appoint illinois gov. otto kerner as head of the national advisory commission on civil disorders
the kerner commission's conclusion ``still rings true,'' said dewayne wickham of the gannett news service, president of the nabj
the panel, which wickham said carried out its study over a period of several months, acknowledged ``substantial good will'' among news media executives. ``we also found there had not been a lot of progress.''
among the panel's recommendations:
_ newspaper publishers should promise to double the number of black journalists over the next three years, from 3.5 percent of newsroom employees to 7 percent by 1991
_ the national association of broadcasters and the radio-television news directors association should join the nabj to form a task force to halt the decline in blacks working in television news. a declining number of black men employed in broadcast news caused the number of minority group members to drop from 15 percent in 1979 to 13 percent in 1986, the panel said
dwight ellis, nab vice president for minority services, said the reason for the decline was unclear. he said the nab and news editors were considering two remedies: an advertising campaign to tell minority group members about some of the less obvious jobs available in broadcasting, and an institute to train them for management
lee stinnett, executive director of the american society of newspaper editors, said its surveys show that the number of minority group members employed in newspaper newsrooms has more than doubled since 1978, rising from 1,700 to 3,600
the percentage of these minority employees, 55 percent of whom are black, has increased from 4 percent to 6.5 percent, he said
jerry w. friedheim, president of the american newspaper publishers association, said the organization was ``working to increase the number of minority journalists.''
he said anpa was readying the first industry-wide survey of minority employment, and has programs to encourage the hiring and promotion of blacks, including 12 minority job fairs in the past year
the nationwide pool of insurance funds to be tapped in the event of an accident at a nuclear reactor or related facility would grow from $700 million to more than $7 billion under legislation approved by the senate
the proposal, approved by senate voice vote friday, is part of legislation providing a 20-year extension of the price-anderson act. the bill now goes back to the house, which approved a slightly different version last july
under current provisions of the price-anderson act, the pool could pay up to $700 million to compensate victims if the accident involved a commercial nuclear power plant, and up to $500 million if it involved a government-owned facility. both the house and senate versions of the renewal legislation would boost the amount in both cases to more than $7 billion
the government is giving illegal aliens who want to file for amnesty an extra 60 days to come up with the documents to support their applications for legalization
under the change announced friday, the application deadline of may 4 still will stand, but amnesty seekers who file in the final month before then will have until july 5 to produce back-up documentation and medical data
if any of you have ever filed your income tax on the night of the 14th of april, there's usually one document or one fact you don't get,'' attorney general edwin meese iii told reporters at an immigration office in arlington, va. ``we want to be sure that doesn't stop anybody from this program.''
just over 1 million amnesty applications have been filed, and although a last-minute surge is anticipated, the volume of requests is likely to fall far below the 2 million estimated as recently as january by alan nelson, commissioner of the u.s. immigration and naturalization service
a group of senators from the pacific island chain of palau says problems with drugs there have been ``permitted to develop unchecked'' during 40 years of u.s. rule and could best be solved by a new sovereign government
the seven palau lawmakers on friday accused a house subcommittee of unreasonably delaying their country's independence with unfounded charges of corruption and narcotics trafficking
the palau senators raised the issues in a letter to ron de lugo, the virgin islands delegate, who is chairman of a house subcommittee on insular and international affairs
the senators admitted the islands had drug and other problems but said they had been ``permitted to develop unchecked'' during 40 years of u.s. rule, and could be attacked more effectively now by the new government with financing promised under the recently-approved compact of free association with the united states
taxi driver alfonso valdez stopped at a red light, and four young men jumped in the car. the one in the front seat and the one directly behind him pulled pistols
`we're a guerrilla urban commando cell, and you should know better than to take your cab out when we've called a transport ban,''' valdez quoted one of the men as telling him. they ordered him out of the cab, set it afire and fled
the cab was one of several vehicles burned friday by guerrillas trying to enforce the indefinite traffic ban they called to dissuade voters from participating in sunday's elections
even so, the government and small-time entrepreneurs with pickup trucks kept a lot of urban traffic moving
salvadorans cast ballots sunday to elect all the members of the 60-seat national assembly and municipal officials nationwide. leftist guerrillas fighting the u.s.-backed government since 1979 say the people's will cannot be expressed by voting in wartime
intercity bus transport was reduced by about 80 percent nationwide, according to dispatchers quoted in telephone and radio reports
the privately owned radio station ysu, with correspondents in almost all of el salvador's 14 provinces, said guerrillas burned eight vehicles in the eastern province of usulutan
the station said two buses, two tractor-trailers, two pickups, one jeep and one taxi were burned there. no injuries were reported
one person died in the capital when an extremely overcrowded pickup truck overturned. eighteen people were reported injured in the accident
scores of pickups with up to 40 people packed in truckbeds and standing on bumpers circulated in the capital, partially taking the place of privately owned buses, few of which were seen on the road
rides in the trucks cost up to 60 cents, or five times the normal bus fare
the government put several dozen blue and white state-owned buses on the streets, and they too were overcrowded, with people riding on roof luggage racks, hanging from the doors and standing on the bumpers. army trucks also were used for passenger transport
but many _ probably most _ people simply walked to work
ten yards from where valdez recounted the friday evening hijacking, in a middle class neighborhood of this capital, what was left of the yellow toyota smoldered. the guerrillas had run down the road about a half hour before, and firemen had just extinguished the blaze
what could i do?'' said valdez, 49. ``they were armed.''
he said his only remaining fear was informing the woman who owned the taxi that it was now a black hulk
dozens of children stood around, enthralled by the spectacle. their parents, who also had gathered to watch the flames consume the car, criticized the guerrillas. with contras</head> ^by bryna brennan</byline>
the sandinista government warned its citizens to brace for a possible invasion by u.s. troops newly arrived in honduras and encouraged its soldiers to keep contra rebels on the run
as nicaraguan troops on friday battled the u.s.-supplied guerrillas in a region bordering honduras, the leftist government said it still desires to hold peace talks with the u.s.-backed rebels next week
government radio warned listeners of ``american imperialism and the threat of military intervention.'' and a headline in barricada, the sandinista newspaper, said: ``the order of the day: intensify combat.''
the radio also condemned border air raids by honduras, which it said struck inside nicaragua. honduras said the raids thursday were confined to sandinista forces that had crossed into honduran territory
honduras and the united states contend sandinista troops entered honduras in the rugged jungle region in pursuit of contras. officially, the sandinistas deny this. but privately, a nicaraguan military official indicated friday that an incursion had occurred
honduran military officials said 1,000 sandinista soldiers remained in their territory on friday
in managua, the defense ministry said 17 soldiers and 15 rebels were killed between tuesday and friday in fighting in the central province of matagalpa, in zelaya on the caribbean coast and jinotega, along the honduran border
civilian sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity for security reasons, said 17 soldiers were killed and eight wounded in two clashes friday in the central province of chontales. six rebels were killed, they said
lt. col. javier carrion, who led the sandinista offensive, told reporters thursday at the border outpost of san andres de bocay that 4,500 sandinista soldiers backed by bombers and helicopter gunships were involved in the campaign that began march 8 and drove hundreds of contras back into honduras, where they have base camps
carrion said sandinista troops killed 92 contras and wounded 300, at the cost of 34 soldiers dead and 68 wounded
he said the purpose was to destroy contra bases in the border area, about 40 miles from an important mining region the rebels attacked in december
on thursday and friday, the united states flew in 3,200 soldiers of the 82nd airborne division and 7th light infantry to honduras in what the white house called a ``measured response'' to the alleged nicaraguan incursion
president daniel ortega said nicaraguan troops would take on the americans if necessary
his government, meanwhile, insisted it was going ahead with plans for cease-fire talks with the contras in nicaraguan territory on the costa rican border monday. the rebels said they would boycott the talks unless the sandinistas pull out of honduras
cease-fires in the region's civil wars, and a ban on the use of one country's territory for attacks on another, are provisions of the regional peace plan signed aug. 7 by the five central american presidents
the plan also calls for an end to outside aid to insurgents
in washington, a bi-partisan group of senators proposed a $48 million package of new aid to the contras, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
on feb. 3, president reagan narrowly lost a house vote on continuing contra aid. a democratic alternative was defeated, 216 to 208, a month later
potential delegates to california's state democratic convention favor michael dukakis over his presidential rivals, but they still prefer non-candidate mario cuomo, according to poll results published today
the poll of 217 of 1,200 potential delegates to the convention this weekend in palm springs was conducted by the riverside press-enterprise
asked to rank their favorites among the declared candidates, the party regulars lined up 38 percent for dukakis, 22 percent for jesse jackson, 10 percent for paul simon, 8 percent for albert gore jr. and 3 percent for richard gephardt. eighteen percent were undecided
that changed dramatically when the list was expanded to include new york gov. mario cuomo. cuomo was the favorite of 34 percent, dukakis 20 percent, jackson 16 percent, simon 7 percent, gore 6 percent and gephardt 3 percent, with 15 percent undecided
on sunday, monday and tuesday, the paper interviewed potential delegates picked at random from a list provided by the party. max neiman, a university of california, riverside, political science professor with polling experience, reviewed the methods and calculated the sample had a 5.5 percentage point margin of error
while the number of new york democrats who think gov. mario cuomo should run for president keeps edging up, the number who think he will run is declining, a poll indicates
results of a poll released friday by the marist college institute for public opinion found that while 59 percent of the democrats surveyed said cuomo should run, only 24 percent said they thought he would. in a january poll by marist, 58 percent of the democrats said cuomo should run and 36 percent said they thought cuomo would run
he's pleased that the people are taking him at his word,'' cuomo spokeswoman anne crowley said of the governor's reaction to the poll results
the poll also indicated that michael dukakis and jesse jackson appear to be in a two-man race among likely new york democratic primary voters with the crucial april 19 presidential primary just a month away
the poll found that 37 percent of the 459 likely democratic voters surveyed said they would vote for dukakis while 28 percent said they would back jackson. the other democratic candidates trailed far behind
the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points
a 75-year-old retired police chief appeared in court for allegedly selling heroin because he says his allergy-suffering wife wanted to buy a $9,600 carpet, a newspaper reported
vincenzo alessi and his wife fulvia borello, 61, of this seaside town in the northern region of liguria, appeared at a pre-trial hearing thursday to answer to charges of drug dealing, milan's daily corriere della sera reported friday
the alessis were arrested in may on charges of selling 5 grams of heroin to a woman in the area. police said they also found more than 30 grams of pure heroin inside their imperia home
alessi said in court that he had become involved in selling drugs because ``my wife wanted to change the carpeting.'' he said she insisted on the change because she suffers from allergies
a co-founder of the notorious red army faction leftist gang, having renounced terrorism, can now practice law again in west berlin
horst mahler, 52, who spent six years in prison on a terrorism conviction, regained his license friday after a november ruling by the west german supreme court, said west berlin justice department spokesman cornel christoffel
the court endorsed an appeal by mahler against an earlier refusal by west berlin's judicial authorities to allow him to work again as a lawyer
the high court pointed out that mahler distanced himself from his earlier actions and denounced terrorism
mahler was arrested in west berlin in 1970 and was convicted four years later on bank robbery charges and for helping notorious terrorist andreas baader escape from jail
he was sentenced to 14 years in prison but was released in 1980 after several public statements condemning terrorism and red army faction methods
suspected sikh extremists today shot to death five members of a sikh family, including a two-year old girl, in a raid on the family's farmhouse in punjab state, police said
police also recovered the bodies of five other people killed friday in attacks blamed on sikh radicals, including three sikhs shot to death in the village of manda in amritsar district and an unidentified man killed in nearby janti village
a sikh farmer, identified as amrik singh, was shot to death friday night in jalandhar district, police said
the killings raised to at least 480 the number of people who have died in attacks blamed on the militants since jan. 1. last year, more than 1,000 people were killed in punjab by the extremists, who have been waging a guerrilla war since 1982 for an independent sikh homeland in punjab
the latest attack came at 12:30 a.m. in the village of butt, about 17 miles north of the sikh holy city of amritsar, police said
they said four gunmen shot farmer balbir singh and his family as they slept. the other victims were his wife, a son, a daughter-in-law and his granddaughter, amandeep, who was 2
after the shootings, the extremists set fire to the farmhouse and fled, police said
the motive for the attack was not known, but the militants have killed a number of moderate sikhs who disagree with their separatist goals. the extremists also have accused some sikhs of being ``police informers'' and have killed others who refused to pay extortion money
sikhs, whose sect was founded about 500 years ago as an alternative to hinduism and islam, claim they are discriminated against by india's majority hindus. although a minority of about 2 percent in india, sikhs are a majority in punjab. functions</head>
a world health organization panel has concluded that people infected with the aids virus but not the disease itself do not run a higher-than-normal risk of brain and nervous system disorders
the 48-member panel also said in a statement friday that ``there is no evidence'' that screening healthy people for the hiv virus, which causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome, would help predict ``the onset of functional impairment.''
the statement noted some people with the disease aids or with aids-related-complex have suffered damage to the brain and nervous systems believed caused by the hiv virus
but it said that ``governments, employers and the public can be assured that based on the weight of available scientific evidence, otherwise healthy hiv-infected individuals are no more likely to be functionally impaired than uninfected persons.'' it said these recommendations would be kept under continual review as additional scientific material is gathered
aids is a virus that attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers
it is most often transmitted through sexual contact. other means of transmission include transfusions of tainted blood or blood products, and the sharing of contaminated hypodermic needles or syringes by drug abusers. aids can also be passed from mother to child at or before birth
i think it is a serious mistake. it's another example of where president reagan is exaggerating the situation for his own purposes.'' _ former president jimmy carter, who opposed sending u.s. troops to honduras
i didn't think it would happen. rules are rules, and there's never been any exceptions. it's a very warm feeling, because it comes from the players. that to me is the greatest thank you for what i did.'' _ mary bea porter, after the ladies professional golf association bent its rules to allow her into a tournament even though she missed qualifying by three strokes. she had interrupted her game to save a 3-year-old boy from drowning
(my wife) miss dixie is afraid that next i'll stop cussing.'' _ singer-songwriter tom t. hall, who says life has changed since he quit drinking, smoking and went on a diet
when dusk settles in this seemingly tranquil eastern sri lankan village, people carrying straw mats, pillows and blankets leave their huts and trek to a buddhist temple to spend the night
galmetiyawa, inhabited mostly by members of the majority sinhalese community, was attacked by separatist tamil rebels at dusk monday. fifteen villagers were killed
now, residents sleep in the temple, fearing the attackers will come again
the rebels, dressed in military uniforms, came out of nearby jungle. in 30 minutes, they shot and killed four children, five women and six men
villagers said the rebels threw some of the victims' bodies into a hut and set it on fire. a sri lankan army lieutenant and two soldiers, who came to the village after hearing gunfire, chased the rebels away
marasinghe ratnasiri, a member of a home guard that once protected the village, complained that a peace accord with the tamils had taken away the local men's weapons
when we had guns, the rebels did not attack our village,'' said marasinghe, 28, a farmer with two children. ``now, they know we are defenseless.''
the rebels have been blamed for the killings of more than 110 people, most of them sinhalese, in sri lanka's eastern province this month as part of their bloody four-year campaign for a separate homeland
colonel lakshman wijayaratne, a sri lankan army officer, said the spate of killings aims to halt a government resettlement program aimed at encouraging sinhalese to migrate to the north and east
he predicted there would be more rebel attacks in reaction to the settling of sinhalese in what tamils view as their traditional homeland, saying it was not possible to protect every village in the area
many rebels fled to this part of the indian ocean island in october, when indian troops attacked the tamil stronghold of jaffna in the north
india deployed soldiers in sri lanka to disarm the rebels after they denounced a new delhi-sponsored peace accord with sri lanka's government aimed at ending the fighting by creating some measure of autonomy in the north and east where tamils are most numerous
under the india-sri lanka peace accord signed in july, sri lankan soldiers in the north and east are to keep to their barracks while indian troops take on the rebels
there are more than 50,000 indian troops in sri lanka, but the number in the eastern province is uncertain
galmetiyawa is 30 miles west of the coastal city of trincomalee. most of the recent killings have taken place around trincomalee, and 2,000 sri lankan soldiers are posted there along with indian soldiers
about 1,000 tamil rebels are believed to be in the district
tamils, who make up about 18 percent of the country's 16 million people, claim they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese, who control the government and military
rock star boris grebenshchikov has signed a contract to cut an album of his songs with american musicians. soviet officials said it would be the first american-produced soviet rock album released in the united states
grebenshchikov told a news conference friday that his songs, some in russian and others in english, will be performed by his group aquarium and american musicians who are to be chosen later
sporting a pony tail, blue jeans and six rings, grebenshchikov seemed ill at ease alongside american and soviet officials in suits who announced the deal. an earlier record on which he performed was released in the united states without the soviet government's consent
grebenshchikov is to record the album in new york and los angeles this summer for cbs records, which plans distribution in the united states and europe, said his american lawyer, ina meibach. the record also will be released in the soviet union, soviet officials said
kenneth schaffer, vice president of new york-based belka international which helped put together the deal, said he was confident grebenshchikov will become popular in the united states. man</head>
two paramedics attempting to aid an injured man were assaulted by three onlookers who apparently weren't satisfied with the medical treatment being administered, authorities said
carlos rivera, 23, george washington, 27, and pchoi diaz, 24, were arrested friday and charged with second-degree assault, criminal mischief, resisting arrest and obstructing governmental administration
according to a police account of the incident, the two emergency medical services workers were dispatched at 5:30 a.m. to treat a man who had slashed his left wrist near midtown manhattan
the workers, darrel hoover, 25, and ottavio olivieri, 39, were attacked by three men who may have known the victim and ``felt the ems treatment was not to their satisfaction,'' said sgt. john clifford, a police spokesman
as a result of the altercation, hoover suffered a sprained wrist and olivieri's face was cut and bruised. they were treated at st. luke's-roosevelt hospital center and released
in addition, one of two police officers who also responded to the call was slightly injured when he crashed through a restaurant window as he attempted to restrain one of the onlookers
the identity of the man who attempted suicide was not known. he was also admitted to st. luke's for treatment
vietnamese troops torched chinese forests along the border this week after an exchange of gunfire between the two countries near disputed islands in the south china sea, an official report from china said
the fire began wednesday near the guangxi autonomous region border town of pingxiang, the domestic china news service said in a report appearing in hong kong today. chinese troops battled the blaze throughout the night, finally putting it out early thursday, the report said
it was the 25th time in the past five years that vietnamese troops situated across the pingerguan pass had set fire to chinese forests across the border, the news agency said
the report accused the vietnamese of attempting to use northwesterly winds wednesday to fan the fire and ruin guangxi's taqingshan forestry center during tree planting season. it said chinese troops saved 500 acres of forest with the help of a 3,000-yard fire lane built in july
the report did not say how much of the area was destroyed by the fire
tension between the neighboring communist countries has been mounting since gunfire was exchanged between chinese and vietnamese vessels near disputed islands in the south china sea on monday
china acknowledged wednesday it suffered an unspecified number of casualties in the clash, and vietnam said three of its vessels were burned in the encounter in the spratly islands
romantic comedies swept the top movie-writing honors as the strikebound writers guild of america handed out its 40th annual awards at a ceremony largely shunned by studio executives
steve martin took best screenplay for ``roxanne,'' an adaptation of ``cyrano de bergerac'' by edmund rostand, while john patrick shanley won best original screenwriting for ``moonstruck.''
cbs came away as the night's big winner, taking top honors in seven categories, including best tv spot-news script
nbc and abc each took four awards. the public broadcasting system had three and home box office won one for best variety-music, award tribute or special event for ``will rogers: look back in laughter.''
neither shanley nor martin was on hand to accept the awards from presenter sylvester stallone, who wore his ``rambo''-length hair in a ponytail
martin's acceptance speech was read by an associate. in it, he called rostand ``a great first-draft guy.''
martin also provided an ``if-i-lose'' speech. ``you pigs, you idiots. you wouldn't know a good script if it walked up to you and vomited on your shoes,'' his associate read as the audience rocked with laughter
in addition to writing the script, martin starred in ``roxanne,'' a summer hit from columbia pictures, along with daryl hannah
in ``moonstruck,'' a darkly romantic film nominated for six academy awards, cher stars as an italian widow in new york who finds herself engaged to one man but in love with his brother
the dinner extravaganza came on the 11th day of a strike by the 9,000-member guild against the alliance of motion picture and television producers
references to the strike flavored the evening, despite guild executive director brian walton's admonition, ``this is a night to celebrate writers and writing.''
but wga president george kirgo told the black-tie audience: ``the writers guild of america is stronger, more powerful, more cohesive, more unified than at any other time in our history.''
studios were conspicuously absent from the banquet tables. only columbia and 20th century fox were represented
before the dinner, the wga announced winners of special awards from its board of directors
the husband-and-wife screenwriting team of irving ravetch and harriet frank won the prized screen laurel award honoring them for their body of work, which includes such movies as ``norma rae,'' ``hud'' and ``murphy's romance.''
longtime television writing team bob schiller and bob weiskopf, who wrote over the past 35 years for such series as ``i love lucy,'' ``all in the family,'' ``maude'' and ``the red skelton show,'' were named co-winners of the paddy chayevsky laurel award for television
the award goes to a writer who has advanced the literature of television and made outstanding contributions as a television writer
light snow was scattered over parts of the east and midwest today, while rain stretched from florida to mississippi
snow fell on michigan and parts of pennsylvania, ohio, west virginia and maryland. forecasters posted snow advisories today for parts of north carolina, maryland and new england
snow changed to rain and extended across virginia and the carolinas into eastern tennessee. rain also fell across florida, southern mississippi and southwest alabama
about 1 inch of snow and ice covered the higher elevations of the smokey mountains in eastern tennessee friday night
today's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms across southern and central florida; rain along the remainder of the southern atlantic coast; snow over the great lakes and the ohio valley; scattered snow or flurries from new england into the central appalachians; rain over western washington state and northwest oregon; sunny skies from california to the lower mississippi valley; strong, gusty winds near the eastern slopes of the northern rockies and along the coast of the carolinas
highs were expected to be in the 50s or 60s for much of the nation; teens and 20s from north dakota across the great lakes region; 30s and 40s from the lower and middle missouri valley to the northern atlantic coast; 40s in the tennessee valley and the southern appalachians; and 70s and 80s from california across the desert southwest and over south florida
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 14 degrees at international falls, minn., to 74 degrees at miami, homestead and key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 40 cloudy; boston 35 cloudy; buffalo 29 snow; charleston, s.c. 49 cloudy; cincinnati 29 foggy; cleveland 31 partly cloudy; detroit 27 fair; miami 74 partly cloudy; new york 38 cloudy; philadelphia 37 cloudy; pittsburgh 27 foggy; portland, maine. 31 fair; washington 40 cloudy
_central: bismarck 33 partly cloudy; chicago 28 fair; dallas-fort worth 34 fair; denver 29 fair; des moines 25 fair; indianapolis 28 fair; kansas city 32 cloudy; minneapolis-st. paul 24 fair; nashville 32 fair; new orleans 44 windy; st. louis 26 fair
_west: albuquerque 36 fair; anchorage 28 fair; las vegas 48 fair; los angeles 61 fair; phoenix 60 fair; salt lake city 31 fair; san diego 59 fair; san francisco 50 fair; seattle 50 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 30 fair; toronto 25 snow
india may have to maintain a military presence in sri lanka ``for many months, if not years to come,'' according to jane's defense weekly
the authoritative magazine said in this week's issue that india has an armed force of 65,000 in sri lanka under an accord to disarm tamil separatists, and almost total control of the island country off india's southern coast
it added the indian army has suffered considerable casualties and a host of problems in trying to keep peace, and its mission is far from over
the magazine said ``india's influence on sri lanka is now total and even in matters of foreign policy, sri lanka is controlled from new delhi.''
but ``in spite of having considerable numbers of troops, the indian peacekeeping force has problems in neutralizing the liberation tigers of tamil elam.'' the tigers are the main tamil guerrilla group waging a four-year war for creation of a separate state in northern and eastern sri lanka
india, which has a politically powerful tamil population of 60 million in its southern regions, sent a military force to sri lanka last july under a peace agreement signed with the sri lankan government
under the accord, limited autonomy would be given to the tamils in exchange for an arms surrender by the guerrillas
the sri lankan army, mistrusted by tamils because most officers come from the majority sinhalese population, was to stop fighting the rebels. the tamils, however, denounced the accord and have been fighting the indian troops
tamils, most of whom are hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people and the buddhist sinhalese 75 percent
jane's said india has six divisional headquarters, at least 15 brigades, and paramilitary, parachute, police and other forces in sri lanka
it said 500 indian soldiers have been killed and an estimated 2,500 wounded. india has said 400 soldiers and at least 1,100 rebels have been killed died in the fighting
jane's said the indians' high casualty rate could be attributed to the army's desire to avoid civilian casualties, its lack of experience in fighting guerrillas and its ``politically motivated'' orders to move as quickly as possible
this resulted in troops being committed to operations within hours of landing in unfamiliar territory,'' the article said. honduras</head> delete redundant ``hundred'' in lead. picks up 6th graf pvs, `in los ...'</note>
from maine to california, opponents of the deployment of u.s. troops in honduras staged demonstrations that blocked traffic, damaged a military recruitment center and prompted nearly 400 arrests
more than 500 protesters, chanting and waving signs, obstructed the entrance to the federal building in san francisco and stopped traffic during a five-hour demonstration friday. police arrested 250 of them for failure to disperse at an unlawful assembly, said police sgt. dave ambrose
violence erupted sporadically at the second demonstration in two days when protesters tried to grab police batons and other equipment. officers lashed back, jamming the batons in the demonstrators' faces, stomachs and chests
another 1,000 demonstrators, gathered by a coalition of san francisco's gay and lesbian groups, stopped traffic friday night on market street
about two dozen police on motorcycles kept the marchers moving as motorists delayed by the demonstration honked, some in frustration, some in support
about 1,500 people marched from times square to the united nations in new york in a hastily organized protest friday night. two people were arrested for disorderly conduct, said sgt. edward burns, a police spokesman
police blocked rush-hour traffic along the route to accommodate the protest
in los angeles, about 75 demonstrators gathered at the federal office building. twenty-five were arrested for refusing to leave the lobby when the building closed for the day and were cited for trespassing, a misdemeanor
federal police in sacramento, calif., arrested 29 demonstrators outside the federal building, where 275 people gathered. at fresno state university, about 150 people rallied
former president jimmy carter joined the opposition to president reagan's deployment of the soldiers in the war-torn region
it think it is a serious mistake. it's another example of where president reagan is exaggerating the situation for his own purposes,'' carter said friday in new orleans after addressing a conference of university presidents
in chicago, 60 protesters out of a crowd of about 400 were arrested on misdemeanor disorderly conduct charges after they pasted orange stickers on windows at the federal building and sat in intersections, police said. many of the stickers bore skull-and-crossbone symbols and the message ``stop u.s. intervention in central america.''
protesters in minneapolis hurled bowling balls, eggs and paint at a military recruitment building, broke four windows and ripped up a uniformed mannequin. scuffles broke out between protesters and counterdemonstrators, but there were no arrests or injuries, police said
in washington, 150 to 200 people demonstrated outside the white house, said police officer tom randolph. twenty-four were arrested after the protest spilled into pennsylvania avenue and were fined $25 for disorderly conduct
in portland, ore., millie thayer, a member of the portland central america solidarity committee, told about 200 protesters that reagan is risking more than military failure
we may be facing the presence of another vietnam, but the reagan administration is facing a solidarity movement stronger, deeper and more diverse than the vietnam movement ever was,'' she said. ``we don't have to wait for the body bags to come back before we begin our protest.''
in boston, about 10 demonstrators were removed from a u.s. navy recruitment center friday afternoon. none was arrested
more than 100 people marched in the nicaraguan immigrant enclave of sweetwater, fla., with signs supporting u.s. policy and mutilated an effigy of nicaraguan president daniel ortega
about 200 people gathered at bates college in lewiston, maine, and at augusta, maine, about 15 people quietly gathered at a busy intersection holding signs saying ``stop the reagan war machine'' and ``u.s. troops out of honduras.''
in sioux falls, s.d., about 70 people opposed to the troop deployment demonstrated outside the main post office while a small knot of people who supported the move shouted taunts through bullhorns. three were arrested
in seattle, about 40 cars circled the federal building to show their opposition to the troop movement, jamming streets for about an hour
drug dealers shot two of three boys they had abducted to work for them after the boys apparently failed to pay them for crack, police said
joseph jones, 12, told police he managed to escape from the kidnappers early friday. the boy said he was abducted last saturday by two young men from new york who forced him and his friends to sell crack, a derivative of cocaine
the body of cornell williams, 15, was found friday afternoon near philadelphia international airport with two gunshot wounds in the head, according to the city medical examiner's office
williams' brother, anthony williams, 13, was found tuesday along railroad tracks near downtown philadelphia with a bullet wound in the head, police said. he died the next day
joseph told police the boys owed their captors $500 for crack, but the people to whom they delivered the crack in their housing project never paid for it
when the boys returned with little crack left and what neighbors said was just $68, the enraged dealers held the boys hostage, police said
the dealers decided to kill anthony williams, who was classified as socially and emotionally disturbed, when the boy filched drugs while in captivity, detectives said
joseph said he did not know what happened to cornell after he escaped, according to detective edward tenuto
police said they were searching for the two men they believed to be the killers and a third man they believe aided in the abduction. police said two of the suspects are thought to be jamaican
three black policemen were killed when two men opened fire with automatic rifles on a group of people in the yard of a township west of pretoria, police said today
the attack friday night in atteridgeville was so sudden none of the police fired back at their black attackers, who fled on foot, said police lt. col. johan labuschagne
he said it had not yet been established whether the policemen were off-duty during the attack
police said in a statement that two men who wore blue overalls killed two officers at the scene, and wounded three other people, one of them a police officer who died later at kalafong hospital
meanwhile, police said they had captured two alleged terrorists and two collaborators and seized some arms in roadblocks set up friday in central transvaal province in an attempt to find those responsible for a krugersdorp car bomb that killed three black people and injured 20 people on thursday
police refused to give details about the roadblock arrests, but said none of those arrested were wanted in connection with the car bomb
meanwhile, anglican archbishop desmond tutu issued a statement in cape town condemning the car-bombing
he said: ``i deplore without equivocation acts such as this week's car bombing, since all violence is evil, whether it is that of a vicious system such as apartheid or the violence employed by people who wish to overthrow apartheid ... i desperately hope the day will come when the authorities realize that the only way to end violence is to eradicate apartheid.''
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. baghdad and launching artillery attacks; iraqi air raids. pickup 5th graf pvs ``tikrit, on...''; adds byline</note>
iran fired a long-range missile into baghdad and said it pounded more than a dozen other iraqi targets with artillery after iraq launched new air raids on cities in western iran
the attacks followed a day in which the warring countries reported blasting each other's cities with more than 40 missiles and attacking other targets on land and in the persian gulf
iraq, acknowledging today's attack on baghdad, said the missile crashed in a ``purely residential'' neighborhood. baghdad radio said several civilians were killed in the blast shortly after midnight but gave no casualty figures
iran's official islamic republic news agency said the missile was fired at the iraqi army's ``command headquarters in response to their mischiefs.''
irna reported 12 missiles fired into the southeastern iraqi umm qasr port, and one into al-amarah, a city 200 miles southeast of baghdad
it said revolutionary guards artillery units hammered a string of cities and towns along the 730-mile war front, including basra, iraq's already devastated southern port city
the attacks came after renewed iraqi air raids today on the western cities of bakhtaran and hamadan, as well as southwestern dezful, irna said. it gave no exact casualty count, but said ``many civilians were martyred.''
bakhtaran also was hit at 11:30 p.m. friday, irna said
iran claimed its gunners fired a long-range missile into tikrit on friday in the first attack on iraqi president saddam hussein's hometown since the resurgence of the war of the cities feb. 29. iraq did not report any attack on tikrit
reports from both sides were monitored in nicosia
tikrit, on the tigris river about 100 miles north of baghdad, is home to ``most members of the ruling clique in baghdad,'' an irna dispatch said
other missiles on friday hit the northern iraqi cities of mosul and kirkuk, the latter an important oil center
six missiles pounded basra, iraq's second largest city, while 24 other projectiles were lobbed into the southern towns of haretha, shubair, an industrial center just south of basra
the official iraqi news agency reported seven missiles fired into tehran friday, raising to 30 the number of such attacks on the iranian capital since sunday. in all, baghdad says it has fired 101 missiles into tehran since the intercity dueling began feb. 29
the iranians also claimed they captured two towns friday in a five-day-old land offensive into northeast iraq in which they said 9,200 iraqis have been killed or wounded and 4,000 captured
they also said they recaptured the iranian border town of nowsud, held by the iraqis since the early days of the 7{-year-old war
the iraqi news agency, also monitored in nicosia, has denied there was combat in that region, where most of iraq's 3.5 million kurds live
irna reported five iraqi warplanes were shot down thursday and friday, but iraq confirmed only one jet downed
iraq claimed two iranian jets were shot down. irna denied the report
the iraqi agency said iraqi warplanes hit two ``large maritime targets,'' which usually means tankers, off iran's coast on thursday and friday
london-based lloyd's shipping intelligence unit confirmed only one _ on the 80,137-ton cypriot tanker kyrenicos
iranian gunboats attacked three neutral ships in the southern gulf friday
in one attack, a japanese seaman was killed aboard the panamanian liquified gas carrier maria ii in the first raid around midnight thursday, shipping officials said on condition of anonymity
gunboats later attacked the 284,494-ton norwegian tanker berge lord, starting a small fire, and the 87,768-ton singapore-flag tanker neptune saburu. no casualties were reported in either attack. officers</head>
soldiers gunned down a suspected communist assassin during a shootout in the capital today, military authorities said
the incident came a day after gunmen wounded a national police major and three troopers in two attacks and a rebel chief proclaimed an autonomous moslem region in the southern philippines
lt. pedro vergara, investigation chief of the philippine constabulary capital command, said the shootout occurred in manila's residential district of santa mesa
he said soldiers arrested the suspect, miguel jardin, 26, in the nearby suburb of san juan and confiscated a .45-caliber pistol from him
vergara said that while being transported to a military camp, jardin jumped out of the military jeep and drew another gun concealed on his back, prompting the officers to shoot him
vergara said jardin is a suspected member of an urban-based communist hit squad and has been under close watch by the military
on friday, police said gunmen in a car fired on a vehicle carrying maj. pepito campos and his driver in suburban quezon city. both were wounded but doctors said they were recovering
a captain of the paramilitary national police, the philippine constabulary, was arrested for questioning, according to the police. campos is chief of the special investigations division of manila's northern police district
in the other attack friday, gunmen believed to be communist rebels fired on a military car in suburban taguig, wounding two constabulary troopers
thousands of moslems in the southern philippines held marches and rallies friday celebrating the 20th anniversary of the moro national liberation front, largest of three rebel groups seeking an independent islamic state in the region
at a rally of about 100 moslems in taguig organizers broadcast a taped statement by the front's leader, nur misuari, who lives in saudi arabia
he accused president corazon aquino of reneging on self-rule for the 5 million moslems and said the archipelago's central and southern regions were under the ``unlawful and immoral hegemony'' of luzon, the main philippine island
misuari declared the establishment of 20 federated states in mindanao and other southern islands as the homeland of the moslem minority
he claimed the foreign ministers of the 46-member organization of islamic conference, a worldwide moslem federation, were preparing to recommend full membership for the front at a meeting next week in amman, jordan. it now has observer status
phillipine officials have called full membership tantamount to secession and said it could start a new war in the south
gov. evan mecham has recanted an accusation, made under oath while he testified at his impeachment trial, that his former chief bodyguard stole a report from his office
moments after the republican governor admitted friday that he lacked the proof he earlier claimed he had, a state official testified the report had in fact been taken by one of mecham's own men, former state official lee watkins
i did not have the proof then and i do not have the proof now'' that the missing report was taken by department of public safety lt. beau johnson, the former head of the governor's security detail, mecham acknowledged in his third day of testimony before the senate
the governor did not apologize, but said he did not want to leave senators with the wrong impression
in sworn testimony thursday, the governor said he had ``had complete confirmation that he (johnson) was the one'' who took a report on the dps from then-chief of staff jim colter's desk and turned it over to the dps. mecham testified that he had an ``informer'' within dps
johnson denied taking the report, and the dps deputy director, lt. col. gary phelps, told senators friday it actually was taken by watkins, the former state prison construction chief
watkins is accused of making a death threat against a former top mecham aide. one of the three impeachment articles against mecham charges the governor with trying to obstruct an investigation of the alleged threat
watkins, reached by telephone, denied that he took the report
mecham fired johnson from his security detail after the police officer reported the alleged threat to his superiors
republican sen. tony west, who had demanded that mecham reveal who accused johnson of taking the report, admonished the governor. ``when you have careers, reputations at stake ... we have an obligation to protect each and every ... reputation and career.''
mecham again insisted friday that he did not know the alleged death threat against former top aide donna carlson was a serious matter. at the time, ms. carlson was about to testify before the state grand jury about mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan
the governor is accused of ordering dps director ralph milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat
testimony is expected to begin next week on the second allegation against mecham: that he misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership. the third impeachment article accuses him of concealing the $350,000 campaign loan
the governor also faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of hiding the campaign loan, and a may 17 recall election
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham, and lawmakers also could decide to bar him from holding any future office. mecham is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona. ``g.'' ^by the associated press</note>
bruce c. clarke, a retired four-star general who was the army commander-in-chief in europe when berlin was the focal point of the cold war between the united states and the soviet union, died thursday. he was 86
during world war ii, he headed combat command a in the 4th armored division and later commanded the entire division. during the korean war, he commanded the u.s. i corps and later the x corps of the far east command
later, he commanded the u.s. army in the pacific, the u.s. 7th army in europe and the continental army command at fort monroe, va. he was commander-in-chief of the army in europe from 1960 to 1962
cuba has presented the united states with a proposed timetable for the withdrawal of its 40,000 troops stationed in angola, angola said
u.s. negotiators left the angolan capital friday after 10 days of talks with government authorities on efforts to secure peace in southern africa. american officials refused to comment on the progress of the negotiations or on the timetable
in lisbon, portugal, a statement friday by cuba's armed forces ministry said 39 cuban soldiers have been killed or wounded over the past two months defending a key southern angola town. anti-marxist angolan rebels also announced they had shot down a soviet-built mi-17 helicopter in the region
the foreign ministry said angola and a cuban delegation presented the united states with a proposed timetable for the withdrawal of the 40,000 cuban troops stationed in angola
officials in luanda, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a u.s. assistant secretary of state, chester crocker, was expected to pursue negotiations in angola next week
the united states, which has been negotiating since 1981 for a peace accord in the region, wants cuba to pull out of angola in return for a south african withdrawal from neighboring south-west africa, also known as namibia
angola says it will not send the cubans home until south african troops withdraw from angolan territory and cease all military incursions. in addition, angola wants an end to u.s. and south african aid to angolan rebels and the implementation of a u.n. plan for namibian independence
south africa says the cubans must leave angola first
the cuban statement, distributed to reporters in lisbon, said cuba had sent infantry units, tanks and artillery to help defend the garrison town of cuito cuanavale from south african attack
the town is a staging post for angolan government offensives against strongholds of the anti-marxist national union for the total independence of angola, or unita
hundreds of angolan troops were killed or wounded, the statement said. enemy forces also suffered heavy casualties, including hundreds of south african and south-west african soldiers, it added
angola estimates 9,000 south african troops are fighting in angola. unita, which also receives u.s. support, has been fighting to share power in angola's government since 1975, when it gained independence from portugal
unita claimed friday that its guerrillas shot down a government helicopter ferrying wounded angolan army officers from cuito cuanavale
the rebel statement said the helicopter crashed and killed all aboard when it was hit by anti-aircraft fire wednesday between cuito cuanavale and menongue, 100 miles to the west. summoning brother, probing allegations after request by chun. pickup 7th graf, ``we strongly...''</note>
a younger brother of former president chun doo-hwan flew to japan, airport officials said today, as controversy raged about his alleged involvement in financial and political scandals
opposition leaders charged the government allowed chun kyung-hwan to leave south korea. a presidential official announced that the government was considering summoning chun back and investigating the allegations
that announcement followed a request by the ex-president today for a formal investigation into the scandals involving his younger brother, said officials who spoke on condition of anonymity
chun, 46, left for osaka friday afternoon after booking a seat under a false name, airport officials said
under the former president, the younger chun headed the new community movement, a non-political campaign started in the 1970's to modernize rural and urban areas
the younger chun was allegedly involved in large-scale land speculation and the abuse of power to exact money from businessmen and force government agencies to divert funds to help his organization
one report estimated the total amount of money involved at between $60 million and $100 million
in an apparent move to defuse the controversy before next month's legislative elections, government officials said they would consider summoning chun from abroad
the government may start a full-scale investigation into the scandals, along with summoning mr. chun kyung-hwan,'' a high-ranking official at president roh tae-woo's presidential office said
the younger chun's sudden departure quickly became a political issue as opposition parties charged that the roh government helped him out of the country to escape possible criminal prosecution
we strongly demand that the government immediately arrest the criminal, put him to trial and get him due punishment,'' the major opposition reunfication democratic party said in a statement
the other major opposition party for peace and democracy said the case would test the morality of the newly inaugurated roh government
the younger chun has never held a political office, but was considered one of the most powerful figures in south korean politics
the scandals were not reported under the old government, which put a tight lid on the news media. local newspapers, which enjoy more freedom with roh's inauguration last month, began to report details of the scandals
roh, chun doo-hwan's chosen successor, defeated rival opposition candidates kim young-sam and kim dae-jung in december's presidential election. roh did not win a majority of the vote, winning because the opposition vote was split
talk about room service
when george m. harris jr. made his first visit to the hotel pennsylvania in new york in march 1933, he was an unexpected but welcome guest, coming into the world in room 1032 with the assistance of a hotel doctor
on friday, it was harris' turn to be surprised
the staff of the hotel, now the new york penta across from penn station, marked his 55th birthday by giving harris and his family a party, complete with cake and champagne, and by putting them up in the hotel's presidential suite for the weekend
i was born in this hotel and after this weekend i may die in this hotel,'' harris joked during the festivities
edward w. moles, the hotel's director of advertising and public relations, said the hotel had hosted presidents, band leader glenn miller and other notables, but harris was the only guest born there. he said employees had decided to go all out with a celebration when they learned that harris and his wife were coming to the big apple for a visit
harris and his wife, shirley, were scheduled to go to new york next week with a band from a rocky mount high school. mrs. harris called for reservations and thought the story of her husband's birth might get them a discount
harris became a new yorker when his mother, winifred, gave birth earlier than expected while traveling to rocky mount, 53 miles northeast of raleigh, with his father. harris said his father, a tobacco buyer, worked in turkey most of the time but was returning to rocky mount
it was a surprise to her,'' he said. ``they thought sure they had plenty of time to get to rocky mount.''
it was only appropriate that kelly give birth on st. patrick's day, but it still came as a surprise to officials of the oklahoma city zoo. they had no idea that the 16-year-old dolphin was pregnant
kelly's been a real trouper with the aquaticus performing atlantic bottlenose dolphin troupe since she came to the zoo in october, and no one knew she was well along into her year-long pregnancy, said zoo spokeswoman emily hopkins
but on thursday, kelly went into labor and her 3-foot-long, 45-pound daughter was born 45 minutes later at 4:20 p.m. zoo officials and trainers said the calf, as yet unnamed, appeared healthy and normal
she swam immediately to the surface of the water to breathe and then began swimming near her mother. the calf, which will nurse for about 3 to 5 months, will grow to an adult size of about 350 pounds, ms. hopkins said
the dolphin birth was the first for landlocked oklahoma, ms. hopkins added
a dutch embassy official has denied reports that a ship released friday by venezuela carried a team looking for sunken nazi treasure
the vessel ``is simply a cruise ship and has nothing to do with any treasure-hunting whatsoever,'' embassy spokesman harry trouerbach said in a telephone interview
earlier reports in europe said the ship was carrying treasure hunters in search of a world war ii wreck
that is a fantastic story. it surely comes from a very imaginative mind,'' trouerbach said
the plancius was released friday afternoon and was bound for the neighboring netherlands antilles island of curacao, trouerbach said late friday
the venezuelan coast guard detained the ship a week agp off la blanquilla island, 170 miles northeast of caracas. venezuela claimed it had illegaly entered its territorial waters
trouerbach said it was allowed to leave la guaira port at caracas once authorities determined it never actually entered venezuelan waters
the plancius was taking its 40 passengers to willemstad, curacao's main city, where they were scheduled to board a klm plane for the netherlands, trouerbach said
most of the passengers are biologists, not treasure-hunters,'' he said. that music city news is not a trade publication.</note>
country singer tammy wynette will perform and be master of ceremonies for a talent show monday to benefit the troubled nashville symphony, promoters say
sixty singers are to perform in the first round sunday in the ``mr. and ms. country music america'' talent contest, sponsored by music city news, a monthly country music publication, and memphis, tenn.-based holiday inc
ms. wynette will preside over the finals and perform monday night at the grand ole opry, officials said thursday. the winners of the best male and female vocalist categories win $10,000 and a recording contract
during monday night's show, organizers plan to pass the hat for the symphony, which folded in mid-season this year because of financial difficulties, said music city news general manager john sturdivant
if people have a good time, we don't think they'd mind dropping some money into a goldfish bowl,'' sturdivant said. ``we might raise a couple of thousand dollars that way.'' up 9th graf, `iran claimed ...'</note>
iraq said its warplanes blasted iran's vital oil center at kharg island today, setting oil installations and tankers ablaze. iran fired long-range missiles into baghdad and other iraqi cities
iraq, acknowledging the attack on baghdad, said the missile crashed in a ``purely residential'' neighborhood of the capital. baghdad radio said several civilians were killed in the missile blast, but gave no figures
iran's islamic republic news agency said the missile was fired at the iraqi army's ``command headquarters in response to their mischief.''
the iranian news agency, monitored in nicosia, also reported 12 missiles fired into the southeastern iraqi umm qasr port, and one into al-amarah, a city 200 miles southeast of baghdad
an urgent dispatch, carried by the iraqi news agency, said large formations of fighter-bombers attacked kharg island, on the northern edge of the persian gulf, and a tanker holding area east of the facility, in a ``daring'' raid
the agency, monitored in nicosia, quoted a mlitary spokesman as saying: ``our pilots ... devastated their targets, setting facilities on the island and several tankers nearby on fire.''
the unnamed spokesman did not say whether all attacking planes returned safely from the raid, and irna reported that iranian jets shot down an iraqi aircraft in a dogfight over the persian gulf
iran did not confirm the attack on kharg
kharg accounts for about 90 percent of iran's oil exports. it has been hit frequently in iraqi air raids
the iranian news agency said revolutionary guards artillery units hammered a string of cities and towns along the 730-mile war front, including basra, iraq's already devastated southern port city
the attacks came after renewed iraqi air raids today on the western cities of bakhtaran and hamadan, as well as southwestern dezful, the iranian news agency said. it gave no exact casualty count, but said ``many civilians were martyred.''
iran claimed its gunners fired a long-range missile into tikrit on friday in the first attack on iraqi president saddam hussein's hometown since the resurgence of the war of the cities feb. 29. iraq did not report any attack on tikrit
tikrit, on the tigris river about 100 miles north of baghdad, is home to ``most members of the ruling clique in baghdad,'' an islamic republic news agency dispatch said
other missiles on friday hit the northern iraqi cities of mosul and kirkuk, the latter an important oil center
six missiles pounded basra, iraq's second-largest city, while 24 other projectiles were lobbed into the southern towns of haretha, shubair, an industrial center just south of basra
the iraqi news agency reported seven missiles fired into tehran friday, raising to 30 the number of such attacks on the iranian capital since sunday. in all, baghdad says it has fired 101 missiles into tehran since the intercity dueling began feb. 29
the iranians also claimed they captured two towns friday in a five-day-old land offensive into northeast iraq in which they said 9,200 iraqis have been killed or wounded and 4,000 captured
they also said they recaptured the iranian border town of nowsud, held by the iraqis since the early days of the 7{-year-old war
the iraqi news agency has denied there was combat in that region, where most of iraq's 3.5 million kurds live
the iranian news agency reported five iraqi warplanes were shot down thursday and friday, but iraq confirmed only one jet downed
iraq claimed two iranian jets were shot down. iran denied the report
the iraqi agency said iraqi warplanes hit two ``large maritime targets,'' which usually means tankers, off iran's coast on thursday and friday
london-based lloyd's shipping intelligence unit confirmed only one _ on the 80,137-ton cypriot tanker kyrenicos
iranian gunboats attacked three neutral ships in the southern gulf friday
in one attack, a japanese seaman was killed aboard the panamanian liquified gas carrier maria ii in the first raid around midnight thursday, shipping officials said on condition of anonymity
gunboats later attacked the 284,494-ton norwegian tanker berge lord, starting a small fire, and the 87,768-ton singapore-flag tanker neptune saburu. no casualties were reported in either attack
radical students hurled several firebombs at a u.s. military facility in downtown seoul, police said today
police officials said the students tossed seven firebombs into a building inside the u.s. corps of engineers office friday night
the red brick building did not catch fire, but two windows were broken, the officials said
anti-u.s. sentiment is relatively high among college students who are critical of washington's pressure on south korea to open its domestic market, especially to products such as beef and fruits. accords</head>
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, winding up his six-day u.s. visit, said the best course for bringing peace to the middle east was charted in the 1978 camp david accords
in a speech friday to the los angeles world affairs council, shamir praised the accords signed by israel and egypt under u.s. auspices, although he opposed them 10 years ago as a member of israel's parliament, the knesset
as at camp david, shamir said, peace talks between israel and her arab neighbors must be conducted directly and on an equal footing
this approach is enshrined in the camp david accords, to which we remain committed,'' he said. ``they still provide a workable blueprint for resolving issues between us and our arab neighbors, including the palestinian arabs.''
during his visit, prime minister rebuffed a u.s. proposal for peace negotiations in the region, saying the proposal for an international conference would allow the soviet union ``to push a settlement favorable to themselves and their syrian clients.''
the u.s. proposal was an attempt to accommodate jordan's king hussein, who has refused to enter peace taks with israel except at an international conference
shamir, whose likud bloc is opposed to the notion of trading territory for peace because it feels this would leave the jewish state vulnerable to the arab goal of destroying the jewish state altogether, also dismissed criticism about israel's crackdown on palestinian rioting in the west bank and gaza. the violence in the territories captured by israel in the 1967 six-day war has left 101 people dead
despite the recent differences of opinion, shamir said, ``the basic relationship between israel and the united states is as close as ever, as strong as ever and as good as ever.''
during shamir's speech, about 250 arab-americans and their supporters waved palestinian flags and chanted slogans as they demonstrated outside the century plaza hotel. about 20 members of the militant jewish defense league staged a counter-demonstration outside the posh hotel, but there were no confrontations, violence or arrests, said police sgt. larry mckinley
shamir has sought to blunt criticism of his country's action in the territories by some american jews
he reiterated his view that the picture presented of the palestinian riots in the occupied west bank and gaza strip has been distorted by the media, and said americans shouldn't confuse the violence with u.s.-style civil rights activism
it is war. it is an extension of urban terrorism,'' he said, defending his troops' use of rubber bullets, beatings and live ammunition
shamir returns to israel tonight
a dispute within the amish community over whether their horse-drawn vehicles should carry orange safety reflectors has divided the normally close-knit society
some who object to the orange, saying displays of such bright colors are against their religion, are only willing to use a hand-cut black metal triangle outlined with white reflective tape to warn drivers of other vehicles
the sign rift runs so deeply that the so-called ``orange-sign'' and ``black-sign'' amish now maintain separate churches. orange-sign amish also have opened their homes and farms to tour groups; the black-sign amish have refused
the rift has led two families to leave the 60-family community in southeastern minnesota's fillmore county and move to michigan
they want their freedom,'' said jacob hershberger, a community elder whose daughter and son-in-law moved to michigan. ``i feel really bad some of our group broke away. but they were making trouble. if they hadn't made trouble with the orange signs, there wouldn't be this other trouble.''
state law requires the amish to display orange reflectors on the backs of their horse-drawn buggies and wagons at night and in fog, and to carry it in the vehicle at all other times
but hershberger and others object to the orange on religious grounds. those amish, if they use any sign at all, use the white-bordered black triangle, a device permissible only in the daytime, and not in fog
i look at it this way,'' said menno mast, 24, an amish furniture maker from mabel who has orange reflectors on his vehicles. ``if the black sign was legal, i'd be willing to use it. but instead of making trouble with you folks, i'd rather use red (orange)
i don't feel it's hard on my religion. i look at this: we have red barns, and red stuff in the house. i don't have much difficulty with that.''
a bill that would have allowed the amish to use their black signs at night failed to clear a legislative committee this week
hershberger said he'll refuse to pay any fines for violating the sign law, risking a jail sentence
one amish man spent a day in the fillmore county jail last fall for not paying his $22 fine
special u.s. presidential envoy philip habib arrived in the egyptian capital today to seek arab backing for an american plan for peace in the middle east
habib met for an hour with foreign minister esmat abdel-meguid. he told reporters afterward that he had briefed the egyptian about the status of the peace process but refused to give details
abdel-meguid said that cairo's position ``has been to encourage the united states to move for the peace process because we all in this region are in need of peace.''
an egyptian government source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said habib was to meet with president hosni mubarak on sunday before continuing his swing
mubarak has called the american plan ``encouraging'' but suggested, without specifics, that some of its provisions be elaborated
habib's tour will take him to jordan, saudi arabia and morocco, according to a washington announcement friday by state department spokesman charles redman
redman said one aim of habib's mission was to get views of leaders in the four countries about the peace plan presented this month by u.s. secretary of state george shultz during a regional tour. syria and palestinian leaders rejected the plan and jordan criticized it
redman said habib also will brief arab leaders on talks this week in washington between administration officials and israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, who rejected key elements of the plan
we are looking for an early response to our proposals from the parties in the region,'' redman said
the u.s. peace plan calls for a united nations-sponsored international conference. that meeting would give way by may 1 to direct arab-israeli talks on a three-year transition period of self-rule for 1.5 million palestinians in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
negotiations on the final status of the two territories, occupied by the israelis since the 1967 war, would be held in december
meanwhile, egyptian defense minister abdel-halim abu-ghazala flew to washington today for a 10-day visit to discuss egypt's arms requirements under a 9-year-old aid program. u.s. military aid to egypt averages $1.3 billion a year in a program that began after egypt signed a peace treaty with israel in 1979
a bus crashed into a parked truck on the panamerican highway, killing seven people, police said
the suburban bus carrying 35 passengers hit the rear of the truck 125 miles north of the port city of antofagasta on friday
the bus driver was one of the dead, police said. police also reported 15 people injured
four iranian men were being held in the shooting of three saudi arabian teachers, a newspaper reported today
the new nigerian newspaper, citing unidentified police sources, said the four were arrested at the nigerian telecommunications office here after they were seen making international telephone calls shortly after the shooting
the unidentified iranians were arrested and held for questioning, but they have not yet been directly linked to the shooting, the sources said
four saudi arabian teachers were fired upon by a gunman as they left the lagos eko hotel just after midnight on march 13. the car's driver was shot twice in the chest, a passenger was wounded once in the chest and a third was shot once in the back, police sources said. a fourth teacher was unhurt
the three wounded saudis were all arabic teachers attached to the saudi arabian embassy in lagos, said the new nigerian
police and saudi arabian embassy officials have declined comment on the shooting and arrests
a massive brain tumor killed a 30-year-old western lowland gorilla believed to be the oldest breeding male gorilla in captivity, say officials at the brookfield zoo
samson died thursday at the zoo in suburban chicago and an autopsy later revealed the presence of the brain tumor, said brookfield spokeswoman linda elbert
he had sired four offspring at brookfield, including an infant born a week ago. a fifth is expected from a recent mating, ms. elbert said
samson, star of brookfield's ``tropic world'' exhibit, had been in failing health for some time before an apparent stroke felled him tuesday, said dr. anne baker, curator of primates. she said the 30005-pound gorilla regained consciousness only twice before his death
we were a bit taken aback by his apparent stroke,'' ms. baker said. ``after tuesday we knew he was in a life-threatening situation, but we had not expected that we would lose him as soon as we did.''
she said samson had suffered from rheumatoid arthritis since 1980, and had been blind for about a month before his death
samson came to brookfield in 1980 from the buffalo zoological gardens in buffalo, n.y. ms. baker said he was captured in africa and arrived at the buffalo zoo in 1962
samson has left a lot of offspring here to continue the genetic pool of these creatures,'' ms. elbert said. ``he was a really, really beautiful animal.''
gorillas usually live 30 years to 40 years in captivity, she said, and the record in captivity is 53 years
a gunman whose bullet paralyzed a marathon runner in a freeway shooting last july has been sentenced to the maximum 10-year prison term
a rash of similar confrontations, including several in which victims were killed or injured, plagued southern california last summer. incidents have been reported sporadically since then
albert carroll morgan, 33, of huntington beach, who apologized for shooting paul gary nussbaum, was sentenced friday to seven years for shooting at an occupied vehicle and an additional three years for infliction of great bodily injury
morgan also was ordered to pay a maximum $10,000 to the victim restitution fund by orange county superior court judge jean rheinheimer
morgan shot nussbaum on july 18, 1987, while nussbaum was driving on the southbound costa mesa freeway during rush-hour traffic
nussbaum, 29, confined to a wheelchair, said he was satisfied with morgan's sentence
i feel that he should spend the rest of his life in prison,'' said nussbaum. ``but the judge did what she had to do. i'm really glad he got the maximum.''
a jury convicted morgan in february of the felony charges of voluntary manslaughter, assault with a firearm and shooting at an inhabited vehicle
in another case, jurors began deliberations friday in compton in the case of ronald elam, 28, who is charged with first-degree murder, two counts of attempted murder and two counts of assault with a deadly weapon in connection with an aug. 17, 1987, roadway shooting. british soldiers, details. picks up 5th graf, `officials at ...'</note>
a funeral crowd mourning the death of an ira guerrilla dragged two british soldiers from a car, beat them with crowbars and stripped them naked, witnesses said. minutes later they were shot to death
initial reports said the crowd believed the men were plainclothes detectives who were spying on the funeral for irish republican army member kevin brady, who was killed earlier in the week during another ira funeral
police later confirmed that the two men were plainclothes british soldiers
witnesses said the victims fired shots in the air in an unsuccessful attempt to extricate themselves from the crowd, but it overwelmed them
some witnesses said the soldiers were beaten and driven away in a taxi and their bodies, stripped naked, were found later at an abandoned lot
others said the soldiers were not driven away but stripped naked by the crowd, bundled unconscious onto a wall surrounding a soccer field and then dragged behind a building and shot
it was not clear whether the men were shot by mourners or by other assailants
officials of sinn fein, the legal political wing of the ira, said papers were found on the men identifying them as british army personnel. they said the men were killed with their own pistols
there were reports that a priest was seen trying to give one of the victims mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and being ordered away by the gunmen who then pumped more shots into the men
after the men were killed, witnesses said the cortege continued toward milltown cemetery with some people weeping and trembling as they walked
it was the second time in three days that funerals of ira members have been disrupted by violence. on thursday, a protestant gunman fired shots and tossed grenades into a crowd of mourners, killing three and wounding 68
brady was shot as he and other mourners chased the attacker. the enraged crowd finally grabbed 33-year-old michael stone when his gun jammed. they severely beat him before police caught up and took him into custody
stone is under armed guard in a hospital, being treated for the injuries he received at the hands of his pursuers. police have arrested a second person believed linked to the shooting
police said friday that stone will be formally charged next week with murder in connection with the cemetery attack and other unrelated serious crimes
press association said stone was being questioned about 10 sectarian killings unrelated to wednesday's attack
on friday, west belfast catholics buried two other victims of sectarian violence. one was 20-year-old thomas mcerlean, another of the three people killed in wednesday's attack at milltown cemetery
the other buried friday was charles mcgrillen, who was shot monday outside a belfast supermarket. the ulster freedom fighters, an outlawed protestant extremist group, claimed responsibility for killing him in a statement friday
the outlawed ira is fighting to drive the british from northern ireland. the mainly catholic guerrilla group wants to unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic under socialist rule
protestant militants reject unity with the irish republic
picks up 5th graf, `in cyprus ... edits to tighten
the israeli army detained two american television crews for an hour today after they refused to leave the west bank city of ramallah when protests broke out, a crew member and a military spokesman said
scattered protests were reported in the west bank and gaza strip but there were no reports of shootings. hospital officials in gaza city said nine palestinians were admitted with beating injuries
prime mimister yitzhak shamir said he may let israel's coalition government collapse because of the rift over how to make peace with the arabs. shamir said he was thinking about calling for early elections
in an unusual move, soldiers in the west bank city of ramallah detained four foreign tv crews, including crews from the cbs and cnn networks, who refused to obey orders to leave the area
eli fastman, a cameraman for the london-based visnews, said the four crews had entered ramallah in violation of an army order and had stayed there ``to challenge this crazy system of closing us out of the territories.''
when protests broke out in ramallah's central square, fastman said, the cameramen were approached by troops and told to leave, but they refused
fastman said he and the two-man crews from cbs, cnn and the london-based worldwide television news were taken to a military police station in ramallah where they ``discussed the situation with army officials.'' the army filed no charges and released the crews an hour later, he said
an army spokesman confirmed the detentions but could provide no details. local area commanders in the west bank and gaza strip are empowered to close areas under their command at will
shamir, meanwhile, revealed friday that he was considering supporting early electons
the internal situation in the government could be the main reason for early elections,'' shamir told israel television's washington correspondent. ``i am thinking about it ... i do not rule out such a thing.''
troops killed two palestinians in the israeli-occupied territories on friday. the shootings brought to 102 the number of palestinians killed by u.n. count in anti-occupation violence since it began dec. 8. hospital officials said at least 25 protesters were wounded in scattered clashes
in cyprus, u.n. officials announced that more than 400 palestinian refugees had been injured in the occupied gaza strip this week, bringing the casualty toll for march to more than 900
troops killed a protester at the shati refugee camp in gaza during a clash with hundreds of worshipers after noon prayers at the camp's al-gharbi mosque, the army said
officials at gaza city's shifa hospital identified the victim as 24-year-old hani abu hamam. witnesses said his family smuggled the body out of the hospital for a burial service attended by about 100 angry mourners
in the occupied west bank, a soldier shot and killed a 19-year-old protester who attacked him at the ein beit ilmah camp near nablus, the army said. a spokeswoman said the protester had assaulted the soldier with ``a dangerous object,'' but she would not elaborate
officials at nablus' ittihad hospital identified the victim as muhamed mahmud suleiman khaled. jehad alawni, a nurse, said khaled bled to death from a bullet wound in the left thigh
also friday, two israeli civilians were detained for allegedly stockpiling an arsenal of weapons intended for anti-arab attacks, police said. investigators determined the two had acted alone and were not part of a larger ring, the daily haaretz said
a canadian engineer kidnapped last year by colombian guerrillas has been freed, police said today
richard paulson was released friday near beleen, a town in boyacaa state, and he came to bogota by bus, according to colombian police
the national liberation army, a group inspired by cuban leader fidel castro, had asked $20 million in ransom for the engineer's release. but it later reduced the amount to $6 million, said colombian journalist alonso heredia, correspondent for the el espectador newspaper
however, the journalist said he didn't know whether paulson's employer, occidental petroleum of los angeles, paid for his release
heredia himself was kidnapped tuesday and released friday by the same guerrilla group. he interviewed paulson during his captivity
paulson learned spanish during his 376 days with the guerrillas and received teaching in revolutionary objectives, said heredia
the canadian engineer was abducted in arauca march 8, 1987, with another employee of occidental, amanda uribe, who was released a few hours later with the ramson demand
paulson worked as production manager for the giant canno limon oil field along the venezuelan border
the national liberation army attacked the canno limon pipeline and the occidental installations about 50 times in last two years. its demolition squads halted the exports of 180,000 barrels per day during the month of january
the guerrilla group, the most active in colombia, has vowed to expel foreign oil companies working in joint ventures with the state-owned company ecopetrol
federal regulators are reassuring nervous depositors in the california-based financial corp. of america that they won't lose money in any government action against the troubled holding company
the federal home loan bank board said friday it would protect all depositors and general creditors of american savings &amp; loan association, fca's main subsidiary. normally deposit accounts are only insured up to $100,000
the irvine-based fca, with $33.7 billion in assets, is the nation's second-largest thrift holding company and the biggest problem for the bank board, which regulates 3,150 savings institutions
the pledge of support came after the company, in a report filed with the securities and exchange commission, said for the first time that american, based in stockton, was insolvent under generally accepted accounting principles
karl hoyle, a bank board spokesman, said the statement was made in part to stem the drain of deposits at american. the bank board also reaffirmed its support for the management of both the s&amp;l and its parent
fca said american's net worth _ the difference between assets and liabilities _ had fallen to negative $106 million at the end of the year, compared with positive $244.4 million on sept. 30
under less stringent regulatory accounting guidelines, american's net worth was plus $69 million at the end of 1987, compared with $357.8 million at the end of the third quarter
fca had previously revealed that its net worth had fallen into the red, but this is the first disclosure that net worth at american has fallen below the zero mark. that happened when american concluded that repayment of debts due from its parent company were not assured
fca's annual report, filed with the sec, also revealed that depositors withdrew $493 million during the first two months of this year. deposits had totaled $17.1 billion at the end of 1987
the company attributed the drain to publicity about the bank's problems and said it eased during the first 10 days of march
the drain was milder than the severe run at american in august and september of 1984, when the bank lost about $6.8 billion of its $25 billion in deposits
the bank board's sister agency for commercial banks, the federal deposit insurance corp., issued a similar promise on thursday protecting all depositors and general creditors of first republicbank corp. of dallas, a bank holding company of about the same size as fca
however, the fdic went a step further than the bank board by pumping $1 billion into first republicbank
fca on feb. 23 asked for $1.5 billion in assistance as soon as possible from the federal deposit insurance corp., the bank board unit that guarantees deposits. hoyle said the request is under review
the largest-ever government bailout of a banking company was the $4.5 billion rescue in 1984 of continental illinois corp
the bank board has tried unsuccessfully for nearly a year to find another institution willing to take over all or part of fca on terms that wouldn't be too costly. on-again, off-again talks with the thrift unit of ford motor co. broke down early in january
on jan. 27, fca reported a loss of $224.6 million in the last three months of last year, bringing its 1987 loss to $468 million
two weeks later, the bank board ordered it to sell $2.5 billion in mortgage-backed securities to reduce its vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations
on march 9, the bank board passed a resolution reassuring nervous wall street firms, which had lent more than $12 billion to american in the form of reverse repurchase agreements
ranked by assets, fca is second among thrift holding companies to h.f. ahmanson &amp; co., the los angeles-based parent of home savings of america
calm has settled over plymouth-canton high school following two days of fights between ``jocks'' and ``burnouts'' in a turf battle that some students say has overtones of discrimination
louise gates, a spokeswoman at the suburban detroit school, said there was one minor scuffle friday lasting about 10 minutes, but order was restored quickly. large-scale fist fights rocked the school wednesday and thursday
everything was pretty calm, maybe we've seen the end of the disturbances,'' said a public safety officer, who declined to give her name
fights between the student-athletes and the so-called burnouts, who students say are distinguished by their leather jackets and concert t-shirts, erupted around noon wednesday
administrators said the fighting began over the use of a popular hallway gathering place known as ``the pit.''
there were no injuries, but at least 12 students were suspended and school officials sealed off the hallway, officials said
about 20 police officers were called to restore order thursday. police declined to say how many officers were at the school friday
some students said administrators over-reacted to the fights
the amount of police that they brought in was outrageous. it gave the kids a reason to keep going,'' said student reeder singler
the fighting is not really over turf, ... it's over discrimination of one group over another,'' singler said. the burnouts feel the jocks receive preferential treatment by some administrators and faculty, he said
on thursday, the burnouts sent school principal thomas tattan a note that said: ``we feel we should be treated with the same courtesy as other peer and social groups. we believe you're taking the jocks' side over the pit issue.''
the burnouts and the jocks met friday among themselves but the meeting broke up when administrators tried to join in the discussions, singler said
gates said administrators talked to both sides, but declined to reveal what was discussed. france, minor editing for style thruout.</note>
the government controlled by gen. manuel antonio noriega declared a state of emergency that suspended civil liberties but gave the state powers to reopen banks and stores closed by a cash crisis
also friday, deputy assistant secretary of state william walker arrived to negotiate the departure of noriega. in washington, a white house official said that if noriega flees, the united states will not seek his extradition to answer drug trafficking charges
the general's opponents responded to the emergency decree by calling for an indefinite general strike starting monday
the economy already is reeling from walkouts that intensified this week and u.s. sanctions _ all part of an increasingly violent campaign to drive noriega from power
under the ``state of urgency'' declared by acting president manuel solis palma, the government can suspend basic civil and property rights
a government statement announcing the move blamed the nation's economic chaos on the u.s.-backed freeze of its international bank accounts and the opposition campaign: ``there is a real undeclared war against the republic of panama.''
solis palma was named to succeed eric arturo delvalle, who was ousted feb. 26 by pro-noriega legislators and went into hiding after he tried to fire the general, who heads panama's 15,000-strong defense forces
the united states recognizes delvalle as panama's legitimate president and said noriega must go after he was indicted by a federal grand jury last month on charges of trafficking in colombian cocaine
just hours after the emergency decree was issued on friday, troops broke into a radio station owned by opposition national assemblyman francisco artola, arresting 12 people, artola said
he said those arrested, including members of the opposition umbrella group national civic crusade, were on the air discussing a strike against a subsidiary of united brands co. in the town of changuinola
this man must go,'' artola said of noriega. ``the country must democratize.''
in a late evening news conference, crusade leader aurelio barria said another general strike was being called ``to put a halt to the catastrophic national situation.''
asked about the negotiations aimed at facilitating noriega's departure, barria would say only that the crusade had been approached by an noriega intermediary. but he said his group refuses to deal with the general or any of his representatives
friday's decree allows the government to suspend virtually all civil rights, from freedom of speech and assembly to habeas corpus
also subject to controls is the right to private property. an explanation accompanying the decree took special aim at the scarcity of cash in the economy, signaling the possibility the government would force the nation's 118 local and foreign-owned banks to reopen
the banks were closed by the government march 3. since then, they have resisted government pressures to reopen, fearing a panic run on their deposits
the united states has frozen panamanian deposits in u.s. banks, leaving the government and many private companies without the money to pay their employees. panama's official currency is the u.s. dollar
strikes have spread throughout the country in the past two weeks, forcing the military to take direct control of many public services to keep panama functioning
dock workers in colon and panama city maintained their strike friday, demanding full pay before going back to work. many government employees have accepted half pay or a flat $75 a week, but dock workers union leader luis asprilla said his membership was standing firm
in washington, sources in the reagan administration said walker went to panama to discuss possible terms for noriega's departure
one official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said walker would tell noriega the united states will not seek his extradition on drug trafficking charges if he seeks asylum in a third country
noriega says he is innocent of all charges
spanish prime minister felipe gonzalez said today that noriega could be granted asylum in spain or france to aid in bringing an end to the panamanian political crisis
gonzalez spoke to reporters at coto de donana on spain's southern atlantic coast before the start of a six-hour private meeting with french president francois mitterrand. the french leader did not speak to reporters
strikes by ferry workers crippled weekend travel between britain and france on saturday, jamming ports on both sides of the english channel with long lines of cars, buses and trucks
the dover port authority said separate strikes had reduced sailings to the european continent by 75 percent. it advised casual travelers to stay away
ferries staffed by belgian crews and traveling from dover to belgium were departing normally, but only one passenger ferry still was sailing to france, the port authority said
early saturday, there were about 250 cars and 100 buses waiting inside the docks at dover, but the pressure was relieved when some of the cars were ferried to nearby folkestone to cross the english channel to boulogne, france
about 400 freight trucks also were jammed inside the dover dock, and 240 others lined up along a cordoned section of the expressway leading into the port city
it's a pretty desperate situation,'' said a port official, speaking on condition of anonymity
the dover harbor board said travelers to the continent might have to wait up 36 hours to make the crossing
about 2,200 employees of p and o european ferries went on strike six weeks ago to protest the company's plan to cut 400 jobs and change work conditions
on thursday, french crews of the british-french consortium sealink-sncf walked off the job on both sides of the channel in a separate protest over work practices
french workers are striking against a reduction in wages and an increase in working hours
port officials in france, speaking on condition of anonymity, said some truck drivers who had been waiting for more than 72 hours to cross temporarily abandoned their vehicles at calais
crews of three french ferries were on strike in calais. the only ferry making the crossing to dover, england, was the saint anselm, run by british sealink
departures continued from cherbourg to poole, england and from ouistreham
in dieppe, the car-ferry le chartre had blocked the vehicle access ramp to all ferries since thursday, according to port authorities. ferry captain gerard delaunay has refused to allow another ferry, the versailles, to take on cars for the crossing to newhaven, england
heavy wind and rain lashed the bangladesh capital of dhaka, flattening houses, uprooting trees and plunging the city of 4 million into darkness, police said saturday
at least 100 people were reported injured in the storm, which hit late friday, hospital officials said. doctors said that 10 people were in critical condition
police said the storm, with winds as high as 36 mph, ripped through the city. hardest hit were suburban areas, where mud and straw huts collapsed, they said
efforts were under way to restore electricity and telephone services
vice president george bush says it is too early to discuss dropping the drug indictments against panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega. jesse jackson says he favors a guarantee of no extradition if that will speed up his departure
other presidential candidates, in reponse to a survey by the associated press, voiced support for u.s. efforts to force noriega to step down and end the crisis in panama
several democrats faulted the reagan administration for not acting sooner
pat robertson, a republican hopeful and former television evangelist, said, ``under no circumstances should a deal be made whereby drug charges are dropped.''
the ap asked the candidates last tuesday if the united states should impose a trade embargo on panama to force noriega out, if it should drop drug charges against noriega if that would hurry his departure, and if there were conditions under which they would annul the treaty giving panama eventual control of the canal
all the candidates except sen. bob dole, r-kan., responded by friday
only robertson suggested the crisis was grounds for changing the treaty
in light of the uncertainties and volatility of the situation in panama, i believe the u.s. should reconsider transferring control of the canal,'' robertson said
however, bush said: ``we signed the treaty in good faith. the canal is operating smoothly and we expect it to continue to operate smoothly. we fully expect panama to live up to its treaty commitments.''
bush called the u.s. drug charges against noriega ``a matter for the judiciary and it is premature to discuss dropping indictments.''
on a trade embargo, the vice president said: ``noriega should go and will go and the united states government is listening to the panamanian people and the legitimate government of panama. we hope this internal problem will soon be resolved.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said he supports sanctions, ``but i don't believe that a trade embargo is necessary or appropriate at this time.''
before we consider any action that would affect the criminal proceedings against noriega, it is essential that the american people be given a full accounting of the past relationship between gen. noriega and agencies and officials of the u.s. government,'' dukakis said
jackson said, ``drugs are our no. 1 national security issue. apparently, gen. noriega is deeply involved in the international drug trade. therefore it is justified to use diplomatic and economic pressure to push him out.''
but jackson added the united states should be acting in concert ``with our friends in the region'' and the organization of american states. ``when we act unilaterally, we fan the flame of nationalism and undermine our effectiveness,'' he said
the administration's recent moves are to be supported, but we lack moral authority, which undermines our diplomatic and economic actions, because the administration failed to respond quickly and forcefully when it first learned of noriega's involvement in drug traffic,'' jackson said. ``our weak policy has put the u.s. in another crisis in central america.''
it is in our interest and that of the panamanians to settle the crisis with noriega as quickly as possible. if that means granting noriega a guarantee of no-extradition, then it should be granted,'' jackson said
sen. paul simon, d-ill., said, ``i support the economic steps taken last week against noriega. the pressure must be kept on noriega so that he quickly steps aside and allows president delvalle to take over. if that happens, the u.s.-panama relationship will greatly improve, barring other revelations about panamanian drug dealings.''
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., said, ``supporting dictators does not serve our interests. the lesson of the shah and somoza, and before them batista, and diem, is that by sticking with dictators, the united states sets the stage for the outcome we fear the most.''
the days of the united states deciding who governs panama are over. we are not going back to the days before the panama canal treaty,'' gephardt said. ``the days of military dictatorship in panama are also over. gen. noriega does not understand that history has passed him by.''
gephardt ruled out dropping the drug indictments, saying, ``the united states is a nation of laws. the rule of law cannot be subordinated to political expediency.''
sen. albert gore jr., d-tenn., said through spokesman arlie schardt that he supports a trade embargo and the possibility of dropping the drug charges if that would speed up noriega's departure
gore's spokesman added that it was hard to envision circumstances that would justify annuling the treaty
a team of u.n. observers will visit nicaragua as soon as possible to investigate the tense border situation with honduras, a u.n. spokesman said saturday
mahbub ahmad said secretary-general javier perez de cuellar decided to send the team at nicaragua's request. he said it would include one poliitical officer from u.n. headquarters and a still-undecided number of military observers
diplomatic sources said the team was likely to inclkude two military observers and probably would leave tuesday. the observers have not been named
the announcement followed a security council meeting friday night during which nicaragua, honduras and the united states traded allegations over whether sandinista troops are in honduran territory and who is responsible for the current conflict
several latin american speakers endorsed nicaragua's call for a neutral u.n. observer mission to visit the site of the border clashes
ahmad said there are no immediate plans to visit the honduran side of the border. sources said no request had come from honduras
nicaragua has requested a joint mission by the u.n. and the organization of american states to investigate the border situation and make recommendasntions on preventing further conflict
honduras and the united states contend that nicarguan troops have attacked contra bases in honduras. nicaragua has denied the claim
honduras has responded by attacking nicaraguan forces around the border area. situation unchanged this morning.</note>
authorities evacuated 2,000 people after firefighters were unable to extinguish a burning gas container that threatened surrounding cylinders in a plant rocked by a fatal blast the day before
the cylinder was found earlier friday amid the ruins of the gollob analytical services chemical plant, where the explosion and fire thursday killed three men
it's just a waiting game right now,'' james staples, a spokesman for the state department of environmental protection, said friday night. ``the slightest vibration could cause that cylinder to turn into a fireball.''
the cylinder was still a threat this morning, he said, and people remained away from their homes
authorities ordered the evacuation in a half-mile area surrounding the plant out of concern that the flames would ignite surrounding cylinders containing unknown gases
nursing home patients were evacuated from the nearby berkeley heights convalescence center on stretchers at about 8 p.m. and residents from some 400 nearby homes also were ordered to leave as a precaution, said deputy mayor albert boyance
officials said some of the residents were staying with relatives while others went to a nearby high school
the new jersey transit authority discontinued passenger rail service near the plant until at least sunday. passengers were to be shuttled by bus
staples said the flaming cylinder contained phosphine and hydrogen. authorities were planning to wait until all the gas burned before attempting to move the cylinder
investigators said the plant burst into flames thursday after another cylinder exploded outside the plant and became a projectile, shooting into the building. authorities were investigating whether mislabeling or a contaminated gas may have been the cause
a delivery man who was severely injured remained hospitalized in fair condition friday. he had a leg amputated and suffered shrapnel wounds in the blast, said doris ortiz, a spokeswoman for university hospital in newark
the evacuation followed a smaller evacuation earlier friday of an industrial area around the plant, said police capt. michael borsos
state environmental officials said authorities cleared the area at lunchtime as a precaution since workers were preparing to remove gas cylinders from the building and were not sure what they contained. detail.</note>
the red cross said today that blood that slipped through procedures against aids contamination was not actually contaminated with the virus or posed no known health hazard
twenty-four questionable units of blood were erroneously shipped last month from red cross centers in washington and nashville, tenn., to hospitals for use but were never given to any patients, according to the food and drug administration
while it should not have been shipped, it actually proved to be hiv (aids virus) free, and a number of units underwent processing that would inactivate the virus,'' said gene jeffers, american red cross spokesman
he said there was ``no known health hazard associated with the 24 units of blood. we were very fortunate and lucked out in that there was no human risk at all involved here.''
however, he conceded when questioned that five of the units tested positive for hepatitis b antigens and would have posed a health risk had they been used in transfusions. however, they were not used, he said
ten of the units initially tested positive for hiv antibodies but they underwent fractionation, which eliminated the danger of any contamination, jeffers said. fractionation breaks the blood down into components for specific uses
the remaining nine units were from donors who were unacceptable because they previously tested ``false positive,'' but all the actual units were tested safe, he said
the washington post reported today that federal officials recovered the 24 units, each consisting of one pint, and were ``virtually certain'' all the questionable blood had been destroyed or quarantined
none of the blood was transfused, and we were out of the gate in a hurry, but of course it's a worrisome event,'' dr. frank e. young, commissioner of the food and drug administration, told the post
two senior officials of the washington regional office of the american red cross _ john mcgraw and frederick darr _ have been suspended with pay for 30 days pending an investigation of their actions
the purpose of the suspension is to permit us to assign someone to make recommendations'' said richard schubert, president of the american red cross. ``then we will decide what to do. we are not in a position yet to take disciplinary action.''
schubert said no officials in the nashville center had been disciplined, but that the investigation there was continuing
six of the questionable units of blood were from the washington center and the other 18 were from nashville
the mistakes in washington were detected after the chapter found discrepancies during a routine audit and then contacted the fda, which conducted a more complete investigation. the tennessee errors were detected when the fda began an audit after a woman sued local blood bank officials because she became infected with the aids virus through a previous blood transfusion
as a result of the errors, the fda said it has increased its periodic audits of the blood supply and instituted new training procedures for blood bank employees
an ongoing investigation by fda at the two blood centers has revealed that standard operating procedures were not followed in handling these blood products,'' the public health service said in a statement
the fda and the red cross are continuing to investigate the issue and monitor the recall to ensure that all suspect units of blood products are identified and that appropriate follow-up action taken,'' the service said
dr. s. gerald sandler, associate vice president of the american red cross, said that in 1987, more than 37 million tests were conducted on the 6 million units of blood donated, which placed increased demands on laboratory workers
we are seriously concerned about this, and we are implementing additional efforts to help reduce potential human errors,'' sandler said. comments</note>
lt. col. oliver north says he's retiring from the marine corps because he may have to subpoena ``the highest ranking officials in our government'' to defend himself against charges in the iran-contra affair
north, making a brief appearance friday at the office of attorney brendan sullivan, said sullivan had informed him ``that the defense against these charges may require him to issue subpoenas for the testimony and records of the highest ranking officials in our government.''
that strikes me as a course of action incompatible with my continued service as a marine officer,'' north said. ``accordingly, with great sadness, i have tendered my request to retire from the marine corps.''
white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr., in an interview taped friday for the syndicated television program, ``john mclaughlin's one on one,'' declined to say how president reagan would respond if subpoenaed
we haven't had to face that yet,'' baker, who is a lawyer, said. he recalled that former president ford was subpoenaed in the case of squeaky fromme, who was convicted in an attempt on his life. ford videotaped a deposition
asked whether this was what reagan would do, baker said, ``the president undoubtedly will cooperate with both the prosecution and the defense. now, how that translates into actual conduct remains to be seen. we have to face that issue when it arrives.''
north, who wore a civilian business suit in place of his usual ribbon-bedecked marine uniform, refused to answer questions after reading the statement
but pentagon sources said north, 44, had submitted his request on thursday, asking that he be allowed to retire effective may 1 when he will have completed 20 years of active military service
the request already has been approved by gen. alfred m. gray, the commandant of the marine corps, and is expected to receive ``routine'' approval monday from the office of the navy secretary, the sources added
twenty years is the minimum amount of service required to retire from the military with a pension. with 20 years of service, north is entitled to a pension totaling 50 percent of his base monthly pay, or slightly over $22,000 a year
the pentagon sources said north also had requested approval to begin terminal leave, meaning he wants to use accumulated leave benefits to stop working at his military post now instead of waiting until may 1
that also should be approved routinely,'' said one source
north was reassigned to marine corps headquarters on the planning staff in november 1986 after president reagan fired him as an aide to the national security council
north will become the second major figure in the iran-contra scandal to retire from active military duty. rear adm. john poindexter, president reagan's former national security adviser and north's boss, exercised his right to retire from the navy late last year
north, poindexter and two others were indicted by a federal grand jury wednesday on charges they conspired to divert iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
the 23-count indictment, which also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim, said the defendants organized, directed and concealed ``a program to continue funding of and logistical and other support for military and paramilitary operations in nicaragua by the contras'' at a time u.s. law barred such action
after the indictment was returned, north vowed to fight the charges, declaring: ``i did not commit any crime.''
north, a much-decorated combat veteran of vietnam and graduate of the u.s. naval academy, testified last year before congress that he always believed he had the approval of his superiors to take the actions he did
poindexter, during his testimony before congress, said he never informed the president of his decision to divert arms sale profits to the contras
according to the defense department, the pension rights of north and poindexter are unlikely to be affected by the outcome of the legal cases against them since both men served honorably for at least 20 years
generally speaking, a conviction does not affect eligibility for a military pension,'' said col. david shea, a pentagon spokesman
well-wishers waved good-bye saturday to about 75 people who boarded a ``citizens' train'' bound for washington, d.c., where they intend to lobby for new national budget priorities
they will ask lawmakers to spend less for weapons and more for improved housing, health care, education and care for the environment
several dozen people held a rally friday, carrying signs with messages such as: ``citizens' budget _ more for children, less for weapons.''
about 75 people from washington, 175 more from oregon, 20 from california and a few from other western states planned to board trains this weekend and meet in chicago on monday. the travelers then will board a train later that day bound for washington, d.c
while on board, riders will attend workshops on lobbying strategies, the federal budget process, education, health care and the constitution. they'll be met by supporters at stops along the way
they'll arrive tuesday in washington, where they plan to rally on the capitol steps and be greeted by astronomer carl sagan. then they'll scurry in different directions to try to meet with congressmen, interest groups, peace lobbies and coalition leaders
virginia day, a peace activist and mother of five, is taking her two youngest children, aged 9 months and 5 years, on the train with her
i want to make sure they have a safe world,'' ms. day said. she plans to focus on the act for better child care, which would provide more day care services
our government forgot that real security isn't based on military might,'' ms. day said. ``it's based on a healthy population that's well-educated, well-nourished, fully employed, psychologically healthy and living in a clean environment.''
the citizens' train plan was hatched by four women in oregon two years ago, who hope the campaign will impress american leaders
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh took a riverboat gamble by steering a federal grand jury to a catch-all indictment which includes charges that connote greed by the four major iran-contra principals, legal experts say
former prosecutors, interviewed by the associated press, said the strategy may open a line of testimony that could draw out sympathy for the defendants _ especially lt. col. oliver l. north
for instance, north was accused of accepting an illegal gratuity _ a $13,800 home security system _ from his key operative in the iran-contra affair, richard v. secord
by including that particular charge, the experts said, the door is open for north to repeat congressional testimony that he was threatened by international terrorists including abu nidal
defendants in the broad conspiracy indictment handed down last week are north, a former national security council aide; his onetime boss, former national security adviser john m. poindexter; secord, a retired air force major general; and his business partner, albert hakim
most of the 23 counts focus on the broad conspiracy to aid the nicaraguan contras when such assistance was banned, and attempts to cover up the activities
but several counts allege motives of personal gain by north and the secord-hakim enterprise _ which carried out the logistics of aiding the nicaraguan contras and secret sale of u.s. arms to iran
there are charges that north received the illegal gratuity of a death benefit education fund for his children; that he used contra traveler's checks for personal purchases, and that the secord-hakim enterprise made enormous profits
north has already testified under congressional immunity that he made a bad mistake when he accepted the home security system as a gift, then tried to cover up the gratuity. but he said he was motivated by fears for his family in the wake of threats against him by terrorists, including nidal. his explanation before the iran-contra congressional committees won sympathy from many americans who watched the proceedings live on television
that charge opened up the ability of north to admit all kinds of evidence on terrorist groups around the world,'' said joseph digenova, until recently the u.s. attorney for the district of columbia and now a private attorney
he said it would open ``a pandora's box of national security information. it may not show venality, but instead a legitimate concern for north and his family.''
at the congressional hearings, north also disavowed knowledge of the $200,000 death benefit fund set up for his family with money from the u.s. arms sales to iran
he apologized for trying to cover up acceptance of the security system, saying, it ``was probably the grossest misjudgment i have made in my life.'' in cashing the traveler's checks for personal items, north said he was reimbursing himself for money he paid out of his own pocket for covert activities when a special fund ran dry
the experts said walsh likely has anticipated that the defendants will wrap themselves in a cloak of patriotism, and contend they were following legitimate orders from top government officials. they speculated walsh used the allegations of greedy motives in an attempt to overcome that defense
it's much easier to persuade a jury to convict somebody who has been advancing his personal interest, which could mean political interest, at the expense of other people or the national treasury,'' said philip hyman, a harvard professor and former chief of the justice department's criminal division
you can show you're not dealing simply with misguided patriots, that these are also men now receiving some personal benefits along the way, wheeling and dealing in a way that gives them a great deal of pleasure.''
but philip lacovara, a former watergate prosecutor, agreed that ``some of these charges give a very clear platform for north in particular to emphasize the sympathetic role he will portray to the jury as one of leaders in america's fight against world terrorism
he will explain the security fence as a wholly justifiable attempt to protect his family while he was on the front line protecting america against forces of evil,'' lacovara said
lacovara said ``one of issues i'm sure the defense will raise will be demands for production of highly classified information. this is the age-old question of `graymail' _ a demand for classified information to prevent the prosecution from proceeding with the case because risks to national security might be unwise.''
a federal law establishes courtroom procedures that look for alternative ways of conveying the information, but a judge could order it released in open court if he deems it essential to protect a defendant's rights. this leaves the prosecution with the dilemma of whether to proceed, and can tie the case in knots
another former watergate prosecutor, richard ben-veniste, said the 101-page indictment _ combining charges of personal gain with difficult issues like separation of powers _ could be too complicated for jurors
my own philosophy was to be as streamlined and direct as possible,'' he said. ``this indictment looks to me a little more of the kitchen sink philosophy.''
it is a directive for discipline from nepal's monarch, one of the many edicts written on red-and-yellow signs and sprinkled throughout katmandu. ``speak the truth, perform your dharma, do not fall from self-studies,'' it says
the dharma _ or cosmic order _ remains largely undisturbed in nepal. tourists still spend money, foreign aid rolls in, and criticism of king birendra remains taboo
rarely is the harmony upset. in the past few months, the only public dissent has been an unsuccessful call for a general strike and criticism from a handful of outspoken officials who later were suspended from their jobs
but something is amiss amid the majesty of nepal's mountains. half the 17 million residents live in poverty, only 2 percent have sanitary sewage disposal and more than 70 percent are without safe drinking water
a nepalese born today has an average life expectancy of 47 years
some blame lack of progress on meager resources. some blame the country's unusual government, under which political parties are banned
but not even massive foreign aid _ $500 million this year _ makes much dent in nepal's troubles
not all the statistics are depressing. life expectancy at birth is up from 38 years in 1960. some 70,000 nepalese students are in college. tourism grew 23 percent last year, to 223,000 visitors
but the population is expected to jump to 24 million by the year 2000, and food production can't match it. world bank figures show nepal's farms met all demands for food in 1960 but now meet only 86 percent of the nation's needs
despite efforts to add jobs, one-fifth of the people have 60 percent of the private income. the bottom fifth has less than 5 percent. per capita annual income is $160
harkha gurung, a former cabinet minister, said only about 60 percent of foreign aid that is offered can actually be used because much of the population lives in the so-called middle hills, which are largely inaccessible
shortage of food and surplus of population has always been a problem in the middle hills,'' gurung said. ``now they have reached a saturation point. they can't support any more people.''
gurung, educated as a geographer, said nepal's landlocked position between india and china also blocks development. the country's best untapped resource is hydroelectricity from its rivers, but the only possible customer is its huge southern neighbor, india
india also has come to dominate nepal's two growth industries, tourism and garment making. one foreign observer said indians ``either own or control much of the cash economy'' of the country
but no one doubts the authority of the king
in nepal, the king is advised by the rastriya panchayat, or non-partisan parliament. political parties were outlawed in 1961. the parliament has 112 elected members and 28 appointed by the king, with the prime minister chosen by the members
nav raj subedi, the panchayat chairman, noted no king has found it necessary to veto a law passed by parliament. he insisted dissent was welcome, but added that criticizing the partyless system was not allowed
of the dozen officials suspended last year, one was a member of parliament who demanded a return of political parties and 11 others were local officials who boycotted national day ceremonies last december
a strike against the suspensions was called in january by the outlawed nepalese congress party, but party officials say the action flopped when 250 organizers were arrested. they were later freed
the punishment can be more severe. a report last november by the human rights organization amnesty international said up to 100 political prisoners are in jail at any given time, with some kept tied or caged as a means of torture
even more staunchly forbidden is criticism of the king. one leader in an outlawed party railed against nepal's political system, but turned suddenly thoughtful when asked about the monarch
our law says we can't speak anything against the king, so we don't say anything against the king,'' he said
sikh militants saturday sneaked into an indian farmhouse and killed five members of a sikh family as they slept, including a 2-year-old girl, police said
the killings brought to 16 the number of people believed killed by sikh extremists during the past two days in india's northern punjab state, police and news reports said
at least 13 of the victims were sikhs. this year, 486 killings have been blamed on sikh militants fighting for a separate homeland in punjab
balbir singh, a farmer, and four members of his family were shot and killed early saturday at butt village 17 miles north of the sikh holy city of amritsar, police said
the other victims were his wife, son, daughter-in-law and 2-year-old granddaughter. izhar alam, amritsar district police chief, said the victims were killed as they slept
the motive for the killings was not known, but the militants have in the past killed fellow sikhs who do not support their separatist campaign
the united news of india said at least six other sikhs were killed in the district on friday night. three farmers were shot and killed in separate attacks and the bodies of three sikhs were found at manda village
two unidentified bodies were found in nearby janti village, the news agency said
the body of a factory guard was found at bawa village, also in amritsar district
in neighboring jalandhar district, a farmer, amrik singh, was shot and killed friday night, uni said. a sikh woman, identified as gurdial kaur, was killed friday when militants opened fire at a gathering in ludhiana district in central punjab, the news agency said
at least 1,000 people were killed last year in the separatist camapign, which has gone on four years. sikhs form just 2 percent of india's 800 million people but comprise a majority in punjab state
the militants claim that sikhs are discriminated against by the majority hindu community, who form 80 percent of india's population
president li xiannian on saturday accused the dalai lama, exiled spiritual leader of tibetan buddhists, of trying to undermine the national unity of china
we have respect for the dalai lama, but he does not respect china, his motherland,'' li told a delegation from the nepalese parliament. ``he is actually trying to split the country up.''
li's remarks, carried by the official xinhua news agency, were among the first by a senior chinese official criticizing the dalai lama following bloody anti-chinese riots in the tibetan capital of lhasa on march 5
the xinhua report did not say whether li directly linked the dalai lama, who lives in exile in northern india, to the riots. china blamed followers of the dalai lama for instigating similar pro-independence disturbances in lhasa last september and october
li told the nepalese visitors that the principle of unity rather than ``crude tactics'' must be used to settle problems concerning religion or nationality
the crude and leftist policies formulated during the cultural revolution have long since been corrected. the central authorities have adopted a policy of unity and mutual help. another important principle is that the more than 50 nationalities in china should be united,'' he said
during the 1966-76 cultural revolution, leftists destroyed tibetan temples and suppressed the languages and customs of tibetans and other minority groups. although beijing has tried to make amends by restoring temples and promoting local autonomy, resentment against the chinese remains strong
the dalai lama fled to india with about 100,000 followers after an unsuccessful uprising against chinese troops in 1959. he is still widely revered in tibet
china says one policeman was killed during the march 5 riots, which were led by monks shouting slogans in support of the dalai lama and independence. unconfirmed reports from western travelers in lhasa have put the death toll much higher, with one traveler quoting tibetans as saying 21 tibetans and three police died in the clash
there have also been widespread reports of mass arrests, but china's official media have given no figures
the dalai lama, following the march 5 disturbances, issued a statement praising the courage of tibetans who stood up to chinese rule and said that ``even in the face of mounting tibetan resentment the chinese leadership still fails to understand the true aspirations of the tibetan people.''
he also appealed to tibetans to restrain from violence
li thanked the nepalese delegation for making it possible for 10,000 tibetans to live in nepal, and nepalese parliament chairman navraj subedi said the nepalese government will never allow those tibetans to do anything harmful to china, xinhua reported
at their first encounter, soviet defense minister dmitri yazov reminded the senior pentagon officials he met last week of a giant kodiak bear _ big, rough and gruff, with distinctive russian features
he's a real ground-thumper, a real soviet infantry officer,'' one senior u.s. official said after defense secretary frank carlucci and his aides dined with yazov. ``he seemed a little ill at ease, not exactly cut out for this type of diplomacy.''
but that view of yazov changed wednesday, during the first business meeting ever conducted between the defense secretaries of the superpowers. it was held in a small conference room at the u.s. embassy in the swiss capital of bern
yazov, 64, showed the americans why kremlin leader mikhail gorbachev summoned the four-star general back from his command assignment in the far east last may and appointed him defense minister him over the heads of more senior candidates
yazov appears committed to the task of convincing a skeptical soviet officer corps of the need for economic reforms. soviet advocates argue reforms may cut defense spending at first, but could lead to technological progress that will ultimately benefit the red army
they are desperate for `detente 2,''' said a u.s. official, explaining the soviet rationale for the yazov-carlucci meeting. ``so they they trotted out their big, burly defense minister and said, `look. he's a teddy bear.' they wanted to convince us that they are benign.''
yazov, wearing a business suit instead of his uniform, broke the ice by noting how small the room was and recalling a russian saying that, ``although we have close quarters, we shouldn't quarrel.''
everyone got a laugh out of that,'' said pentagon spokesman dan howard. and although the talks weaved through a minefield of explosive east-west issues, they remained, in carlucci's words, ``cordial and businesslike.''
yazov delivered major statements from notes, but for the most part spoke off the cuff, competently arguing the kremlin position on doctrine, force levels and tricky regional issues such as afghanistan and nicaragua. he had the ability to defuse tense moments with humor, when it suited him. or start an argument, when he wanted
on wednesday afternoon, said a u.s. offical, yazov ``pulled out a map showing u.s. bases and fleets, and said, `you see how the united states has us surrounded.'''
carlucci responded by ``referring to cuba and nicaragua, and said, `you have got a beachhead yourselves,'' said a senior pentagon official, who like others interviewed, spoke on condition of anonymity
the three-day session was valuable for u.s. analysts. american policymakers had already gotten a picture of yazov based on his meetings with the u.s. ambassador to moscow, jack matlock. the americans who met yazov were particularly interested in the aides he brought with him
we have never seen most of these guys before,'' except for col. gen. nikolai chervov, the top soviet military spokesmen on arms control, said a veteran american on the team
the americans included defense and state department kremlin-watchers as well as the top white house adviser on soviet affairs, former senior cia analyst fritz ermath
carlucci and yazov did 90 percent of the talking, but they appeared to make little headway in resolving such fundamental disputes as who has the larger military
to settle the argument, carlucci said at one point, ``the simple thing would be to publish your military budget.''
yazov said, `well, it isn't all in one piece. it's as difficult for us as for you''' to determine the exact level of soviet defense spending, recounted a senior u.s. official
the americans pursued the point in less formal moments, and were convinced that the soviets ``really didn't know the size of the budget or everything that was going on in their military establishment,'' said another u.s. official
and yazov didn't know everything his forces are doing
at one point, he complained about our ships collecting electronic intelligence off their coast,'' said a senior u.s. official
carlucci responded that ``your spy ships are three miles off our coast,'' just beyond the territorial limit, ``and they are welcome there.''
yazov turned to an admiral (in the soviet delegation), and said, `is that right?' and the admiral said, `yeah, they're there,''' said the u.s. official
yazov kept his cool during tense moments, and showed no offense when carlucci demanded an apology for the fatal shooting, by a soviet soldier, of u.s. army major arthur d. nicholson in east germany three years ago. yazov did not apologize, but promised to re-examine the event
editor's note: bryan brumley, who was an associated press correspondent in moscow during the eras of leonid brezhnev and yuri andropov, covered the carlucci-yazov talks in bern. minister says</head>
gen. manuel antonio noriega could be granted political asylum in france or spain if he is forced to relinquish his power in panama, prime minister felipe gonzalez said saturday
gonzalez spoke to reporters just before beginning a meeting with french president francois mitterrand at this national park on spain's southern atlantic coast
gonzalez didn't elaborate on his statement, and mitterrand did not speak to reporters
in paris, the french foreign ministry said it had no comment on whether france was prepared to offer asylum to noriega
gonzalez reiterated an offer made last week. spain said it would be willing to admit noriega, chief of the panamanian military and the country's de facto leader, provided he requested asylum and the united states agreed not to seek his extradition on drug trafficking charges
noriega has denied the charges
the noriega-dominated national assembly ousted panama's civilian president, eric arturo delvalle, on feb. 25 after delvalle ordered noriega to step down from his post. murder</head>
terry donald hudson was no different from a lot of the young men who cruised the streets and drive-in restaurants of north chattanooga in 1957
the 24-year-old liked souped-up cars and sometimes ran moonshine, but then bootlegging wasn't uncommon in southeast tennessee
and when hudson was gunned down in his car on july 20, 1957, investigators thought he died as the result of a ``corn liquor'' feud
at the same time bobby hoppe was 22, the best football player in town. the all-state halfback was preparing for his senior year at auburn university and later he played briefly for the san francisco 49ers
so people were shocked when hoppe, now athletic director at chattanooga state technical community college, was charged this month with first-degree murder in the 30-year-old slaying
authorities say it was police detective richard heck, who was just 5 at the time of the killing, who figured out what led to hudson's death
dick has a good case,'' said maj. john taylor, head of the homicide squad. ``he's done an exceptional job on this.''
heck reopened the case 14 months ago after he and detective steve angel were appointed to a special squad to investigate unsolved murders
at a meeting of families and friends of murder victims, a counseling group, heck met hudson's mother, georgia
she realized we had other, more recent cases to work on,'' said heck. ``but she said there hadn't been a day go by in 30 years that she hadn't thought of her son's murder.''
heck refuses to discuss details, except to say that he has obtained new evidence. much of his basic information was gleaned through news clippings at the public library, followed by interviews with at least 45 people
hudson was not a stranger to police. on the previous monday, he had been arrested for allegedly driving a ``liquor car'' that overturned during a chase and was charged with transporting untaxed liquor
he had some run-ins with them, but not too bad,'' mrs. hudson said in a recent interview. ``he'd go racing a lot. he was good at it. of course, i didn't approve. i was afraid he'd get hurt.''
moonshine was really the big thing,'' said taylor. ``this is kind of the bible belt. we got churches on every corner, but people drink liquor, too
to some young men then ... this was an exciting life, driving a whiskey car. it was an adventure. somebody who transported liquor and drove a hot car was kind of a hero to some people.''
hudson was about a block from his parents' house when someone pulled beside him and fired a .410-gauge shotgun through the passenger window of his car, hitting him in the head
investigators suspected a moonshine connection
but then they learned that hudson had received a threatening call two weeks earlier warning him to stay away from a woman. they talked to joan hoppe voiles, a former girlfriend with whom he had recently broken up. mrs. voiles, a widow with a child, was bobby hoppe's older sister
it was a hot and cold relationship,'' said taylor. ``they had their squabbles but they ended up getting back together most of the time.''
mrs. hudson agreed that her son's romance with mrs. voiles was stormy
they said he beat her up, but i don't think so. she could beat him up,'' said mrs. hudson. ``i don't know. she was bigger than he was. ... he was just a little guy.''
heck acknowledged that both mrs. voiles and hoppe refused to talk with him. hoppe and three other witnesses invoked their fifth amendment right against self-incrimination at a coroner's inquest after hudson's death
mrs. hudson said she felt authorities in 1957 ``didn't seem to be interested'' in pursuing the case. but heck said, ``the best i can tell, i don't think they had enough information at the time to make an arrest.''
hoppe has declined to talk to reporters on the advice of his attorney
free on $7,500 bond, he is scheduled to stand trial june 21, although his attorney, leroy phillips, has indicated he may challenge the case because of the long delay in bringing charges
if hoppe is convicted, he can only be sentenced to 20 years to life in prison, because the state's 1957 death penalty law was later declared unconstitutional. this morning, picking up 5th graf pvs, ``the jurors ....''</note>
jurors deliberating the fate of murder defendant robert chambers jr. for a second day asked to hear and see again some of the evidence and testimony presented at the 11-week trial, but did not reach a verdict
chambers, 21, is charged with second-degree murder in the strangulation of jennifer levin, 18, during an early morning tryst in central park on aug. 26, 1986
on friday, forewoman debra cavanaugh sent justice howard bell a note from jurors at 2 p.m., expressing the desire to deliberate until 8 p.m. however, the judge cut deliberations off at 6:30 p.m., and a few of the jurors seemed surprised by bell's move
the jurors, who resumed deliberations nearly an hour late today, at 11:20 a.m., have spent 15{ hours discussing the case. chambers, his family and lawyers were in the courtroom this morning awaiting any word
the jurors also asked the judge for the transcript of a taped telephone conversation between defense lawyer jack litman and dr. werner spitz, the chief medical examiner of detroit who was the prosecution's chief witness
however, the transcript had not been put into evidence and was therefore not available to jurors. in the discussion, litman sought to recruit spitz as a defense witness and spitz declined. litman taped the call
spitz testified for the prosecution that he believed chambers killed miss levin by using her blouse to strangle her. chambers has contended he killed her accidentally during sex. he said he was reacting to the pain caused when she squeezed his genitals
during the afternoon friday, jurors also asked for the following: an enlarged picture of the crime scene; an x-ray of chambers' right hand, showing a fractured fifth metacarpal; and a reading of the testimony of dr. allan garber, a resident physician at bronx lebanon hospital
garber, who jogged by while chambers and levin were under a tree in central park, testified that he saw a white male sitting astride another person under a tree 30 to 40 feet off the park's east drive. he testified that he encountered the same scene 15 to 20 minutes later, and assumed the people he saw were having sex
jurors also asked friday to see evidence they had seen on thursday _ miss levin's clothing and lipstick case, smaller pictures of the crime scene, photos of miss levin at the bar she left with chambers and chambers' written statement to the police
the jurors, who can also convict chambers of manslaughter or criminally negligent homicide, were given all the material they requested, with the exception of the transcript not entered into evidence
america's next national head count isn't until 1990, but the census bureau's dress rehearsal already is underway
the census tests are being conducted in st. louis, and in east central missouri and eastern washington state
forms are being mailed to most residents of these areas, as was done in 1970 and 1980, although census takers will visit households in some sparsely settled areas. the effort is expected to continue into the summer
the special counts are designed to be as much as possible like the effort planned for 1990, in order to get an understanding of what problems will develop before the work is begun nationwide, census director john g. keane said
earlier tests were conducted in parts of new jersey, florida, mississippi and california. questions on the forms, while similar to those asked in the past, were developed in a series of more than 100 public meetings over the last few years
for the woman who wants that `dressed to kill' look, fashion accessories that conceal even the bulkiest firearm are being modeled at the bing bang boom gun show this weekend
this could only happen in miami,'' said ron campos, who spent several hours friday testing some of the weapons at the radisson centre show. ``where else would you find a fashion show on how to wear a concealed weapon?''
the purpose of friday's runway show and fashion displays throughout the weekend is to attract women into the gun market, said promoter ted walker, who is also spokesman for the shotgun news, a nebraska trade magazine for gun enthusiasts
what we're trying to do is show the contemporary woman that she can carry a concealed weapon and still look good,'' he said
one model wore a hair bow with a holster in it. others displayed gun-concealing purses and bras
cindy mccall modeled several lines of handbags that hide a pistol in a secret compartment
if you are accosted, she said, all you need to do is slip your hand through the velcro panel in the back of the purse, grab the trigger and blast. the handbag is destroyed, but what is a $100 accessory when your life is at stake?
until i found these handbags, i would not carry a weapon with me,'' ms. mccall said. ``when i found these, i said to myself, `somebody finally did something that makes sense for women.'''
the fashion show was narrated by charlene meriedy, who described a horizontal shoulder holster as ``the perfect accessory for the business women of the '80s.'' the holster is generally worn under a jacket
some 75 firearms fans applauded as the models walked by
some of the gun dealers went along with the theme of the fashion show by offering what they called ``sweetheart specials,'' such as a .22-caliber jennings pistol that can fit readily into a purse. murder</head>
terry donald hudson was no different from a lot of the young men who cruised the streets and drive-in restaurants of north chattanooga in 1957
the 24-year-old liked souped-up cars and sometimes ran moonshine, but then bootlegging wasn't uncommon in southeast tennessee
and when hudson was gunned down in his car on july 20, 1957, investigators thought he died as the result of a ``corn liquor'' feud
at the same time bobby hoppe was 22, the best football player in town. the all-state halfback was preparing for his senior year at auburn university and later he played briefly for the san francisco 49ers
so people were shocked when hoppe, now athletic director at chattanooga state technical community college, was charged this month with first-degree murder in the 30-year-old slaying
authorities say it was police detective richard heck, who was just 5 at the time of the killing, who figured out what led to hudson's death
dick has a good case,'' said maj. john taylor, head of the homicide squad. ``he's done an exceptional job on this.''
heck reopened the case 14 months ago after he and detective steve angel were appointed to a special squad to investigate unsolved murders
at a meeting of families and friends of murder victims, a counseling group, heck met hudson's mother, georgia
she realized we had other, more recent cases to work on,'' said heck. ``but she said there hadn't been a day go by in 30 years that she hadn't thought of her son's murder.''
heck refuses to discuss details, except to say that he has obtained new evidence. much of his basic information was gleaned through news clippings at the public library, followed by interviews with at least 45 people
hudson was not a stranger to police. on the previous monday, he had been arrested for allegedly driving a ``liquor car'' that overturned during a chase and was charged with transporting untaxed liquor
he had some run-ins with them, but not too bad,'' mrs. hudson said in a recent interview. ``he'd go racing a lot. he was good at it. of course, i didn't approve. i was afraid he'd get hurt.''
moonshine was really the big thing,'' said taylor. ``this is kind of the bible belt. we got churches on every corner, but people drink liquor, too
to some young men then ... this was an exciting life, driving a whiskey car. it was an adventure. somebody who transported liquor and drove a hot car was kind of a hero to some people.''
hudson was about a block from his parents' house when someone pulled beside him and fired a .410-gauge shotgun through the passenger window of his car, hitting him in the head
investigators suspected a moonshine connection
but then they learned that hudson had received a threatening call two weeks earlier warning him to stay away from a woman. they talked to joan hoppe voiles, a former girlfriend with whom he had recently broken up. mrs. voiles, a widow with a child, was bobby hoppe's older sister
it was a hot and cold relationship,'' said taylor. ``they had their squabbles but they ended up getting back together most of the time.''
mrs. hudson agreed that her son's romance with mrs. voiles was stormy
they said he beat her up, but i don't think so. she could beat him up,'' said mrs. hudson. ``i don't know. she was bigger than he was. ... he was just a little guy.''
heck acknowledged that both mrs. voiles and hoppe refused to talk with him. hoppe and three other witnesses invoked their fifth amendment right against self-incrimination at a coroner's inquest after hudson's death
mrs. hudson said she felt authorities in 1957 ``didn't seem to be interested'' in pursuing the case. but heck said, ``the best i can tell, i don't think they had enough information at the time to make an arrest.''
hoppe has declined to talk to reporters on the advice of his attorney
free on $7,500 bond, he is scheduled to stand trial june 21, although his attorney, leroy phillips, has indicated he may challenge the case because of the long delay in bringing charges
if hoppe is convicted, he can only be sentenced to 20 years to life in prison, because the state's 1957 death penalty law was later declared unconstitutional
justice department officials are encouraging federal, state and local prosecution of drug users as an effective way to reduce demand for cocaine, marijuana and other illegal substances
among the efforts being touted by department officials:
_a border-crossing drug arrest program spearheaded by the u.s. attorney's office in san diego, calif., is resulting in 10 to 20 drug-carrying motorists a week being arrested by u.s. customs service agents and charged with possession under federal drug laws
_a recently enacted new jersey law revokes the licenses of drivers arrested with drugs in their cars. also their cars are confiscated and they must perform at least 100 hours of public service work in addition to facing possible conviction for possession, which carries a jail term and a fine
the national drug policy board, a cabinet-level group chaired by attorney general edwin meese iii, thursday approved a plan under which authorities will arrest and prosecute anyone caught entering the country with illegal drugs, no matter how small the amount
the idea of cracking down on users isn't a new one at the federal level. it has been included in previous reagan administration anti-drug strategies. but the renewed emphasis on it is recognition that ``we need to focus on the demand for drugs,'' a justice department official said last week, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``we're going to hammer this thing into specific ideas and programs.''
arresting users at the federal level isn't expected to take up a significant portion of resources because they will be ``picked off the fringes'' of cocaine dealing operations and major drug distribution rings already under investigation, says assistant attorney general william weld, head of the justice department's criminal division
weld said the approach will reinforce the point that ``there's no such thing as recreational drug use.''
the border-crossing drug-arrest program in san diego being pushed by u.s. attorney peter nunez caught 900 people last year, most of whom were permitted to plead guilty to a misdemeanor. they avoided jail time but paid steep fines and many of them were first offenders now saddled with criminal records
i think demand for drugs is the problem, not supply,'' says peter nunez, the u.s. attorney in san diego. ``we're trying to figure out a way to get the message across to the users that they are the problem and there are adverse consequences.''
justice department officials regard some of the demand-side programs in place in new jersey under a recently enacted anti-drug law as models that ought to be duplicated elsewhere
a new jersey drug prevention education fund is financed with drug users' fines. dealers get extra prison time for selling near schools. and the law's provisions yanking licenses and confiscating cars of those in possession of drugs strikes terror in the hearts of high school students
new jersey attorney general cary edwards says students' eyes glaze over when he warns them they could go to jail for drug use, an unlikely outcome for young first offenders. but they snap to attention when he tells them they won't be able to drive
we have to teach the marginal users not to be users any way we can,'' says edwards. ``if society believes that law enforcement can stop drug distribution, they're crazy. we have to dry the market up.''
police say bleached bones uncovered in the desert near the site where the bodies of five young women were found buried are those of a woman who had a history of drug and prostitution arrests
using dental records, forensic experts friday identified the woman as ivy susanna williams, 23, an el paso resident who was arrested a year ago on charges of prostitution and heroin possession
ms. williams, who police say frequently moved from motel to motel, was never reported missing
homicide detectives investigating the deaths of the other five women are ``still trying to piece together her (ms. williams') activities,'' said police spokesman sgt. john loy
police dogs searched the desert area around ms. williams' grave, but found nothing friday
a couple collecting aluminum cans stumbled on the exposed bones monday and reported their find to police
authorities do not know when or how ms. williams died, loy said. the fact that she wore braces simplified identifying her remains, he said
the five women whose bodies were found last fall have been identified as karen baker, 20; maria rosa casio, 24; angelica frausto, 17; dawn smith, 14; and desiree wheatley, 15. they disappeared between june and august 1987. all were el paso residents except ms. casio, who was from the dallas suburb of addison
police have said the deaths could be the work of a serial killer
each of the six bodies has been found near dirt trails and behind two or three creosote bushes in an area on the outskirts of el paso, about 18 miles northeast of downtown
ms. williams was jailed april 25, 1987, on a charge of possession of heroin and was released on $3,000 bond, according to el paso county jail records
on march 18, 1987, ms. williams was charged with prostitution and solicitation of a beverage and was released from jail after paying $500 bail, according to jail records
county clerk's records also indicate ms. williams had cases pending from sept. 2, 1986, on charges of prostitution and possession of marijuana
strange and bizarre things, from witchdoctor consultants to a beer shortage brought on by frantic politicking, have marked the whirlwind campaign leading to monday's nationwide elections
candidates plied voters with everything from roasted goat to dancing troupes and gallons of brew. plenty of hopefuls turned to that old political standby: the fists of their supporters
one candidate reportedly hired a witchdoctor to help him win, but the medicine man died while preparing his lucky charms
this eastern african nation's traditially rowdy politicking took an especially raucous turn this year with scrapping of secret ballots in preliminary voting and only six weeks to campaign
the 200-member parliament is a rubber-stamp body, but candidates campaign zealously anyway. though subservient to the president, parliamentarians have clout in their home constituencies. they're also courted by merchants and enjoy benefits like free housing and cars
at stake are 128 parliamentary seats and hundreds of municipal jobs. it will be the fifth general election since kenya gained independence from britain in 1963. elections are generally held every five years
candidates were pared down in a feb. 22 primary election. for the first time, votes were tallied as voters stood in line behind the candidate of their choice, or a picture of the candidate
the government adopted the system last year, saying it would end voting abuses such as stuffing ballot boxes. but religious leaders and legal groups argued it would lead to intimidation of voters
the general election is by secret ballot. it's open to all 5.6 million registered voters among kenya's population of 22 million
under kenyan law, the president must be a member of parliament, and president daniel arap moi returned unopposed to parliament and his job as head of state after preliminary voting. he announced the election dates feb. 5
since the campaigning began, nairobi's three english-language newspapers have carried daily accounts of fist fights, heckling, alleged kidnappings of candidates and riot police quelling battles between stone-throwing supporters of rival candidates
the kenya times said one unidentified parliamentary contender resorted to a witchdoctor
the candidate is alleged to have taken the witchdoctor to his home ... where he prepared some charms that would bring the candidate good luck,'' said kenya times. ``however the witchdoctor, known as madego mwarojo, died in the process of preparing the charms.''
most parliamentary hopefuls instead charm voters with piles of promises, gobs of roasted goat or beef and a flood of beer
kenya breweries credited a sales increase of more than 10 percent over a year ago and a chronic beer shortage to the campaigning. working overtime, the brewery one recent weekend distributed 12 million bottles of beer, and it wasn't enough
election law sets a campaign budget ceiling of $2,400, but the law has gone unenforced
rallies are the most popular form of talking to voters, but candidates sometimes take advantage of any gathering to win support
in some districts, local administrators have been forced to ban weddings, discos and politicking in bars until after polling. in other areas, candidates and their agents have been barred from addressing church services, including funerals
officials censor candidates' speeches for exaggerated promises or insinuations that anyone is anti-government. troupes of dancers normally accompany candidates, along with busloads of placard-carrying supporters
but even signs were banned at some rallies this year after supporters used them to club rivals. quote.</note>
president reagan today said congress caused the nicaraguan border crossing into honduras by cutting off aid to the contra rebels
in his weekly radio address, the president also said that he sent u.s. troops to honduras to show ``the seriousness with which we view the situation.''
there was a nice celebration of st. patrick's day up on capitol hill this week, but believe me, that wasn't the only reason congress knew i had my irish up,'' the president said
just as the heroic efforts of the democratic resistance have forced the communists to cut back on their aggression abroad and to make peace concessions, the congress, in a close vote, decided to cut off aid to the freedom fighters,'' reagan said
since the congress rejected our package of assistance for those fighting for freedom in nicaragua, the communist dictators have done exactly as we predicted,'' he said. ``instead of giving peace a chance, the aid cutoff is giving the communist dictators a chance.''
instead of negotiating for a cease-fire, they have launched a major military assault on the weakened contras, invading democratic honduras in the process.''
reagan said the administration's policy has been to ``let the people of nicaragua win back their freedom and their independence from the soviet union on their own _ to do this without having to commit american military personnel.''
but now, because of congress' aid cutoff last month, the sandinistas have mounted their major cross-border incursion into honduras,'' he said
the president said he ordered u.s. troops to honduras on wednesday at the request of hondurasn president jose azcona ``to conduct an emergency readiness exercise.''
our purpose is to send a signal to the governments and peoples of central america about the seriousness with which we view the situation,'' he said
meanwhile an administration source said the united states is likely to approve a honduran request for help in ferrying honduran troops to the scene of their battle with the sandinista forces
other u.s. officials said the administration's response to the request will probably come this weekend
the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the government of honduras asked for u.s. help friday in transporting an undisclosed number of troops to an area within about 20 miles of the nicaraguan border
the cable came in to the state department today, but no decision has been made as yet,'' said an official who asked not to be identified
but another official said: ``i can't imagine that we would turn it down. we've done it before.''
the sources said they would be following similar rules to those used in december l986, when 40 u.s. helicopters took 700 honduran troops and equipment to the nicaraguan border
rules called for u.s. personnel and equipment to stay well away from the scene of fighting to ensure they were not exposed to hostile fire, and no americans became involved in combat
all 3,200 of the u.s. troops ordered to honduras on wednesday by president reagan had been airlifted into palmerola air base near tegucigalpa, the honduran capital, by friday
the request for the helicopters came the same day white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. said the administration would ``most carefully'' consider any request by honduran president jose azcona for use of u.s. troops in combat
baker was asked in a television interview how reagan would respond if azcona asked him to commit u.s. troops to battle to repel nicaraguan forces
no such request has been received,'' baker said. ``i do not believe such a request will be received. but were it received, to answer your hypothetical question ... it would be most carefully considered and most deliberately considered.''
baker was interviewed on the syndicated television program, ``john mclaughlin's one on one,'' taped for broadcast over the weekend
meanwhile, sen. mark o. hatfield of oregon, a leading republican critic of administration military policies, introduced legislation barring the president from sending the troops into action without congressional approval
sending the troops in the first place, hatfield said, was just ``matching stupidity with stupidity.''
at the same time a bipartisan group of 11 senators proposed a $48 million package of new aid to rebels fighting nicaragua's marxist-led government. the package would include renewed authority for the central intelligence agency to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
sponsors of the aid proposal said they hoped it would revive negotiations in congress and with the administration on an aid package that could be quickly enacted to replace supplies lost or expended during the past week's heavy fighting along the nicaraguan-honduran border
sen. nancy kassebaum, r-kan., called the proposal ``a common-sense, moderate and reasoned approach'' and said it would strengthen the rebels as they enter direct cease-fire talks with the managua regime scheduled for monday
the proposal would use $48 million in unspent pentagon money to buy food, clothing, shelter and medical supplies, and transport it to troops in the field over the next year. about $3 million of that amount would go for communications gear
it would allow the cia to airdrop ammunition and weapons previously stockpiled by the rebels to troops in the field. sen. david boren, d-okla, chairman of the senate intelligence committee, said the rebels still have $2 million to $5 million worth of undelivered supplies, about half of them lethal
it would give reagan the right to hold a quick, guaranteed vote in congress on any request for further military aid under certain conditions if the peace talks between the sandinistas and contras break down. the bill also would promise long-term economic aid for the region once political stability is restored
action on further aid for the rebels has been stalled since march 3, when the house narrowly rejected a $30 million package of purely humanitarian aid
the senators who proposed the aid package included seven republicans and four democrats. they are boren; lloyd bentsen, d-texas; bob graham, d-fla., sam nunn, d-ga.; richard lugar, r-ind., daniel evans, r-wash., kassebaum, john mccain, r-ariz.; phil gramm, r-texas; mitch mcconnell, r-ky., and frank murkowski, r-alaska
gov. evan mecham's supporters sang an optimistic ``when evan comes marching home again'' outside the arizona capitol while the governor, fighting for his political life, was drawing mixed reviews as star witness at his impeachment trial
i think he hurt himself quite a bit,'' said democratic sen. jesus ``chuey'' higuera after mecham concluded three days of testimony by taking back an accusation that his former security chief stole documents
i did not have the proof and i do not have the proof now,'' mecham conceded when pressed by senators for the basis of his accusations against department of public safety lt. beau johnson
it looks bad,'' higuera said of mecham's performance. ``it looks bad any time anyone gets up there and doesn't tell the truth.''
but the republican governor's lawyer, jerris leonard, had a different view
i think he did a very good job. he came out direct and sincere,'' said leonard. ``the thrust is you've got a man who simply wasn't being told what the story was, assuming the story is true.''
the allegation of document theft came up thursday, when mecham testified that he had ``had complete confirmation that he (johnson) was the one'' who took a report on the dps from an aide's desk and turned it over to the dps. mecham testified that he had an ``informer'' within dps
johnson denied taking the report, and the dps deputy director, lt. col. gary phelps, told senators friday it actually was taken by mecham aide lee watkins, the former state prison construction chief
mecham, the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades, is charged with obstruction of justice, concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
testimony so far has involved only the first charge. the trial is expected to turn to the second allegation this week
the obstruction charge centers on an alleged death threat within mecham's administration and an allegation that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of the threat
mecham, 63, gave this account of the crucial events of nov. 12, 1987: ``two somewhat excitable people had a verbal exchange and somewhere along the line there were those who determined they should make something out of it. it's a total manufactured thing.''
many other witnesses' memories were significantly different
peggy griffith, the mecham loyalist who first reported the alleged threat, said watkins made derogatory comments to her about mecham's former close adviser, donna carlson, who was about to testify before a grand jury investigating mecham's campaign finances
he said , `a lot of the governor's friends are angry with her (ms. carlson) and if she doesn't shut her ... mouth, she is going to take a long boat ride,'' mrs. griffith recalled
mrs. griffith said she became ``extremely alarmed,'' tried to see the governor, alerted his security force and eventually called mecham at home. she knew, she said, that watkins had a prison record and a history of violent incidents and she took his words seriously. he was convicted at the age of 19 of a post office robbery and was convicted of assault in 1966
johnson testified he clearly told the governor that a potential felony had been committed: tampering with a grand jury witness
mecham says he heard no such details, didn't take the matter seriously and accepted the evaluation of an ally, max hawkins, that the incident was ``just a bunch of hot air and it would go away.''
if i'd have had any idea or anybody would have told me ... that anyone was in danger, i would have been the first one there to see that was taken care of,'' mecham said
it would take a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate to convict mecham and remove him from office. the senators could then take another vote and bar him from holding state office again
even if he is acquitted, mecham faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges he concealed the $350,000 loan and a may 17 recall election
soviet dissident herman obukhov flew from the soviet union to london on saturday where he was greeted at heathrow airport by british students who campaigned on his behalf
students from lancing college near the southern england seaside resort of brighton bombarded soviet authorities with more than 2,000 letters, telexes and postcards on behalf of the 38-year-old medical engineer from leningrad
the students, members of amnesty international, the worldwide human rights group, also wrote letters of support to obukhov and his family
obukhov was sentenced in 1981 to four years hard labor in a siberian prison camp, followed by two years of internal exile in eastern siberia
he was arrested in 1980 while trying to give a western journalist the manuscript of his book, ``extinguished dawn,'' which criticized soviet medical policy, particularly the use of drugs to subdue political prisoners
my first emotion is that a sweet dream has come true,'' he told reporters at heathrow. ``i have waited for this moment nearly half my life. when i finished my military service 16 years ago i knew somehow i must get out.''
obukhov was forced to leave his wife irina behind in the soviet union. the couple were married while he was in prison but according to soviet law, the marriage has been annulled because obukhov gave up his soviet citizenship to obtain an exit visa
during his exile, obukhov taught himself english by reading a novel by evelyn waugh, unaware the author once attended lancing college
obukhov said he will stay at lancing college while he decides his future plans
swedish police detained a british television crew for three hours and seized film they said might contain pictures of classified areas at a weapons factory, police said saturday
the three britons were detained friday night after workers saw them filming outside sweden's arms manufacturing bofors' plant at karlskoga, 180 miles northwest of here
a police spokesman at karlskoga, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the men worked for yorkshire television, an independent production company. he declined to give their names
we do not suspect that they were spying. they are well-behaved fellows ... and they are allowed to leave the country any time.''
but they may have violated a law which forbids filming such installations as an arms factory,'' he said. ``we will know when we have developed their film.''
the swedish government has been investigating bofors ordinance company because it allegedly exported weapons to countries in volatile areas, an act forbidden under neutral sweden's arms export laws
the company, a subsidiary of nobel sweden industries, also has drawn attention after allegations of extensive bribing in connection with a major artillery deal with india
a west german music student sought in the shooting deaths of two policemen at frankfurt airport has been arrested in the netherlands, west german authorities said saturday
hans-juergen foerster, spokesman for the federal prosecutor's office in karlsruhe, said frank hoffmann, 24, was arrested in amsterdam on friday
foerster declined to give details and it was not known if hoffmann had been brought to west germany. west german authorities had offered a $62,500 award for information leading to his capture
hoffmann was sought in connection with the killing of two policemen during an environmentalist demonstration near frankfurt airport last november. two other officers were injured
the shooting of the two officers prompted authorities to seek tougher demonstration laws, and the government later adopted regulations that ban protesters from wearing masks
authorities said the shots at the airport protest came from a group of masked demonstrators
a suspect, andreas eichler, was arrested shortly after the killings with the murder weapon in his possession. he has denied firing the fatal shots and claimed that hoffmann gave him the gun after the shooting
authorities say both men belonged to a leftist group that frequently took part in demonstrations at the airport by environmentalists protesting the use of a new runway
here is a chronology of diplomatic incidents and outbreaks of violence this year that have turned northern ireland into a flashpoint and soured anglo-irish relations after two years of relative harmony
jan. 25: the british government admits attempts were made to obstruct justice in the case of northern ireland policemen involved in the 1982 killing of six catholics, five of them unarmed ira guerrillas. nonetheless, the government says, there will be no prosecutions. ireland says britain's attorney general ought to be fired
jan. 28: a british court rejects an appeal by six irishmen serving life sentences for planting bombs that killed 21 people in 1974 in the worst terrorist attack ever in mainland britain. the irish government says the evidence suggests they are innocent
feb. 16: britain announces its tough prevention of terrorism act, hitherto renewable annually, will be made permanent. ireland, which regards the law as discriminatory toward irish nationals, protests
feb. 21: a british soldier shoots and kills an unarmed irish republican army supporter as he walks through a checkpoint on the ireland-northern ireland border. the soldier claims it was an accident and is charged with manslaughter. ireland, in a calculated slight to britain, announces it will conduct its own investigation
feb. 23: the army discloses that the only soldier ever sentenced to life imprisonment for killing a catholic civilian in northern ireland has been freed and returned to his regiment, having served less than three years of his sentence. catholic leaders protest
march 6: a british anti-terrorist unit in gibraltar kills three ira guerrillas who allegedly plotted to bomb a military ceremony in the british colony. ireland protests that the three were unarmed and could have been captured alive
march 13: the cortege carrying the three gibraltar dead from dublin to belfast is stoned and jeered by protestants along the road
march 16: a protestant extremist fires shots and lobs grenades at mourners burying the gibraltar dead, killing three and wounding 68
march 19: mourners in the cortege of an ira man killed at the march 16 funeral drag two british plainclothes soldiers from their car, beat them unconscious and strip them naked. the two are hauled away and later found shot dead
here is the text of president reagan's radio address saturday from the white house:
my fellow americans, there was a nice celebration of st. patrick's day up on capitol hill this week, but believe me that wasn't the only reason congress knew i had my irish up
on two issues vital to our national security, i had some stern words for some of our lawmakers. the first has to do with the safety of our hemisphere. back in the early 1980s, there were those who argued that the prospects for democracy in central america were bleak and we would do little to prevent marxist dictatorships there
but after the administration built a consensus, congress finally passed our economic and military aid program, and today the countries of costa rica, el salvador, honduras and guatemala are democratic. indeed, tomorrow, el salvador, the nation some in congress were gloomiest about, will host congressional and municipal elections, just one more sign of a successful democratic reform in that nation and region
however, in one central american nation, nicaragua, the cause of freedom is in grave peril. up until the end of last month, the united states had been aiding the freedom fighters who have been trying to restore democracy by resisting the regime of the soviet-backed sandinista communists
however, just as the heroic efforts of the democratic resistance have forced the communists to cut back on their aggression abroad and to make peace concessions, the congress in a close vote decided to cut off aid to the freedom fighters. since the congress rejected our package of assistance for those fighting for freedom in nicaragua, the communist dictators have done exactly as we predicted
instead of giving peace a chance, the aid cutoff is giving the communist dictators a chance, a chance they long hoped for, a chance to smash their opponents. they have hardened their negotiating position. they have fired the mediator, cardinal obando y bravo. they have sent mobs of thugs against peaceful oppostion groups. and now, instead of negotiating for a ceasefire, they have launched a major, military assault on the weakened contras, invading democratic honduras in the process
now, from the beginning, our central american policy has been designed to prevent another cuba, and to let the people of nicaragua win back their freedom and their independence from the soviet union on their own; to do this without having to commit american military personnel
but now, because of congress' aid cut-off last month, the sandinistas have mounted their major cross-border incursion into honduras. in response and at the request of president azcona, we have sent american military units to honduras to conduct an emergency readiness exercise. our purpose is to send the signal to the governments and peoples of central america about the seriousness with which we view the situation
the freedom fighters are in desperate need of support. if they are to remain a viable and effective force, they must have assistance now. there's not a moment to spare. if urgently needed help does not reach them soon, we face the prospect of a collapse of the democratic resistance, the attendant consolidation of a marxist-leninist regime in nicaragua and an increased threat to nicaragua's democratic neigbors. ultimately, we will face a national security crises of the first order, and an enormous human tragedy
now, another vital security matter where the congress has not been doing its job has involved our work on a strategic defense against ballistic missiles. this coming week marks the fifth anniversary of my call for just such a strategic defense initiative, or sdi. i'm taking this occasion to note that the soviets have been making extensive progress on their own sdi-like program in the last few years
indeed, the soviets may be preparing a nationwide defense which would mean a breakout from the restrictions of the abm treaty which prohibits a massive deployment of such a system. however, at the very moment where the soviets are so far along in their efforts, congress has been cutting back ours. every year congress has cut the sdi budget
we are now one to two years behind schedule. and this, despite the fact that the actual sdi program is progressing faster than we expected. our scientists and engineers must have congress' support and they must have it soon
so i can't think of two more vital national security issues than these; preventing the establishment of a soviet beachhead in central america, and erecting a defense shield that will reduce the nuclear threat that has so overshadowed the post-war era. that's why we cannot permit some in congress to take dangerous risks with america's national security
until next week, thanks for listening, and god bless you
a resolution before the american jewish congress repeating its call for israel to withdraw from the riot-torn west bank and gaza strip sharply underlines its difference with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir
the united states has long endorsed the principle of exchanging territory captured by israel in the 1967 mideast war in return for a peace settlement with neighboring arab states and palestinians
however, shamir, departing the united states on saturday after a six-day visit, has strongly rejected the idea, saying it would endanger the security of the jewish state because it would put arabs who dream of israel's destruction in a better position to carry out their threats
the position taken by our organization obviously is not in accord with that taken by mr. shamir this past week,'' said andrea binder, a spokeswoman for the american jewish congress, which opens a meeting here sunday
we issued a statement in september which called for territorial compromise and endorsed an international peace conference. the resolution that will be voted on next week will reaffirm (the earlier) resolution,'' she said prior to the gathering
another resolution will specifically endorse the complex peace plan proposed by secretary of state george p. shultz in the face of arab rioting in the territories and measures by israeli security forces to suppress the uprising
a third resolution will ``discuss arab and specifically palestinian intransigence in coming to the negotiating table,'' she said
shamir's visit is expected to be discussed throughout the four-day convention, which will be attended by about 400 to 500 delegates
the american jewish congress, which has 50,000 members, was the first major american jewish organization to favor a compromise in the israeli-occupied territories, ms. binder said. the group's statement last year underscored divisions among america's jews about the issue
last monday, shamir preceded his meeting with president reagan by saying he was outraged by the united states' suggestions of a withdrawal from the occupied territories. he said a withdrawal ``inevitably'' would invite new arab attempts to destroy israel and that he was ``astounded'' at the short memories of withdrawal proponents
four days later, shamir flatly rejected a u.s. proposal for a full-scale mideast conference, saying that such a conference would give the soviet union and its arab allies too much influence, and might force israel to withdraw from the occupied territories
his labor party counterpart in israel's coalition government, foreign minister shimon peres, is agreeable to such a conference, without which jordan's king hussein won't come to the table
reflecting sharp disagreement with shamir, reagan said: ``those who will say no to the u.s. plan _ and the prime minister has not used this word _ need not answer to us. they'll need to answer to themselves and their people as to why they turned down a realistic plan to achieve negotiations.''
the u.s. economy produced a string of good reports last week _ imports were down, housing construction was up sharply, factories were working at near-capacity levels
the generally upbeat news brightened the outlook of some economists for a year without recession
this week, attention will focus on the final report of the u.s. gross national product for the fourth quarter of 1987, an indication of how well the economy rebounded from the october stock-market crash
here, at a glance, are last week's developments:
the commerce department reported only a slight widening of the u.s. merchandise trade deficit in january, to $12.44 billion, an increase of 1.9 percent
exports fell as expected by 10 percent, but economists said a 6 percent dip in imports indicated the trade balance slowly is improving
january's deficit was up from $12.20 billion in december, but down from a level of $13.21 billion in november and $17.63 billion in october
the better-than-expected january trade figures helped drive the dow jones average up to a close of 2,087.37 on friday, a gain of 52.39 points for the week. it was the stock market's highest level since october's crash
the commerce department said housing construction climbed 8.9 percent in february. the increase followed declines of 1.9 percent in january and 15.8 percent in december and was the largest monthly gain since a 12.7 percent rise in december 1986
the strong report eased worries, since housing is often the first industry to weaken at the onset of a recession
the federal reserve reported the nation's factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity in february, sustaining that rate for the third consecutive month
the report supported economists' contentions that the industrial sector remained strong despite fears the economy could weaken from cutbacks in production as businesses tried to work off a supply of unsold goods built up in late 1987
the federal reserve said industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in february despite output reductions at auto factories and coal mines
the advance, the fifth consecutive monthly gain, followed a 0.3 percent increase in january and left american industry operating at a rate 5.8 percent above a year ago. economists said the gain further dampened concerns about a severe slowdown
major automakers said sales of domestic cars and light trucks rose 6.3 percent in the first 10 days of march compared with a year earlier, led by surging sales of ford and chrysler vehicles. industry leader general motors reported weaker results
the commerce department reported a 0.4 percent rise in january business inventories, less than half the december increase, reflecting a rebound in car sales that reduced backlogs of unsold vehicles
analysts said the slower growth suggested the economy may not weaken in the first half of this year as feared
the commerce department said the deficit in the broadest measure of foreign trade surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987, a reflection of america's deepening debt to the rest of the world
the deficit in the u.s. current account was 13.7 percent higher than the 1986 figure of $141.4 billion and marked the fifth consecutive year this deficit set a new record
the current account measures the flow of merchandise and the flow of services, primarily investment earnings. report.</note>
a u.s. diplomat held two meetings with panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega to discuss the possibility of noriega giving up power and leaving the country, an administration official said today
the official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said the meetings were held friday and ended inconclusively. he said he knew of no additional meetings being scheduled
the official also said that he understood the roman catholic church, through a papal representative, was getting involved in negotiations concerning noriega's future. he did not give any details
cbs radio quoted unidentified officials today as saying the meetings with noriega went badly, with the panamanian leader insisting that he wants to remain in the country after stepping down. the report said the mid-level state department officials who met with noreiga were returning to washington and officials do not believe noriega's departure is imminent
another administration official said on friday that the united states has decided not to seek noriega's extradition if he flees panama to a third country
that official, who also asked not to be identified, said that deputy assistant secretary of state william walker had gone to panama at noriega's request to discuss the matter
the official also said that two panamanian pilots who worked for noriega have defected to the united states. according to the official, the pilots said noriega has been receiving arms from cuba and money from libya since the crisis broke out in that country three weeks ago
walker had instructions to bring noriega the no-extradition offer in hopes that it would facilitate his departure, thus sparing the country a period of prolonged political upheaval and widespread suffering
the government of spain has said it would be willing to admit noriega provided he requests political asylum and the united states agrees not to seek his extradition
on feb. 5, two federal grand juries in florida indicted noriega on charges of drug smuggling and money laundering. a u.s. treaty with panama precludes the extradition of any panamanian citizen to the united states
the political opposition in panama has sought to get rid of the country's de facto leader for months
the united states has been trying to encourage noriega's ouster and stepped up the pressure against him after he deposed president eric arturo delvalle on feb. 25. delvalle had tried to fire noriega. the united states still recognizes delvalle, although solis palma was installed feb. 26
the two pilots arrived in the united states on thursday and were given permission to remain in this country by the u.s. immigration service, the official said
the pilots have told officials that cuba has provided noriega with up to 16 tons of military equipment since the crisis in that country erupted, the official said
cuba has emerged as a strong supporter of noriega, considering him to be a victim of american interventionist activities
according to the official, the pilots also said that libya has provided noriega with an undisclosed amount of money to enable the defense chief to help panama overcome its current cash crisis
panama has been virtually paralyzed economically for most of the past two weeks. u.s. actions this month _ including blocking the transfer of currency to panama and withholding panama canal fees _ effectively have cut off the flow of dollars to panama and have left the country unable to meet much of its government payroll
the official suggested that cuban willingness to send weaponry to noriega, including large numbers of ak-47 rifles, indicated that the strongman was willing to fight it out rather than go into exile peacefully
but noriega's invitation to meet with walker suggested that he may be rethinking his position, the official said
initially, the reagan administration had said that it was not interested in any deal that would spare noriega the consequences of the indictments handed down by the federal grand juries in florida
but the administration appears to have backed away from that position because of its interest in promoting a peaceful resolution to panama's crisis and in protecting the panama canal and other u.s. interests in that country
abc news reported friday night that unidentified u.s. and central american sources say noriega has signed off on most parts of a package that will allow some face-saving for him, but will get him out of office and out of panama
abc reported that as a condition of noriega's departure, he will never go to jail and will be allowed to retain most of his wealth
the deal, according to abc, included that noriega will step down with full honors; several days or weeks later, he will leave panama, going either to spain or france. in addition, abc said, opposition leaders in panama have agreed not to seek criminal charges against noriega there and not to try to get any of his money held in overseas accounts. ^by juan maltes</byline>
nicaragua's contra rebels are willing to hold cease-fire talks as scheduled this week with the sandinista government, despite threatening earlier to boycott them, a contra spokesman said saturday
the u.s.-backed rebels last week accused sandinista troops of invading honduras in pursuit of contras and said they would boycott the talks unless the sandinistas withdrew
but carlos hurtado, an adviser to the six-member directorate of the contra umbrella organization, nicaraguan resistance, said his side was ready for monday's talks
in managua, the nicaraguan capital, president daniel ortega said friday his government was also ``ready and willing'' to hold the talks
for the first time, the talks are scheduled to take place inside nicaraguan territory, in the southern town of sapoa near the costa rican border
the cease-fire talks, which are part of a peace plan the five central american presidents signed last night, were almost called off by both the contras and the sandinistas because of the fighting that flared up along the nicaragua-honduras border during the past two weeks
claiming that sandinista troops had entered honduran territory while chasing contra troops, the reagan administration last week sent 3,200 american troops to honduras as both a warning to the sandinistas and a show of support for honduras
but after several days of talks with costa rican president oscar arias and former venezuelan president carlos andres perez, the nicaraguan resistance decided to go to the meeting,'' hurtado said in an interview. he did not elaborate
even though the fighting continues, mostly in northern nicaragua and our fighters have been scattered towards the atlantic coast of the country without suffering great damage, we have decided to attend the meeting,'' hurtado said
we want to show we are willing to seek a peaceful solution to the problem afflicting our country,'' he added
the regional peace plan, devised by arias, calls for negotiations to end the war in nicaragua and leftist guerrilla wars in el salvador and guatemala
arias was awarded the 1987 nobel peace prize for the plan which also calls for cease-fires, an end to outside intervention in central america, removal of all foreign military from the area, negotiations for national reconciliations between governments and opposition and reforms to bring greater democracy to the region
defense minister gen. humberto ortega, the nicaraguan president's brother, will head the sandinista delegation _ the contras have been insisting the sandinistas be represented ``at the highest level.''
the rebel delegation will be represented by all six members of the nicaraguan resistance directorate
police on saturday broke up a small gathering of activists discussing the state of the country's health care system, a spokesman for the banned solidarity trade union federation said
police knocked at the door of a private apartment in warsaw, asked the 10 activists to show their identification papers and then ordered everyone to leave, said union spokesman janusz onyszkiewicz
zofia kuratowska, a physician and solidarity activist who was one of those attending, denied the meeting was an organized one and contended that it did not require permission from authorities
she said it was an informal gathering of friends working in medicine to talk about problems in the health care system
she said many health care workers around the country are rejecting recently offered wage increases, saying they are inadequate compared to government price increases expected to raise the overall cost of living in 1988 by about 45 percent
hundreds of health care workers in gdansk demonstrated feb. 24 outside the city's main hospital against low salaries and poor working conditions
at that time, solidarity's national health service workers' committee said it had collected more than 4,000 signatures nationwide demanding reforms in the health care system
the committee also warned that nurses and technical staff are abandoning hospital work because of low pay, and that young doctors try to emigrate because they feel that they have a poor future in poland
saudi arabia confirmed saturday that is is buying chinese intermediate-range missiles, but it said they would not be armed with nuclear warheads
an official statement, attributed to an unidentified government official and distributed by the state-run saudi press agency, strongly defended the kingdom's growing military arsenal as a factor that ``would contribute to regional stability.''
the official said saudi arabia has acquired ``an intermediate-range surface-to-surface missile system from china'' but gave no details about the cost or how many missiles are involved
he stressed, however, that media reports that said the missiles had nuclear capability did ``not conform to the truth and the kingdom denies (them) fully.''
the chinese deal was disclosed in washington on friday by the state department and was said to involve css-2 missiles, similar to those used in china's limited space program in the early 1970s. they are capable of being fitted with nuclear warheads
the state department said the missiles had a range of 2,200 miles and could hit any area of the middle east, including israel
it said the u.s. government was assured that nuclear warheads would not be fitted on the missiles, but noted that the sale marked a ``disturbing regional trend.''
state department spokesman rudolph boone said, ``such a system is not in the interests of peace and stability in the region.''
with iran and iraq engaged in a ``war of the cities,'' lobbing missiles into each other's major population centers, the introduction of more missiles in the region has raised concern in washington, u.s. officials said
boone noted: ``the sum total of the proliferation is a degradation of the security of all states in the region.''
secretary of state george p. shultz expressed concern about the sales when he met chinese foreign minister wu xueqian last week, state department spokesman charles redman said
washington officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said saudi arabia sought the chinese missiles after the u.s. congress blocked the sale of 48 f-15 jet fighters to maintain saudi air strength
oil-rich saudi arabia has spent about $20 billion on sophisticated weaponry, mainly from the united states, over the last 20 years
france and britain have moved in as prominent arms suppliers in recent years because u.s. sales were blocked by a pro-israel lobby in congress
the missile deal was a suprise development for theocratic saudi arabia which has so far refrained from having political ties with the two communist powers, china and the soviet union
saudi arabia has commercial ties with them, and has lately stepped up its political contacts with beijing and moscow in its quest for international efforts to pressure iran to agree to end its 7{-year-old war with iraq
relations between tehran and riyadh plummeted last july after hundreds of moslem pilgrims, most of them iranian, were killed in clashes in the holy city of mecca
here is the text of the democratic party's response, delivered by rep. pat williams of montana, to president reagan's radio address on saturday:
hello, this is congressman pat williams. i represent western montana in the united states congress
this week, much of the news at home and abroad was discouraging. the economy remains particularly fragile, the trade deficit is still dangerously high and, of course, american troops are in central america. but, nonetheless, there is particularly good news to announce from the house of representatives
for the first time in the history of the house budget committee, the federal budget was passed bipartisanly without a single objection. the agreement, of course, took much work, but the members of the house budget committee completed our blueprint for federal efforts for the coming year
it is a responsible, lean, bipartisan federal budget
most americans probably missed the news about our budget. that ought not to be surprising. controversy routinely creates the biggest headlines. that's been especially true of the big budget battles congress too often has fought in these last several years
this time, there was no fight to report. members of the budget committee have cooperated to approve our new federal budget without objection
as you may remember, the foundation for our budget was laid this past december at the economic summit between the congress and the president
those summit talks, of course, followed last fall's stock market drop, and they came with the recognition that delay in putting this nation's fiscal affairs in order could no longer be tolerated
our country began this decade with a national debt of $914 billion. in seven years, that debt exploded to $2.8 trillion _ a three-fold increase, bigger than any in our 200-year history
when this session of the 100th congress convened in january, house speaker jim wright fashioned an agenda for our work this year. cooperation on the budget between democrats and republicans was the paramount goal of the speaker
this budget achieves that goal and complies with the spending limits set by the economic summit
importantly, this budget _ provided the economy suffers no serious downturn _ will avoid the automatic, across-the-board gramm-rudman cuts
that, by the way, is the way the american people have a right to expect their congress to work _ for elected officials to make the hard choices instead of abandoning them to faceless computers
this budget meets a high national responsibility. it fulfills the right and proper obligation of government to extend a hand to those citizens among us, those who live in poverty or near to it, those inflicted by misfortune, those citizens both young and old who need just a little help to live decent lives and realize the american promise of a good life
this budget provides full protection for those folks and stitches the numerous holes in our government's so-called ``safety net.''
this year, despite his periodic calls in the past for reductions, the president properly asked congress for increased funding for education. we wholeheartedly agree _ so much so that our budget provides 4 percent more than the white house recommended for america's schools
our budget does this as well: it adds new revenues to assist those tragically swelling the ranks of homeless americans. it provides funds to fight our nation's war against drugs. it calls for $1 billion in new appropriations to keep the united states on the cutting edge of space exploration. we also provide the funds the president agreed to at the economic summit to keep our national defense forces strong
every budget must comply with the deficit limits. this year that deficit target is $136 billion and our budget comes in a full $2 billion below that target
this year, the budget is on time. both house speaker wright and the president, and especially the american people, are correctly insistent that congress not fall behind on its budget and appropriations schedule and not rely on a mammoth year-end spending bill
with this budget, the congress is not only on time _ we are ahead of time and we intend to remain on time and move our budget proposal to the floor of the house next week for debate and passage and then on to the senate for its prompt consideration
this is congressman pat williams. thank's for listening. problems</head> to update with contras saying they will talk monday. picks up last graf, `the honduran ...'</note>
the ruckus over american troops being sent into neighboring honduras has bolstered the sandinista government at home and abroad, just when it was facing strong internal opposition
sandinista defense committees, the party's neighborhood watchdogs, have organized meetings and marches against the presence of the 3,200 u.s. soldiers in honduras, sent in response to a reported incursion into honduran territory by sandinista troops pursuing contra rebels
before the reagan administration announced the deployment of the troops, the sandinistas were undergoing their worst economic, social and political crisis since coming to power in a 1979 revolutionary war
complaints that had been whispered for years turned into open confrontations with the government
economic measures announced feb. 14, which included price increases, sparked demonstrations. workers staged wildcat strikes to demand higher salaries. family members openly protested against the military draft
such displays were illegal under a state of emergency enacted in march 1982. the government revoked the law in january as part of nicaragua's compliance with a central american peace plan calling for democracy in the region
but with the announcement that american troops were going to honduras, the opposition's gripes were overshadowed by warnings of a possible invasion
we are calling on the nicaraguan public to be alert, to be in combat readiness, ready to repel, resist, defeat whatever aggression from the united states,'' president daniel ortega told the nation
on wednesday, the government ordered all radio stations to hook into a government-controlled national network, which has been broadcasting ``alerts'' to the public to prepare for direct military invasion
we are ready to repel and annihilate any attempt by the american infantry. a free fatherland or death,'' network announcers declared all of last week
the nicaraguan government has denied its army crossed into honduras, claiming instead that it began an offensive on march 8 to roust the contras from bases along the rugged, jungle border area
ortega claimed the reagan administration alleged the nicaraguan incursion to obtain congressional approval for more contra aid. congress twice rejected renewed contra assistance earlier this year
two years ago this month _ a week after the congress voted down a $100 million aid package for the rebels _ the reagan administration said sandinista troops had entered honduras. u.s. pilots ferried honduran soldiers to the border. congress approved the aid package three months later, on june 25, 1986
congress once again began discussing renewed contra aid on friday
american troops in honduras have also brought the sandinistas international attention
protests of the u.s. deployment erupted in the united states
on saturday, a u.n. spokesman said a team of u.n. observers would visit nicaragua to investigate the honduran-nicaraguan border situation, at nicaragua's request
honduran war planes buzzed and then dropped bombs thursday along the banks of the coco river that forms the border, and the sandinista government blamed the united states for the attack, filing diplomatic notes of protest to washington
the nicaraguan government said it will appeal to the international court of justice in the hague, netherlands, to issue an injunction against ``any military activity that could raise tension in central america.''
appearing on a television talk show saturday morning, ortega said peru has condemned the presence of troops in honduras. peru is a member of the eight-nation contadora group that has been trying to negotiate an end to central american conflicts for the past seven years without success
the sandinistas have said they are ready to start cease-fire talks with contra leaders on monday in an effort to end the 6-year-old war. the contras had threatened to boycott the talks because of the border conflict, but said saturday that they would participate
the honduran government has not offered proof that the nicaraguan troops are or were in its territory, and ortega contends that honduras was following the whims of washington when it called for the u.s. troops
the execution of willie jasper darden has focused attention on the nation's largest death row, where some well-known killers, including serial killers theodore bundy and gerald stano, await their fate
darden's execution left 287 convicted murderers in the death row wings of the florida state prison near starke
darden avoided execution for 14{ years after being placed on death row in january 1974, earlier than any of his surviving inmates except one. while pursuing his appeals, he survived an unprecedented six death warrants, until his appeals ran out on no. 7 last tuesday
bundy, linked to more than 20 sex slayings in washington, utah, colorado and florida, is under separate death sentences for the 1978 bludgeoning murders of florida state university sorority sisters lisa levy and margaret bowman and for the murder of 12-year-old kimberly leach in lake city
bundy, subject of at least four books and a television miniseries, has been on death row since august 1979 and has survived three death warrants
stano, a former short-order cook from daytona beach, has confessed to dozens of killings and is under three death sentences for the murders of susan bickrest and cathy muldoon in volusia county and cathy lee scharf
he also has been sentenced six times to life in prison for other florida killings. he has been on death row since january 1984 and has survived three warrants
capital punishment supporters urge the state to press bundy's, stano's and other cases
but while their appeals may seem to linger, some 50 death row cases are older than bundy's and some 140 are older than stano's, according to department of corrections records
the governor's office can push the cases forward only as quickly as legal roadblocks to execution fall. that's up to the courts
it's counter-productive to sign a warrant if they're not at an appropriate stage to sign one when you know they have an automatic appeal,'' said andrea hillyer, an attorney for gov. bob martinez who handles death cases
you just have to wait until courts are through with different stages,'' she said. ``it's hard to predict, we just monitor their cases.''
on april 7, mass murderer robert dale henderson is scheduled to to be executed for three of 12 slayings he is believed responsible for during a spree that started in ohio and continued through south carolina, mississippi, louisiana and florida
however, henderson's case dates back only six years, and it's generally expected that his attorneys still have plenty of room for appeals that would gain a stay of execution
martinez, who has signed 33 death warrants since taking office jan. 6, 1987, and seen only two inmates put to death, broke a record with darden's final death warrant by allowing darden's attorneys only seven days to appeal
all the other 17 men executed since florida returned to the death penalty in 1979 had three or fewer death warrants
martinez, noting that darden, condemned for the slaying of a furniture store owner, had a career criminal record and that he had 14-plus years of appeals, felt no remorse about the hurried execution schedule
i think of the whole case, not just the person whose name is on the death warrant,'' the governor said after darden's death. ``i think of the person who died years ago because of the killing. i think of the family that was left behind.''
u.s. businesses might have to pay billions of dollars in new taxes if the u.s. supreme court agrees that louisiana may tax a new orleans store for catalogs it had printed in and mailed from other states, the store's lawyer says
the case involves $43,937.03 in use taxes assessed against the d.h. holmes co. department store chain, but lawyers for both sides agree that the ramifications go far beyond that
i threw out the figure of $800 million at a meeting of the tax executive institute in new york. ... people said that was a half or a quarter of the taxes it would raise,'' william f. grace jr., an attorney for holmes, said in an interview
use taxes are imposed on property brought in from another state for use, consumption, distribution or storage. louisiana, like most states, sets the use tax equal to its sales tax minus any sales taxes charged to the purchaser
the catalogs in question were designed in new york, printed in three other states and mailed from those states to customers in louisiana with holmes charge accounts
the case to be heard tuesday by the high court is probably the most significant in interstate commerce since the l.l. bean sales tax case 15 years ago, say both grace and william pugh, who is arguing for louisiana
in the bean case, the court ruled that mail-order companies don't have to collect sales taxes from customers in states where they have no employees or property
if the high court upholds state court rulings against holmes, grace said, states could tax such things as flyers sent with credit card bills, catalogs from national chains with stores in their states and even telephone directories
we think it would be a tremendous burden on business and could be crippling to ... retailers who send tons of their advertising and catalog materials across state lines,'' said lee williams of the american retail federation, which filed one of seven friend-of-the-court briefs in the case, said in a telephone interview from washington
all of the states are starved for revenues. they're going to look wherever they can. ... it could turn into big bucks,'' said williams, the legislative counsel and a vice president of the federation
we contend ... that holmes did not use these catalogs in louisiana. there was no use by holmes because when the taxes were imposed, the catalogs were being transmitted in the u.s. mails,'' grace said. ``at that time, they were not subject to tax.''
pugh, a shreveport attorney retained to represent the department of revenue and taxation, said the case hinges on ownership
i would contend and did contend and shall contend that holmes owned the catalogs when they were designed, holmes owned the catalogs when they were printed, holmes owned the catalogs when they were mailed, and holmes owned the catalogs when they arrived at the post office boxes,'' he said
that argument could mean trouble for catalog companies, said bob levering, legislative counsel for the direct marketing association in washington, d.c
if the supreme court agrees that a company possesses and is using something while it is being sent through the mail, he said, it could open the way for taxes on all kinds of mailings, he said
courts in tennessee, illinois, new york, ohio, south dakota, wisconsin and the district of columbia have reached rulings opposite to louisiana's, said andrew rinker jr., another lawyer for holmes. but he said missouri's case was decided the other way
one of two legal briefs supporting louisiana was filed on behalf of the national governors association, national association of counties, council of state governments, international city management association, national conference of state legislatures, national league of cities and u.s. conference of mayors. the other was from the multistate tax commission
in addition to the retail federation, the direct marketing association, the national association of catalog showroom merchandisers and the committee of state taxation of the council of state chambers of commerce have filed individual friend-of-the-court briefs. magazine publishers of america inc., printing industries of america and r.r. donnelly &amp; sons co., a catalog publisher, joined forces for another
with banks closed and cash scarce because of a u.s. financial embargo against the military regime, panamanians are resorting to family ties and ingenuity to survive. life isn't as easy as it used to be
until recently, panamanians were used to the good life. the panama canal, a major oil pipeline, and offshore banking propelled an economy envied by other central american nations
prosperity ended when the united states applied pressure to oust the military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, after a federal grand jury indicted him on drug trafficking charges and noriega supporters ousted panama's civilian president, eric arturo delvalle
we have had it so easy, that we are really suffering now with this crisis,'' said an education ministry employee who identified himself only as joaquin. ``we are not a warring type of people. we are used to the good life.''
a government worker, who identified herself only as isabel, warned of dire consequences if things don't change
many families are getting together and sharing everything,'' she said
my husband works. we can survive. i do not know how other people who make less can make it. if this keeps up, people will be on the streets looting, looking for food,'' she said
some panamanians have adapted with aplomb. companies have bartered goods among themselves and supplemented employees' pay with food coupons redeemable at local stores
we have better credit than the government,'' said a businessman who paid his workers each with $20 cash and the rest in food coupons
the cash crisis has hit government workers the hardest
first, their paychecks were late when the government, which uses the u.s. dollar and thus can't just print new bills, lost its credit
when the government finally paid workers, those making up to $1,000 a month received only $75, including $30 in commemorative coins issued in 1978 to mark the ratification of the treaties turning control of the canal over to panama at the end of the century
to many teachers, the big, round commemorative coins were a strange sight. ``what is this: some sort of token?'' asked one teacher, a middle-aged woman
the money not only looked strange but fell far short of most people's needs. ``the landlord is going to have to wait,'' said one teacher
meanwhile, food is foremost in everyone's mind
i had nothing to eat yesterday,'' said a mother of two who identified herself only as carmen. ``i wish i had known about this a few months ago, i would not have separated from my husband.''
she said she was going to stock up on milk for her youngest child. ``i am going to buy enough for two weeks because you never know what is going to happen,'' she said. ``i can stand hunger; the baby cannot.''
other families began to ration for their own needs
high school teacher hugo lloyd said he cannot pay his rent or utility bills. lloyd said he and his wife are staying home with their children because schools are closed
we ration everything,'' he said. ``you know, we used to say that we would never see rationing in panama like you see in other countries.''
technician arturo gonzalez was worried about feeding his household of 11. ``the problem is that kids always want what they've always had _ candies and stuff,'' he said. ``we had to eliminate luxuries like fancy deodorants and shaving lotions and some food spices.''
even some opponents of noriega wondered why panama's people should bear the brunt of the crisis
i do not agree with these military rulers that have a false civilian government up front,'' said the education ministry worker joaquin. ``the u.s. even supported this government _ practically created it. now it does not want it, and the people of panama are paying a high price.''
michele and raymond l'esperance may be in the market soon for a good babysitter, or two, or three or four
all of couple's five babies, the nation's first test-tube quintuplets, are home following the release of the last two infants from a suburban detroit hospital
veronica and alexandria l'esperance, who were placed on ventilators after they were born jan. 11, left the hospital friday in a limousine with their parents
the quints, who were born 10 weeks prematurely by caesarean section, are considered healthy, said hospital spokeswoman valerie mahaczek
raymond, danielle and erica left the hospital march 7, but the other two stayed behind until they were able to put on more weight
i'm awake a lot,'' said michele, 34. ``actually it's really not as bad as i thought, once you get into kind of a routine.''
she's got everything pretty organized,'' said her husband, a 27-year-old corrections officer. ``and it really isn't difficult for me to come home and pick up a baby and feed one and pick up another one after that
it just all seems to have fallen into place pretty well.''
the couple is getting help from a visiting nurse association, which sends a nurse to the house to help overnight
babies conceived through in-vitro fertilization are commonly called test-tube babies because the mother's egg is removed from her body, fertilized in a laboratory dish and then reimplanted in her womb
the roman catholic archdiocese has asked nobel peace prize winner mother teresa of calcutta to help another impoverished population, those living in winterveld, north of pretoria
archbishop george daniel said saturday the church has invited mother teresa to visit south africa in august, but she has not yet replied
daniel said mother teresa had been invited to south africa because the church was expecting other nuns in her order to work in winterveld
pope john paul ii is skipping south africa on his five-nation southern africa tour in september
mother teresa won the nobel peace prize in 1979 for working among the poor of india
grammy-winning singer k.t. oslin will join willie nelson, the oak ridge boys and ralph emery to host the nashville network's viewers choice awards show
the cable channel's90-minute show will be broadcast live april 26 from the grand ole opry house. eight award winners, chosen by viewers, will be announced
ms. oslin won a grammy this year for her country music hit ``80's ladies.''
an ``older, more mature'' doobie brothers will be cutting a new album soon, followed by a road tour featuring the rock 'n' roll band's original members
the record deal with capitol record came after a successsful 10-show reunion tour last summer
the as-yet untitled album will feature all new material written and performed by the original band members _ lead singers and guitarists tommy johnston and patrick simmons, drummers john hartman and michael hossack, and bassist tiran porter. also in the band is bobby lakind, who joined the first band in 1976
the album is due out in late summer and will be followed by a national tour, hartman said
we're older, more mature. our whole outlook is totally different,'' hartman said friday. ``we've seen just about everything we're going to see as far as the road goes.''
hartman said he's not sure how a younger generation will take to the original doobies
the demographics on the last tour were the old folks who grew up with us. ... there were some kids
we're not the in same place musically so we're not going to sound exactly like we did,'' hartman added. ``we'll hit mtv and the rest of it.''
the doobie brothers, who aren't related, began playing bars in northern california in the early 1970s. by the time the band broke up in 1982, it had recorded 12 albums _ which have sold more than 40 million records _ won four grammy awards and featured 14 different members
robert joffrey, the 57-year-old co-founder and artistic director of the joffrey ballet, has suspended his day-to-day management of the dance troupe because of an illness, the dance company said
the joffrey said in a statement friday the illness has been diagnosed as myositis, liver disease and asthma
the dance company also announced that at joffrey's request an advisory group had been formed to assist joffrey and associate director gerald arpino with current and future operations
members of the advisory group include sally brayley bliss, a former joffrey dancer and current company board member; gage bush englund, former joffrey dancer and current ballet mistress of the junior touring troupe, joffrey ii; and richard englund, director of joffrey ii and a board member
the company also announced that penelope curry, the troupe's executive director, would continue to be responsible, with joffrey and arpino, for day-to-day management. arpino will serve as joffrey's artistic liaison with the company
richard englund told the washington post that ``mr. joffrey's illness has been ongoing intermittently over a period of close to a year
it began with his lifelong problem with asthma, and more recently has gotten into serious liver complications. he's presently in a hospital receiving treatment.''
joffrey, who was born in seattle, started the company with arpino in 1956
communist leaders in a disputed region of the caucasus have called again for union with armenia, repeating an earlier demand that helped spark bloody riots which left at least 32 people dead
the decisions of the party committee in the nagorno-karabakh autonomous region, part of soviet azerbaijan since 1923, were reported in the area's newspaper friday. a copy of the paper was obtained saturday
the actions showed that despite complaints from national officials about their handling of the dispute, leaders of the delaware-sized region were unshaken in their desire to unite the territorial enclave inside azerbaijan with armenia, a neighboring soviet republic
sovietsky karabakh, the party and government newspaper in nagorno-karabakh, said the region's party committee held a plenary meeting thursday in the region's capital, stepanakert, that focused on the territorial quarrel
the paper said the committee ``expressing the aspirations of the armenian population of the autonomous region, the will of the overwhelming majority of communists of nagorno-karabakh, asks the politburo'' to allow it to become part of armenia
it would be highly unusual for a local party committee to go on record with a demand that had not been previously been cleared by moscow
conflict over the region's affiliation led to huge street protests in the armenian capital of yerevan last month and ethnic rioting in the azerbaijan city of sumgait on feb. 28. at least 32 people were killed in sumgait
on friday, top soviet officials, including no. 2 kremlin leader yegor k. ligachev, met with leading armenians and azerbaijanis living in moscow to express concern about the turmoil
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed feb. 26 for ``civic maturity and restraint'' in armenia and azerbaijan and pledged that the policy-making central committee would soon review relations among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
armenian nationalist paruyr ayrikyan told a news conference saturday that his countrymen are divided about whether to proceed with a plan to demonstrate march 26 to underscore demands that nagorno-karabakh, whose population is more than three-quarters armenian, be made part of armenia
ayrikyan said rumors spread in armenia that the central committee will meet march 28 for the plenary meeting gorbachev promised. ``people are being told, `don't have the rally on march 26, so as not to hinder the plenum on the 28th,''' ayrikyan said
there has been no official word of when a plenum will be held. the meetings of the 300-plus member body take place behind closed doors and are rarely announced in advance
in addition to renewing its annexation demand, the regional plenum also sent second secretary v.a. bogoslovsky into retirement, and replaced him with b.a. malkov, who previously worked as an instructor in the moscow-based central committee's department of party organization and work, sovietsky karabakh reported
western sovietologists say local party second secretaries are usually russians or other slavs, and that they act as a separate conduit of information to moscow
malkov's previous post indicates he is known to top party officials in the capital
the plenum's call echoed one made feb. 20 by the nagorno-karabakh soviet, or legislature, which asked central authorities to shift the territory to armenian control
it was the refusal of the party's national central committee to accede to that demand that sparked protests
since unrest began in the caucasus, western reporters have not been allowed to visit the region to gather information, and have been unable independently to confirm or deny numerous reports of ethnic strife and violence
gov. buddy roemer originally thought louisiana's problem was a $150 million budget shortfall, but monday he'll give the legislature his initial ideas on dealing with a $2 billion crisis
roemer is the first to admit that his ambitious plans for economic development and changes in education, the state's tax system and environmental protection will have to take a back seat to the budget crisis
we are in a position this fiscal year where the numbers drive the policy and not the policy driving the numbers,'' the governor said. ``when this state is busted, broke, when the deficit is approaching a number too large to comprehend, the numbers are driving this now.''
the special legislative session convenes monday for a maximum 10-day run to deal with problems caused largely by the slump in the oil and gas industry
in addition to searching for short-term budget relief, lawmakers will be asked to split the giant department of health and human resources into two agencies and dissolve the department of urban and community affairs
the governor also has promised proposals to do away with certain boards and commissions
during roemer's first week in office, there was talk about the need to ``scrub the budget,'' but the overview expanded into long-term financing of an estimated $1.3 billion in accumulated debt and expenses that will be pushed into the next fiscal year
roemer says the state also faces a $750 million shortfall between anticipated revenues for the 1988-89 budget year and current expenditures
roemer said that when he first took office, he thought about $150 million in spending reductions would produce a balanced budget
although commissioner of administration brian kendrick said he plans to slash spending to produce a balanced budget proposal, roemer said about $300 million in additional taxes may be needed
roemer said taxes would not be considered during the special session, but kendrick said the administration will ask for a $90 million increase in fees for certain state services
two ideas are being explored to pay off the $1.3 billion in accumulated debt and delayed expenditures _ issuance of short-term notes against projected tax revenues or of long-term bonds that would be financed through a dedicated source of revenue
the first order of business, according to administration officials, will be to stumble through the rest of the 1987-88 fiscal year through budget cuts and delayed expenditures
already on tap are plans to push one state payday beyond june 30, delay state contributions to retirement systems and vendor payments and hold up state income tax refund checks
the state also will try to take advantage of the depressed real estate market by renegotiating leases for government office space, said kendrick. some agencies already have been ordered to vacate leased space and move back into state-owned buildings
on friday, kendrick met with representatives of major louisiana cities to discuss the possibility of withholding such state payments as revenue sharing and supplemental pay for police and firefighters
as we all know, the news is bad. this state is broke. it's going to take a lot of pain to get us out,'' said alexandria mayor ned randolph. ``it's going to take some real curative work.''
the administration is scheduled to go to court tuesday to answer a suit filed by 14 state employees challenging the legality of the delay of the payday and retirement contributions
roemer said that without the pay plan, there will be layoffs
if you look at the options, i don't have any, that's it. ok?'' he said. ``and i don't like it. i'm not enthusastic about it. but that's between $38 million and $45 million we don't have. one option is to shut this baby (government) down about the 12th of may. i don't find that very interesting to anybody.''
the red cross acknowledged saturday it erred in distributing 24 pints of blood that had failed aids procedures but said none of the blood was used and none carried the deadly virus
the food and drug administration said friday that the questionable one-pint units were shipped last month to hospitals and laboratories by red cross centers in washington and nashville, tenn., but were never used on any patients. the fda did not identify the facilities that received the blood
while it should not have been shipped, it actually proved to be hiv (aids virus) free, and a number of units underwent processing that would inactivate the virus,'' said gene jeffers, american red cross spokesman
he said there was ``no known health hazard associated with the 24 units of blood. we were very fortunate and lucked out in that there was no human risk at all involved here.''
jeffers acknowledged, however, that five of the units tested positive for hepatitis b antigens and could have posed a health risk had they been used in transfusions. however, they were not used, he said
initial tests showed 10 of the questionable units contained hiv antibodies, which signaled an aids danger, but those units underwent a process that breaks down the blood into components for specific uses and eliminates the virus, jeffers said
the remaining nine units, he said, were from donors who were unacceptable because they previously tested ``false positive'' for aids, but all the actual units were tested as safe, he said
federal officials estimate that the chances of getting aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, from a transfusion are one in 40,000. the chief victims have been homosexual men or intravenous drug users. no one is known to have recovered from the disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections
the nashville banner reported saturday that two additional pints from disqualified donors were actually used in transfusions, but no patient was harmed. the newspaper gave no details of the transfusions but said follow-up tests of the blood donors showed they did not carry the aids virus
jeffers said he knew of no actual transfusion of blood that should have been rejected. the fda report said none of the questionable blood was used on patients
as a result of the errors, the fda said it has increased its periodic audits of the blood supply and instituted new training procedures for blood bank employees
the mistake in washington was discovered in a routine audit. the tennessee errors came to light in an fda investigation that followed a lawsuit against local blood bank officials by a woman who said she became infected with aids through a blood transfusion
two senior officials of the washington regional office of the american red cross _ john mcgraw and frederick darr _ have been suspended with pay for 30 days pending an investigation of their actions, said richard schubert, president of the american red cross
schubert said no officials in the nashville center had been disciplined, but that the investigation there was continuing
six of the questionable units of blood were from the washington center and the other 18 were from nashville, the fda said
robert goralski, a longtime correspondent for nbc news, has died of cancer at age 60, a friend said saturday
charles quinn, who worked with goralski at nbc and, in recent years, at the american petroleum institute, said goralski died friday at his home in suburban mclean, va
when at nbc, goralski spent several tours covering the vietnam war. he also covered the middle east war of 1967 and reported from the white house, the pentagon and the state department at various stages of his career
goralski left nbc in 1975 to join the gulf oil corp. as public relations director. for the last several years, he was a senior adviser to api, a trade association for the oil industry
goralski is survived by his wife, margaret, and three children, adults. am-news advisory and digest</note>
president daniel ortega said saturday he is asking the international court of justice for an injunction preventing military activities that could ``raise tension'' between honduras and nicaragua
the move appeared designed to step up political pressure on the united states, which last week sent 3,200 american troops to neighboring honduras as a warning to nicaragua
the tribunal at the hague, netherlands, also known as the world court, has no power unless both sides of a dispute agree to its jurisdiction
ortega made his announcement in a talk show appearance on government television during which he accused neighboring honduras of ``being an accomplice in the criminal activities'' of contra rebels against his regime
while he did not name the united states in his announcement, ortega appeared to be referring to the dispatch of american troops to honduras. u.s. officials said the move was intended to chasten the sandinista government, whose troops allegedly entered honduran territory in pursuit of rebels
ortega asked the court to issue an injunction calling for unspecified ``interim measures of protection'' against any military activities ``that could raise tension even more between honduras and nicaragua.''
in washington, reagan administration officials said the dispatch of troops to honduras was in response to an appeal for help by that country's president, jose azcona hoyo
azcono claims an estimated 1,000 sandinista troops are still inside honduran territory. but the sandinistas say they are on their own side of the border chasing u.s.-supported contra rebels
ortega said his appeal was part of a lawsuit that nicaragua filed several months ago with the world court, demanding that it condemn honduras for allowing rebels to use its territory to mount cross-border attacks
honduras and the contras claim the rebel camps are on the nicaraguan side of the ill-defined, sparsely populated border, which is dominated by mountains and jungle. the sandinistas contend the camps are inside honduras
the civil war has taken more than 40,000 lives since november 1981, when the contras began fighting the sandinista government
an emergency drive through mcdonough county ended when a police officer named mcbride delivered a baby for a couple named mcgrew in macomb (or should it be mccomb?) _ all on st. patrick's day
jason patrick mcgrew was born late thursday in the driveway of the illinois state police district 14 headquarters
melody mcgrew said she and her husband got a late start for the hospital 20 miles away because she had already had one false alarm
i guess i wanted to be sure i was ready,'' she said
mrs. mcgrew and her husband, dave, of rural walnut grove, were en route when it became clear the baby's arrival was imminent, and they stopped at the police station
mcgrew went in seeking help, and patrolman vern mcbride, a former ambulance worker with training in delivering babies, ran out just in time
my husband is a farmer and he has delivered many animals, so i have confidence in him,'' said mrs. mcgrew. ``i think he was a little nervous, though, when he ran into the police station. that's the fastest i'd seen him run all day.''
by the time reinhold holtkamp is finished, he hopes to see purple, pink and white violets decorating the window sills of most american homes
holtkamp brought his family from west germany to the united states some 10 years ago with a mission of spreading the violet craze to this relatively pioneer territory
if you walk through the streets in germany, i don't know of a window sill that doesn't have a violet on it. it's considered a necessity there,'' said reinhold holtkamp jr., who helps his father run holtkamp greenhouses
it's not that way in the states at all. but it wasn't that way in germany 20 years ago either,'' said the younger holtkamp, whose grandfather is considered the johnny appleseed of the violet industry
holtkamp greenhouses this year will produce more than 12 million violets in nashville, making it the largest grower of violets in the country
worldwide, its operations in germany, japan, spain and nashville will nurture some 65 million of the dainty plants, making the family business the largest producer of violets on the planet
if a person is successful at growing violets, they're not going to stop at growing just one. they become very committed. .. . our business is 30 percent above last year,'' holtkamp said. talks</head>
the tass news agency indicated that jordan's prime minister and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze agreed saturday that the u.s. plan for a middle east peace conference merits further examination
the government agency said jordanian prime minister zaid al-rifai and shevardnadze discussed the plan and ``noted the expediency of continuing a substantive talk with the u.s. administration on issues of a middle east settlement.''
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz submitted his plan for negotiations two weeks ago to israel, jordan and syria and asked for replies by mid-march
he proposed that the united states, soviet union, china, britain and france hold a conference on the middle east next month to prepare for negotiations may 1. he also called on israel to cede part of the occupied west bank and gaza strip in exchange for arab recognition
jordan's king hussein has refused to enter peace talks with israel except at an international conference
but israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir rejects such a forum because he believes it would allow the soviet union ``to push a settlement favorable to themselves and their syrian clients.''
shamir prefers direct negotiations with jordan and palestinians under limited u.s. and soviet auspices
the tass dispatch said al-rifai and shevardnadze ``pointed out that the only realistic way leading to a just and all-embracing settlement of the conflict ... is convocation of an international conference with the participation of all directly interested parties, including the plo.''
shultz's plan excludes the palestine liberation organization from the negotiations. palestinians approved by the plo would be in a delegation with jordan
the soviet news agency said shevardnadze and al-rifai, in a moscow meeting, ``pointed to the danger and inadmissibility of partial, separate understandings which interfere with settling the arab-israeli conflict and lead to a split between arab countries.'' it was not clear which understandings tass referred to
shevardnadze is scheduled to discuss the middle east peace efforts with shultz and other u.s. officials in washington this week
a federal appeals court has overturned a judge's ruling ordering northwest airlines and its 2,900 mechanics into mediation and given the airline the right to impose new wages and work rules in a contract dispute
the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals, in a 2-1 decision friday, reversed a december ruling by u.s. district judge diana murphy that enjoined northwest from imposing new wages and work rules and and ordered the parties to federal mediation
the appellate ruling is a defeat for the international association of machinists, which represents the mechanics and had sought to include them in negotiations covering another 7,000 employees who operate under two other contracts
terry erskine, vice president for law and labor relations for the minneapolis-based airline, said friday night that northwest officials have not yet decided whether to impose new work rules in light of the appeals court ruling
it's not clear whether the ruling will have any impact on the union's ability to support a possible walkout by northwest's 6,700 flight attendants who have threatened to strike at midnight march 29
talks with the flight attendants also have stalled, and northwest has announced plans to impose new contract terms on them april 1
under the railway labor act, which governs collective bargaining in the airline and railroad industries, the 2,900 mechanics remain free to strike
in a related development, erskine said northwest asked machinists union international president william winpisinger to clarify the union's position on a sympathy strike. local union officers implied earlier in the week that they would support a flight attendant walkout
erskine said a union attorney wrote northwest on wednesday and acknowledged that the machinists cannot call a formal sympathy strike. that also is the position of guy cook, the union's general president in minneapolis, the star tribune reported saturday, quoting unidentified sources who also said that individual union members are free to honor another union's picket lines
cook, who was out of town, did not return a reporter's phone call saturday
friday's court ruling was a setback for the union's efforts to keep its 10,000 mechanics, baggage handlers and cleaners in one set of contract talks. another 10,000 members work under a separate contract that does not open for negotiations until 1989
the legal issue addressed friday stems from northwest's efforts to negotiate transition agreements with the union in the wake of its 1986 acquisition of republic airlines
when northwest announced plans to impose new terms on the 2,900 mechanics in october, the union asked for federal mediation involving all 10,000 employees whose contracts would be under negotiation in 1987 and 1988. murphy said northwest should not impose new terms before going to mediation
the appeals panel, however, said the national mediation board does not have authority to adjudicate the question and that the union's request for mediation was improper
a machinists spokesman said the union had not yet decided whether to appeal
the official tass news agency accused the united states on saturday of using military threats to impose its will on nicaragua and spoil peace efforts in central america
the tass dispatch, the most extensive soviet comment on the dispatch of 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras last week, did not mention the kremlin's support of nicaragua's sandinista government
washington is actually doing its utmost for preventing a just peaceful settlement in central america, for procrastinating and aggravating the conflict despite its eloquent statements in favor of the termination of regional conflicts,'' tass said
the dispatch, read on the national television evening news program and on soviet radio, was billed as a ``tass statement,'' one step short of a government statement but still clearly carrying the kremlin's endorsement
president reagan sent the troops after nicaragua allegedly crossed the border into honduras in pursuit of contra rebels
the united states has been supplying the contras with weapons and other aid for years, but congress last month ordered an end to the assistance
the soviet union and its allies gave nicaragua $500 million in economic assistance and $600 million in military aid in 1986, according to the pentagon
tass accused the u.s. government of sending the troops to honduras to destroy the central american peace plan signed in guatemala last summer
the statement listed washington's harmful actions as ``opposition to the implementation of the guatemala accords, the desire to keep other latin american countries away from the political process, and the continuing attempts to legalize the military assistance to the mercenaries who invaded the nicaraguan territory and are using methods of terror against the nicaraguan people.''
it accused the united states of attempting to ``impose its will on peoples of sovereign countries.''
the statement made no mention of the soviet union's military aid and other close ties to nicaragua or say whether the kremlin would be willing to end its support of the sandinista government to help foster peace. it said only that the soviet union ``is ready to constructively promote'' implementation of the guatemala accords
soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze was to leave for washington on sunday to discuss the central american tensions and other issues with u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz
a team of u.n. observers will visit nicaragua as soon as possible to investigate the border conflict with honduras, a u.n. spokesman said saturday
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar decided to send the team at nicaragua's request. he said it would include one political officer from u.n. headquarters and an undecided number of military observers, u.n. spokesman mahbub ahmad said
diplomatic sources said the team was likely to include two military observers and probably would leave on tuesday. the observers have not been named
the announcement followed a security council meeting friday night during which nicaragua, honduras and the united states traded allegations over whether sandinista troops are in honduran territory and who is responsible for the current conflict
several latin american speakers endorsed nicaragua's call for a neutral u.n. observer mission to visit the site of the border clashes
ahmad said there are no immediate plans to visit the honduran side of the border. sources said no request had come from honduras
nicaragua has requested a joint mission by the u.n. and the organization of american states to investigate the border situation and make recommendations on preventing further conflict
an american teacher who first met her soviet fiance 21 years ago and hasn't seen him in eight years says she's excited and nervous at the prospect of being reunited with him this week
victor novikov, 56, a research chemist in moscow, is scheduled to arrive saturday from the soviet union on a three-month immigration visa, said elizabeth condon, 45, a russian and french teacher in woburn public schools
the couple have been unable to see each other since oct. 28, 1979, when they tried to marry in the soviet union but were blocked by soviet officials
over the intervening years, ms. condon's requests for visas to visit the soviet union were turned down repeatedly, as were novikov's attempts to come to the united states
the couple met in 1967 when ms. condon had a temporary job in moscow. over the years, she has visited the soviet union 10 times
the efforts of the reagan administration in the last two years in working with the soviets to resolve cases like ours created a little bit of hope,'' she said
the two finally learned in december that novikov was among 15 soviet residents who would be allowed to emigrate after years of being rebuffed
we're both very excited, and nervous,'' said ms. condon. ``after all, we haven't seen each other for 8{ years. we may need name tags.''
she said that if they marry within the three months of his visa, there will be nothing to keep novikov from staying in the united states
as for their immediate plans, ``we first have to get reacquainted and i hope to get victor into an english class,'' ms. condon said. repel attack</head> with name of obey's subcommittee</note>
only 1 percent of $20 million in ``emergency'' u.s. military aid sent to honduras following a 1986 incursion of nicaraguan troops was used to respond to the attack, according to a secret report by congressional investigators
the $200,000 spent to respond to the four-day sandinista border raid in late march 1986 was used to airlift honduran troops to the remote jungle in southeastern honduras where the nicaraguan forces were attacking contra rebel camps, and to provide them with field rations, according to the general accounting office
the remainder of the $20 million was used simply to speed up a schedule of routine purchases for the honduran military, most of them aimed at modernizing the country's armed forces, the gao found
some of the items purchased with the money had little to do with defense of the country's nicaraguan border. they included two lcm@8 landing craft and related equipment for the honduran navy, valued at $1.36 million
in contrast to the ``emergency'' status of the reagan administration's aid request, the money was spent over a period of months, and some $3.3 million of the aid remained unspent a full year after it was authorized, the agency found
and rather than drawing all of the aid from existing pentagon stocks, as normal emergency procedures dictate, only $6 million in materiel was taken directly from the defense department. the rest of the money was used to buy items directly from contractors and other sources, gao said
honduran officials and some in the state department later acknowledged that honduras had to be pressured to complain about the incursion, which occurred in a remote and relatively unpopulated jungle, and to ask for u.s. aid. the hondurans were reluctant to admit publicly that the contras were using their territory as a staging area for attacks into nicaragua
the issue of how badly honduras needed the military help two years ago has been revived after last week's deployment of 3,200 u.s. troops on a training exercise in honduras in response to a similar sandinista border incursion
the wisdom of president reagan's decision to send in american personnel has been sharply questioned in congress, with some lawmakers accusing the administration of exaggerating the sandinista threat to generate sympathy for a new package of aid to the nicaraguan contras
on friday, assistant secretary of state elliott abrams told reporters that discussions were under way with honduran president jose azcona about the possibility of providing additional u.s. assistance to his country
there are some other possibilities that we've discussed,'' abrams said. he did not say whether those options included military financial aid, as in 1986, but did say the administration did not contemplate sending additional troops. abrams was instrumental in arranging the 1986 aid
sources, who spoke on the condition they not be identified by name, said the government of honduras asked the united states for help friday in transporting troops to an area near the nicaraguan border where honduran and sandinista forces were fighting. an administration source said the request was likely to be approved
rep. david obey, d-wis., disclosed existence of the gao report thursday at a hearing when he asked john c. whitehead, the state department's no. 2 official, to explain the discrepancy between the seriousness with which the administration portrayed the 1986 incursion and the minuscule amount of money spent to respond to it
the associated press later obtained a summary of the findings of the still-classified report, dated feb. 2 and prepared at the request of rep. bill alexander, d-ark
how can we take seriously the administration's rhetoric on this occasion?'' if congress and the public were misled in similar circumstances two years ago, obey asked, according to a transcript of the hearing before his appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations
what i find so troubling is the parallelism with two years ago ... if they were concerned in 1986, why did they only spend $200,000 of the $20 million to deal with the problem they said they needed it for?'' obey asked whitehead
because the incursion backed away,'' whitehead responded
why didn't you return the money, then?'' obey continued
fortunately, the money did not have to be spent on repelling an invasion because the invasion disappeared,'' whitehead said. ``we hope it will disappear again.''
obey said he was not alleging that any of the money was used illegally, but concluded: ``it appeared that that incursion was simply used as an excuse to get $20 million in additional military aid to honduras.''
i do not know, mr. chairman,'' whitehead said. ``i have no reason to disagree with the gao report.''
the gao also found that pentagon reports to congress describing delivery of the 1986 assistance ``contained numerous inconsistencies and inaccuracies.''
the administration has portrayed the latest border incursion by sandinista troops as a large, long-planned and well-executed attack that jeopardized contra supply centers inside honduras and left rebel casualties, much as the administration did in the 1986 raid
like the incursion of two years ago, this one came at a time when congress was locked in controversy over whether to renew aid to the anti-sandinista rebels. in both cases, the house had just voted down an aid package and further congressional action loomed ahead
in both instances, the administration produced a written request from honduran president azcona for u.s. support to repel the incursion, and in both cases diplomatic consultations involving military aid had taken place before the written request
in 1986, the border battle proved indecisive and turned out to relatively unimportant in military terms. on friday, senate intelligence committee chairman david boren, d-okla., said it appeared sandinista troops were withdrawing from the area without having achieved many of their objectives
reagan authorized the $20 million sent in 1986 under the foreign assistance act, which allows the president to transfer up to $75 million a year in unused pentagon money for any ``unforeseen emergency ... which requires immediate military assistance to a foreign country.''
the aid was a substantial boost in military help for honduras, which received $60 million that fiscal year in regular u.s. assistance. in fiscal 1988, the regular military aid level was increased to $80 million
the administration declared it was an emergency'' obey said of the 1986 incursion, noting the written aid request from azcona, whom he said ``often appears not to sneeze without asking (u.s. ambassador everett) briggs for a hanky.'' warplances sted two; pick up 2nd graf pvs: both sides .... subs one graf for 13th graf pvs: the iranian ..., with details of third jet downed, pilots reported killed</note>
nicosia, cyprus (ap _ waves of iraqi fighter-bombers pounded iran's biggest oil terminal saturday, leaving at least two tankers ablaze in the northern persian gulf. iran said it shot down three iraqi warplanes
both sides fired missiles into each other's capitals and bombarded population centers with artillery for the seventh straight day, resulting in civilian casualties
an iraqi military spokesman, announcing that two long-range missiles were fired into tehran, declared: ``we will make the iranians live in hell until they accept peace.''
the attack on the kharg island oil terminal, through which 90 percent of iran's oil exports flow, was the first in six weeks and came during one of the heaviest iraqi air offensives against iran in several months
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said iraqi warplanes and helicopter gunships flew 270 combat missions saturday, including attacks on iranian cities
iraq also claimed that its forces killed or wounded 800 iranians during an ``abortive attack'' by iran in the central sector of the 730-mile front line on friday. iran claimed saturday its troops killed or wounded 400 iraqis in the sector but denied launching an offensive there
the iraqi news agency quoted military communiques as saying ``a very large number'' of iraqi warplanes penetrated iranian air defenses around kharg in a major attack on the oil terminal
the report, monitored in nicosia, said the jets bombed a tanker assembly zone east of the island
our planes penetrated the intensive enemy air defenses ... dropped their bombs on many tankers of various types and size, destroyed their targets, set them ablaze, and left columns of smoke billowing over the area,'' a communique said
gulf-based shipping officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, reported that at least two tankers owned by the national iranian tanker co. were ``burning fiercely'' after the raid
they identified the ships as the 316,379-ton avaj and the 253,837-ton sanandaj
the officials said an iranian supply boat also was hit and there were casualties, but they had no other details. ships in the area reported pillars of black smoke over kharg
the iranian news agency reported that iranian interceptors shot down an iraqi jet in a dogfight over the gulf. it said naval gunners downed two other iraqi jets, one a soviet-made mig-23 jet, with surface-to-air missiles minutes later. all the pilots were reported killed
iraq made no mention of any aircraft losses saturday. but the communique on the kharg raid did not contain the usual claim that all the iraqi jets returned to their bases
the iraqis have attacked kharg only three times since november, apparently because the iranians have intensified their air defenses there
iraqis bombed the terminal scores of times between august 1985 and last fall in their campaign to choke off iran's crucial oil exports, its economic lifeline
the ``war of the cities'' also continued, with iran firing one long-range missile into baghdad, the iraqi capital, another into the northern border city of khanaqin and 12 short-range rockets into the iraqi naval base of umm qasr in the south
another missile was fired into al-amarah, 200 miles southeast of baghdad, iranian communiques reported. the islamic republic news agency said the missile that hit baghdad was aimed at a ``military headquarters'' in the city of 5 million
but iraq said it exploded in a ``purely residential'' area, killing several civilians. it said it responded by firing two missiles into tehran
a university of chicago researcher is a little worried about fitting in when she goes to saudi arabia to accept the king faisal international prize on tuesday for her breakthrough in cancer research
i don't want to do anything offensive. i want to follow their dress code,'' said dr. janet davison rowley, the first woman and fourth american to receive the prestigious award in that middle eastern nation with strict rules on how women may act and dress in public
but she said she knows there have been many changes in the islamic country. and she doesn't plan to pack a veil in her suitcase
in the 1960s, girls weren't even going to schools and young women now are in medical school,'' said the university of chicago researcher, who discovered a link between genes and leukemia
mrs. rowley, 62, is being honored by the king faisal foundation for ``service to humanity.''
mrs. rowley is the only woman among the 45 prizewinners chosen since 1976, when the foundation was established by the late monarch's u.s.-educated sons to honor work in a variety of fields, said spokeswoman karen strickholm in los angeles
she plans to spoil herself a bit with the $47,000 cash prize
this sounds self-indulgent. i have a nice garden where my husband and i live and i'm tired of lugging garden hoses around. so i'm going to buy a sprinkling system,'' she said. ``if there's any money left over, then i'll think of something else.''
mrs. rowley's scientific breakthrough came in 1972 while she studied chromosomes from leukemia victims. chromosomes carry the genes that convey hereditary characteristics. there are 46 chromosomes in a normal human cell
mrs. rowley noticed one day that in nearly all leukemia patients, a piece of chromosome no. 9 had broken off and switched places with a piece of chromosome no. 22
she raced to the library to see if anyone else had observed this phenomenon
they hadn't,'' she recalled. ``it was one of the greatest moments of my life.''
mrs. rowley has received other honors for her work, but her path wasn't easy. the discovery came after she'd spent 10 years bent over a microscope in a small corner of laboratory space
but if she'd started later, it might never have happened at all
i'm convinced that there would be less chance of it today,'' mrs. rowley said. ``a lot of the money is diverted to defense, and there's more researchers. i had no research background and had to find someone to take me in.''
dr. leon o. jacobson gave her a chance at his university of chicago laboratory in 1962 on a part-time basis after she finished medical school, mrs. rowley said
she certainly convinced me that she was someone i should take on,'' jacobson said. ``she's always working, doing, thinking.''
now, mrs. rowley tries to do her bit for today's young researchers
i'd like to be remembered for my scientific contributions, which i think are important in understanding the link between chromosomes and disease,'' she said
but i'd also like to be remembered as an honorable individual who worked very hard to help young people in the lab and elsewhere to further their careers.''
mrs. rowley now oversees more than a dozen other university of chicago biomedical researchers. her husband, donald, is a pathology professor at the university
downtown strollers were offered half-pound bags of popcorn for a nickel apiece in a demonstration to increase city dwellers' understanding of farmers, and show how much influence they have on consumer prices
of course, (some people) were just happy to get a deal on popcorn,'' said greg leaf, a spokesman for agricultural manufacturing clients who helped with the popcorn sales friday
and many people were genuinely interested in our message,'' leaf said saturday
friday's popcorn sale was chicago's contribution to agriculture day, a national observation officially designated for sunday but was observed at various times across the country
while the 5-cent unpopped corn was intended to signify the farmer's share of the eventual retail cost of popcorn, 50 cents a pound in chicago supermarkets, the annual agriculture day has a broader message
you're entwined with agriculture even if you live in a high-rise in chicago and never see a field,'' said leaf. ``and issues that affect the farmer are your issues, too.''
not only through food are we all linked to the farmer, he said, ``but through fibers for clothing. and a lot of people have jobs related to agriculture
so if you're a truck driver and you haul food, you're affected by agriculture whether you know it or not.''
leaf said the couple dozen popcorn vendors sold out their 3,000 bags of unpopped corn to an estimated 2,000 people
nearly everyone acknowledges a need for the products of agriculture ``if he stops and thinks,'' said leaf
so this is a reminder, one time a year, to stop and think.''
agriculture day is sponsored nationally by the agriculture council of america, and locally by various farm-related organizations
swallows were outnumbered by tourists and there was no telling how many of the birds had just arrived, but bells pealed anyway saturday to herald the tiny birds' return to mission san juan capistrano
an estimated 7,000 people flocked to the 212-year-old mission, some waiting out an early-morning chill, to witness the swallows' fabled st. joseph's day return from their winter home in argentina
although only a handful of the cliff swallows were seen by midmorning, 92-year-old paul arbiso, who has announced the sighting of the swallows' return since 1910, rang four old bells to welcome them back at 9:34 a.m
he had been expected to ring the bells an hour earlier, but instead went to mass. however, with the mission grounds packed, tradition apparently had to be fulfilled
i saw a couple (of swallows) this morning, not too many, a few,'' he said. ``i was in the other church and they wanted me to ring them so they brought me here.''
the crowds and urban sprawl are responsible for the scarcity of swallows, who once numbered in the thousands, arbiso suggested
the swallows used to come before when nobody was around. but now there are too many people and too many buildings,'' he said
amador perez, 66, of east los angeles, who said he and his wife have come every year since 1947, agreed there were more swallows than last year but nothing like the numbers he saw the first time
in 1947, first you would see six to eight and then you'd see a whole flock, hundreds of them,'' perez said, adding that he nonetheless still enjoys the day's festivities, which include mariachi music and picnics
the insect-eating birds, who travel more than 6,000 miles from argentina to the mission, are a victim of urbanization that has turned the small farming town about 60 miles south of los angeles into a community of 22,500 with condominiums and parking lots
about 40 early birds _ which the mission staff refers to as scouts _ had been counted around the grounds during the week
first accounts of the swallows were recorded nearly from 1776, the year father junipero serra founded the mission. composer leon rene's 1939 pop tune, ``when the swallows come back to capistrano,'' popularized the return of the tiny cleft-tailed birds and ignited the tourist rush
as legend has it, the swallows have failed the camera- and binocular-toters only once, in 1935, when they were reportedly delayed by a storm
the event has its detractors. some bird experts argue that migrating animals don't make or keep appointments
march 19 is a day people chose and i'm not sure the swallows are aware of it,'' said gerald collier, a san diego state university ornithologist. ``they do come around the beginning of spring.''
roger wilson was a day late and $4.02 short so the town tax collector and two armed police officers shut down his cash register sales company
a day later, he was back in business, but out $27 for changing the locks back. wilson called the whole thing ``ridiculous,'' and mayor charles huizenga called it ``unfortunate.''
wilson's short-lived tax protest began last month. he mailed his $160 in winter business taxes on the due date, sunday, feb. 14, figuring the postal service would get it to city offices on the next business day
he figured wrong
the federal government this year observed feb. 15 as the presidents' day holiday, and that meant no mail delivery. but the city of wyoming didn't observe the holiday, so the 15th was a normal working day
that meant that wilson's taxes didn't arrive by the deadline, and that meant a penalty
we sent a letter requesting a $3.02 late-fee penalty payable in february,'' said treasurer anne porritt. ``we contacted him again in march and it ended up being a total penalty of $4.02,'' she said. ``he just refused to pay it.''
wilson said he didn't pay the penalty because he didn't feel it was justified. the city didn't buy that
on thursday, city tax collector john kramer showed up at wilson's business for the $4.02
i told him he was being ridiculous and to get out of my office,'' wilson said. ``he kept saying, `i'm just doing my job.' i said, `i know, and that doesn't require you to think, does it?' that probably didn't win me any points
he was back in a little while with two police officers. they actually forced us to leave and lock up the office,'' said wilson
wilson gave up his fight friday and paid the $4.02. he also paid $27 to get his company's locks changed back
in addition, he paid $248.85 for his estimated 1988 property taxes after porritt invoked an ordinance saying advance collections may be made on businesses when there is a reason to doubt that they will pay what's due
all this for $4.02. the city of wyoming must have a lot of money to spend or they must be very short of it,'' he said. ``the cost of doing this had to be phenomenal.''
porritt had no cost estimate
i realize it appears ridiculous to do it at $4.02, but do i just forget it? that isn't fair to the others who paid,'' she said
the soviet and u.s. governments should thaw out the cold war because their citizens are weary of the arms race, a soviet official and an american peace activist said saturday
but edward j. derwinski, undersecretary of the u.s. state department, countered, ``there's nothing wrong with a `cold' war _ it means the absence of a hot war.''
derwinski, the rev. william sloane coffin jr. and oleg benyukh, minister of public information for the soviet embassy in washington, d.c., were among officials, professors and peace activists on hand to address a conference at governors state university in suburban university park
arms control ``has direct impact on every local community, so each community should be part of this discussion,'' said coffin, president of sane@freeze, one of the sponsors of the daylong event
i think americans, as well as the soviet people, are sick and tired of the cold war,'' benyukh said in a telephone interview
benyukh said the conference and similar meetings across the united states and in his country are ``steps in the right direction'' toward achieving peace
the mistrust we have today comes from not knowing each other,'' benyukh said. ``the more we talk the better we understand each other,'' he said
and when we live in peace with each other, isn't it a waste to spend so much money on armament?'' the soviet official said
citizens should assert their views about the direction the u.s. government should take on arms control, because experts have lost perspective on the subject, coffin said in a telephone interview
i hope we do kick the cold war habit. it is politically and economically disastrous,'' said coffin, a former chaplain at yale university
but derwinski said arms control is too complex an issue for citizens to grapple with and will remain in the hands of the experts
saturday's conference was sponsored by the chicago sun-times; star publications, a suburban newspaper; a suburban chapter of sane@freeze, a non-profit, non-partisan community peace group; and the university. stone-throwing... edits 10th graf pvs bgng: also in ramallah... to conform</note>
israeli soldiers raided a ramallah hospital saturday in search of arab protesters and the government banned a plo youth group in the occupied territories, where violent palestinian demonstrations subsided
also in ramallah israeli troops briefly detained four foreign television crews
stone-throwing youths confronted israeli troops in scattered clashes in the occupied territories, but no shootings were reported. hospital officials in the gaza strip said nine palestinians were admitted with beating injuries
a statement saturday by the defense ministry said authorities had outlawed shabiba, the youth group of yasser arafat's fatah wing of the palestine liberation organization with thousands of members throughout the territories
given its continuous involvement in the disruption of israel's law and order in the area, and since it is an inseparable part of the plo, it was declared illegal ... members will be subject to arrest and trial,'' the statement said
an army spokesman said troops moved into the ramallah hospital in the early morning ``to remove undesirable elements from the premises and return control of the hospital to the doctors and nurses.''
the hospital, near the center of the west bank city 10 miles north of jerusalem, has become a gathering place for young arab protesters. they have raised the outlawed palestinian flag on its roof, hurled stones at soldiers, and taken refuge in the hospital's corridors
the army spokesman said troops removed ``those individuals who disturbed the functioning of the hospital'' and retreated after several hours, maintaining a guard at the entrance
however, the arab-owned palestine press service said soldiers burst into the hospital, checking identification papers and assaulting staff members. the agency said troops stationed at the entrance also prevented relatives from visiting patients
the agency said doctors and nurses at the hospital carried out a sit-in strike against the army action later saturday
the foreign television crews detained in ramallah included teams from america's cbs and cable news network who the military said defied an order to leave the area
army commanders are empowered to close off areas under their control at will
eli fastman, a cameraman for the london-based visnews, said the four two-man crews entered ramallah after they were presented with a closure order. they stayed there ``to challenge this crazy system of closing us out of the territories,'' fastman said
fastman said the crews, which also included a team from the london-based worldwide television news, were taken to a military police station in ramallah where they ``discussed the situation with army officials.'' the army filed no charges and released the crews an hour later, he said
the palestine press service said a free-lance reporter working for the new york daily newspaper newsday, nancie katz, was also briefly detained by troops near the city of nablus for violating a closure order
the army also arrested an arab journalist in the west bank town of tulkarm. the journalist, adnan damiri, works for the palestine press service, the agency and israel radio said
damiri was arrested during the night in connection with security offenses, the agency said. he has already served 6{ years in prison for security offenses
an army spokesman said he had no information on the arrest. israel radio said it was one of several during the night in tulkarm
also in tulkarm, the army distributed leaflets calling on arab residents to refrain from protests, israel radio said. the radio quoted the leaflets, also distributed in the town of qalqilya, as telling inhabitants they would only hurt themselves by engaging in disturbances
in the gaza strip, a curfew remained in force on the shati refugee camp and a section of gaza city after sustained protests there
widespread disturbances began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza, where 1.5 million palestinians live. israeli captured the territories in the 1967 middle east war
the united nations reports that 102 palestinians have died in the latest unrest. is slated to be in u.s. through monday, sted scheduled to leave saturday. picks up 4th graf, `the position...'.</note>
a resolution before the american jewish congress repeating its call for israel to withdraw from the riot-torn west bank and gaza strip sharply underlines its difference with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir
the united states has long endorsed the principle of exchanging territory captured by israel in the 1967 mideast war in return for a peace settlement with neighboring arab states and palestinians
but shamir, who is visiting the united states through monday, has strongly rejected the idea, saying it would endanger the security of the jewish state because it would put arabs who dream of israel's destruction in a better position to carry out their threats
the position taken by our organization obviously is not in accord with that taken by mr. shamir this past week,'' said andrea binder, a spokeswoman for the american jewish congress, which opens a meeting here sunday
we issued a statement in september which called for territorial compromise and endorsed an international peace conference. the resolution that will be voted on next week will reaffirm (the earlier) resolution,'' she said prior to the gathering
another resolution will specifically endorse the complex peace plan proposed by secretary of state george p. shultz in the face of arab rioting in the territories and measures by israeli security forces to suppress the uprising
a third resolution will ``discuss arab and specifically palestinian intransigence in coming to the negotiating table,'' she said
shamir's visit is expected to be discussed throughout the four-day convention, which will be attended by about 400 to 500 delegates
the american jewish congress, which has 50,000 members, was the first major american jewish organization to favor a compromise in the israeli-occupied territories, ms. binder said. the group's statement last year underscored divisions among america's jews about the issue
last monday, shamir preceded his meeting with president reagan by saying he was outraged by the united states' suggestions of a withdrawal from the occupied territories. he said a withdrawal ``inevitably'' would invite new arab attempts to destroy israel and that he was ``astounded'' at the short memories of withdrawal proponents
four days later, shamir flatly rejected a u.s. proposal for a full-scale mideast conference, saying that such a conference would give the soviet union and its arab allies too much influence, and might force israel to withdraw from the occupied territories
his labor party counterpart in israel's coalition government, foreign minister shimon peres, is agreeable to such a conference, without which jordan's king hussein won't come to the table
reflecting sharp disagreement with shamir, reagan said: ``those who will say no to the u.s. plan _ and the prime minister has not used this word _ need not answer to us. they'll need to answer to themselves and their people as to why they turned down a realistic plan to achieve negotiations.''
with am-honduras bjt
here is a summary of the developments saturday involving nicaragua, honduras and the united states:
honduras ordered several more battalions of soldiers to reinforce its 2,000 troops along the border with nicaragua. the troops are trying to oust nicaraguan soldiers who entered honduran territory. president jose azcona hoyo said he wouldn't hesitate to seek more u.s. help
but a few hours after azcona spoke, the honduran armed forces announced the nicaraguans were withdrawing. honduran officials said the sandinista troops had crossed the border last week in pursuit of u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels
president reagan called for renewed aid for the rebels, known as contras. his administration sent 3,200 american soldiers to honduras last week. the defense department said the u.s. troops probably will be in central america for about 10 days
president daniel ortega said he is asking the international court of justice in the hague for an injunction preventing military activities that could ``raise tension'' between honduras and nicaragua. the tribunal, also known as the world court, has no power unless both sides of a dispute agree to its jurisdiction
nicaragua's rebels said they are willing to hold cease-fire talks as scheduled this week with the sandinista government, despite threatening earlier to boycott them unless nicaraguan troops withdrew from honduras. a contra spokesman, carlos hurtado, said the rebels were ready for monday's talks in the southern town of sapoa near the costa rican border
the official tass news agency accused the united states of using military threats to impose its will on nicaragua and spoil peace efforts in central america
a team of u.n. observers will visit nicaragua as soon as possible to investigate the border conflict with honduras. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar decided to send the team at nicaragua's request. the group will include one political officer from u.n. headquarters and an undecided number of military observers, u.n. spokesman mahbub ahmad said
mexico said the crisis in panama and at the honduras-nicaragua border calls for ``great prudence and the need to use political means to achieve a negotiated peace.'' foreign minister bernardo sepulveda said mexico opposes outside military intervention in the region. track</head> with tass comment; picks up 10th graf pvs bgng, `another state'</note>
the reagan administration will complain to soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze this week about his country's military aid to nicaragua, but won't let the issue disturb preparations for a superpower summit, officials said
shevardnadze, due to arrive sunday afternoon, will hold three days of talks starting monday with secretary of state george p. shultz. lunch at the white house with president reagan is tentatively scheduled for wednesday
the aim is to clear the way _ especially on arms control _ for a reagan trip to moscow in may or june to sign another u.s.-soviet disarmament agreement
the soviet foreign minister will come at a time of preoccupation in the capital with events in honduras, where 3,200 u.s. troops were sent after nicaragua moved against guerrillas using sanctuaries on honduran territory
the soviet union supplies the nicaraguan forces
in 1986, moscow and its allies gave nicaragua $500 million in economic assistance and $600 million in military aid, including helicopter gun ships, transport aircraft and more than 1,200 vehicles for probable military use, according to the pentagon's most recent report on soviet military power
that aid, compared with what the united states sends to the resistance and to u.s. client states in the region, ``makes us look like paupers,'' state department spokesman charles e. redman said friday
he called the soviet effort ``massive'' and said the issue would be raised during the talks with shevardnadze
shevardnadze may carry complaints of his own
the official soviet news agency accused the u.s. government saturday of sending troops to honduras to destroy a central american peace plan signed in guatemala last summer. tass said the administration's support for the guerrillas in nicaragua aids terrorism
redman sought to dispel the view that the issue would dominate the talks, saying ``the soviets know how we feel.''
another state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said arms control, the situation in afghanistan and human rights in the soviet union were equally important topcs for the talks
shultz is expected to press shevardnadze to clarify soviet plans for the withdrawal of its estimated 115,000 troops from afghanistan
a soviet spokesman said last week that even if united nations-sponsored negotiations in geneva fail to produce a political settlement in afghanistan the soviet union would withdraw its troops anyway
this appeared to be a change in soviet emphasis, away from the need for a geneva accord and toward a unilateral pullout
the soviets didn't need the geneva accords to invade afghanistan so they certainly don't need the geneva accords to leave afghanistan,'' redman said. nevertheless, he added, ``we do believe it would be preferable if there were an agreed-to, orderly basis for that withdrawal. we think that's something that would be in the interest of all parties, including the soviets.''
the chief u.s. desire is an end not just to soviet presence but to moscow's financial and military support to the afghan government _ which the state department has labelled a mere ``faction'' among political groups in the country
if the soviets continue helping the afghan government after a troop pullout, the united states will continue its support to resistance forces fighting the kabul regime for almost a decade, the state department said
shultz and shevardnadze's last meeting, in moscow in february, was dominated by discussion of arms control, notably efforts to reach an agreement on up to 50 percent cuts in long-range nuclear missiles and bombers carrying atomic weapons
negotiators have been trying to devise a pact in time for signing at a summit
one of the most difficult-to-achieve ingredients of the arms pact is a verification system that insures the destruction of the weapons and satisfies both sides that armaments outlawed by the pact are not subsequently deployed
since february, each side has completed its drafts of how the verification system should work and the negotiators are now trying to narrow the differences in the documents
on tuesday, shevardnadze is scheduled to join shultz in a ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the u.s. end of washington-to-moscow communication links known as ``risk reduction centers.''
the computer and telefax filled center, on the 7th floor of the state department, and a comparable communications post in moscow, will be used to help the two sides keep in touch at a minute's notice if problems arise with treaties to limit weapons, incidents at sea and the danger of accidental war
center managers tested the high-speed communications link last week by exchanging maps of the moscow and washington subway systems by high-speed data transmitters
tobacco companies can be held accountable for not having warned consumers about the hazards of smoking before a law was passed requiring warning labels on cigarette packages, a federal judge ruled
u.s. district judge walter jay skinner dismissed claims by joanne kotler that her husband died of lung cancer because three tobacco companies failed to warn about the hazards of cigarette smoking after the cigarette labeling and advertising act went into effect on jan. 1, 1966
but skinner ruled that she will be allowed to continue her case on the basis of inadequate warnings before the federal law was enacted
there is no language in the act that even hints at retroactive application (of protection provided by the package warning), and it surely is not necessary to give the act retroactive application in order to give it full force of effect,'' skinner wrote
skinner's opinion, issued last wednesday, resulted from a hearing held in october 1987, two months after a similar case was dismissed by a federal appeals court ruling that the warning labels on cigarette packages protect tobacco companies from liability suits
american tobacco co. had argued that the kotler suit, filed in march 1986 against it and two other tobacco companies, philip morris inc. and liggett group inc., should also be dismissed. but skinner disagreed, saying the court did not distinguish in the previous case between smoking done before the warning labels were begun and smoking done after
mrs. kotler, of cambridge, alleged in her suit that her husband, george, started smoking at age 11 because of aggressive and negligent advertising campaigns by the tobacco companies. he continued smoking for 44 years until his death in january 1986
the suit also alleged that the companies failed to warn of the dangers of their cigarettes and that they failed to adequately test, design and market them. the defendants have denied the claims
skinner permitted the continuation of mrs. kotler's allegations that the cigarettes were defectively designed and breached the implied warranty of their sale
the defendants argued that the law states, ``good tobacco is not unreasonably dangerous merely because the effects of smoking may be harmful,'' skinner wrote
but skinner said a ``product may be negligently designed even though it functions as intended if design changes would have reduced the danger of the product without significant reduction in its efficiency and without undue cost.''
other courts have held that cigarettes may be found to be `bad' if the tobacco contains pesticide residues, which might have resulted from inadequate testing, or if they contain excess nicotine or additives, which may affect their safety,'' skinner wrote
eric nissen, mrs. kotler's attorney, did not immediately return a message left on his office telephone answering maching saturday. spokesmen for connecticut-based american tobacco; new york-based philip morris; and durham, n.c-based ligget did not return phone calls to their offices saturday
a judge has dismissed attempted manslaughter charges against a prostitute who continued soliciting sex after she contracted the aids virus, a case believed to be the first of its kind in the nation
circuit judge michael cycmanick ruled friday that prosecutors failed to prove that elizabeth kay sherouse, 24, actually intended to kill any of her customers
thank you, jesus,'' ms. sherouse said after the judge's decision
although the judge said she might have been negligent in continuing to solicit sex, he said there was no evidence indicating she had an intent to kill
prosecutors claimed that ms. sherouse, who has been convicted nine times on prostitution-related charges, tried to kill two men last summer by agreeing to have sex with them after she had been told she carried the deadly acquired immune deficiency syndrome virus. neither man has tested positive for the virus
assistant state attorney rick bogle said the state will decide next week whether to appeal the ruling. ms. sherouse is scheduled for trial may 2 on six unrelated misdemeanor charges and a racketeering charge
her attorney, bill sheaffer, argued that ms. sherouse, a cocaine addict with a seventh-grade education, was too ignorant about aids to understand the danger she posed to the men
bogle disagreed
she didn't care what happened,'' bogle said. ``she didn't care she could kill somebody.'' pickup</note>
south dakota democrats, honoring results of the feb. 23 presidential primary, allocated national convention delegates saturday on that basis during a statewide caucus in pierre
although national party rules do not permit the election to have any directly binding effect on the national convention delegates, state democrats said it was only proper to do so
missouri rep. richard gephardt will receive nine pledged delegates and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis will receive six delegates, state democrats decided
gephardt initially was allocated six delegates saturday and dukakis was given four. five more pledged delegates will be parceled-out between the two candidates in proportion to primary results on april 23 when the democratic state central committee meets in mitchell
in addition, four top members of the south dakota democratic party automatically receive seats as delegates to the national convention in july
gephardt received 44 percent of the vote to win the state's democratic primary. dukakis came in second with 31 percent
the decision to pattern the delegate selection process after the results of the state presidential primary was made with no debate and no dissent
i move that we reflect the integrity of the south dakota voters and reaffirm the express presidential preferences of the primary election vote,'' said ted muenster of sioux falls, state chairman of the gephardt campaign
the motion was immediately seconded and the question called for, which in parliamentary proceedings prevents any further debate
there had been rumors that some democrats might attempt to discard the election results and instead base the allocation of delegates on the preferences of those attending the caucus
after the caucus, rick hauffe, the newly named executive director of the state democratic party, confirmed the rumors but said he was pleased that no opposition surfaced
this is a good demonstration of democratic unity in south dakota,'' hauffe said. ``it's going to go uphill from here.''
kip scott of sioux falls, state campaign manager for dukakis, said he was disappointed that dukakis finished second in the state primary
michael dukakis wasn't exactly a household name in south dakota before the election,'' scott said. ``i felt some of the lessons we learned enabled us to go into the south and do well there.''
dukakis gained the most democratic convention delegates on super tuesday and leads in total pledged delegates. martin anderson named in 13th graf.</head>
u.s. soldiers deployed on what washington officials call a show of military support for honduras and a training mission said saturday they are ready for anything
we're prepared to do anything they ask us to do,'' maj. mike nason of the 82nd airborne division headquartered at fort bragg, n.c., said at the palmerola air force base. ``i don't want to speculate, but the 82nd airborne is a combat unit. anything can happen.''
nason arrived in the first plane thursday of an airlift of 3,200 american soliers sent by the reagan administration to honduras. they were dispatched after nicaraguan soldiers entered honduran territory in pursuit of u.s.-backed rebels known as contras
u.s. officials say the troops will not engage in combat. they say the troops are in honduras for a training mission combined with a show of force and support for the central american nation
but nicaragua's leftist sandinista government has accused the united states of preparing to invade nicaragua. president daniel ortega said last week his forces are ready to ``liquidate'' the u.s. troops
nason, from garden city, n.y., said the american soldiers would be surprised if they are called upon to do anything other than demonstrate american support for honduras
our orders remain that we're here to train. we're not here to enter into combat,'' he said
the arrival of the 82nd airborne and units of the 7th light infantry from fort ord, calif., put u.s. strength in honduras at about 6,900, according to maj. gary hovatter, the public affairs officer for american troops in honduras. the troops who had been here before the reinforcements were sent are assigned to various u.s. facilities and engaged in training exercises
president jose azcona hoyo of honduras asked for the additional u.s. troops in hopes of forcing a nicaraguan retreat and he said saturday he won't hesitate to ask for more u.s. assistance
azcona has asked for a u.s. helicopter airlift to help him deploy honduran troops in the mountainous bocay border region where the sandinistas crossed the frontier
despite the tense situation, the american soldiers at the palmerola headquarters were relaxed saturday. many said they looked forward to the training activities and nothing more
i like it. it's fun,'' said pfc. shane lawson of columbus, ohio. ``you can't train like this in the states, so we came down here. and we get to train with honduran troops.''
sgt. kenneth martin anderson said he was upset at protests back home over the deployment
they're protesting just to protest something,'' he said. `they don't understand that you can't have communists running free all over the place doing what they want to do. what happens if the united states gets attacked by communists?''
anderson and lawson were in a contingent of about 670 airborne soldiers in camouflage battle dress who climbed into blackhawk and chinook helicopters for the brief flight to their bivouack at the nearby base of tamara
hovatter said the u.s. troops were sent to four honduran bases: tamara, just north of the capital; san lorenzo in the south; juticalpa, about 65 miles northeast of the area where the nicarguan incursion took place, and palmerola, 40 miles west of tegucigalpa
nason denied nicaraguan claims that the u.s. operation was designed to bring in equipment for the contras in their 6-year-old war against the leftist sandinistas
wherever we go, the equipment goes. none of it will stay here,'' he said
nason said the 82nd flew in two tanks, four cobra combat helicopters, three light helicopters, more than 100 machine guns, a dozen 105mm howitzers and several thousand rifles
on the main highway through tegucigalpa, people stopped to look at a convoy of about 25 trucks filled with u.s. soldiers
reporters driving alongside the caravan asked the troopers where they were heading
nowhere!'' one soldier shouted
claude montana's winter ready-to-wear collection of long trousers and christian lacroix's display saturday of short skirts showed that the two lengths can live in harmony
montana's show featured long pants along with some skirts, tops cinched at the waist and often with huge funnel collars
the designer has abandoned his big shoulders in favor of the raised or large sloped collars and shoulder wraps
he has honed down the sharp silhouette to simplicity in great fabrics and colors _ lots of caramels and a few pastels or black in silk gabardines, ribbed jerseys, leather and shorn mink
for evening, he concentrated on ways to make the black suit different. his black suits had satin scroll details over collars, lapels and jacket hems, and some elegant swirled stitch patterns, updating the tuxedo or smoking suit
christian lacroix's collection featured short coats with rounded shapes in hot-colored mohair with fichu wrapped collars
from lean suit shapes to the familiar bell-shaped short skirts or some bloomer-dresses for evening, lacroix surprised viewers with new velvets printed like persian rugs or prints with small leaf motifs
givenchy also showed acres of luxury clothes, mainly shorter lengths for daytime, just skimming the knee or slightly above
his man-tailored suits and waist-fitted suits with slightly full skirts displayed elegance. in shades of raspberry or bright blues or green, the tweeds are outstanding, as are some of the leather cardigan jackets
the knit outfits were in bright colors or tan and beige, sometimes with a wide-wrapped top
guy paulin was another designer who went in for simplicity. his models displayed short suits with clinging stretch black skirts topped by bordeaux and olive long piped jackets
cable-knit or jersey trouser suits were best with boleros in shades of khaki and caramel, or in pastel boucle knits
long iridescent taffeta raincoats with elasticized waists over full skirts or fitted coat-dresses in vermilion or emerald added a lively touch to the sober gathering of winter clothes. only</head>
the saudi arabian government said saturday the intermediate-range missiles it had acquired from the chinese would be used for defensive purposes to protect its territory and islam's holiest shrines
the saudi information office, in a statement to the official saudi press agency, quoted an unidentified official as saying that any nation has a legitimate right to defend itself by any means it deems necessary but that saudi arabia would not arm the missiles with nuclear warheads
the official said newspaper reports about the ``nuclear capacity of these missiles does not lend itself to truth and is utterly negated by the kingdom, as the steadfast and well-known policy of the kingdom is based on the permanent efforts to make the middle east region avoid the dangers of the nuclear arms race and to remain free from all its forms.''
the state department confirmed friday that saudi arabia had acquired chinese missiles with a range of 2,200 miles, capable of hitting all areas of the middle east, including israel
the missiles were described as chinese css-2 rockets, similar to those used in china's limited space program in the early 1970s and capable of being outfitted with nuclear warheads
it is not a new or strange tendency that saudi arabia seeks to secure its requirements of weapons for its armed forces from different sources, in accordance with its defense needs and in conformity with the prevalent circumstances in the region,'' the statement said
this principle is based on its defense policy aimed at bolstoring its capabilities, for the sake of the legitimate defense of its territory and holy shrines, particularly in view of the unstable situation and existing conflicts in the middle east region,'' the statement said
the official said saudi arabia is responsible for protecting the holy shrines of mecca, the birthplace of prophet mohammed, and medina, site of mohammed's tomb, which are located in a western region known as hijaz
on the other hand, the official said the kingdom's defense policy ``has never demonstrated any aggressive tendency. its policy was, and still is, based on keenness to avail security and prevail peace throughout the region.''
therefore, the official said, any program ``aimed at fostering its defense capabilities and protecting its legitimate interests is not a menace to peace. on the contrary, the more its defense capabilities are reinforced, the more it helps in propagating peace in the region
on the basis of this principle, saudi arabia acquired this chinese-made medium-range surface-to-surface missile system,'' the official said
the united states and the soviet union on saturday completed the first round of negotiations by the two countries on a new long-term grain agreement
deputy trade representative alan f. holmer, u.s. team leader in the negotiations, called the seven-hour discussion ``frank and amicable with both sides presenting their respective point of view.''
no deadline has been set for completion of the agreement,'' holmer said in a statement. ``however, both countries would like to come to mutual terms over the next several months.''
the current five-year agreement, which expires sept. 30, calls on moscow to buy at least 9 million tons of grain annually and specifies that the purchase include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
the last full day of winter made itself felt with a blast of cold arctic air across the north-central united states on saturday, plunging afternoon temperatures into the teens in northern minnesota and upper michigan
spring begins at 4:39 a.m. est sunday
daytime temperatures remained below freezing from the northeast half of north dakota through much of the great lakes to new england. strong northerly winds ushering the cold air into the north-central united states were expected to produce squalls and heavy snow in parts of ohio and pennsylvania on saturday night
heavy snow warnings were issued for northeastern ohio and northwestern pennsylvania, where 6 to 10 inches of snow was expected
it was also unseasonably cool in parts of texas, where morning temperatures dipped into the 20s and 30s. several cities set low-temperature records for the date, including el paso with 22 degrees; del rio, 29; corpus christi, 30; and brownsville, 38
the upper midwest and northeast had scattered snow showers, while the carolinas and the mid-atlantic coast region had sporadic light rain. sunny skies prevailed across the south-central and southwestern united states
a high wind warning was issued for southeastern wyoming on saturday. gusts of up to 52 mph were clocked at cheyenne
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 16 degrees at marquette, mich., to 87 in san diego, calif. the early-morning low for the nation was 3 degrees below zero at gunnison, colo
sunday's forecast called for scattered snow from the great lakes and upper ohio valley to new england, with rain in the pacific northwest, especially in western washington state and northwestern oregon. fair to partly sunny skies should prevail across the rest of the nation
afternoon highs should remain below 40 degrees from eastern north dakota through the great lakes region and ohio valley to new jersey and new england, with highs in the 20s and upper teens from minnesota across the great lakes to northern new england. highs should reach into the 70s from the southern plains through southern arizona to california, climbing into the 80s in western texas and the desert southwest. highs in the 40s, 50s and 60s were forecast for most of the rest of the nation
separating honduras and nicaragua where sandinista troops entered honduran territory to attack bases of u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels is the the coco river, a wide, shallow stream
but the coco is a confusing border, winding through a maze of thick jungle and mountains, merging with enough tributaries to make one uncertain of the side of the frontier he's on
the thrust of the nicaraguan offensive has been in the area around san andres de bocay, a border town 170 miles northeast of managua where the bocay river flows from nicaragua's jinotega province into the coco
north of the coco at that point is a series of small honduran mountain ranges and a broad plateau. flat and parched during the current dry season, it resembles parts of the american southwest
there are narrow valleys that provide relatively secure locations for the bases of the rebels, known as contras
south of the coco, in nicaragua, the swift-running bocay tumbles down a long series of rapids through the mountains of jinotega province and cuts through a deep valley named after it in its fall to the low-lying coco
where the two join at the border, they look much alike, both now in the six-month dry season that began in november and in the rainy season when they carry enormous amounts of water
the bocay valley, extending from the honduran border far into jinotega, has long been a strategic supply route for the contras
over the years, the jungled hills that rise hundreds of feet on both sides have been laced with an narrow trails, first made by local farmers and more recently by the contras
from the honduran border, the contras send supplies down the valley into nicaragua in dugout canoes and other boats or on the backs of mules and men who walk the jungle trails
on the honduran side of the coco where it is met by the bocay a small airstrip extends perilously along a bluff overlooking the water. supplies are landed or parachuted there by light planes that bring them from other contra bases inside honduras
the area is just 43 miles northwest of bonanza, a nicaraguan mining district. but bonanza is too isolated and difficult to defend for the sandinistas to station troops there permanently
instead, the sandinistas have driven the contras out of the bocay valley several times as they did this month and have attacked their bases inside honduras
a woman who claims she inspired michael jackson's 1983 hit ``billie jean'' was sentenced to 303 days in jail for violating a probation order to stay away from the pop singer's home
lavon a. muhammad, 40, who was twice previously convicted of trespassing on jackson's estate and who is described as suffering from delusions, was found guilty friday of violating the terms of probation for the 1986 convictions, which required her to remain a mile away
municipal court judge michael j. farrell, however, dismissed several misdemeanor charges against ms. muhammad, including trespassing and violating a court order
she was arrested at 3 a.m. feb. 12 in jackson's back yard after scaling a 5-foot wall
both prosecutors and her defense attorney say she suffers from delusions and believes she is engaged to marry jackson. she also claims the superstar is the father of her 6-year-old twins
jackson, 29, denies any involvement with ms. muhammad
in 1986, he obtained a four-year restraining order to keep the woman away, said deputy city attorney david s. kestenbaum
kestenbaum said that ms. muhammad, despite her claims, was not the inspiration for the song ``billie jean,'' which includes such lyrics as, ``billie jean is not my lover'' and ``the kid is not my son.'' ^eds: subs 2nd graf to add date of annual meeting.</head>
a white supremacist group has forced at&amp;t into asking shareholders to vote on ending the telephone company's minority hiring program on the grounds that blacks are intellectually inferior
the racist national alliance offered the resolution on the ballot for at&amp;t's annual shareholders' meeting in denver, set for april 20. the securities and exchange commission ruled that it must appear, with minor changes in wording, despite the company's objections
at&amp;t's management has recommended that shareholders vote against the proposal
at&amp;t has had a long-term commitment to the advancement of women and minorities,'' said at&amp;t spokesman herb linnen in washington. ``it's ludicrous in this day and age to have it suggested that women and minorities not be given their rightful place based on their achievements in the workplace.''
he said at&amp;t, the nation's largest long-distance telephone company, has an ``outstanding record to point to (on affirmative action), one which we're proud of and we intend to continue our firm commitment in this area.''
the national alliance is a washington, d.c.-based organization that promotes the study of adolf hitler's writings
its leader, william pierce, also heads the white supremacist cosmotheist church, with headquarters in pocahontas county, w.va. he is the author of ``the turner diaries,'' a fictional account of an all-out race war ending in the domination of a worldwide hitler-inspired regime
the national alliance bought 100 shares of at&amp;t in 1986, and pierce told the charleston daily mail that the group's members have been working on the at&amp;t campaign for a year and a half
in a statement sent to shareholders, the national alliance claimed that ``only 1.1 percent'' of blacks possess an iq of 114 or above _ a ``desirable'' figure for most at&amp;t employees
we believe that to ignore data such as this in employment practices sacrifices the essential long-term benefits of personnel quality, for the short-term approval of pressure groups,'' the statement said
the resolution says minority hiring has had ``negative effects'' on morale among white at&amp;t employees who could ``feel discouraged and ignored when they notice that the company is actively seeking to advance non-whites.''
at&amp;t has disputed the group's allegations that its minority hiring program has hurt morale
ironically, at&amp;t management also has recommended a vote against another proposal from a new jersey shareholder who believes there aren't enough women and minorities in executive positions
that proposal asks at&amp;t to reformulate affirmative-action programs ``to ensure that racial minorities and women are not under-utilized in upper-middle and executive levels of corporate leadership.''
left-wing guerrillas attacked a state-owned coal mine, stole dynamite, blew up equipment and took two hostages with them as they fled, police reported saturday
they said an estimated 100 guerrillas of the pro-cuban tupac amaru revolutionary movement were involved in the pre-dawn raid friday on the cachi mine 30 miles west of this provincial capital
police and army units are searching for the rebel band and the two miners taken captive in the mountainous area about 130 miles east of lima
authorities reported no one was injured in the attack. no estimate of damage at the mine was given
the tupac amaru front emerged in 1984 as an urban guerrilla group but in the past year it has extended its attacks to include a few rural zones
it is considered less violent than peru's largest guerrilla organization, the maoist shining path movement that has been active for eight years. government officials say more than 10,000 people have been killed in violence related to the shining path
steve martin's screenwriting for the movie ``roxanne'' and john patrick shanley's work on the ``moonstruck'' script won top honors at the annual writers guild of america awards
cbs was the big television winner during the 40th annual awards presentation late friday at the beverly hilton hotel, taking top honors in seven categories, including best tv spot news script
nbc and abc each took four awards while the public broadcasting service had three and home box office won one. three of nbc's awards came via a three-way tie in one category, best comedy episode
the awards were presented on the 11th day of the 9,000-member guild's strike against the alliance of motion picture and television producers, and references to the strike flavored the evening, despite guild executive director brian walton's admonition, ``this is a night to celebrate writers and writing.''
martin was honored for best screenplay based on material from another medium
the comedian, who also starred in ``roxanne'' with daryl hannah, wrote the script for the summer comedy hit which was adapted from edmund rostand's ``cyrano de bergerac,'' a story about a man with an unattractive nose who uses well-chosen words to woo his lady
shanley was honored for best original screenwriting on ``moonstruck,'' which is nominated for six academy awards and stars cher as a brooklyn italian widow who finds herself engaged to one man but in love with his brother
broadcasting winners were:
original long form: john sayles, ``unnatural causes,'' nbc
adapted long form: reginald rose, ``escape from sobibor,'' cbs
anthology episode, single program: harry cauley, ``there were times dear,'' pbs
episodic drama (two-way tie): debra frank and carl sautter, ``it's a wonderful job,'' episode of ``moonlighting,'' abc; georgia jeffries, ``turn, turn, turn, part i,'' episode of ``cagney &amp; lacey,'' cbs
episodic comedy (three-way tie): barry fanaro and mort nathan, ``'twas the nightmare before christmas,'' episode of ``the golden girls,'' nbc; gary david goldberg and alan uger, ``a, my name is alex, part ii,'' episode of ``family ties,'' nbc; jay tarses, ``here's why cosmetics should come in unbreakable bottles,'' episode of ``the days and nights of molly dodd,'' nbc
variety-music, award tribute, special event: bennett tramer, ``will rogers: look back in laughter,'' hbo special
children's script: joseph maurer, ``an enemy among us,'' cbs
documentary-current events: perry wolff, ``the battle for afghanistan,'' cbs
documentary-other than current events: theodore thomas, ``the grizzlies,'' pbs
television spot news: thomas phillips, paul fisher, hugh heckman, paul enger, ``reykjavik summit,'' cbs
daytime serials: claire labine, eleanor mancusi, william burritt, madeline b. david, steve lehrman, david appell, ``ryan's hope,'' abc
television graphic art-network: kelly lee, kris celich, jay haiden, ray duke, ``shuttle disaster,'' abc
television graphic animation: frank sveva, ned steinberg, ``special events,'' cbs
on-air promotion: larry scheflin, ``wnet-pbs promo,'' wnet, pbs
radio documentary: norman morris, ``under the big sky,'' cbs
radio spot news: les blatt, ``peter jennings' journal,'' abc
a michigan schoolteacher and a retiree together raised $14,000 to help cover the medical expenses of a toddler who's the longest survivor of a five-organ transplant
moses rutland, 71, a retired butcher, and john ribner, 49, an eighth-grade teacher, both of flint, mich., said contributors ranged from the city's mayor to a child who gave $34 in pennies
the money was donated saturday for tabatha foster, 3, of madisonville, ky., who is recuperating from a five-organ transplant she underwent nov. 1 at children's hospital of pittsburgh
she received a new liver, pancreas, small intestine and parts of a stomach and colon during the experimental operation, which is not covered by her parents' insurance. she suffered from short gut syndrome, a congenital defect, and she would have died without the transplant, according to doctors
rutland said he began collecting money for tabatha last november
it seemed like somebody in the world should try to help this family,'' he said
ribner later organized a two-week, $1,400 drive at whittier middle school in flint
i always stress to my students to help their community, to not always take for yourself,'' he said
joe williams, a pittsburgh attorney representing tabatha and her parents, roy and sandra foster, said the $14,000 gift is the largest one so far. it brings total contributions to $320,000, leaving about $225,000 in unpaid bills
contract bridge players in france, italy and the united states sat down saturday to play one another in a computer-linked game
a computer dealt 32 bridge hands to 80 players in milan, italy; 80 in paris; 100 in houston, texas; and 244 playing in buffalo at the north american bridge championships, sanctioned by the american contract bridge league. each table of four players in each city got the same cards for each hand
the system, first demonstrated in buffalo on friday, dealt the cards in trays in one city while dealing identical bridge hands in the other cities
dubbed ``bridging the world,'' the international game was described by sherri rosen of the bridge league as the first world competition with computer-generated bridge hands and instant scoring
it will give players here in buffalo a chance to see how they can compete against people in other parts of the world,'' she said
the scoring, she explained, was to be done in paris and the results transmitted to buffalo
the buffalo players also were competing among themselves in the men's and women's pairs finals of the spring championships. at the same time they were competing in the international game against players in the other three cities
they came to buffalo expecting to be in the men's and women's pairs, but didn't expect to play an intercontinental match,'' said ms. rosen
the 10-day spring championships, one of three major tournaments that the american contract bridge league runs each year, have attracted about 5,000 bridge players to buffalo. info-changes grafs 1-11. pick up 7th graf pvs: a source close to...</note>
gen. manuel antonio noriega rejected washington's demands that he resign and leave the country, his press office reported saturday
the military strongman also purged more officers from the defense forces he commands in a move to strengthen his position
his press office said noriega met friday with ``some state department representatives'' and rejected their proposals for him to leave the country ``as being unacceptable, illogical, and anti-panamanian.''
the statement did not name the state department representatives, but it was known that william walker, a ranking member of the department's latin american affairs bureau, met with noriega friday
in washington, a reagan administration official said noriega had indicated a willingness to step down as panama's military chieftain but was unwilling to go into exile, as the united states insisted
opposition leaders called for a general strike monday to protest a nationwide state of emergency that restricted civil liberties
walker, a deputy assistant secretary of state, reportedly was empowered to tell noriega the united states would not seek to extradite the general on drug trafficking charges if he accepted asylum in a third country, possibly spain or france. noriega was indicted on the drug charges by a federal grand jury in florida last month
the defense forces press statement gave no details of the american proposal, but said that while noriega rejected it he ``totally reiterated his position of keeping the doors open to dialogue.''
it said noriega and members of his high command met with the washington envoys and he and his officers ``are prepared to hold all necessary conversations to resolve the panamanian problem, but without any type of conditions and always with the talks taking into account national interests.''
the reagan official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the united states was insisting that the general leave the country for fear he would continue exercising influence even after resigning from his official post
diplomatic and other sources said noriega appeared to be consolidating his base of power through the purges in the defense forces after rejecting the u.s. demands
a source close to the military said 15 colonels and majors have been forcibly retired or moved out of key positions since the head of the national police tried to remove noriega in an unsuccessful coup on wednesday
noriega's high command has acknowledged only five retirements and one major demotion, the transfer on saturday of col. lorenzo purcell from chief of the air force to an unspecified headquarters desk job
the defense forces admit to holding five officers, including the former police chief, col. leonidas macias, arrested wednesday morning when the attempt to take over noriega's headquarters went awry
but the source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 12 officers have been arrested, ``three or four are in hiding and quite a few more are suspected and being investigated _ up to 100.''
the latest military purges came a day after the civilian government, which answers to the general, declared a state of emergency aimed at putting panama's tottering economy back on track. the move prompted an opposition coalition known as the national civic crusade to call for an indefinite, nationwide general strike for monday, hoping to give a coup de grace to the economy and a final push to noriega
the united states has been pushing for noriega's ouster since he was indicted in florida
the planned work stoppage comes at a time when many major industries and smaller businesses already are closed by wildcat strikes or a lack of business caused by a critical cash shortage
the cash crisis became acute on feb. 26 when noriega dismissed the nation's civilian president, eric arturo delvalle, prompting a panic run on bank deposits. most banks closed four days later after the government acknowledged it did not have enough money to meet the demand for withdrawals
then, on march 3, the government ordered all banks closed until arrangements could be made for their orderly reopening. they remained closed through last week
the government was unable to fully meet its payroll last week for some 130,000 public employees. most got only $75 of their semi-monthly wages
economic discontent erupted in violent public demonstrations wednesday after word of the coup attempt spread. workers went on strike at the state-run electric and water utilities, ports in panama city and colon, a main port 50 miles north, and a number of government ministries
the government ordered the military to take control of the utilities and ministries wednesday, but at week's end the strikes continued
meanwhile, last week's coup attempt was depicted as poorly planned and executed by several diplomatic, political and other sources
several, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the same story of a colonel who overestimated his chances, came to the coup unprepared and fell victim to foul luck
according to their version, macias lined up support of several officers with most of the rank-and-file of his own police force and went to noriega's headquarters early wednesday. he was accompanied by 12 other officers and a squad of policemen
but, according to the sources, when the group arrived at the walled military compound in the heart of the capital of panama city, macias decided they were too lightly armed. he and his fellow officers marched to the base armory and demanded that it be opened, the sources said
once the officers were inside, the door was slammed shut behind them and locked. macias' police detachment, left behind in a courtyard, quickly surrendered after headquarters guards began shooting over their heads, the sources said
a former policeman has been convicted of second-degree murder in the july 1978 slaying of two young advocates of puerto rican independence, but another former policeman has been acquitted
rafael moreno was found guilty of participating in the killing of carlos soto arrivi, 18, and arnaldo dario rosado, 24, after both had surrendered to police on a remote mountain top. former police lt. col. angel perez casillas was found innocent of first-degree murder
the slayings had caused political convulsions in the u.s. commonwealth, and its senate still is investigating the involvement of top-ranking government officials
the verdicts came friday in superior court after a trial that lasted more than two months
last august, five other policemen pleaded guilty to reduced charges of second-degree murder and perjury stemming from the case, and a sixth pleaded guilty to conspiracy and perjury. the six received sentences ranging up to 30 years
in march 1985, all eight were convicted of perjury for having lied to several federal grand juries investigating the killings. each was sentenced to terms up to 30 years
soto arrivi and dario rosado were killed by police after they went the mountain with an undercover agent. the agent said the two intended to sabotage a communications tower
police initially claimed the two were killed in a shootout when they resisted arrest, and then-gov. carlos romero barcelo of the pro-statehood new progressive party called the policemen heroes
but in hearings in 1983 by the senate, controlled by the popular democratic party, the youths were shown to have been executed at close range after having surrendered
the popular democratic party favors continuation of commonwealth status, while the puerto rico independence party favors independence, as do several extremist groups
senate president miguel hernandez agosto said earlier this month that evidence uncovered during the trial indicates high officials had planned in advance to entrap the youths
the government, which appointed a special independent prosecutor to investigate the killings, spent about $6.5 million on the case
the families of the victims won a $1.5 million out-of-court settlement from puerto rico last year after eight years of legal battles
puerto rico, about 1,000 miles southeast of florida, has been a u.s. territory since 1898. caucus and delegate numbers due to no-shows in two counties; picks up 11th graf pvs, bgng, `dukakis, who.'</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the kansas democratic caucuses saturday, fending off the urban strength of jesse jackson who finished a surprising second
with 115 caucuses reporting, dukakis had garnered 278 local delegates for 36 percent, jackson had 235 delegates for 31 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. 125 for 16 percent. another 114 delegates, or 15 percent, were elected in uncommitted status
missouri rep. richard gephardt got only 12 delegates and illinois sen. paul simon failed to pick up a single delegate. gephardt chose not to campaign in kansas, spending his time instead in michigan ahead of its caucus on saturday
no democrats turned out in greeley and wichita counties in far western kansas, reducing the number of caucus sites from 117 to 115 and the number of local delegates elected from 768 to 764
it's terrific,'' dukakis said at the jefferson-jackson dinner in detroit. ``we've had a major victory in kansas and feel good about it. now we're on to michigan and here we are.''
the massachusetts governor, asked about the significance of winning in kansas, said, ``i think it's the first farm and agriculture state that i've won and won decisively. i think that's a very good sign for the future.''
gephardt, speaking at the same detroit dinner, said he wasn't really concerned about kansas
we really didn't mount much of an effort there,'' gephardt said. ``our focus really has been on michigan over the last week and a half or two weeks.... i'm concerned about doing well michigan and i think we will.''
jackson beat dukakis in topeka and kansas city, and held him to a virtual draw in wichita. dukakis won in populous johnson county, which is suburban kansas city
dukakis won 42 delegates in johnson county to 20 for jackson and 19 for gore, and sedgwick county, which includes wichita, with 44 delegates to 40 for jackson and 31 for gore
jackson shocked most observers by winning shawnee county, which includes topeka, with 32 delegates to dukakis' 14 and gore's four, and claimed wyandotte county, which includes kansas city, as expected, with 44 delegates to 13 for dukakis and none for gore
twenty-six delegates were elected as uncommitted in the four metropolitan counties. gephardt got four of his delegates in johnson county, which borders missouri, but none in any of the other three big counties
dukakis, who had been organized in kansas far longer than any of the other contenders, had been expected to do well. his state chairman, paul feleciano of wichita, had predicted dukakis eventually would claim between 20 and 25 of the kansas national delegates
the first larger county to report was reno, just west of wichita
jackson, who didn't win any local delegates in reno county four years ago, got 75 votes from the 285 democrats attending. another 88 voted for dukakis, 79 for gore and 43 for gephardt
democrats attended 115 local caucuses, electing 764 delegates to congressional district conventions on april 23 at which 26 of kansas' 43 delegates to the national convention will be picked. four state party officials are automatic delegates and the final 13 will be named on may 14 by the state committee. derailed cars</head> with 4 grafs to update with evacuation over, leaks capped.</note>
twenty railroad cars, including nine hauling chemicals, derailed saturday, forcing authorities to evacuate an entire town of 1,700 people for seven hours, officials said
the derailment also led to a fire that destroyed an empty building, said deputy sheriff pat miller. no injuries were reported, however
some of the cars struck power poles as they derailed, knocking out electricity to the town for two hours, said a spokesman for northern states power co
a partial evacuation began when officials learned that two of the tank cars carrying methanol, a type of alcohol, were leaking, miller said
the decision to evacuate the entire town was made at 11 a.m., after it was determined another tank car carrying sulfur dioxide was damaged, said city council member val lawler. he said the car was not leaking, but the tanker's outer envelope was ruptured
miller said the other tank cars, carrying anhydrous ammonia, were not leaking
the car carrying sulfur dioxide was righted and stablized by early afternoon and leaks on the two methanol alcohol tankers were capped, said phil marbut, director of safety and hazardous materials for the minneapolis-based soo line. residents were allowed back in their homes shortly after 6 p.m
many residents had begun leaving the town immediately after the derailment, which occurred at 7:38 a.m., an official said. the state patrol also began closing off several highways to the town, about 40 miles northwest of minneapolis
hazardous waste crews from the minnesota pollution control agency were investigating, miller said
the cause of the derailment was not known, said soo line spokesman john bergene. the eastbound train consisted of 65 cars and the derailment occurred in the middle of the train, he said. to update with statement from noriega's press office; picks up 7th graf pvs bgng, `spain has'</note>
panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega indicated a willingness to step down as military commander but he rejected efforts by two u.s. envoys to persuade him to go into exile as well, an administration official said saturday
he wants to stay on. he wants to stay in panama,'' the official said, commenting on the outcome of meetings noriega had on friday with two state department officials who were dispatched to panama
noriega, at his request, met with deputy assistant secretary william walker and the state department's deputy legal adviser, michael kozak. the two were said to be planning a return to washington this weekend
the administration official, who asked not to be identified, said noriega indicated a willingness to step down as commander of the defense forces but made it clear he wished to remain in his country
other u.s. officials had said earlier that walker and kozak were prepared to tell noriega that the united states would not seek his extradition on federal drug-trafficking charges if he sought asylum in another country
the administration was willing to make that concession because of concern over the high stakes that the united states has in that country and the desire to end the political and economic chaos there
noriega's press office said saturday that he rejected the u.s. proposals for him to leave the country ``as being unacceptable, illogical, and anti-panamanian.''
the defense forces press statement gave no details of the american proposal, but said that while noriega rejected it, he ``totally reiterated his position of keeping the doors open to dialogue.''
it said noriega and members of his high command met with the washington envoys and he and his officers ``are prepared to hold all necessary conversations to resolve the panamanian problem, but without any type of conditions and always with the talks taking into account national interests.''
spain has said it would admit noriega, provided he asked for asylum and the united states did not seek his extradition
the u.s. official said that noriega's departure from panama is the minimum prerequisite for settling the crisis, which has featured widespread anti-noriega protests and the virtual paralysis of panama's economy
according to the official, the administration fears that any arrangement which does not include noriega's exile would enable him to continue his role as the dominant figure in panama's political life
noriega probably would be able to continue ``pulling the strings'' even if he resigned as chief of the defense forces, the official said
a series of legal actions and other measures taken by the reagan administration has effectively dried up the flow of dollars into panama, leaving the country's banking system in crisis and the government unable to meet its payroll
the official said the administration expects the situation in panama to worsen this coming week because of a general strike which has been called by opposition forces and the wednesday payday for the 20,000 defense force personnel
there was considerable doubt that the government has enough money to cover the military payroll, the official said
the crisis was touched off three weeks ago when president eric arturo delvalle attempted to fire noriega but instead was fired himself. delvalle, who has been in hiding ever since, is regarded by the united states as panama's constitutional president
the administration has refused to recognize the successor government in panama, nominally headed by president manuel solis palma. occurred in same building where parents lived but not same apartment; and to update with suspect transferred back to county jail. picks up 6th graf pvs, `authorities had...'. subs 10th graf, `one investigator...', to add that bodies found in upstairs apartment.</note>
a man shot to death four people, including his brother and a pregnant woman, for playing a stereo too loud, police said
earl losier jr., 32, of bangor was arrested at his parents' apartment, in the building where the shootings occurred, and was later charged in district court with murdering his 26-year-old brother, stephen, authorities said
more charges were expected to be brought in connection with the other slayings, said fernand larochelle, chief of the maine attorney general's criminal division
police identified the other victims as peter prendergast, 26, of brewer; michael prendergast, 31, of bangor; and sharon prendergast, 23, of bangor. preliminary autopsy findings indicated that ms. prendergast was pregnant, authorities said
losier, who entered no plea to the charge, was ordered held without bail and taken to the augusta mental health institute for a psychological examination. he was transferred saturday evening to the penobscot county jail in bangor
authorities had not determined how the prendergasts were related and what their relationship to the suspect was, said police lt. don o'halloran
bangor police detective roy e. mckinney said in an affidavit filed in court that losier told another policeman that he shot the four ``because he was taking cough syrup and because they were playing the stereo too loud.''
o'halloran also said that it appears losier was upset about noise ``but we really don't know ... why it escalated so rapidly.''
in his affidavit, mckinney told the court that two policemen were sent to the building and were told of a shooting by the defendant's mother, carol losier
one investigator went to an upstairs apartment and found four people with gunshot wounds, mckinney testified. a .45-caliber semi-automatic handgun was seized at the scene, police said
according to jeffrey hjelm, an assistant attorney general assigned to the case, two of the victims were taken to local hospitals for treatment but did not survive
hjelm would not elaborate on the circumstances of the shootings. he said the case would probably be taken before a county grand jury. town</head>
a handful of white supremacists led a peaceful march and rally saturday to protest a three-month black boycott of white-owned businesses, while some 300 blacks stood silently on the sidelines
white supremacist richard barrett and about eight supporters gathered on the steps of the adams county courthouse after a short downtown march
barrett, of jackson, and his followers marched despite efforts by natchez officials to prevent it
last month, the board of aldermen passed a parade ordinance that stipulated a 30-day waiting period. barrett said he notified the city of his intent to march before the ordinance was passed and filed for a temporary restraining order in u.s. district court
city officials agreed out of court to grant barrett the permit
we come to you in the name of freedom,'' barrett told the group, which included about 100 white onlookers. ``those of you who rob a merchant of his trade are guilty of breaking the law, `thou shalt not steal.'''
black residents started the boycott against white-owned business after charging that the school system was discriminatory against black students and educators
natchez-adams county public school superintendent claude porter recently resigned after weeks of pressure from boycotters. one of the signs carried by the white supremacists read ``back porter.''
some of the boycott organizers, including state rep. barney schoby, natchez alderman george hardin and adams county supervisor phillip west, flanked barrett and his followers on the courthouse steps, but remained silent
blacks carried signs that read ``we will be here when you're gone,'' and ``we've paid our dues.''
natchez police chief ken farily said 40 police officers in riot gear stood by during the parade and rally.    protection</head> honduran attack; pick up 5th graf pvs, `honduran armed ...'</note>
the defense ministry said honduran warplanes bombed sandinista positions saturday inside nicaraguan territory near the border
the nicaraguan statement said two american-made f-5 jets staged a 10-minute attack saturday afternoon in the bocay area about 65 miles northeast of managua, dropping four bombs against sandinista army positions but causing no damages
the ministry said that two f-5 warplanes flew over sandinista positions saturday morning in the frontier sectors of mukuwas, san andres de bocay, waniwas and wayawas, producing no damage
the defense ministry said the area of the saturday's attack was the same where honduran jets dropped several bombs on thursday
there was no comment from the honduran government on the nicaraguan report. honduras has several thousand soldiers in the bocay border area under orders to drive out any nicaraguan troops they find in honduran territory
the bocay zone is where honduras said sandinista troops invaded honduran territory last week to attack bases of u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels, known as contras
honduran armed forces officials had said earlier saturday that the nicaraguans were withdrawing
president daniel ortega, speaking saturday before his government reported the honduran air raids, said he would ask the international court of justice for an injunction preventing military activities that could ``raise tension'' between honduras and nicaragua
the move appeared designed to step up political pressure on the united states, which last week sent 3,200 american troops to neighboring honduras as a warning to nicaragua
the tribunal at the hague, netherlands, also known as the world court, has no power unless both sides of a dispute agree to its jurisdiction
ortega made his announcement in a talk show appearance on government television during which he accused neighboring honduras of ``being an accomplice in the criminal activities'' of contra rebels against his regime
while he did not name the united states in his announcement, ortega appeared to be referring to the dispatch of american troops to honduras
ortega asked the court to issue an injunction calling for unspecified ``interim measures of protection'' against any military activities ``that could raise tension even more between honduras and nicaragua.''
in washington, reagan administration officials said the dispatch of troops to honduras was in response to an appeal for help by that country's president, jose azcona hoyo
azcona claims sandinista troops are still inside honduran territory. but the sandinistas say they are on their own side of the border chasing u.s.-supported contra rebels
ortega said his appeal was part of a lawsuit that nicaragua filed several months ago with the world court, demanding that it condemn honduras for allowing rebels to use its territory to mount cross-border attacks
honduras and the contras claim the rebel camps are on the nicaraguan side of the ill-defined, sparsely populated border. the sandinistas contend the camps are inside honduras
nicaragua's civil war has taken more than 40,000 lives since november 1981, when the contras began fighting the sandinista government. car bomb explosion, one injured, details</note>
surrounded by soldiers, harassed by a guerrilla ban on road travel and wary of violence, salvadorans vote sunday for a new national legislature and municipal officers nationwide
for the fifth time since a 1979 coup by reform-minded officers, citizens of this massachusetts-sized nation are casting their ballots in an open election. el salvador has a population of about 5 million
as before, they are doing it under less than ideal circumstances
on saturday night, a car bomb exploded in front of a movie theater in the affluent san salvador neighborhood of escalon. flying glass injured a woman ticket vendor
jorge medina, an employee of the cinema theater, said vendor cecilia torres was cut in the arm and back
the blast destroyed the car and damaged vehicles on either side
no group claimed responsibility. but leftist guerrillas said they planted a march 11 bomb that injured two people in san salvador, and have been accused of killing the mayor of a northern town and kidnapping a mayoral candidate last week
the election is for all 60 seats in the national assembly, the unicameral legislature. voters are also electing mayors and municipal councils in all the 262 cities and towns nationwide
the guerrillas, waging an 8-year-old war against the u.s.-backed government, reject the elections as ``a farce.'' they contend that, during wartime, popular will cannot be expressed at the polls
the rebels have been urging people to boycott the voting and declared a ban on all road transportation in an effort to disrupt the elections
the armed forces said 95 percent of the country's 56,000 troops have been deployed to deliver ballots and ballot boxes and to provide security at the 341 polling places set up throughout the country
the defense ministry said it could guarantee secure voting conditions in 244 of the 262 municipalities. voters in the other 18 provincial communities, located in areas under the virtual control of the guerrillas, are being allowed to cast ballots in the nearest town they can
but few are likely to do so because of the transportation ban
polls open at 7 a.m. and close at 5 p.m., and about 1.6 million people have registered to vote. early returns are not expected to be announced before midnight
more than 100 observers from 45 countries and several international organizations are on hand, including a 19-person delegation from the united states, headed by sen. richard lugar, r-ind., and representative john murtha, d-penn, to watch that the balloting and counting stays clean
the guerrillas have burned about 10 vehicles since they declared their ban on travel at dawn friday. most of the sabotage was in the eastern province of usulutan, but at least three taxis were reported burned in san salvador
traffic was drastically reduced in the capital and most of the country friday and saturday. but, between state-owned buses the government put into service and pickups converted by their entrepreneurial owners those who needed to get around san salvador could generally find a ride
in the elections, the governing christian democratic party of president jose napoleon duarte is expected to lose its majority in the assembly. the rightist republican nationalist alliance, commonly known by its spanish acronym of arena, is expected to make significant gains, but is unlikely to get a majority of its own
leftist parties declined to present candidates, contending the war makes a legitimate election impossible
the christian democrats have 33 deputies in the current assembly. arena has 13. the center-rightist national conciliation party has 12. there is one independent and one legislator from a small rightist party called paisa
presidential elections are scheduled for next march. the current campaign was characterized by mudslinging, with little emphasis on proposals for resolving the country's tremendous problems caused by the war
guerrilla squads late friday and early saturday blew up electricity transmission towers in several areas. the sabotage left the entire northern province of chalatenango without power, as well as the northern part of san salvador and parts of other provinces
the guerrillas on thursday warned people to avoid concentrating at polling places. the rebels said the heavy military presence at the stations make them ``military targets.''
jose antonio gonzalez, an 18-year-old student who will vote for the first time sunday, said he disapproves of both the transportation ban and the anti-election sabotage
it is a harsh reprisal against the people,'' he said, adding that he thinks the elections are legitimate ``because through elections, it is the people who decide what they want.'' update with report that u.s. denied honduran request that u.s helicopters ferry its troops to the battle zone, that alternative request for joint exercise will be approved, with report of honduran bombing raid along nicaraguan border area, comment from honduran official that sandinista troops pulling out, report that those troops were laying mines in honduran territory, denial from nicaraguan government; picks up 10th graf pvs bgng, `reagan opened'</note>
president reagan blamed congress saturday for the nicaraguan border crossing into honduras, and said rebels fighting nicaragua's marxist-led government ``must have assistance now.''
in his weekly radio address, delivered from the oval office, reagan made his first substantial statement on central america since he ordered troops airlifted to honduras on wednesday
he said congressional rejection last month of renewed aid for the contra rebels in nicaragua was ``giving the communist dictators ... a chance to smash their opponents.''
because of congress' aid cutoff last month, the sandinistas have mounted their major cross-border incursion into honduras,'' he said
the freedom fighters are in desperate need of support,'' the president added. ``if they are to remain a viable and effective force, they must have assistance now.''
the president spoke as administration officials, on the condition they not be identified, were saying that honduran president jose azcona had asked that u.s. helicopters be used to ferry honduran troops to the fighting zone
the officials said no decision had been reached, but one said the request was likely to be approved, perhaps this weekend
the new york times, citing a senior administration official that it did not identify, reported in sunday's editions that the administration already had rejected a proposal to use u.s. helicopters to transport honduran troops to the battle zone
the urgency of the honduran request _ which never was made formally _ diminished as the sandinista offensive appeared to wind down, and u.s. officials were able to persuade honduras to accept a more limited alternative, the times reported. that alternative was a joint training exercise in which u.s. helicopters would carry honduran troops to about 30 miles from the nicaraguan border but 100 miles from the battle zone
the hondurans were expected to request the exercise formally, and the united states will agree, the official told the times
white house spokeswoman liz murphy said late saturday that no decisions had been made on whether u.s. helicopters would ferry honduran troops to or near the border and said all queries should be directed to the pentagon
maj. bill o'connell, a pentagon spokesman, said he knew nothing about it and nancy beck, a state department spokeswoman, said she had no comment
one official, also speaking on condition he not be named, told the associated press that the nicaraguan forces were withdrawing from honduras. according to administration estimates, 1,600 to 2,000 sandinista soldiers had crossed the border
this official said the contra rebels remained an effective fighting force, but faced serious short-term supply problems
col. manuel suarez benavides, the honduran armed forces spokesman, said in a telephone interview saturday that the nicaraguan troops were withdrawing from honduran territory and that only about 600 sandinista soldiers remained inside honduras
this is a good sign on the part of the managua regime, so that peace can prevail in central america,'' he said
however, the nicaraguan defense ministry said saturday night that honduran warplanes had bombed sandinista positions inside nicaragua in the bocay region, the same area where honduran jets had dropped several bombs on thursday
there was no immediate comment on the nicaraguan report by the honduran government, but the washington post reported in sunday's editions that honduran national radio said the bombings were of nicaraguan positions in southern honduras. the radio said the raids were ordered after u.s. and honduran intelligence found nicaraguans laying mines in 50 square miles of honduran territory as they withdrew
a nicaraguan defense ministry spokesman denied that troops were sowing mines in honduras, the post reported
reagan opened his radio speech with a reference to a jovial get-together on thursday with congressional leaders, saying, ``there was a nice celebration of st. patrick's day up on capitol hill this week; but believe me, that wasn't the only reason congress knew i had my irish up.''
just as the heroic efforts of the democratic resistance have forced the communists to cut back on their aggression abroad and to make peace concessions, the congress in a close vote, decided to cut off aid to the freedom fighters,'' he said
the president scoffed at the notion that the halt in aid amounted to ``giving peace a chance,'' as some of its supporters argued
instead,'' he said, ``the aid cutoff is giving the communist dictators a chance, a chance they long hoped for. a chance to smash their opponents.''
the president said the sandinistas had responded by hardening their negotiating posture, firing cardinal orlando y bravo as mediator and sending ``mobs of thugs against peaceful opposition groups.''
and now, instead of negotiating for a cease-fire, they have launched a major military assault on the weakened contras _ invading democratic honduras in the process,'' he said
now from the beginning, our central american policy has been designed to prevent another cuba and to let the people of nicaragua win back their freedom and their independence from the soviet union on their own _ to do this without having to commit american military personnel,'' reagan told his radio audience
but now, because of congress' aid cutoff last month, the sandinistas have mounted their major cross-border incursion into honduras,'' he said
referring to his dispatch of u.s. troops to honduras to engage in exercises, the president said, ``our purpose is to send a signal to the governments and peoples of central america about the seriousness with which we view the situation.''
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses in kansas on saturday
115 of 115 caucuses reporting - 100 percent
dukakis, 278 - 36 percent
gephardt, 12 - 2 percent
gore, 125 - 16 percent
jackson, 235 - 31 percent
simon, 0 - 0 percent
uncommitted, 114 - 15 percent names, ages of victims.</note>
two british soldiers were shot to death saturday after mourners at an ira funeral dragged them from a car, beat them with crowbars and hoisted them naked before cheering onlookers, witnesses and police said
the irish republican army claimed responsibility for the killings in a statement released to belfast media. the british army said the plainclothes soldiers came upon the funeral by accident
the soldiers, blood streaming from their heads, were pulled to the top of a 12-foot-high wall around a football field for the crowd to see, witnesses said
they were then hauled behind a building and shots were heard. a short while later their bullet-riddled bodies were found in a vacant lot
early sunday, the army identified the victims as corporals derek wood, 24, and david howes, 23. it said both were members of the royal corps of signals and were unmarried. the signals corps often is engaged in monitoring electronic communications
it was the second fatal attack in four days at a belfast funeral. three people were killed in a cemetery attack wednesday
the killings, which brought the northern ireland death toll to 22 so far this year, occurred as thousands of mourners followed the coffin of kevin brady, an ira member and one of the victims of wednesday's violence
witnesses said the car carrying the soldiers sped toward the brady cortege as it wound its way through predominantly roman catholic west belfast. the car swerved and began to back up but was engulfed by angry mourners, some brandishing crowbars, who assumed the men were undercover agents
one man climbed onto the roof of the car and pounded it with an iron bar. the windows were smashed, a shot was heard and there were shouts of ``he's got a gun!'' followed by ``we've got two brits!''
there were reports that a priest who tried to give one of the victims mouth-to-mouth resuscitation after the shootings was chased away and that more shots were then fired into the bodies
many cheered as the naked bodies were hoisted into view, but others, shocked by the grisly display, were weeping and trembling as the cortege resumed. the funeral was completed without further incident
the two men were badly beaten, they were stripped and spread-eagled and were soaked in blood,'' said a witness who requested anonymity. ``they had deep gashes on their heads where they had been beaten.''
the royal ulster constabulary, the province's police force, said they were ``soldiers who were on duty,'' and said three people were being questioned
a police statement said the killings were ``an obscenity committed by depraved and perverted people.''
a british army spokesman said the soldiers were not assigned to monitor the funeral and were believed to have accidentally encountered the cortege while traveling from west belfast to lisburn, the british army headquarters in northern ireland
prime minister margaret thatcher called the killings ``an act of appalling savagery.''
there seems to be no depths to which these people will not sink,'' she said
irish premier charles haughey also condemned them
i once again appeal for an end to this fearsome cycle of death and suffering,'' he said in dublin
haughey later said ``urgent action and initiatives'' were needed to halt the deteriorating situation in northern ireland
he did not elaborate beyond saying peace and stability could be achieved only through the political process
sinn fein, the outlawed ira's political wing, claimed the incident ``bears the hallmarks of an official british undercover dirty tricks operation.'' sinn fein officials said the men were killed with their own pistols
it said the men could have been planning an attack on the funeral that would then be blamed on protestant militants
the royal ulster constabulary said no police were present because assurances had been given that the ira would not turn the funeral into an illegal paramilitary spectacle
on wednesay, a gunman fired shots and tossed grenades into a crowd of mourners, killing three people and wounding 68
brady was shot as he and other mourners chased the attacker
michael stone, a 33-year-old protestant extremist, was being held and police say they have arrested a second person linked to the shooting
the attack came during funeral services for three unarmed ira members killed on march 6 by british troops in gibraltar. they allegedly were planning to detonate a car bomb during a british military ceremony
more than 2,630 people have died in 19 years of political and sectarian strife in northern ireland
the outlawed ira is fighting to drive the british from northern ireland. the mainly catholic guerrilla group wants to unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic under socialist rule
protestant militants reject unity with the irish republic. 1980</head>
panama strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega might have been indicted in 1980 for illegal arms purchases but the carter administration did not want to upset the delicate relationship it had with panama at the time, the washington post said in sunday's editions
we had evidence to indict him for conspiracy,'' david kimbler, a former agent with the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms who was one of the key investigators, told the post. ``but ... the justice department didn't want it.''
the case stayed alive for several years, but noriega was not indicted, the newspaper said. separate charges against several of noriega's alleged co-conspirators were filed in 1979 and dropped because of a technical flaw. those charges also were not pursued
the state department didn't want to see this case go to trial,'' david goodhart, the lawyer for one defendant, told the post. ``noriega had a rabbi.''
the criminal case against noriega, then head of panama's intelligence service, developed during a delicate time in u.s.-panamanian relations
in december 1979, panama helped the carter administration by giving refuge to the deposed shah of iran
six weeks later, on jan. 31, 1980, u.s. attorney jack eskenazi of miami wrote a letter to a senior justice department official advising that u.s. customs agents had sufficient evidence to indict noriega for the illegal export of $2 million in arms, the post said
eskenazi asked the justice department to decide how to proceed
the post, which published a copy of the confidential letter, quoted eskenazi as saying: ``unfortunately, those of us in law enforcement in miami find ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the united states, but simultaneously being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control (and often, no knowledge).''
officially, the justice department responded by asking for more information. unofficially, the department made clear that the state department did not want the case to go forward, the post said
state department officials who dealt with panama at the time told the post they could not recall any effort to prosecute noriega on gun running. ``i really don't remember,'' said brandon grove, who was deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs at the time
robert pastor, president jimmy carter's national security council staff member responsible for latin america, expressed surprise when told of the eskenazi letter, according to the post
it is incredible to me that anyone in the carter administration would have tried to prevent prosecution of any panamanian involved in arms trafficking or that anybody would have blinked or ignored such information regarding panamanians involved in arms trafficking,'' pastor told the post.    update with 1,200 u.s. troops assigned to base, attacks last year on servicemen, details on treaty</note>
a bomb exploded saturday night in a suburban bar frequented by servicemen from a nearby u.s. air force facility, wounding four americans and nine other people, police reported
a police spokesman said the bomb went off at 11:10 p.m. in oscar's bar near the u.s. base at hellenikon airport in suburban glyfada
it apparently was a powerful device placed in a bag hanging from a coat-rack close to the bar counter,'' said the spokesman, who was not identified in line with police regulations
no individual or group asserted responsibility for the bombing, according to police
two greeks were admitted to the asklipeion voula hospital with first- and second-degree burns, dr. ioannis tsigalis told reporters
he said five greeks, two britons and four american servicemen were treated for cuts and puncture wounds from flying glass and metal
we had to extract some fragments of metal embedded in cuts, but there were no serious injuries,'' tsigalis said
the police spokesman said the americans were transferred to the hospital at the u.s. fase
a hospital official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, gave the names of the americans as timothy johnson, john fines, ricky hoover and larry morrison, but he said he did not know their ages or hometowns
there was no immediate comment from the american embassy or officials at the air force base
witnesses said some 25 people were at the bar, which is decorated with american flags, when the bomb went off
i was standing at the bar having a drink when it blew up in front of me. there was a really loud explosion and i got dizzy and fell down,'' said a greek patron, costas pabalos, 25
the blast blew debris into the street and shattered windows in a nearby restaurant and apartment building
we heard a loud blast and saw people running out of oscar's. there was a man running out of there screaming with his clothes on fire,'' said dimitris katsounis, the restaurant owner
oscar's is a noted meeting place for american servicemen from the base and other foreigners living in glyfada, a seaside suburb 11 miles south of athens
more than 1,200 americans are stationed at the 7206 air base group at hellenikon. many live off base in the glyfada and voula suburbs
american servicemen have been targeted by the left-wing guerrilla group calling itself november 17
in april and august 1987, the group staged bomb attacks in athens against buses carrying american military personnel. more than 30 americans were injured in the attacks, one seriously
in february 1985, a bomb exploded in bobby's bar in glyfada and more than 30 americans were wounded. no group clamed responsibility for that attack and no arrests have been made
saturday's attack occurred one week after greek and american officials completed a fourth round of talks on a new agreement for the four u.s. military bases in greece
premier andreas papandreou's socialist government has said a new bases agreement would be submitted for approval in a referendum before taking effect
many leftist groups oppose the u.s. military presence in greece, a member of the north atlantic treaty organization
inventors whose developments have affected nearly every american in one way or another, and led to major changes in society, will be added to the national inventors hall of fame
special ceremonies have been scheduled for march 27 to honor the developers of oral contraceptives, computer memory, television receivers and elevators, the u.s. patent office announced friday
the four new members will be inducted in ceremonies at the patent office in arlington, va. they bring to 72 the membership in the hall of fame, which was opened in 1973 with a plaque honoring thomas a. edison
new members of the hall of fame are:
_elisha graves otis of halifax, vt., who patented the elevator in 1861
_frank b. colton, born in poland, who received patents for oral contraceptives in 1954 and 1955
_louis w. parker, born in budapest, hungary, who is credited with developing the television receiver
_an wang, a native of shanghai, china, who developed the magnetic pulse controlling device, the principle on which computer memory operates
graves becomes the latest inductee selected for development of products that have become nearly universal
others whose work is similarly well known include edison for his electric light, the wright brothers for airplanes, charles goodyear for vulcanized rubber and rudolf diesel for the internal combustion engine
colton joins carl djerassi, an austrian-born chemist who was inducted into the hall of fame in 1978 for his pioneering work on oral contraceptives
parker's television receiver glows in nearly every american home today, and in the hall of fame he joins william d. coolidge, who invented the vacuum tube; vladimir zworykin, who developed the cathode ray tube used for television pictures and philo t. farnsworth, who developed the scanning, contrast and focusing systems for television
in the development of computers, an wang joins several other pioneers already in the hall of fame. they include calculating machine pioneer william seward burroughs; george r. stibitz who developed modern complex computer systems; robert n. noyce, a pioneer in developing semiconductor devices; jack s. kilby who developed miniaturized circuits and jay w. forrester, a leader in early digital information storage
rangers at padre island national seashore were negligent when they failed to arrest a drunken driver, making the government liable for an accident that maimed a motorcyclist, a judge has ruled
u.s. district judge spencer williams said after his ruling thursday that he would hold a hearing later to set damages
randy william crider, 33, of corpus christi, was driving his motorcycle in corpus christi on july 24, 1983, when he was struck head-on by a car driven by john lee landry. crider lost an arm and a leg
landry, now 23, later pleaded guilty to aggravated assault and was sentenced to eight years in prison
crider sued the u.s. government for damages, saying that if park rangers larry couser and james f. copeland had arrested landry 10 hours earlier when they stopped him for speeding, the accident would not have occurred
the suit did not name the rangers as defendants, but as employees of the national park service
the rangers and the u.s. attorney defending the case said they did not know whether the ruling would cause rangers to make more arrests
assistant u.s. attorney wayne campbell said friday no decision has been made on whether to appeal, but added, ``i'm not jumping up and down to do it because the judge gave me a very fair trial.''
campbell said if the government appeals, it would be over the extent of liability of law officers
crider said the rangers stopped landry after clocking his car on radar at 40 mph in a 15 mph zone. two teen-agers were riding on the hood of landry's car
couser said he ticketed landry for possession of marijuana, possession of alcohol by a minor, speeding and having no liability insurance
according to testimony this week, landry had consumed seven or eight ounces of liquor and had smoked several marijuana cigarettes in the three or four hours before he was stopped for speeding
it is clear to me that this (failing to arrest landry) was an act of negligence and that, as a consequence, an accident occurred,'' williams said
a black churchworker and a white student staying at his home as part of a church-run interracial exchange program were detained friday by police, the program's organizers said
the student was freed several hours later, but the black remained in custody, organizers said
the white man ``was released because of his white skin, while his host is still detained because of his black skin,'' said the rev. nico smith, a dutch reformed minister and an organizer of the interdenominational program
smith was the first white the government allowed to live in the black township of mamelodi, the main black township outside the capital of pretoria
murray hofmeyr, who is white, and sandy lebese, a black, were picked up there early friday, according to the rev. kevin cochrane
hofmeyr, 29, was among 170 whites who moved in wednesday for four days with black families in mamelodi. in turn, 40 blacks were sent to live with whites in pretoria
hofmeyr, a doctoral candidate in theology, was staying with lebese, a field worker with the pretoria council of churches. lebese, 31, was imprisoned from 1977 to 1983 on a sabotage conviction
colleagues speculated that lebese was detained because of his membership in the mamelodi youth organization, an anti-apartheid community group. five other group members were detained friday, according to anthea tasker, a spokeswoman for the exchange program
police were asked about the detentions but had no immediate comment
participants in the exchange issued a statement expressing ``shock and horror'' at the police action: ``it is incomprehensible to us that these two good christian men could be detained at the very time they were working toward real peace in our land. such action raises very serious questions about the true motives of the security forces''
one of the participants in the exchange, nick paton, is the grandson of novelist alan paton. the younger paton said police came to the mamelodi home he was visiting at 2:30 a.m. friday, woke him to ask what he was doing there, and left
on thursday, hofmeyr spoke enthusiastically of his first night in a black township. he said he went disco-hopping while new-found black friends bought his drinks
lebese said at the time, ``a lot of whites don't even know if it's legal for them to come to mamelodi
they think we're a bunch of dangerous radicals,'' he added. ``this week everyone has a chance to talk in a relaxed environment.''
most south african blacks know more about how whites live because blacks often work at white homes and businesses. whites seldom venture into black townships
henry lederle, a white theology professor, said participating whites are already committed to ending apartheid, the system of racial segregation in south africa
the whites still need this type of exposure,'' he added. ``it's one thing to say you want to end apartheid; it's another to learn about the problems it creates.''
the soviet union has been given the go-ahead to buy an additional 1 million metric tons of u.s. wheat at subsidized prices, the agriculture department said friday
acting undersecretary thomas o. kay said that since last april, the subsidized sales of wheat to the soviets have totaled more than 10.8 million tons under previously announced allocations of the department's export enhancement program, or eep
the new line of subsidized wheat was announced after a regularly scheduled meeting with moscow representatives to review operations of the five-year agreement calling for annual sales of u.s. grain to the soviet union
in a related but separate development, formal negotiations were scheduled to open in washington on saturday on the possibility of a new long-term agreement. the current pact will expire sept. 30
kay told reporters he would not comment on prospects for a new long-term agreement. deputy u.s. trade representative alan f. holmer is the u.s. team leader for those negotiations
more than 6.9 million tons of the 10.8 million tons of subsidized wheat bought by the soviet union has gone to fill its commitment under the fifth and final year of the agreement
the pact calls on moscow to buy at least 9 million tons of grain annually and specifies that the purchases include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
if more than 12 million tons are wanted in a year, the soviets are required to seek u.s. approval
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans
if moscow buys all of the new authorization, that would push wheat sales in the last year of the agreement to more than 7.9 million tons. all of the wheat has been subsidized
in addition, the soviets have bought 3.97 million tons of non-subsidized corn, including 500,000 tons announced friday. sales also include 813,000 tons of u.s. soybeans and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal
kay said official u.s. approval had been given the soviets to exceed the agreement's limit of 12 million tons in the final year, but he said there was no indication how much more may be bought
under eep, private exporters are given surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp. so they can sell a foreign buyer wheat or other authorized commodity at competitive world prices
the subsidies, or bonuses, have run between about $27 per ton to more than $40 per ton, roughly 74 cents to $1.09 per bushel
a federal grand jury in san diego has indicted a mexican woman formerly employed at the u.s. consulate in tijuana, mexico, for embezzling about $73,000, the state department said friday
the six-count indictment alleges that mercedes b. bustamente, 34, employed as head cashier at the consulate, embezzled the money during three separate periods in the spring of 1986
she also was charged with unlawfully transporting a portion of the stolen proceeds from tijuana to san isidro, calif.; with falsifying an accountability record; and with making false statements to federal investigators to hide her activities
the embezzelment and interstate transportation counts each carry a maximum prison term of 10 years and a maximum fine of $250,000. the false statement counts each carry similar penalties
cattle being fed for the slaughter market as of march 1 in the seven major beef states totaled 7.57 million head, up 6 percent from a year ago and 3 percent from two years ago, the agriculture department said friday
marketings of ``fed'' cattle in february totaled 1.53 million head, up 3 percent from a year ago and 4 percent above two years ago
the placement of new cattle and calves in fattening pens last month was reported at 1.37 million head, down 5 percent from a year ago but 12 percent more than in february 1986
as of march 1, feedlot inventories were larger than a year earlier in five states and down in arizona and iowa. the states account for about three-fourths of the nation's beef production
state feedlot cattle inventories are listed here for the seven states. the first number is the number of cattle, in thousands, as of march 1, and the second number is the percentage of a year earlier
arizona          312   98 california       375  112 colorado         790  102 iowa             640   96 kansas         1,390  105 nebraska       1,950  107 texas          2,115  111
the army announced friday it would follow the lead of the air force and begin testing buildings on its bases for the natural radioactive gas radon
the first structures to be tested will be day care centers, hospitals, schools and living areas,'' the army said in a statement
the next set of structures to be tested will be those having 24-hour operations such as operations centers, training areas and research, development, test and evaluation facilities. last to be tested will be all other routinely inhabited structures.''
all radon measurements will be completed by the end of fiscal 1991 (sept. 30, 1991),'' the service said
each building will be screened initially for 90 days, and any structure showing a radon level greater than 20 picocuries per liter of air will be scheduled for corrective action in six months or less, the army said
ultimately, any structure showing a radon level of 4 picocuries per liter or more will receive corrective sealing, the army added
radon is a colorless, odorless natural product of decaying uranium in the soil. medical research has indicated that exposure to high levels of radon may increase the risk of lung cancer. the environmental protection agency's guideline for radon exposure is 4 picocuries per liter of air
the air force announced plans to begin testing buildings on its bases around the world for radon last november. the navy and marine corps are said to be considering similar moves
during his visit next week, soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze will participate in a ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the washington end of u.s.-soviet ``risk reduction centers'' to improve communication between the two governments, the state department said friday
shevardnadze and secretary of state george p. shultz agreed last september to open the centers to exchange information under treaties to cut nuclear weaponry, avoid accidental war and reduce incidents at sea
the centers are far more sophisticated than the famous ``hot line,'' which president john f. kennedy and soviet leader nikita khrushchev set up after the 1962 cuban missile crisis to permit direct communications between soviet and u.s. leaders
state department officials gave reporters an advance peek at the center, a 12-by-18 foot room on the 7th floor of department headquarters, about a mile from the white house
access to the windowless room is by twin steel security doors, only one of which can be opened at a time, to prevent unauthorized access
inside are four computer consoles and color monitors; two for receiving data, one to transmit and one as a backup
the center will be manned around the clock by one communications specialist and a russian-speaking watch officer
david swartz, staff director of the center, said there is a corresponding installation in moscow but ``we don't know where it is.''
both sides have been testing the center since march 15 by sending hourly messages. the state department sent a map of the washington metro system on a data transmitter and the soviets responded on friday with a map of the moscow subway system. time for a page: about 150 seconds
swartz said the u.s. center cost $1 million
the centers, first proposed by senators sam nunn, d-ga., and john warner, r-va., are designed to exchange information under the proposed intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty and two pacts signed in the 1970s
they are the 1971 agreement on measures to reduce the risk of outbreak of nuclear war and the 1972 pact on the prevention of incidents on the high seas
the information could include notification of planned ballistic missile tests and hazards to navigation
the purpose of the nrrc is to help avoid situations that could lead through miscalculation, accident, of misinterpretation to a crisis,'' the department said
following are excerpts from the soviet-yugoslav declaration friday as translated from serbo-croatian by the associated press:
the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia and the union of soviet socialist republics stress the historic role and unpassable value of universal principles contained in the belgrade (1955) and moscow (1956) declarations, and especially: mutual respect of independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, equality and non-interference in internal affairs in any form. their adequate implementation has played the crucial role in the normalization of inter-state relations and the development of all-around and stable cooperation. the two sides shall continue to adhere by these principles
the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia and the union of soviet socialist republics are building and advancing. their relations starting from the unconditional respect of particularities of the paths and norms of their socialist development and different international positions
proceeding from the conviction that no one has a monopoly over the truth, the two sides declare that they have no pretensions of imposing their concept of social development on anyone. the success of any path to socialism is tested through socio-political practice and confirmed by the results of social progress
the league of communists of yugoslavia and the communist party of the soviet union will strive to enrich cooperation and cultivate permanent political dialogue for the purpose of an exhaustive exchange of opinions and experiences about current issues of socialist development in the two countries, about socialism as a world process, about global issues of the world and social progress, and international cooperation and strengthening confidence between peoples
the two countries consider the development of socialist self-management, in keeping with the specificities of each country, to be of the highest importance. it ensures the genuine authority of the people and the freedom of the individual and is a dependable guarantee against any administrative-bureaucratic distortion of socialism, against dogmatism and voluntarism
socialism is at a crossing point, at the threshold of a fuller realization of material and spiritual potentials, of deepening humanistic bases
- the policy of non-aliignment is against imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism, apartheid and all forms of aggression, interference, violence, domination, hegemony and discrimination in political and economic relations and restrictions of international cooperation by narrow limits of existing groupings
the decisive step in the realization of this striving is halting the armaments race and opening an irreversible process of nuclear and conventional disarmament for the purpose of general and full disarmament under effective international control
realistic removal of the danger of a nuclear catastrophe, which implies a full and general liquidation of nuclear armament, represents the highest and most urgent interest of all peoples
this process has been opened by the treaty of the union of soviet socialist republics and the united states of america about destruction of the rockets of the medium- and long-range variety and thus encourages hopes of mankind for a safer future
it is indispensable and possible that, without delay, the preparation and conclusion of an agreement on a general and full ban of nuclear arms testing be taken up, with the strictest steps of control in this area, preventing militarization of the cosmos which belongs to mankind, and a ban and liquidation of all kinds of weapons for mass destruction
the two countries attach great significance to the respect of human rights and they strive for their full and consistent realization in the whole world
human rights and basic freedoms are unalienable, indivisible and mutually interlocked. a particular significance of those rights and freedoms enable man to take part in creating a condition of life, in disposing with the results of his work, and in directly influencing social and political relations in his own country
an explosion and flash fire at a sugar refinery burned at least seven workers friday, three critically, officials said
the blast caused heavy damage to the union sugar division of holly sugar corp. plant, said charlie johnson, a santa barbara county fire department spokesman
fire capt. jim trask said that the blast was caused by sugar dust but that investigators had yet to determine what ignited it
johnson likened the accident to grain elevator explosions, in which fine particles of wheat often are ignited by a spark. ``it appears to be very similar to a dust explosion common in the midwest,'' johnson said
three workers were in critical condition at marion medical center and were transferred to the burn center at sherman oaks community hospital, said ethel donati, a nursing supervisor at marion
four victims were in satisfactory condition at valley community hospital, said nursing supervisor maureen shannon
the blast occurred on the second floor of a six-story brick warehouse in a room where workers said different grades of sugar are sorted. the fire was contained quickly, johnson said
the plant, which produces beet sugar, is isolated from other buildings about 5 miles outside this town 125 miles northwest of los angeles
fire investigators were joined by inspectors from the state occupational safety and health administration, building inspectors and county health officials. holly sugar corp. has headquarters in colorado springs, colo
the international monetary fund on friday announced a $317 million loan to argentina that will help it pay back a $500 million loan from the united states and keep up with interest payments on its $50 billion foreign debt
the fund said the loan was granted because heavy rains, floods and lower market prices cut into argentina's earnings from the export of grain and oilseeds
the u.s. loan of $500 million, granted earlier this year, was intended to bridge over the period until the fund made its decision
an international monetary source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the fund also approved release of $225 million next week, part of a loan that depends on president raul alfonsin's government meeting its promises to the fund on new policies. the government has pledged to keep down its budget deficit and take other economy measures
argentina already owes the fund more than $3.5 billion
the decisions by its board of executive directors, which represents the 151 member governments, are expected to trigger release of loans to argentina promised by banks. the banks agreed to do their lending in tandem with the fund, disbursing their loans as the imf gave its seal of approval to argentina's efforts
the loans may provide only a temporary respite, since the need to pay interest is a continuing drain on argentina's dwindling reserves. some argentine political leaders have been pressing alfonsin to suspend interest payments, as brazil did last year. brazil has resumed payments, but arrangements have not been completed on the money owed from 1987
according to the world bank, debts of third world countries will amount to $1.245 trillion by the end of this year
argentina's troubles are compounded by inflation which reached 175 percent last year, more than twice the 1986 rate. economy minister juan v. sourrouille has predicted that this year's rate will be more than 100 percent and some forecasts have put it as high as 20 percent for march alone. with reax from machinists' union president; picks up 10th graf pvs bgng, `but john'</note>
eastern airlines ``isn't above the law'' and should be penalized for trying to sell its east coast shuttle operation in violation of a court order, the union for the carrier's mechanics told a federal judge friday
but u.s. district judge john h. pratt said he would not grant the labor organization's request that he force frank lorenzo, eastern's chief executive, to appear before him to promise that he would halt efforts to shed the shuttle
pratt said at a hearing called to determine sanctions to be levied against eastern that he would announce the penalties monday
we're not going to, at this juncture, order mr. lorenzo to come in here and genuflect,'' pratt told lawyers for the international association for machinists and aerospace workers
the union also had asked pratt to order eastern to halt all efforts to gain federal permission to sell the shuttle, restore jobs to workers who retired after learning of the shuttle sale proposal, and fine the carrier $20,000 per day for any future violations of the judge's orders
on march 10, pratt found the miami-based carrier in contempt for trying to sell its profitable shuttle service to its parent company, texas air corp., for $225 million. lorenzo also heads texas air
pratt ruled that in trying to sell the shuttle, the financially ailing eastern was violating his july 2, 1987, injunction ordering the airline to maintain the status quo of its contract with the machinists
the union, which represents 12,000 employees, has argued that by selling the shuttle to another company set up by texas air, the labor group's bargaining power with eastern would be weakened seriously. the sale would have required the transfer of 6,000 eastern employees to the new company
we believe that, as a result of the order, negotiations will be normalized and we hope to reach agreement in a collective bargaining process that will be both satisfactory to the company and the union,'' said charles e. bryan, president of machinist's union at eastern
judge pratt was very straightforward and objective in his enforcement'' of the law, bryan said in a statement. ``he has restored our confidence in the federal courts and provided justice for all eastern airlines employees.''
joseph guerrieri, jr., lawyer for the machinists, said of lorenzo, ``he isn't above the law. eastern airlines isn't above the law. i think he has to come to understand that.''
but john j. gallagher, the attorney representing eastern, said the airline was now complying with pratt's orders and that there was no reason to compel an appearance by lorenzo. he said the machinists have long had a hostile relationship with eastern executives, even before lorenzo acquired the carrier
now there's a new management so there's a new black hat,'' gallagher said
labor and management at eastern have been battling for years. under lorenzo, eastern has tried a series of moves that the airline says are designed to increase efficiency but the union has claimed are efforts to break their power
the eastern shuttle serves washington, new york and boston
a federal grand jury indicted seven people in puerto rico, new york and florida on charges of belonging to a drug ring that sent cocaine and heroin to puerto rico, the fbi announced friday
three of the suspects were taken into custody in san juan and a fourth was arrested in new york, according to fbi spokesman angel berlingeri
he said arrest warrants have been issued for two suspects in puerto rico and one in fort lauderdale, fla
all seven are charged in the indictments opened friday with distributing and selling cocaine and heroin, berlingeri reported
he said more arrests are expected as a result of an investigation that started in the late 1970s of drugs shipped from new york and florida to puerto rico for sale on this u.s. commonwealth island
authorities reported one suspect, alberto aviles rodriguez, appeared voluntarily before u.s. magistrate justo arenas friday morning. they said juan r. berganzo romero and armando serrano miranda were arrested in san juan and taken into court in the afternoon. arenas ordered all three held without bail
the fbi said guiseppe tabbita was arrested in new york, but did not elaborate, and that a man identified as guiseppe pellerito was being sought in fort lauderdale
it said the others named in the indictment and being sought are puerto rican residents miguel reyes pantojas and joaquin beltran robles
the latest indictments came after hector rivera martinez and 15 other people were arrested in san juan on dec. 7. the fbi claims rivera martinez headed the ring
according to the fbi, the suspects sold heroin to undercover agents in july and august 1987. it did not specify the amount of heroin allegedly involved
conviction is punishable by from 10 years to life in prison and fines up to $4 million, according to authorities
the indictments alleges that rivera martinez was involved in drug trafficking in puerto rico since the 1960s. it says he hired tabbita and pellerito to send heroin and cocaine from new york and florida to puerto rico for processing and distribution, and that rivera martinez engaged in money laundering in puerto rico
after rivera martinez was arrested, authorities confiscated property valued at $1.5 million and a 16-foot boat. rights bill</head> update with cochran saying he will vote to sustain veto. picks up 13th graf pvs bgng: the measure ...</note>
civil liberties and religious organizations announced plans friday for a radio, newspaper and telephone campaign to combat fundamentalist preacher jerry falwell's assault on a major civil rights bill facing a senate vote tuesday
jerry falwell is a liar, and the truth is not in him,'' said the rev. john h. buchanan, chairman of people for the american way, the liberal lobbying group that is organizing the blitz with the support of major roman catholic, jewish and protestant organizations
falwell, chairman of the conservative moral majority organization, prompted a deluge of phone calls to senators' offices _ reportedly 80,000 calls in a single hour on thursday _ with his charge that the bill ``is the greatest threat to religious freedom and traditional moral values ever passed.''
in a ``special memorandum to pastors'' circulated last week, falwell said the bill, which he called the ``civil rights sodom and gomorrah act,'' might force churches to ``hire a practicing active homosexual drug addict with aids to be a teacher or youth pastor'' and allow the government to dictate sermons preached from the pulpit
buchanan, a baptist pastor in washington and former republican house member from alabama, joined mainline religious leaders and civil rights organizations at a news conference in denouncing falwell for ``spreading hysteria'' with ``scare tactics'' and ``obvious falsehoods'' about the bill
the measure, vetoed by president reagan on wednesday, was approved earlier this year by margins of 75-14 in the senate and 315-98 in the house, more than the two-third majorities necessary to enact the legislation over reagan's objections
the senate is scheduled to vote tuesday on overriding the president's veto, and house action will follow. approval by both chambers is required to put a vetoed bill into law
buchanan said that ``to help set the record straight,'' his organization will place radio advertisements in major listening areas over the weekend and will run newspaper ads in the washington post and usa today on monday
in addition, he said, people for the american way will spend the weekend phoning its 270,000 members nationwide to urge them to lobby members of congress in support of the bill
the anti-falwell ad campaign also will concentrate on newspapers in alabama, florida, south carolina and louisiana, buchanan said
the bill's foes, meanwhile, succeeded in persuading at least one senator who had voted for the bill, john w. warner, r-va., to change his mind
warner said friday he had decided to vote to sustain reagan's veto after his senate office received ``thousands of calls from virginians questioning how the law will be implemented and how it will impact their daily lives.''
sen. thad cochran, r-miss., who voted for the bill, said he also would vote to sustain reagan's veto, primarily because of the bill's unfavorable impact on homebuilders, farmers and some religious groups that the measure ``may encroach on separation between church and state.''
cochran said assistant senate minority leader alan simpson, r-wyo., told him he also intended to defect. but mary k. hill, a spokeswoman for simpson, said simpson had not decided which way he would vote
the measure was intended to overturn the supreme court's 1984 grove city decision, which restricted the scope of anti-discrimination laws. the court said the laws cover only specific programs receiving federal funds, rather than the entire colleges, corporations or other institutions under which the programs operate
advocates of the vetoed bill say it merely would restore institution-wide coverage that congress intended when it passed legislation banning discrimination against minorities, women, the handicapped and the elderly in federally financed programs
in an attempt to avert a house and senate override of his veto, the president proposed an alternative that would narrow the scope of the vetoed bill
among the groups joining the campaign in support of the bill were the leadership conference on civil rights, american jewish congress, u.s. catholic conference, american jewish committee, evangelical luthern church in america, american baptist churches usa, united methodist church, presbyterian church (u.s.a.), episcopal church, church of the bretheran and the national council of the churchs of christ in the u.s.a
water levels in the great lakes could drop as much as seven feet in the next 100 years because of a warming climate caused by man-made changes in the atmosphere, a federal hydrologist said friday
the forecast by dr. frank h. quinn of the national oceanic and atmospheric administration came as the great lakes commission at its semi-annual meeting criticized lakes-research budget cuts proposed by president reagan
quinn, speaking in chicago, said precipitation over lakes michigan and huron since 1965 has exceeded the average for the 20th century
the wet and cool climate of the past 20 years pushed the lakes to record high levels and may have produced a new norm for the lakes
however, this could be offset in the future by climate warming, which would have the opposite effect on lake levels,'' quinn said
computer simulations, based on expectations for the concentration of carbon dioxide and other chemicals in the atmosphere, suggest the warming climate could lower lake michigan and lake huron by three feet to seven feet in the next 100 years, and lake erie by two feet to four feet, said quinn, who heads noaa's great lakes environmental research laboratories in ann arbor, mich
the simulations suggest an average temperature increase of seven degrees over the great lakes basin, quinn said
in washington, the great lakes commission, an interstate organization that coordinates policy on issues affecting the lakes, released an analysis showing the reagan administration's budget would cut great lakes research funding nearly in half
the reagan budget for 1989 proposed $17.1 million in great lakes spending by the environmental protection agency, department of commerce and department of the interior, martin said. congress approved $32.7 million in spending on the programs in 1988
a former banker dying of aids has been charged with embezzling $1.3 million and giving some of it to gay charities
a federal indictment, made public thursday, accused william patrick debenport, 27, of using his position as manager of a first texas savings and loan branch to misappropriate the money
if convicted on all 15 counts, debenport could receive up to 75 years in prison and $75,000 in fines
debenport's attorney, j. stephen cooper, said in november that debenport used the money to buy luxuries for himself and friends but also donated some to gay charities, including $175,000 to a dallas home for aids victims
first texas has sued to recover the money from the home
debencourt was fired in june. cooper said his client began taking the money after being told by a doctor he had aids and had only a short time to live
cooper said debenport donated a small amount to a predominantly gay church and gave sums ranging from several hundred to several thousand dollars to as many as 15 friends
he also bought himself a luxury car and a $217,000 home, cooper said
seven palau lawmakers accused a house subcommittee friday of unreasonably delaying their country's independence with unfounded and unproven charges of corruption and narcotics trafficking
they warned that if the delay continues, the mid-pacific island chain will face a financial crisis and meanwhile might explore ``other political status alternatives'' than that already chosen, free association with the united states
the seven palau senators admitted that the islands had drug and other problems. but they had been ``permitted to develop unchecked'' during 40 years of u.s. rule, and could be attacked more effectively now by the new sovereign government with financing promised under the recently-approved compact with the united states
the palau senators raised the issues in a letter to ron de lugo, the virgin islands delegate, who is chairman of a house subcommittee on insular and international affairs
the letter took issue with charges of palau wrongdoing raised by de lugo and rep. morris k. udall, d-ariz., chairman of the house interior committee, in a march 2 letter to the chairman of the house foreign affairs committee, rep. dante fascell, d-fla
udall and de lugo said in their letter that palau was used as a transhipment point for heroin moving from southeast asia to the united states and that several unnamed ``senior palauan government officials have been identified to us as being connected'' with the traffic
palau, the last pacific territory still under u.s. trusteeship since world war ii, has entered into a compact of free association with the united states, now awaiting implementation by congress. other senate and house committees have voted final approval but de lugo and udall earlier this month held up action and raised the charges against unnamed officials of the government in koror, capital of the new republic
they also cited violence last summer surrounding a plebescite weakening palau's constitutional ban on nuclear weapons to accommodate the u.s. military, which counts on palau as a backup base if its forces are asked to leave the philippines
udall and de lugo have said the resolution implementing the compact won't be acted on until palau's courts rule on the legality of the plebescite approval, or opponents of it declare they won't renew a court challenge they had said earlier they withdrew because of intimidation
we urge that you do not permit the issue of alleged wrongdoing in palau to become tied to the approval of compact implementation,'' the seven senators said in their letter
palau, which has a population of less than 15,000 in its 200 islands, had repeatedly asked u.s. help against drug cultivation and trafficking but its requests were rarely honored, the letter said, asserting that subcommittee allegations of corruption and criminal acts lacked documentation
most of them ``are absolutely spurious and unfounded, and were made by a small group of discontented palauans under the influence of unknown outside elements ...'' it continued
we also believe that certain government officials including members of this national congress have been fueling this concern about irrelevant issues to further their individual political ambitions,'' it said
the 70-year-old founder of the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race crossed the finish line friday in fifth place, more than a day and a half behind the winner but still in the money
joe redington of knik collected $15,000 as one of the top 20 finishers in the annual anchorage-to-nome trek. herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref was a minute and 16 seconds behind as they arrived shortly after noon
for redington, who organized the first iditarod in 1973 but has never won, it was the fifth time he has finished fifth. nayokpuk will collect $12,000 for the no. 6 spot
susan butcher won the race wednesday night for the third time in a row. she finished in 11 days, nearly 15 hours ahead of her nearest rival, rick swenson of two rivers
redington pumped hard over the final couple of miles as he and nayokpuk made their run along the bering sea ice
i really had to work,'' redington said at the finish line
forty one mushers continued on the trail friday. some were more than four days from nome. the race began march 5
president jose azcona hoyo said he was sending troops to rugged mountains near the nicaraguan border to oust sandinista forces, and a white house source said u.s. helicopter assistance was requested
azcona said friday that 2,000 troops had begun moving into the bocay jungle region on orders to drive out the sandinistas, adding that his government was preparing ``an operation to bomb inside honduran territory.''
he told a news conference he was `counting on the support of the united states'' to deter sandinista aggression. he called the arrival in honduras thursday and friday of more than 3,000 u.s. troops a ``warning'' to nicaragua
the united states is likely to approve a honduran request for help in ferrying honduran troops to the scene of their battle with sandinista forces, an administration source says
other u.s. officials said the administration's response to the request will probably come this weekend
the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the government of honduras asked for u.s. help friday in transporting an undisclosed number of troops to an area within about 20 miles of the nicaraguan border
the united states claimed nicaragua began planning a military incursion into honduras when congress cut off contra aid, and managua accused washington of creating an ``artificial crisis'' to justify direct military action against it
this invasion was no accident,'' u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun told the security council friday. ``it was not hot pursuit .. . it was and is a planned offensive conducted ... in clear violation of international law and conventions.''
the urgent session was sought by nicaragua to protest the united states' sending 3,200 troops to honduras on exercises managua called a threat to its leftist sandinista government and to international peace and security
the panamanian government declared a national ``state of urgency'' today that gives it the power to suspend individual freedoms
a decree said the action was taken because of ``a real situaion of undeclared war against the republic of panama'' by the united states and the domestic political opposition. the decree did not specify what measures would be taken
the nation's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, also dismissed a colonel in charge of military intelligence and four other officers in an apparent purge following a coup attempt
the united states has decided not to seek the extradition of panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega to answer drug charges in florida if he flees panama to a third country, an administration official says
the official, who asked not to be identified, said friday that deputy assistant secretary of state william walker has gone to panama at noriega's request to discuss the terms of his possible departure
the official also said that two panamanian pilots who worked for noriega have defected to the united states. according to the official, the pilots said noriega has been receiving arms from cuba and money from libya since the crisis broke out in that country three weeks ago
lt. col. oliver north says he's retiring from the marine corps because he may have to subpoena ``the highest ranking officials in our government'' to defend himself against charges in the iran-contra affair
north, making a brief appearance friday at the office of attorney brendan sullivan, said sullivan had informed him ``that the defense against these charges may require him to issue subpoenas for the testimony and records of the highest ranking officials in our government.''
that strikes me as a course of action incompatible with my continued service as a marine officer,'' north said. ``accordingly, with great sadness, i have tendered my request to retire from the marine corps.''
rather than back a u.s. middle east peace plan, prime minister yitzhak shamir says he might let israel's coalition government collapse. troops killed two more palestinians in israeli-occupied territory
shamir, commenting friday after four days of intensive talks with u.s. officials, said he was considering backing early elections because of the deep rift in the government over how to make peace with the arabs
the internal situation in the government could be the main reason for early elections,'' shamir told israel television's washington correspondent. ``i am thinking about it ... i do not rule out such a thing.''
torn and bloodstained from battle, regimental flags that led union soldiers into the breach at gettysburg and antietam face a new fight against the ravages of time, say museum curators trying to save them
many of the 30 silk banners at the civil war museum and library here remain rolled around their poles, as they were at the end of the civil war in 1865, with little protection against aging
some of the flags were wrapped with paper about 15 years ago to preserve them, but acids in the paper apparently foiled that effort. when several were gingerly unfurled last month for the first time since then, some turned to dust or broke apart
to me they are sacred. ... they are symbols of the ultimate sacrifice and love of country,'' said andy waskie, a member of the grand army of the republic, a group of descendants of union veterans which operates the museum. news digest: tegucigalpa, honduras _ honduras; managua, nicaragua _ nicaragua-sandinistas; washington _ us-panama; undated _ political rdp; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham; bern, switzerland _ sizing up yazov; washington _ north prosecution; chattanooga, tenn. _ old killing; nairobi, kenya _ kenya-election</note>
only 1 percent of $20 million in ``emergency'' u.s. military aid sent to honduras following a 1986 incursion of nicaraguan troops was used to respond to the attack, according to a secret report by congressional investigators
the $200,000 spent to respond to the four-day sandinista border raid in late march 1986 was used to airlift honduran troops to the remote jungle in southeastern honduras where the nicaraguan forces were attacking contra rebel camps and to provide them with field rations, according to the general accounting office
the remainder of the $20 million was used simply to speed up a schedule of routine purchases for the honduran military, most of them aimed at modernizing the country's armed forces, the gao found
the reagan administration will complain to soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze this week about his country's military aid to nicaragua but will not let the issue disturb preparations for a superpower summit, officials said
shevardnadze, due to arrive sunday afternoon, will hold three days of talks starting monday with secretary of state george p. shultz. lunch at the white house with president reagan is tentatively scheduled for wednesday
the aim is to clear the way _ especially on arms control _ for a reagan trip to moscow in may or june to sign another u.s.-soviet disarmament agreement
strongman manuel antonio noriega fired more military leaders on saturday in an apparent bid to consolidate power after he reportedly rejected washington's terms for his resignation
in washington, a reagan administration official said noriega indicated a willingness to step down as panama's military commander but was unwilling to go into exile, as the united states demanded
opposition leaders called for a general strike monday to protest a nationwide state of emergency that restricted civil liberties
two british soldiers were shot to death saturday after mourners at an ira funeral dragged them from a car, beat them with crowbars and hoisted them naked before cheering onlookers, witnesses and police said
the irish republican army claimed responsibility for the killings in a statement released to belfast news media. the british army said the plainclothes soldiers came upon the funeral by accident
the soldiers, blood streaming from their heads, were pulled to the top of a 12-foot-high wall around a football field for the crowd to see, witnesses said
nicosia, cyprus (ap _ waves of iraqi fighter-bombers pounded iran's biggest oil terminal saturday, leaving at least two tankers ablaze in the northern persian gulf. iran said it shot down three iraqi warplanes
both sides fired missiles into each other's capitals and bombarded population centers with artillery for the seventh straight day, resulting in civilian casualties
an iraqi military spokesman, announcing that two long-range missiles were fired into tehran, declared: ``we will make the iranians live in hell until they accept peace.''
u.s. businesses might have to pay billions of dollars in new taxes if the u.s. supreme court agrees that louisiana may tax a new orleans store for catalogs it had printed in and mailed from other states, the store's lawyer says
the case involves $43,937 in use taxes assessed against the d.h. holmes co. department store chain, but lawyers for both sides agree that the ramifications go far beyond that
i threw out the figure of $800 million at a meeting of the tax executive institute in new york. ... people said that was a half or a quarter of the taxes it would raise,'' william f. grace jr., an attorney for holmes, said in an interview
this first story in a four-part easter series, ``strangers no longer,'' deals with the new companionship among protestants and roman catholics in the quest for christian unity
on the flood-lit, greenery-bedecked platform stood the roman catholic pope, his raised hands joined with those of u.s. protestant and eastern orthodox leaders as they intoned the lord's prayer together
our father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name...''
out across williams-brice stadium in columbia, s.c., a sea of 65,000, mostly southern baptists and other protestants, also lifted clasped hands aloft, the prayer resonating in concert:
thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven ...''
it was an unprecedented interlude, there in the overwhelmingly protestant south on sept. 11, 1987, as pope john paul ii led a billy graham-style service, using graham's advisers, pulpit and sound equipment, in conjunction with the widest array of american church officials ever assembled with a pope
we stand, side by side, to confess jesus christ, the one mediator between god and man,'' he said, ticking off the varied denominational leadership participating with him: methodist, baptist, lutheran, pentecostal, presbyterian, reformed, episcopal, catholic, orthodox, disciples of christ and others
brothers and sisters ... let us rejoice in this fellowship. and let us commit ourselves further to the great task which jesus himself urges upon us: to go forward along the path of christian reconciliation and unity.''
that impulse for unity, germinating among divided churches after centuries of conflict and antagonism, was implored by jesus on the night before his crucifixion
father, the hour has come,'' he prayed in that dark, tearful vigil on the mount of olives, pleading his followers ``may all be one ... so that the world may believe.''
that imperative, reiterated through the new testament, was a given for christians _ that having one lord, they were inherently one community. yet for centuries, they fragmented into hostile camps, spurning and vilifying one another
schismatic sects, apostates,'' rome labeled protestants, who inveighed against roman catholicism, ``the roman babylon, popism,'' and vied caustically among themselves. scattered pockets of that rancor remain
however, in a sweeping and comparatively brief span of the 20th century, the bitter enmity has largely vanished. the last 20 years have witnessed broad inter-church friendship and collaboration
the whole atmosphere has changed,'' said religion historian harry s. stout of yale university, noting that in television sermons it is generally impossible to tell a catholic from a protestant
it's one of the most important trends of the 1980s and it's on the rise,'' he said in an interview. ``christians of different denominations are coming together, recognizing a common enemy, whether you call it atheism, materialism or secularism. faced with a common enemy, they're realizing that they need each other, that they're in the same boat.''
congregations and pastors, once stiffly aloof and uncommunicative, have become trusting, sharing retreats and working together
for christ ``is our peace, who has made us both one, and has broken down the dividing wall of hostility,'' says ephesians 2 of differently descended believers. ``so then you are no longer strangers and sojourners, but ... fellow ... members of the household of god.''
the contemporary change began in the century's first half as protestantism and eventually eastern orthodoxy joined in councils and compacts, followed in the last 25 years by catholicism's transforming plunge into the convergent stream
it's called the ``ecumenical movement,'' meaning a global coming together. lately it has developed some uncharted currents beyond official banks _ or anticipation
it has moved far beyond the tinkling of teacups and the initial exuberance,'' said the rev. thaddeus horgan, assistant ecumenical officer of the u.s. roman catholic bishops. ``it has become so common it's often unnoticed. it has moved from adolescence into young adulthood.''
but the most prominent characteristic of the movement recently has been its growing power among the rank-and-file, creating an utterly new companionship and teamwork among protestants and roman catholics
a tide is rising and soon it will be felt on the quarter deck,'' said united methodism's foremost theologian, albert outler of dallas
it's like a half-full glass, he said, which, instead of filling from above, now is rising from the bottom. ``it's bubbling up in a way that it can burst out in new forms.''
outler, among the pioneering protestant observers at catholicism's reforming 1962-65 second vatican council, which unleashed the church's ecumenical involvement, added:
christians have discovered that they can live and work together, with or without official sanction or what used to be called organic unity. there's a sort of paralysis at the top, but a very vigorous grass-roots development and exploration _ not only in cooperative social action but in joint study, discussions and sharing in church life _ while official leadership has settled down into a kind of quiescence. ..
it's beginning to be the case that christian lay folk in general no longer believe that structural tinkering has much real impact for change, and they're turning to what may be more authentic, doing it themselves
the younger generation is growing up in this atmosphere, and denominational identities are being blurred. ... the new developments can't be calendared or predicted ... but i think we're actually moving more realistically in terms of basic essential ventures of christian unity than when we were so entranced by its theatrics.''
but the growing sense of community still has its dramatic moments. such was that juncture in the heavily protestant territory of columbia, s.c., where the pope met in an unparalleled interchange with the broadest cross-section ever of american protestant and orthodox leadership, black and white, mainline, evangelical and pentecostal
the 26 church leaders, in a joint statement read by african methodist episcopal bishop philip cousins, said the ``prayers and hopes of many american christians'' were for further steps in ``reconciling the divided people of god.''
later, at the end of the vast stadium service, the pope and the church leaders together raised their hands, pronouncing blessing on the multitude in unison:
the lord bless you and keep you. the lord make his face to shine upon you, and be gracious to you. the lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace.''
across that bible belt city of columbia, the church bells pealed
the second story in a four-part easter series, ``strangers no longer,'' reports on efforts for christian unity, dealing with the quiet, seldom-noted ties among roman catholics and protestants in bible scholarship and worship
in a gray stone building called adams house at princeton university, 30 scholars pray, discuss their agenda and progress reports, then divide in half and go to work in separate rooms
each is stocked with reference books, reproductions of hebrew and greek manuscripts, grammar books and biblical commentaries
the participants are protestant, roman catholic, eastern orthodox and jewish experts on the bible, and in the two sections _ old testament and new _ they are working on a revised translation
so far as this book is concerned, we're essentially at one,'' said the rev. bruce metzger, a presbyterian and head of a committee working on a new revised standard version, the protestant-sponsored bible that also has roman catholic approval
biblical scholars of roman catholic and protestant affiliation approach their work in terms of scholarship with little if any differences remaining,'' metzger said in an interview. ``the lines of distinction have meted away.''
that common treatment and usage of the bible has become a powerful undercurrent in their advance toward unity. work on the book is seen as the inner glue, acting from within to mend the ruptures
traditional differences are not relevant,'' said catholic old testament scholar conrad l'heureux of the university of dayton. ``we have lots of debates, but they don't fall along denominational lines. ... it's become second nature to get at what the text says objectively without bringing the perspective of your own church into it
in an odd sense, biblical scholars are ahead of the crowd.''
it's a wave of the future,'' agreed catholic bible scholar william holladay of andover-newton theological seminary in massachusetts. ``it may well bring everybody else along. confessional differences may seem to divide people on saturday and sunday, but they don't make any difference when it comes to biblical work.''
besides the joint scholarly work, most american christians hear identically worded biblical passages each week in worship services
for the most part, they aren't aware of it,'' said the rev. monsignor alan detscher of the u.s. catholic conference's liturgy office in washington, d.c. ``they generally experience only the scripture readings in their own church and aren't aware the passages are now mostly identical that sunday in other churches.''
this synchronization of scripture readings came about through a widely used common lectionary, the three-year cycle of bible lessons read in church and based on the roman lectionary developed since the reforming 1962-65 second vatican council
in most mainline denominations, roman catholic, episcopal, lutheran, presbyterian and united methodist, ``the readings now are generally the same and follow the same pattern,'' detscher said
for instance, last weekend on palm sunday, march 27, marking jesus' triumphant entry into jerusalem a week before his arrest and crucifixion, the epistle read in most protestant and catholic congregations was philippians 2:6-11, saying in part:
he ``emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. and being found in human form, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even death on the cross.''
provisions are made for shorter or longer readings and for alternative passages. the weekly pattern may get off schedule by a week or two, longer in periods not linked to major christian seasons, and the simultaneous passages are not adhered to in evangelical-style congregations
in many places, neighboring protestant and roman catholic pastors ``get together to prepare their homilies because common scripture materials are being used,'' detscher said
sharing the same texts on which to preach, they trade ideas for sermons, something that also makes for intellectual cross-pollination
the rev. roland murphy of washington, d.c., a catholic bible scholar, said that people's ``hearing the word of god sunday after sunday in the same readings, more or less, is creating a bond of unity that didn't exist before.''
protestant and catholic liturgies also have become increasingly parallel structurally, so that a casual visitor cannot tell in most respects whether he's at a catholic, episcopal or lutheran service
people no longer feel uncomfortable going to one another's churches,'' detscher said. ``from total separation in worship we've moved to a commonality in worship. slowly but surely, we've come a long ways toward unity. now that we're beginning to pray the same way, maybe we'll start believing that way.''
of course, the touchstone catholic-protestant barrier remains officially in holy communion, the central act of worship in which joint participation is so far barred. but even that sharing happens occasionally, quietly
in places, it's taking place casually, although it's not really kosher,'' said united methodist theologian albert outler of dallas. ``all kinds of protestants are at roman catholic altars, and catholics at protestant altars. they're beginning to think of ways to have pulpit and altar fellowship without the bureaucrats bothering them.''
however, one of the strongest approved links is common appreciation for the bible and study of it, something formerly inhibited by catholicism but now heartily encouraged
the transition came at the second vatican council, which urged general reading of the bible, including translations produced in cooperation with protestants
previously, ``reading or studying the bible was regarded as a protestant characteristic,'' said a catholic new testament scholar, the rev. raymond e. brown, adding ``that picture has changed dramatically.''
brown, who teaches at new york's interdenominational union theological seminary, said american catholicism had ``moved from scarcely mentioning the bible to a situation where the bible has become a fundamental referent in catholic theology, spirituality and religious discussion.''
the fresh, broad regard for the bible prompted a mutual searching of ecumenical origins, a refocus on roots, drawing churches closer to that common ground
in academic circles, catholics and protestants commonly teach at each other's schools and seminaries. protestant and catholic scholars, now often members of the same professional organizations, have become an interacting, underlying intellectual stratum that nourishes the whole enterprise
sometimes there is greater loyalty among those in professional societies than to their own seminary or denomination,'' said yale's paul minear, a united church of christ bible scholar. ``they're building lines of communication that simply ignore denominational identities.''
he said scripture scholars and theologians are ``much more united than church hierarchies. it just shows that what preserves the different denominations is a set of non-theological factors. historic conditions keep them apart institutionally.''
with theological training becoming more similar, with protestant and catholic worship and sermons more alike, with scholars working together, it's ``going to make an enormous difference in the long run in creating a sense of commonalty,'' said lutheran theologian george lindbeck
asked if this common undergrowth might eventually sprout into full-scale christian unity, he said:
if the urge becomes stronger, then the similarities will make it much easier. things could take off very quickly. but it's likely to require major external events, something to catalyze it.''
the third installment of a four-part easter series, ``strangers no longer,'' concerns with the protestant-catholic convergence toward unity, dealing with official dialogues
from across christianity's denominational spectrum, reactions to a proposal for unity have poured into the headquarters of the world council of churches in geneva, switzerland
the response has been tremendous,'' said the rev. gunther gassman, a lutheran and director of the council's faith and order commission, an inclusive protestant-roman catholic-eastern orthodox unit that is compiling the appraisals
it's a unique thing in the history of the ecumenical movement,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``never has there been so much interest and discussion of a church document throughout the world.''
roman catholic, protestant and eastern orthodox denominations, 170 of them from around the globe, have sent official responses to an agreement jointly produced by their thinkers on a reintegrated faith
bem,'' it's called, standing for the central aspects of baptism, eucharist (celebrating the lord's supper) and ministry
sometimes called the ``lima text,'' it was produced by a commission of 120 theologians, bible scholars, historians, clergy and lay leaders at a meeting in lima, peru, in 1982
we have become increasingly aware of our unity in the body of christ,'' they said. ``sadly divided churches have been enabled to arrive at substantial theological agreements. we believe many significant advances are now possible.''
to that end, bem circulated among the churches for five years, translated into 35 languages. after pondering, the denominations have now voiced their assessment, the broadest ever attained in an ecumenical accord
it's a towering achievement,'' said the rev. john hotchkin, ecumenical officer for u.s. catholic bishops. ``it could serve to put a new floor under the ecumenical movement. it's a very important landmark.''
the vatican also appraised the document, generally commending the results, but asked for further elaborations, especially on the ministry
the responses are being distributed to the churches in six volumes, with the last two still to be compiled. a summary will be considered by the joint commission at a meeting in august 1989, and any clarifications and adaptations will be taken care of before the final document is presented to churches by 1991
then it's up to them,'' gassman said. ``our strong hope is that they act on it in the next 10 years, initiating some form of eucharistic sharing. many of them are ready to do so now.''
bem offers concordant beliefs about key functions of the church, drawing on common biblical roots and christianity's centuries prior to the 1054 schism that separated rome and eastern orthodoxy and the 16th-century protestant break from rome
the document challenges present-day churches to affirm this common, early core of faith. baptism of infants as well as adults is recognized, with precedents for each in practices of the early church
regarding the eucharist, the approach goes behind the medieval catholic doctrine of ``transubstantiation,'' upholding instead a broader concept of christ's ``real presence'' in celebration of the lord's supper
on the ministry, bem recommends a threefold tier of bishops, presbyters and deacons. most major churches have all three, but usually refer to presbyters as pastors, priests or ministers. some protestant bodies avoid the term bishop but have parallel overseeing offices under other titles
the responses have been as varied as the denominations. the vatican's 40-page response wasn't as long as the salvation army's 70 pages, the longest. the shortest, a half page from the presbyterian church of new zealand, simply said fine, let's go with it
we've made an enormous lot of progress in the churches' acceptance of each other,'' said the rev. john deschner, a united methodist from southern methodist university's perkins school of theology in dallas, who chairs the world council commission. ``a trust has developed among protestant, catholic and orthodox churches that is beyond what we'd ever dared hope
bem culminates the rising pleas for increased acts of mutual recognition of members and ministry, a kind of unity of mutual hospitality, welcoming each other in each other's denominational context, acknowledging each other before god.''
paving the way for bem has been a swelling profusion of dialogues and surprising accords among the denominations
on national and international levels, the bilateral talks have gone on 20 years between teams of catholics with lutherans, with methodists, with anglicans, with baptists, with disciples, with eastern orthodoxy, with presbyterians, with pentecostals, with evangelicals
at the same time, protestant bodies have met with one another, scrutinizing their respective views, seeking closer understanding and concurrence
it has become a vast, interconfessional conversation, a constant to-and-fro hum of inquiry, explanation, discovery and, often surprisingly, consensus
the talks probe the tangle of mutual misconceptions, mistaken impressions and caricatured images accumulated through centuries of alienation from one another
they seek to clear up where each really stands. on many points, it turns out to be together
for instance, lutherans and anglicans in separate dialogues with catholics determined they basically agreed on a key issue of the 16th-century protestant reformation that had divided them
protestants emphasized ``justification by faith'' alone, that salvation comes only through faith in christ's forgiving grace, and asserted that rome claimed the church dispensed grace for earned merit
but it turns out that arguments in the heat of old battle were misconstrued on both sides. they now agree _ as the u.s. lutheran-catholic team put it _ that ``our entire hope of justification and salvation rests on christ jesus'' and his forgiving grace
similarly convergent views have been found about the papacy itself, with anglicans and lutherans agreeing on the benefit of a unifying center, a presiding bishop of a pastoral rather than juridical kind, responsible to regular ecumenical councils
the deluge of dialogue reports have dealt with virtually all basic issues of churchmanship _ spirituality, scripture, apostolic succession, conversion, worship, grace, authority, the holy spirit, family, mixed marriages, salvation and papal primacy, usually with degrees of agreement
so much is happening, there is so much development that it's hard to keep up,'' said catholic brother jeffrey gros, who heads the faith and order office of the u.s. national council of churches
in a book summarizing a score of such understandings, ``growth in agreements,'' lutheran scholar harding meyer and reformed scholar lukas vischer say the dialogues ``constantly point beyond themselves,'' so the main aim no longer is ``just reaching of consensus but translation ... into practice in the living fellowship of the churches.''
many issues remain unsettled between rome and protestantism on such issues as ordination of women, which catholicism and orthodoxy forbid. but anglicans and catholics, in new talks, are discussing it
different shades of understanding, terminology and doctrinal nuances also linger, as do conflicts on social issues such as abortion and divorce, along with bureaucratic inertia
the ecumenical movement is a glacier,'' said lutheran bishop herbert w. chilstrom, head of the newly unified evangelical lutheran church in america. ``it moves slowly, but it does move.''
the fourth and final installment of an easter series, ``strangers no longer,'' focuses on grass-root activities in protestant-catholic efforts toward christian unity.  
in the little town of beaverton, ore., the mission of the atonement has both roman catholic and lutheran members. across the country at holy apostles' church in virginia beach, va., members included episcopalians and catholics
we're one model of how the church can put itself back together,'' the rev. ray barton, catholic co-pastor of holy apostles', said in an interview. ``it's a harbinger of the future.''
added the rev. donald gross, holy apostles' episcopal co-pastor, ``it's a sign of how it might be possible for the two traditions to live together, a sign of the church united.''
the combined congregations, authorized by bishops on both sides, worship together in opening services. then they split in two, as church rules now require, for their main liturgies, including holy communion, using in weekly turns the sanctuaries or adjacent fellowship halls
about everything else _ sunday school, adult christian education, home study and social outreach _ is done together
it seems critical that the christian church give an example to the world of how to express our unity and yet respect our diversity,'' said the rev. dale jamtgaard, lutheran co-pastor in beaverton
it may be a little like royalty getting hitched between nations,'' said beaverton's catholic co-pastor, the rev. mathias tumulty. ``it's a way to get to know and understand each other personally and care for each other. if it's possible here, maybe it's possible elsewhere.''
such signs of the underlying bonds get a rousing display may 21-25 when an expected 3,000 protestants, evangelicals and catholics hold a national ``gathering for christians'' in arlington, texas
it is to bring out that ``we are no longer strangers'' and to ``honor and proclaim jesus christ whose cross and resurrection bring peace with god and humanity,'' said the rev. eileen linder, ecumenical officer of the national council of churches, which is putting together the event
this inter-christian linkage has grown dramatically, showing up in myriad protestant-catholic covenants and compacts at national and local levels
i'm always struck with the developments of the last two years,'' said the rev. john hotchkin of washington, d.c., the u.s. catholic bishops' ecumenical officer, ``the neighborhood coalitions, the working together in programs for the elderly, for people in need, recycling clothes, common feeding pantries, drug counseling for young people, shelters for the homeless
there's not much about it in the press, and people don't sense anything remarkable about it anymore, but it's really quite striking.''
the alliances take many forms. in brooklyn, n.y., churches joined in a huge interfaith project to build 5,000 low-cost houses for poor families. called the nehemiah project after the fifth-century prophet who rebuilt ravaged jerusalem, churches have pooled $15 million, with 1,000 houses already up
in houston, about 200 congregations are involved in a citywide aids education and care effort
in this crisis, denominationalism is just religious history,'' said the rev. earl shelp, the baptist co-coordinator of the program
churches in seattle outfit rooms for the homeless
through the center for corporate responsibility in new york, 19 protestant denominations and 210 catholic orders and dioceses use their $10 billion in stock holdings to sway business practices for social good
leaders of 40 denominations are involved in the religion alliance against pornography, with local units functioning around the nation. included are churches of the national association of evangelicals, which generally shun ecumenical efforts
catholics and protestants have banded together in such groups as bread for the world, witness for peace, clergy and laity concerned, interfaith hunger appeal, the american bible society and even an organization for laughs, the fellowship of merry christians
they've teamed up in civil rights causes, the farm crisis, the sanctuary movement to shelter central american refugees, backed one another's declarations on the american economy and against nuclear weaponry
spiritually, the togetherness shows up with uninhibited fervor among groups of charismatic christians, 40,000 of whom met in new orleans superdome last july, an ecumenical jamboree of prayer, singing-in-tongues and arms-high praises to god
local ``covenants'' have developed, with participants promising to pray for each other, to share resources, retreats, studies and facilities and work together in social betterment projects. more than 100 such covenants are estimated functioning between catholics and episcopal, lutheran, united methodist, presbyterian and other protestant congregations
in riverside and north riverside, ill., eight congregations _ two roman catholic, two lutheran, two presbyterian, one episcopal and one united methodist _ are linked in a covenant, with an eye to eventual unity
covenants pairing two congregations, usually catholic and episcopal or lutheran but also involving others, have arisen around the country _ in kentucky, massachusetts, wisconsin, new york, oregon, rhode island, colorado and elsewhere
they keep popping up here and there,'' said sister ann teresa nagy of the graymoor ecumenical institute in garrison, n.y. ``as a result of dialogues and meetings, they realize how close they are. ... they're learning how to live together, work together and be at one.''
in wyandanch, n.y., the parishes of trinity lutheran and our lady of miraculous medal once asked the vatican to permit inter-communion, but were turned down ``for the time being.''
catholic and episcopal dioceses have entered covenants in kansas city, mo.; san diego; little rock, ark.; seattle; providence, r.i.; milwaukee and chicago
in local communities, churches often ``are working together more closely than they are with their national headquarters,'' says veteran ecumenical theologian paul minear. ``something is happening there by way of real christian unity that does not follow traditional church lines.''
additionally, major mergers among protestants are being discussed or have occurred, two sealed in the 1980s reuniting northerners and southerners in the presbyterian church (usa) in 1983 and merging three lutheran branches into the evangelical lutheran church in america at the start of 1988
another gradually unifying process is at a decisive stage among nine u.s. denominations
this year is a watershed for us,'' said the rev. gerald moede, general secretary of the consultation on church union. five of the nine denominations will act on the plan in 1988 _ the episcopal church, united methodist church, presbyterian church (usa), the african methodist episcopal church and the african methodist episcopal zion church
the united church of christ and christian church (disciples of christ) decide next year. the two others already have approved _ the christian methodist episcopal church and the international council of community churches
we're looking for a new common identity in which we'd be related, yet preserve our diverse traditions,'' moede said, noting the ``covenanting'' plan would maintain present structures but bring sharing in ministry and communion
the objective is not one huge institution,'' he said. ``one thing we've learned is that not everything should be given up or changed. the early church had great diversity, and we want to preserve that diversity.''
bond traders are frustrated and would-be homeowners thrilled by the eerie calm that has overtaken the credit markets during the past several weeks. for the first time in quite a while, you can almost bank on interest rates
this has been one of the quietest periods i've ever seen,'' elliott platt, an economist at donaldson lufkin &amp; jenrette securities inc., said in describing recent trading for bonds, notes and other debt-related products
if there was a word that could be milder than calm that would be appropriate,'' added f. ward mccarthy, chief financial economist for merrill lynch capital markets
in the treasury market, trading has slowed substantially. according to the federal reserve, the average daily dealer transaction was around $90 billion in the week ending march 9, at least $10 billion below the norm
some economists say the flatness in the credit markets, which set the trend for consumer and business rates, can be attributed to conflicting economic signals. others say the markets are just taking a break after starting the year on a somewhat volatile note
whatever the reasons, most predict that interest rates will remain fairly stable, at least through the spring
from the consumer standpoint i think the fact that we've had some stability has been reassuring. volatility in recent years has taken its toll on consumer confidence,'' said mccarthy, who described as comfortable the current level of interest rates
the yield on the treasury's 30-year bond, the most-watched debt security, has remained in a fairly narrow range since late january, fluctuating around 8.5 percent _ the same level as the current prime lending rate
mortgage rates have inched their way downward so far this year but have remained fairly level in recent weeks, too
the average rate charged by commercial lenders on a fixed-rate, 30-year mortgage has been just below 10 percent since early february, according to the federal home loan mortgage corp. the rate on adjustable mortgages has hovered around 7.5 percent in recent weeks, freddie mac said
compared to a year ago, there isn't too much change. however, rates are at least two percentage points lower now than they were around the time when the stock market crashed last october
after the market plunged, the fed eased its credit policies, allowing interest rates to fall, to prevent the economy from falling into a recession. lately, some signs of economic growth have surfaced, mingled with reports to the contrary
in light of the mixed signals, analysts say the fed has indicated it will maintain a fairly stable policy through the spring
the government has intimated it was more concerned about high inflation than a recession,'' said elizabeth g. reiners, assistant director of money market reserach for dean witter reynolds inc. ``it looks like inflation is at a comfortable level
if you keep policy stable, you're looking at stable rates.''
among the benefactors of stable rates have been homebuyers and those looking to refinance loans or borrow for other big purchases
knowing that rates aren't likely to swing wildly ``means that people have more freedom of choice about when to do their home buying and moving,'' said carol a. stone, a senior economist at nomura securities inc
corporations and municipalities looking to sell their bonds and notes also have felt less pressured
if they're considering a deal it gives them a little more leeway ... because the market isn't moving wildly,'' said mrs. reiners
but the big losers, mrs. reiners said, have been bond traders, who make their money on the ups and downs of the market and investors looking for high-yielding securities
the nation's airlines embarked on a big gamble this past week
they hope their steeper fares and tighter restrictions on discount tickets won't overly upset customers, who have come to take for granted the cheap fares nurtured in recent years by the cut-throat climate of the deregulated u.s. industry
emboldened by robust passenger traffic in recent months, the big airlines put through major fare increases several weeks before they normally do _ jumping the gun on the peak travel season that starts in april
the october stock market crash triggered fears that consumer nervousness could cut sharply into air travel, but the major u.s. carriers have posted an average increase in traffic of 7 percent to 8 percent since new year's day from the same period last year
flush with those results, the airlines have increased their first-class, economy and discount fares by 15 percent to 85 percent, depending on the destination. they also tightened restrictions on their popular ``maxsaver'' discount fares, requiring that tickets be purchased seven days in advance instead of two
some discount tariffs were eliminated altogether. the changes hit hard at consumers who have to fly on short notice, especially business travelers
the fare increases amplified the upward trend in air fares that has prevailed for the past four or five months
it would seem the airlines run a very real risk of going too far,'' said paul schlesinger, an airline analyst for donaldson, lufkin &amp; jenrette securities corp. ``empty planes don't carry the debt.''
other analysts agreed that the airlines, in their bold grab for more revenue, could force themselves into a ``catch 22'' situation whereby the higher fares and restrictions scare too many potential passengers away
if that happens, fares could come back down as quickly as they went up. since the domestic airline industry was deregulated in 1978, it has become an increasingly nimble ``quick-change'' artist in responding to shifting market conditions
what you're really seeing is a marketing of airline travel the way retailers market,'' said robert joedicke, who follows the industry for shearson lehman hutton inc. ``fare policy is going to be a continual adjustment game.''
joedicke suggested that rounds of fare cuts are becoming as common as ``white sales'' of linen and other items offered regularly by department stores
this means that the latest increases in the cost of flying, while steep, do not necessarily signal a move toward a full-fare airline industry
besides, skeptics noted, some of the recent rise in traffic could be coming from passengers taking free trips on frequent-flier travel bonuses and triple-mileage awards. an estimated 8 million americans are enrolled in frequent flier programs and may be bumping paying passengers
many major airlines, believing that the frequent-flier giveaways have gotten out of control, have imposed restrictions on the plans or are thinking of doing so
in fact, some of the recent push toward higher fares may be an attempt to compensate for lost revenue from frequent fliers
the airlines take a negative risk with the triple mileage,'' said andrew geller, a transportation analyst for provident national bank in philadelphia. ``the question arises of who's got to pay for it _ the normal-fare people?''
all this does little to reassure the individual customer, who has been hit with a near-doubling of fares to some destinations
it's created a problem for us,'' said david perlman, president of dms travel, a retail travel agency in midtown manhattan. ``it just creates havoc with everybody.''
he noted, for example, that a one-way, unrestricted economy fare from newark, n.j., to chicago jumped under the new changes from $185 to $280. a first-class, round-trip ticket between new york and aspen, colo., now costs a hefty $1,200, up from $800
perlman said he has spent much of the past week explaining the changes to bewildered customers
in other business and economic news this past week:
_the federal government moved to calm depositors' fears and protect the nation's banking system by advancing $1 billion to banks owned by the troubled first republicbank corp. of dallas, the biggest banking company in texas
_r.h. macy &amp; co. sweetened its friendly merger deal with federated department stores inc. by $200 million cash to $6.3 billion, and a federal judge rejected campeau corp.'s attempt to overturn federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense
_firestone tire &amp; rubber co. agreed to be acquired by japan's bridgestone corp. for early $2.6 billion in cash. firestone's board recommended shareholders reject a rival, unsolicited $1.93 billion offer from italian tiremaker pirelli
_american standard inc. accepted a nearly $2.5 billion cash tender offer from kelso &amp; co., an investment banking firm specializing in employee-led leveraged buyouts, spurning black &amp; decker corp.'s hostile advances
_j.p. stevens &amp; co. accepted a nearly $1 billion cash buyout bid from a private investment group over offers from its own management and rival west point-pepperell inc
_mesa limited partnership, controlled by oilman t. boone pickens, withdrew its $1.88 billion cash offer for homestake mining co
_henley group inc., which lost a court battle to block part of santa fe southern pacific corp.'s restructuring, abandoned plans to wage a proxy fight to gain seats on santa fe's board
_pillsbury co. reported a larger-than-expected quarterly loss and said it was negotiating to sell its godfather's pizza chain
_the president of manufacturers hanover corp., john r. torell iii, resigned effective at the end of the month to pursue outside business opportunities. torell, 48, had been stalled on his way to the chairmanship of the nation's sixth largest banking company
_the teamsters union set a new target of march 29 for its 6,700 member flight attendants to strike northwest airlines after getting a pledge that the carrier's mechanics and baggage handlers would honor picket lines
_led by a jump in purchases of ford motor co. vehicles, sales of domestic cars and light trucks rose 6.3 percent in early march from a year earlier, the automakers reported
_the government said the deficit in the broadest measure of u.s. foreign trade surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987 as the nation fell deeper into debt to the rest of the world. the merchandise trade deficit, meanwhile, widened to $12.44 billion in january
_business inventories rose 0.4 percent in january, less than half the increase of the previous month, the government said
_u.s. industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in february as reductions in output at auto factories and coal mines offset gains in other areas. factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity for the third consecutive month
_the housing industry, after staggering for two months, enjoyed an 8.9 percent increase in construction activity in february
_the government revised its latest report on retail sales to show a 0.4 percent increase in february, a slightly smaller increase than reported a week ago
_a private survey found job prospects for both production and service workers are the brightest they have been in three years but are declining slightly for technical, professional and office workers
_britain's conservative government unveiled a sweeping reform of the nation's tax system, slashing rates for higher income groups
_japan overtook the united states last year in economic output per person, according to a japanese government report. it said per-capita gross national product for japan reached the equivalent of $19,642 in 1987, compared with $18,403 in the united states
_the canadian dollar, buoyed by higher interest rates north of the border, rose to 80 u.s. cents for the first time in four years
a 72-year-old rancher who said she was forced into bankruptcy because the farmers home administration thought she was ``an old woman who should quit farming'' is suing the government lender for $3 million
beulah jorgenson, who her attorney said has operated a ranch for many years, claims in the lawsuit that fmha denied her a $300,000 emergency loan in 1986
the bowman county fmha county committee found her eligible for the loan, but it was denied by county supervisor ronald holtz, according to the lawsuit
the suit, which names holtz and the fmha as defendants, said mrs. jorgenson was forced to file under chapter 12 of the federal bankruptcy act to reorganize her debts after foreclosure proceedings began. chapter 12 is a relatively new provision of the act intended to help financially strapped farmers
holtz told mrs. jorgenson she could not pay off the loan but he ``specifically declared to other persons that he was rejecting the plaintiff's fmha application because ... the plaintiff was an old woman who should quit farming and ... and stop bothering fmha,'' according to the lawsuit
bob zimmerman, chief of fmha farm programs in north dakota, said friday the agency had not seen a copy of the lawsuit, which accuses holtz and the fmha of age and sex discrimination. the suit was filed wednesday in u.s. district court
fmha is the government's lender of last resort for farmers and ranchers
mrs. jorgenson ranches on 3,000 acres near bowman in southwestern north dakota with one hired man, said her attorney, rolf sletten of bismarck
her husband is in a nursing home and has been for many years. she has been running (the ranch) herself for many years,'' sletten said
mrs. jorgenson needed the emergency loan to pay off some higher-interest loans she owed the production credit association and the federal land bank, sletten said. ``she hadn't had any loans from the fmha,'' he said
holtz wrote mrs. jorgenson on april 4, 1986, telling her that the loan was denied because holtz believed she couldn't pay it back and all her property was already mortgaged, according to court documents
mrs. jorgenson is still ranching while her bankruptcy case is pending, sletten said friday
as winter gives way to spring on wall street, investors' worries are much different from what just about anyone imagined three months ago
increasingly, fears of an impending recession are being quelled by signs of persistent strength in the economy. the stock market, after suffering what looked like a knockout blow in october, has bounced back with an impressive show of vitality
so the pessimists have turned to worrying not about hard times, but rather too much of a good thing
consider the position of the federal reserve. in the midst of the crash last fall, it stepped up with a promise to provide as much money to the system as was necessary to keep it from suffering grave damage
now, alan greenspan, the fed's chairman, is sounding warnings about the possibility that growth at too strong a pace could revive inflationary pressures
the trade deficit, a primary focus of concern last fall, has improved to the extent that some people now interpret it as a signal of an economy heating up to potentially dangerous temperatures
the bond market has grown increasingly jumpy lately over much better-than-expected growth in employment, for fear that it might soon exert upward pressure on inflation and interest rates
all this has a familiar ring. it was the kind of mood that often set in during the great bull market of 1982-87
in the bond market memories remain fresh of the wrenching rise in interest rates, and accompanying drop in bond prices, that started right about this time a year ago
the stock market is approaching a critical juncture,'' says joseph barthel, an analyst at butcher &amp; singer inc. ``bonds must rally to ward off a correction, or worse.''
all this suits many of wall street's bulls just fine. stocks seem to be ``climbing a wall of worry,'' in the time-honored phrase used to describe bull markets
in the past week, the dow jones average of 30 industrials gained 52.39 points to 2,087.37, reaching new highs since the october debacle
the new york stock exchange composite index rose 3.20 to 152.65; the american stock exchange market value index was up 3.02 at 299.11, and the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market added 6.10 to 381.58
volume on the big board averaged 175.26 million shares a day, against 199.77 million the week before
in the view of mitchell held, chief financial economist at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., ``the fed is likely to hold policy steady for the time being, and consequently we expect to see little movement in short-term rates for now
should the economic data continue to exceed general expectations, as we anticipate, inflation expectations are likely to rise, and short-term rates will probably rise either in reaction to or in anticipation of fed action.''
however, if inflation is planning a comeback it is disguising its intentions pretty well. the producer price index of finished goods fell 0.2 percent in february
consumers seem to have found a degree of price consciousness and budget discipline,'' said david ressler, chief economist at nomura securities international
they seem willing to increase purchases of certain items such as a car when there are significant price discounts, but to balance that added spending with more restraint on other items
such price sensitivity will make it difficult for any broadbased cost pressures to be passed on to consumers.''
digital equipment corp. said friday that sluggish sales of expensive computer systems have forced analysts to downgrade third-quarter earnings estimates for the computer industry giant
mark steinkrauss, digital's investor relations director, said the company is forecasting lower earnings for the fiscal quarter ending march 26 because of the lag
while aggregate demand is very good and consistent with the level we expected in the last couple of years, there's been a mix shift to low-end products,'' he said
after discussions with analysts, digital, based in maynard, mass., agreed to cut its quarterly earnings forecast to about $2.30 a share from $2.50 a share. the company earlier this month agreed to cut forecast to $2.50 from $2.70
digital stock fell $1.50 a share friday to $110.75 in composite new york stock exchange trading. the stock fell $5.375 on thursday
wang laboratories, prime computer and data general all have indicated recently that business is sluggish due to slumping high-end demand, confirming a trend in minicomputer sales, analysts said
things are generally somewhat slow in the minicomputer sector right now,'' said bruce watts of needham &amp; co. ``digital has been reasonably candid that its product mix has shifted to less expensive machines.''
steinkrauss said digital has been unable to meet an unexpectedly high demand for its less expensive equipment, including workstations and terminals
the unanticipated shift caught us a little bit by surprise,'' he said. ``we didn't know demand was going to be as strong for workstations and products at the low end and we didn't have the capacity to ship it all this quarter.''
digital last week unveiled its 8800 series of mainframe computers in another challenge to industry leader international business machines. but analysts said the impact of the new line won't be felt for several months
the sales of high-end equipment are going slowly,'' said jean orr of drexel burnham lambert inc. ``customers are apparently hesitant to make a commitment to the expensive equipment
we don't know for certain how long the hesitation will last,'' she added. ``my view is that it's going to be a quarter or two that we see an effect.''
watts said digital stock probably will fall some more in the short-term but that its long-range prospects remain bright
i think there's no question that dec has established themselves as the leader in the minicomputer business and is starting to take on ibm in the big computers, he said
analysts also have dropped digital's yearly earnings estimates to $10 to $10.25 a share compared with $10.50 a share earlier this month. for fiscal 1987, digital reported profits of $1.14 billion on $9.39 billion in revenues, or $8.53 a share
kaiser steel corp., operating under chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings for 13 months, said friday a joint plan of reoganization had been filed by kaiser and representatives of retirees, other unsecured creditors and the united steelworks of america
under the plan, filed in u.s. bankruptcy court in colorado on thursday, a percentage of proceeds from the sale of assets and the settlement of litigation will be distributed to creditors
in addition, some claims against the company will be converted into common stock in the reorganized concern, to be known as kaiser holdings inc
the plan provides, in part, for 30 milion common shares of the new company to be distributed to retirees, kaiser's unsecured creditors, holders of preferred stock and, at the discretion of the new board, as incentive options to management
kaiser's current common stock, which is privately held, will be canceled
the plan is endorsed by kaiser and certain of its subsidiaries as debtors; the company's official unsecured creditors committee; that committee's retiree subcommittee, and the union
upon emerging from bankruptcy proceedings, kaiser said, it intends to develop its 900-acre steel mill in fontana as an industrial park, modernize and operate its existing liquid-waste treatment facility at the fontana site and seek to create a landfill for non-hazardous solid waste at its eagle mountain iron ore mine in riverside county
although most of its holdings remain in fontana, the company's headquarters were moved to colorado springs, colo., after a leveraged buyout of several years ago
the fontana plant was built by industrialist henry j. kaiser during world war ii to provide steel to build liberty ships on the west coast
the plant was located about 50 miles inland to protect it from possible enemy attack during the war. but that location proved fatal to the operation in later years, as high transporation costs made it impossible for steel from fontana to compete with low-cost imports. 0504</first>
a delaware judge declined friday to approve a settlement of shareholder suits against resorts international inc. that would have allowed investor donald trump to proceed with his $22-per-share tender offer designed to take resorts private
instead, chancery court vice chancellor maurice hartnett put off a decision until later, following a 2{-hour hearing
the action increases pressure on trump, the new york real estate developer, to raise his offer by giving wealthy entertainer merv griffin more time to press his rival $35-per-share cash bid for resorts, the atlantic city-based operator of hotel-casinos in new jersey and the bahamas
every continuance is a good thing for us in this situation currently,'' said mark gill, a spokesman for griffin, noting that trump's $22 offer expires on monday
resorts stock rose 50 cents a share friday to $25.75
while griffin's bid offers shareholders more money, it is contingent on a number of conditions, including a decision by trump to support the deal and to terminate a five-year operating pact with resorts worth an estimated $100 million
trump, who holds 88 percent of resorts' voting power by owning most of its class b stock that carries 100 votes per share, has said he wouldn't agree to either condition. as a result, resorts' directors thursday declined to pursue griffin's proposal on grounds that it was moot
in separate developments friday, griffin, based in los angeles, said he was dropping certain other conditions relating to financing, and trump announced he had filed suit against griffin seeking more than $250 million in damages
trump's suit, filed in u.s. district court in new york, names as defendants griffin, his privately held investment concern, the griffin co., and fidelle v. scutti, who owns about 5 percent of resorts stock
scutti, who has said he is dissatisfied with trump's offer, helped convince griffin to make the competing bid
trump's suit accuses the defendants with violations of federal securities laws, fraud and tortious interference with trump's contractual relations with resorts
it claims the defendants took part in a scheme to manipulate the market price of resorts stock by making false and misleading comments about their intentions and by making a $35-per-share offer that the suit said was ``completely delusory'' because of its highly conditional nature
in a statement, griffin termed trump's suit ``totally without merit and solely for the purpose of attempting to coerce mr. griffin to withdraw his offer.''
griffin said the suit of ``of no concern'' and that he intended to filed unspecified counter-suits against trump
griffin has previously said he expected to file suit against trump and directors of resorts for breach of fiduciary duty to shareholders
the conditions griffin eliminated from his offer were requirements that financing be arranged for the merger and that financing be arranged in advance to complete resorts' giant and luxurious taj mahal, a 42-story, 1,250-room hotel-casino being built in atlantic city
postal instant press inc., the nation's largest franchiser of printing centers, said friday a management-led offer to buy the company has expired and it is negotiating to be acquired by another suitor for a higher price
the company said it received the new offer of $17.50 per share, or $68.25 million, on wednesday from an investor group that it didn't identify
that is 50 cents a share higher than what was being offered by the management group and the chicago-based leveraged-buyout concern golder, thoma &amp; cressey. the management group made its offer feb. 19
in addition, pip said the new suitor has indicated it may raise its offer after studying non-public information provided by the los angeles-based company that has about 1,000 printing centers franchised in the united states, canada and the united kingdom
last year, pip escaped a hostile bid by tarrytown, n.y.-based kane-miller corp
an investor group led by the chairman of afg industries inc. friday revised its takeover bid for afg to offer all cash instead of a combination of cash and securities. the overall value of the offered remained the same at $940 million
afg, based in irvine, is one of the largest flat-glass manufacturers in north america
under the amended offer, clarity industries corp., headed by afg chairman r.d. hubbard, is offering $33 per share in cash for afg's 28.5 million shares. previously, clarity had offered cash for 94 percent of the stock and preferred stock valued at $33 per share for the remainder
the revised offer is to expire april 1
clarity launched its takeover bid late last month. it was upstaged early this month when the new york investment firm forstmann little &amp; co. indicated it may be willing to top hubbard's offer
that sparked speculation that drove afg's stock up, but a week ago forstmann said it had decided not to make an offer after studying confidential information provided by afg
apple computer inc. is rocking the personal computer industry with a lawsuit against one of its most important allies, microsoft corp., and rival hewlett-packard co
apple is charging that microsoft, of redmond, wash., and hewlett-packard, of palo alto, are selling software that infringes on the copyright on the way information is presented and controlled on its macintosh computer
hewlett-packard on friday disputed apple's claims and said it intends to oppose the suit vigorously. microsoft withheld comment
several computer executives expressed disappointment with apple's suit
the whole industry has existed by taking what is there and improving on it,'' adam osborne, president of paperback software of berkeley. ``is that going to end? if so, it'll be a disaster for us all.''
in the suit, filed in u.s. district court in san jose on thursday, apple seeks to prevent further sale of microsoft's windows 2.03 program and hewlett-packard's new wave software programs
windows and new wave were developed for personal computers made by or compatible with those of international business machines corp., apple's chief competitor, and are aimed at making the computers easier to use
like the macintosh, they employ a mouse pointing-device, and such on-screen displays as icons, scroll bars, pull-down menus, and dialogue boxes. these features replaced more complicated instructions, and made the macintosh one of the easiest computers to use
apple's chief operating officer, delbert yocam, said the company merely is protecting its investment
the suit could affect apple rival ibm, whose audio and visual features, called the ``user interface,'' for its new line of computers is expected to resemble the macintosh's. the program, called presentation manager, is being co-developed by ibm and microsoft
industry observers credit the macintosh interface with giving the computer a competitive edge over ibm's current line. presentation manager could eliminate that advantage
in its complaint, apple alleges microsoft overstepped the bounds of a licensing agreement it made with apple several years ago. hewlett-packard's new wave, in turn, requires microsoft's windows to operate
apple has sued before to protect its products. in 1982, the company challenged franklin computer corp., which was developing a compatible version of its apple ii, and won
apple also has prevented the import of apple ii clones by asian companies through legal challenges and cooperation with u.s. customs
campeau corp. has suffered a severe setback in its battle for federated department stores inc. with a federal judge's ruling that federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense could stand
u.s. district judge leonard sand, who issued his ruling friday, at the same time delayed a decision on when campeau's $6.2 billion cash tender offer for federated should be allowed to expire
sand denied a request from r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. to force campeau's offer to remain open until march 30, but he ruled the bid must remain in effect at least until next friday
federated's management supports macy's cash and securities offer, which analysts have valued at about $6.3 billion
the poison pill was seen as the key issue before sand and the issue that could ultimately determine who would win federated. campeau contended its offer could not proceed as long as the pill remained in effect
federated's pill would allow current shareholders to buy more of the company's stock at a steep discount unless the board of directors withdrew the provision. poison pills make it prohibitively expensive for companies to acquire a target company without the support of the target's management
sand disagreed with campeau's contention that federated's board of directors had breached its duty to shareholders in creating the pill in 1986, or in amending it earlier this year, prior to the toronto-based developer's bid
campeau contended the pill prevented shareholders from getting the chance to fully consider its offer, but sand said the creation of the pill was a valid defense and a reasonable business judgment by the federated board
however, while the judge denied campeau's motion for a preliminary injunction, sand left open the possibility that the developer could raise the issue again
campeau said it had no immediate comment on sand's ruling
sand, relying on a securities and exchange commission recommendation, ruled against macy in declaring that campeau's latest bid, announced march 2, was an amendment to its original proposal, and not a new offer
macy had sought the bid to be declared a new offer in hopes of forcing it to remain open for 20 business days, as required by law
extending the length of campeau's offer would put the competing bids on on a more equal footing. macy, whose offer expires april 4, feared federated shareholders would feel pressured into tendering their shares to the developer because of the earlier deadline
campeau's latest offer changed the number of shares it was seeking and the price to be paid for them
sand ruled, however, that the campeau bid must remain open while he awaited a determination from the sec on whether the developer must file more documents on its financing for the acquisition
macy is offering $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $5.4 billion. macy would exchange shares in the merged company, macy's-federated inc., and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares. analysts have estimated the total value of the offer at $6.3 billion
federated stock rose 50 cents a share to close at $66.25 friday on the new york stock exchange. trading ended before sand made the ruling
campeau's bid is a two-step, all-cash package that would be worth $68 a share, or $6.18 billion. it is offering $75 each for 70.5 million federated shares, and proposes to acquire the remaining stock for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger
campeau announced friday that more than 5.7 million shares had been tendered under its offer so far. macy has not announced how many shares have been tendered to it
federated owns 650 stores, including the bloomingdale's, burdine's, filene's, foley's, lazarus and rich's department store chains; ralphs supermarkets; gold circle discount stores; and main street and children's place specialty stores
macy owns nearly 100 department and specialty stores
campeau, which started in real estate development in canada, moved into the u.s. retail market at the end of 1986 by acquiring allied stores corp
the oil market has continued to gain ground despite conflicting reports on whether opec would act soon to stabilize sagging prices
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, jumped 30 cents friday to $16.58 per 42-gallon barrel
refined petroleum products also closed higher. april contracts for heating oil increased 0.83 cent to settle at 45.05 cents per gallon, while wholesale gasoline gained 0.39 cent to settle at 45.99 cents per gallon
william byers, an oil analyst with bear, stearns &amp; co., said the market started out on a strong note
but he said trading began to narrow later in the day after reports suggested a planned news conference tuesday by opec president rilwanu lukman was not called to announce price stabilization measures
oil prices had strengthend on thursday after traders learned of the lukman conference
the market has traded nervously since reports picked up last week that the organization of petroleum exporting countries might convene an emergency meeting to discuss ways to prop up sagging prices
the postal service has been doing it practically forever, but private sector companies are likely to think twice if they ever have an opportunity to bid on moving mountains of the nation's correspondence and parcels
now that a presidential commission has recommended the postal service's monopoly on delivering letters should be phased out, private companies may begin to contemplate whether they would want to compete for the business
in a controversial report presented to president reagan on friday, the presidential commission on privatization called for transferring to the private sector scores of other government programs and services, including the operation of prisons and airport control towers, in the name of efficiency
as far as the nation's mail is concerned, ``there's nothing the postal service is doing that private enterprise couldn't do equally as well or better,'' said ken sternad, a spokesman at the headquarters of united parcel service inc. in greenwich, conn
sternad said united parcel, which maintains 1,300 facilities across the country, had not made any decision about trying to get into the letter-carrying business, ``but we certainly would look at it.''
but james coleman, director of public relations at federal express corp.'s headquarters in memphis, tenn., said: ``we do not view ourselves as having any role to play in routine handling of bulk shipments.''
federal express specializes in overnight and express deliveries, a small piece of what the post office does
taking on the postal system would require a major build-up for any company. united parcel, for example, has 200,000 employees who delivered 2.4 billion packages last year. the postal service, by comparison, has almost five times as many employees and delivered more than 100 billion pieces of mail in 1987, sternad said
if the government were to privatize merely the right to deliver mail, potential bidders would be limited to companies that are already in the post office-like business, said james voytko, a first vice president at the investment firm painewebber inc. who follows the transportation industry
but other big companies in unrelated businesses also might qualify if they had a particularly extensive transportation network set up
american telephone &amp; telegraph co., for example, operates a major, nationwide fleet of trucks
they go to a lot of addresses fixing phones,'' said one industry insider who asked not to be quoted by name. ``there are a lot of companies that reach a lot of people _ the sky's the limit.''
the bidding also could widen if the government decided to sell the post office's assets, such as its trucks and properties, and transfer the work force to the new owner
in that case, anybody with money could buy it,'' voytko said, although he noted that a company with experience in mail and parcel delivery probably would feel more comfortable in the expanded business
voytko said, however, that it was uncertain whether operating a nationwide postal service would be a good business opportunity
but it is good from a public policy point of view. the private sector has proved time and time again that it can deliver services better than the government,'' he said
already the recommendations generated sharp advance opposition from public employee and postal worker unions
the national association of letter carriers said ending the postal service monopoly on first- and third-class mail delivery would destroy the nation's system of universal service. ``rural and inner-city residents would not be served ... or would receive reduced service at exorbitant postal rates,'' the union said
however, david linowes, a democrat who headed the privatization committee, said the government could require private companies to deliver mail to all areas at the same price
