a chain-smoker who had been ordered by a judge not to puff in front of her children won the right to light up again
the appeals division of the state supreme court granted a stay of the order tuesday, permitting 41-year-old elizabeth roofeh to smoke in the presence of her husband and children pending a hearing scheduled for september
mrs. roofeh said wednesday she already is trying to kick the habit
i was only doing it (smoking) to annoy my husband,'' mrs. roofeh, who is seeking a divorce, said as she left for her first session at a non-smoking clinic. ``i'm coughing like crazy. i don't think it's good for the kids.''
mrs. roofeh's husband, jahanshan, an orthopedic surgeon, went to court last year, arguing that her smoking is harmful to their children, ages 6, 7 and 9. he said he tried unsuccessfully for 12 years to get her to curtail her habit
last month, judge ralph diamond ordered mrs. roofeh to confine her smoking to a small room in the couple's six-bedroom home. her attorney, joel brandes, appealed, contending such an order is unconstitutional
roofeh's attorney, stephen schissell, had no comment on the stay. woes</head>
being a second-string quarterback can be hard on business, as the washington redskins' jay schroeder has discovered
schroeder, backup to starter doug williams, says the restaurant operating in this washington suburb under his name ``was a business venture that didn't work out.''
the owners of j. schroeder's all-pro restaurant recently decided to close the eatery because of mounting debts. schroeder allowed his name to be used for the establishment in exchange for a small percentage of its profit and an agreement to appear there several times a week. he declined to discuss the closing, saying the restaurant's problems were ``for me to know.''
schroeder lost his position as the skins' starting quarterback in midseason last year. the skins went on to win the super bowl under williams
having the second-string quarterback's name on the restaurant did not help business,'' said bruce sandground, general manager at the sign of the whale, another falls church restaurant
former redskins' quarterback joe theismann owns three restaurants in the area that bear his name. but theismann began his career as a restaurateur just as his career was beginning to take off, while the opening of j. schroeder's last year coincided with schroeder's slump
schroeder said he was looking into other business opportunities
an ohio woman who watched a tv show on unsolved crimes supplied the tip that led to the arrest of a man wanted in the poisoning death of a california beauty queen, authorities said
steven paul mack, 39, was arrested without incident in this salt lake city suburb after a dozen squad cars closed in on his car tuesday, said police sgt. bill brusik. mack was being held at salt lake county jail on $500,000 bail
authorities in sacramento, calif., had been seeking mack, 39, in the slaying of karen grace winslett, 21, of carmichael, calif
winslett had won the title of miss english leather in las vegas, nev., shortly before she disappeared in 1987. her body was found 12 days later in her car, parked behind a north sacramento motel
detectives said she died of a large dose of percodan, a pain killer. they said mack was linked to the crime by physical and other evidence that the detectives would not detail
sacramento county sheriff's sgt. tennise allen credited the sunday night showing of fox broadcasting co.'s ``america's most wanted'' with bringing about mack's arrest
following the show, an employee of a country club in marion, ohio, called her local sheriff's department to say she recognized mack as having once worked at the club
she also recalled having received a telephone call from someone in utah in february asking for a man named sean paul lanier. a check of club personnel records had showed no one by that name had worked there
salt lake city police were alerted, and mack was arrested after he left a home been purchased by a sean paul lanier in november, authorities said. was unarmed and taken by surprise
the arrest is the fourth of an escapee or suspect stemming from the show, according to fox
mack, a forger and burglar who served two prison terms and was paroled in 1985, sells novelties and sports and clothing items, authorities said
sacramento police also said mack is a suspect in a similar slaying of a 19-year-old woman in marion county, ohio
in all, the ``america's most wanted'' episode generated 170 calls on a toll-free number shown on the screen
the show, which premiered earlier this year, has as its host john walsh, who has been active in the movement for better police efforts to trace missing children since his son, adam, was abducted and slain
another arrest stemming from the show was that of a murderer who had escaped from an indiana prison in 1986 was found last month working as a supervisor at a homeless shelter in new york city
a tough year for farmers is in the wind _ that is, if an old comanche indian legend holds true
according to the legend, the wind direction at precisely sunrise on the day after the first day of spring will tell what kind of weather and farming conditions the next year will hold for the region
if the wind, called taba'na yuna'e in comanche, comes from the east or northeast, good harvests should follow; if it blows from the north or northwest, conditions will be average. a west or southwest wind doesn't bode well, and a south wind is just plain bad news
records on the annual ceremony are said to show a 92 percent success rate since 1906, the first year settlers gathered to see what the winds had in store
chief'' frank runkles, who has been performing the ceremony for 15 years, began his dance tuesday with supplications to wakantanka, the father spirit, and mikeana, mother earth, as well as the winds
the mother earth is revered because she gives us food to eat,'' he said. ``wakantanka is the great father above _ we seek his blessings.''
as he spoke, a southerly wind blew so hard that indian dancers from an amarillo boy scout explorer post had to shield a ceremonial fire as it was ignited
the gusts died down as sunrise neared. seconds before runkles caught the first glimpse of the sun over the distant horizon, a gust whisked in from the north, then reversed direction at the moment of sunrise, giving an official reading of west-southwest _ bad news for farmers
despite the indians' claims of predictive accuracy, however, farmers don't necessarily need to worry
last year, smoke from runkles' fire indicated a south wind and poor conditions, but southern plains farmers ended up with one of the best cotton harvests on record
above a pawn shop in downtown toronto, patti labelle rips into a group of lackadaisical brooklyn high school students
in her first major dramatic role, the pop star is playing an inspirational teacher in a movie musical based on sing, the annual song-and-dance competition in brooklyn's schools
the legendary program at such schools as erasmus hall gave rise to such talents as barbra streisand and neil diamond. but with the urban decay of the past decade, only a dozen schools now take part
the struggle to preserve that old brooklyn spirit has inspired the film, ``sing,'' with a plot centered on education board plans to close a beloved high school where generations of immigrants got their start
with songs from the writer of ``footloose'' and ``fame'' and a tempestuous love story between a street-smart italian kid and a jewish princess, the tri-star pictures production now shooting in toronto is scheduled for release in february 1989
i'm hooked on it. i'm one of those people who think about community and pulling together and family,'' said labelle, the rhythm and blues artist who first hit the pop charts in the 1960s with the blue bells and later in the '70s with the trio labelle. she has appeared in two previous films, ``a soldier's story'' and the tv movie ``unnatural causes.''
in ``sing,'' she plays mrs. devere, an adviser who shakes her junior class students out of apathy
she's very uplifting to the kids,'' labelle said between takes of her chart-targeted big number, ``total concentration,'' in which she demonstrates how to put over a song
producer craig zadan and screenwriter-lyricist dean pitchford, who won an academy award for ``fame,'' said they created the part with labelle in mind and waited until she found time to do it
there's a real honesty there, nothing phony about her. in her own way she's lived through what this teacher has gone through,'' said pitchford
labelle has charmed the crew by introducing them to her own home cooking _ fried chicken and potato salad. but she's not sure about life as an actress
i'm not a cher. i don't know if i'd have enough patience to do another movie,'' she said, complaining about the number of retakes. ``it hurts enough some times that you want to cry. i like to perform live.''
however, director richard baskin, who co-produced streisand's landmark ``broadway album'' and is making his first feature film, said labelle looked great in the first rushes
co-stars include lorraine bracco who played tom berenger's wife in ``someone to watch over me,'' louise lasser of ``mary hartman, mary hartman'' fame and george dicenzo who was rob lowe's boss in ``about last night.'' the young lovers are peter dobson and jessica steen
for co-producer neil meron, a brooklyn and sing alumnus, the project is a labor of love
in the high school i went to, sing no longer exists,'' meron lamented. ``brooklyn is one of the oldest communities in america, and the way those communities found to express themselves was through music and dance.''
to research the film, the production team talked with veteran teachers in brooklyn and attended a sing performance at midwood high school where faculty member bella tillis launched the program in 1947
sing competitions involved reviews or skits created and staged by a committee from each class. the musical skits were judged on sing night when freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors got to strut their stuff. in the 1950s and '60s, when sing was at its peak, the competitions were fierce
lyricist pitchford also found inspiration in england, where he's been working with the royal shakespeare co. on the broadway-bound musical, ``carrie.''
after `fame' the last thing i wanted to do was another high school film set in new york about kids who sing and dance,'' he said
but england has tradition and history we can only approximate in america. the closest thing to that kind of longevity is in east coast settlements like brooklyn. sing became a metaphor for that tradition
i developed an enormous affection for sing and the neighborhoods of brooklyn and a real despair for the passing of this tradition.''
new discoveries by american archaeologists indicate that humans could have settled on cyprus around 9000 b.c., 1,500 years earlier than previously thought
the finds also indicate that some species of ancient animals survived here at least 1,000 years after they were believed to have become extinct
if proven correct, the discoveries mean that cyprus was one of the earliest human settlements north of africa, along with the island of corsica, also in the mediterranean
if these dates are corroborated, the site will have provided by far the earliest archaeological evidence for island colonization anywhere in the mediterranean,'' dr. stuart swiny, director of the cyprus american archaeological research institute, reported in a recent lecture
scientists had previously dated man's arrival on cyprus around 7500 b.c
but archaelogists digging on a slope near the sprawling british air base at akrotiri on cyprus' south coast recently found pygmy hippopotamus and dwarf elephant bones, some mixed with shells, flint and ash
archaelogists believe the flint, an early cutting tool, was used to slice meat from the animals. the ash indicated cooking fires
carbon dating placed the remains at around 9000 b.c., a millenium after those species of animals were believed to have died out
swiny said that the animals, common to many mediterranean islands thousands of years ago, were wiped out by climatic changes during the last ice age that ended around 12,000 years ago
we thought ... these animals died out because of natural causes _ they couldn't get enough food or enough water,'' swiny said in an interview after the lecture
but now it looks as if man was also responsible for wiping them out.''
the akrotiri excavation is sponsored by the university of nevada and the american schools of oriental research, which sponsors the cyprus american institute. the dig is under the direction of dr. alan simmons, who currently is in nevada
the original discovery was made in 1980 by a british security officer at akrotiri, maj. brian pile, then a lieutenant, while he was training his men to seek out unusual objects
underground excavation at the site, eight miles south of the port city of limassol, started last july and will continue this summer
swiny said the actual age of the site will remain questionable until results of further tests are obtained
the finds are only some of the important discoveries unearthed by american archaeologists in the last few years on cyprus, the center of trade routes between europe and the middle east for centuries
the island is studded with relics of a history that spans more than 10,000 years, during which more than a dozen civilizations, including achaean greeks, egyptians, romans, armenians, venetians and ottoman turks left their imprint
americans are involved in six of the 20 digs currently being made in the greek-controlled southern part of cyprus
the cyprus american institute provides logistical help at one sponsored by brandeis university, of waltham, mass., at the late bronze age town of kalavasos-ayios dhimitrios, 18 miles northeast of limassol
it was one of the biggest bronze age settlements on cyprus and a center for the island's ancient copper trade. cyprus is the phoenician word for copper
last summer archaelogists uncovered the remains of a 13th century b.c. building, covering more than 10,764 square feet and once at least two stories high, that was apparently destroyed by fire
it's the biggest and most important building at the site and one of the biggest of that period in cyprus,'' said dr. alison south todd, the dig's co-director
we also found some inscriptions which are very rare to the period in cypro-minoan script,'' she added
cypro-minoan, which resembles the script used in minoan crete 4,000 years ago, has never been deciphered
the presence of these inscriptions and the huge storage capacity of the building, known as building x, suggest it was either a palace or a town hall
the storage room, more than 60 feet long and 24 feet wide, consists of an outer wall and six stone pillars that once supported the roof
the shards of at least 47 jars, some once as tall as six feet, have been found. all apparently had been smashed in the fire. but six intact jars were later discovered in pits below the floor
todd discovered a tomb, considered one of the richest and best preserved ever found on cyprus, while digging an exploratory trench out from the building
the oval-shaped tomb contained the skeletons of three young women, a child about 3 years old and three infants. they apparently had social status and wealth
the women had been buried with gold and silver jewelry, bronze and bone artifacts, containers of wine with small cups inside and cylindrical ivory cosmetic boxes. reports</head>
an experimental treatment for enlarged prostate glands shows promise as an outpatient alternative to surgery that hospitalizes about 400,000 american men a year, researchers say
an enlarged prostate makes urination difficult by constricting the urinary tract, and the experimental procedure widens the narrowed portion by inflating a balloon, said flavio castaneda of the university of minnesota
test results show complete or significant resolution of the urination problem in about 80 percent of patients with the most common type of enlargement, he said
the half-hour procedure is done with only a local anesthetic and without an overnight stay in the hospital, he said
standard surgery requires general anesthesia or a spinal injection that numbs the lower part of the body, and a hospital stay of several days
the prostate is a walnut-sized gland that surrounds the urine-carrying urethra. in older men, it frequently enlarges and puts pressure on the urethra, making urination more difficult
the experimental technique is to be described thursday by castaneda's colleague, wilfrido castaneda-zuniga, at a meeting of the society of cardiovascular and interventional radiology in orlando, fla
more than 60 patients have been treated with the experimental procedure, called balloon urethroplasty, at the university of minnesota, castaneda said in a recent telephone interview
the patient takes a tranquilizer and the urethra is numbed with local anesthetic. a thin, flexible tube with the balloon on its tip is inserted into the urethra and guided to the narrowed portion, where the balloon is inflated
for the minnesota patients, the urination problem was erased or significantly eased in almost 80 percent of cases in which most enlargement was from the side lobes of the prostate, rather than the middle lobe, castanada said. most patients have predominant enlargement of side lobes, he said
when the main problem was the middle lobe, the success rate dropped to about 30 percent to 40 percent, he said
no recurrence of symptoms has been seen in any patient helped by the procedure, he said. forty-eight have been followed for more than six months after the procedure, including one followed for three years, he said
we're at this point unable to know how long it (symptom relief) will last on the average,'' castaneda said
abraham cockett, professor and chairman of the urology department at the university of rochester medical center in new york, called the concept interesting
but he said more patients must be studied, and for periods longer than at least a year following the procedure, to better assess its effectiveness
removing prostate tissue with standard surgery relieves symptoms for some 15 years, said cockett, who is secretary of the american urological association
in another presentation at the meeting thursday, participants are to discuss an experimental alternative to removing gallbladders
about 500,000 gallbladders are removed in the united states annually. gallstones are the most frequent reason, said eric martin, director of cardiovascular and interventional radiology at the columbia-presbyterian medical center in new york
in two patients, italian scientists have instead guided a flexible tube through the skin and into the gallbladder, used it to remove gallstones and injected a solution to turn the gallbladder into scar tissue
i still think it needs a lot of work, but it's exciting,'' said martin
he noted that machines called lithotripters, now used to pulverize kidney stones, are also being studied for destroying gallstones
it is too early to tell how lithotripters and the surgical technique tried in italy will fit in to future management of gallbladder disease, he said
a ostrich farmer thinks county commissioners may have their heads in the sand for failing to agree that an ostrich has as much value as a turkey
the dispute is over an ohio law that allows farmers to be reimbursed by the county if dogs kill their farm animals
michael erwin of morrow filed a $600 claim for two ostriches killed by dogs
but warren county commissioners said tuesday damages can be collected only on animals that provide meat, eggs, or feathers, and ostriches didn't
no one could think of any (agricultural value of the ostrich),'' said commission president george terwilleger
he invited erwin to appeal, and erwin said he would
i think that ostrich farming has as much credibility as cattle farming or sheep farming,'' said erwin, 32
he said ostrich hides and feathers are sold in ohio, and he plans to breed ostriches for meat. he said the meat is more of a bargain than turkey
you get a lot more bird for your money.''
one of two drug charges against john zaccaro jr., the son of 1984 vice presidential candidate geraldine ferraro, has been dismissed for lack of evidence
district judge francis mccaffrey on monday threw out a charge of possession of cocaine with intent to sell
after zaccaro's 1986 arrest, mccaffrey ruled inadmissible eight grams of cocaine and records of drug transactions seized by police from zaccaro's car. the judge said at the time that the search warrant was based on insufficient evidence
zaccaro still faces an april 4 trial on a charge of selling a quarter-gram of cocaine to a state trooper while zaccaro was a student at middlebury college
mccaffrey also said defense attorneys cannot claim at the trial that zaccaro was a victim of selective prosecution because the issue does not relate to guilt or innocence
oscar the grouch, the guru of garbage on television's ``sesame street,'' has been asked to remove all recyclables from his trash can home
the famous character on the long-running pbs-tv children's show recently received a letter from paula s. barnabie, who works for the camden county office of solid waste
every day, ms. barnabie wrote, the clank of aluminum, the crunch of newspapers and the tinkle of glass can be heard as oscar fights his way to the surface of his trash can to snarl at sesame street residents
i watch the program every day with my nephew and i just couldn't take it any more,'' she said. ``it would be so much nicer and environmentally sound for you to have a recycling bucket near your trash can.''
camden county will even give the tetchy titan of trash one of its brand new recycling buckets, she informed oscar. the bright yellow buckets ``can be dirtied up in no time flat'' to match the rest of his dirty, dented decor, she said
the producers of sesame street are considering ms. barnabie's suggestions, said gail y. miyasaki, a spokeswoman for children's television workshop, the show's producer
ms. barnabie said she has not heard from oscar, however
if he recycled, he'd be able to find a pen and paper in that can to write back to me,'' she said. ``i hope he doesn't tell me to go `scram.''' 
don bailey's face and burt reynolds' body have been sprawled across the side of a warehouse for 10 years, but city commissioner vicki coceano says she wants to beautify the area _ starting with bailey
the 19-foot wide mural on bailey's carpet store has bailey's head superimposed on reynolds' body _ a takeoff on the actor's centerfold pose in cosmopolitan magazine several years ago. the body reclining on a shag rug is nude except for flesh-tone bikini trunks
he needs to be dressed or he needs to get off the rug,'' ms. coceano said tuesday
the issue arose when the commission rejected bailey's request for a variance to expand his store. ms. coceano said the city has chosen to start its beautification program with him
people know me for this sign,'' bailey said. ``i'll put a dark swimsuit on this next time, but skimpier.''
suzanne carrell beat a filing deadline by 10 minutes to become a candidate for town moderator, a job most residents had forgotten existed and which rarely has any duties
the unpaid job calls for her to moderate at town meetings, if they ever are called under telluride's custom-made home-rule charter, which gives either the town council or residents the right to call a town meeting twice a year
there have been only three such town meetings in the last nine years, although there was an attempt to call one last year. that failed for lack of a quorum
it is not a job with a lot of use,'' confirmed town clerk leslie sherlock, who admitted forgetting about the opening until someone brought it to her attention for this year's election
carrell, who works in a liquor store and a bookstore, said she decided to file for the post on tuesday because she didn't have the time to serve on the town council
but she said she was surprised to learn she may not have any work to do
transportation secretary james h. burnley iv says the federal aviation administration sometimes needs ``the bureaucratic equivalent of a cattle prod'' to move on safety issues
in an unusual condemnation of an agency by the cabinet officer who oversees it, burnley accused the faa of frequently harboring ``institutional resistance'' when the time comes to move harshly against the nation's aviation industry
at times, he said, ``it has been necessary to use the bureaucratic equivalent of a cattle prod to get the faa to take needed safety actions.''
burnley blamed the problem on the agency's structure and not its employees. the faa is charged with writing and enforcing safety regulations for u.s. aviation, running the nation's air traffic control system and promoting american air commerce
because the faa is charged with promoting and protecting the industry's commercial interests, it is sometimes reluctant to take safety and enforcement actions that impose significant costs and burdens on that industry,'' burnley told the senate aviation subcommittee
as an example, burnley said faa officials and industry representatives opposed a 1986 proposal that airline and airport employees be screened by security devices, arguing that the plan was ``too burdensome.'' even when the proposal was changed, the faa delayed implementing the proposal for a year, he said
two weeks ago, burnley told reporters the faa was not being strict enough in punishing airlines whose employees did not effectively screen passengers for weapons. he sent faa administrator allan mcartor a memo march 8 asking him ``to give his personal attention to this matter.'' mcartor agreed, burnley said wednesday
often it takes someone from outside the organization to insist that there may be ways to enhance safety that are being overlooked,'' he said
burnley said the faa ``is filled with competent, dedicated professionals'' who are placed in ``an inherently untenable position'' by the agency's structure
asked after the hearing if he believed mcartor was responsible for any of the agency's problems, he said, ``allan's doing a fine job, doing an outstanding job.''
in a statement, mcartor said the faa is taking steps to improve its efficiency. ``the current system for dealing with aviation issues is too slow and cumbersome,'' he said
the faa has been criticized by some lawmakers in recent years for failing to move quickly enough to expand the number of air traffic controllers and for a lack of aggressiveness in making other safety improvements
sen. wendell ford, d-ky., chairman of the aviation panel, has introduced legislation that would make the faa an independent agency in hopes of giving it the ability to respond more quickly to problems
burnley said the faa could do a better job if its promotional duties and the air traffic control system were removed from its responsibilities. the agency should continue overseeing safety as a part of the transportation department, he said, so, ``if you don't get what you want out of an administrator, there's a secretary you can collar.''
the united states is losing influence in africa by letting its military aid to the continent drop to an unprecedented low while the soviets provide 17 times as much assistance, administration officials say
sudan has asked the united states to remove its emergency military stockpiles and facilities, and somalia has rejected the visit of a top-level military delegation, the officials say
u.s. military aid levels to africa this year have dropped to an unprecedented low of $25.2 million, said deputy assistant secretary of defense james l. woods
we have since last year lost our prepositioning rights in one important african country, and have had important military'' negotiations canceled in another, woods told the house subcommittee on foreign operations wednesday
although he declined to name either country, another official who spoke only on condition he not be named identified the first country as sudan. he said the non-aligned government of sadiq mahdi was unwilling to honor political arrangements made by his predecessor gaafar nimeiri, who was deposed in april 1985
u.s. relations with sudan, strategically placed in eastern africa on the red sea coast, have been strained by sudan's warming ties with libya
as a result of congressional budget cuts, as well as the less cordial ties with the khartoum government, u.s. military aid to sudan was canceled in fiscal 1988, along with six other african countries. the administration will seek a renewal of the aid for fiscal 1989, said the official
somalia, upset with a drop of its military aid to $5 million from some $20 million in 1986, rejected a visit by a high-level u.s. military delegation, the official said. but the visit will probably be rescheduled, he added
woods warned that if the military aid for africa remains at the current level, ``we can no longer operate a meaningful aid program to africa.''
the administration has asked for $740 million in economic and development aid for africa next year and $83.7 million in military assistance
assistant secretary of state chester crocker told the panel that ``the perception in africa is that we're opting out. and that creates strains.'' u.s. military aid to africa accounts for only 3 percent of the total military assistance to the continent, crocker said
in contrast, the soviet union has poured $15 billion into african states since 1980, more than 17 times the u.s. input, he said
in addition, the soviets maintain 6,500 military advisers in africa, and cuba has some 45,000 troops there, most of them in angola
properly funded, the (u.s. military aid) program reduces reliance on soviet bloc hardware and advisers,'' woods said
trade minister ariel sharon warned that palestinian violence could lead to war with neighboring arab states, in which case israel might expel palestinians from its occupied lands and from israel itself
he made the comment thursday, when israeli security forces shot and killed another two palestinians and seven were reported wounded in clashes throughout the occupied west bank
israeli troops also rounded up hundreds of arabs in an attempt to silence the leaders of the four-month uprising, arab sources said
in lebanon, israeli warplanes divebombed palestinian guerrilla bases on the outskirts of sidon for almost an hour, the second air raid in two days. israel radio quoted lebanese sources as saying 30 people were killed in the attack
also thursday, the labor party re-elected foreign minister shimon peres as its leader and candidate for the premiership. he said he would appeal to the nation to support the u.s.-initiated peace process _ in essence an exchange of land for peace with the arabs
in the balata refugee camp near nablus, border policemen opened fire on demonstrators throwing rocks, concrete blocks and iron bars at them. two protesters were killed, the army and the israeli news agency itim reported
a palestinian was shot in the leg and three border policemen were injured by rocks in the clash, itim reported
thursday's fatalities raised the palestinian death toll to 109 by u.n. count since violence broke out in the occupied territories dec. 8. one israeli soldier has been killed
sharon told journalists in tel aviv that, by failing to halt the disturbances at their onset, israel had lost its deterrent capability. as a result, he said, arab states could launch a surprise attack against israel
the hawkish former general, a leader of the right-wing likud bloc, hinted that in such a war, israel might expel palestinians and israeli arabs
sharon referred to israel's first prime minister, david ben gurion, saying ben gurion refused to allow arabs who fled the country during the 1948 middle east war to return to their homes
the rule that ben gurion determined then applies now too,'' sharon said. ``those who began the war in december 1987 must remember that they are fully responsible for its results ... remember this well, not just the residents of (the west bank towns of) halhoul and qalqilyeh but also those of jaffa (in israel) and (israeli-annexed arab east) jerusalem.''
peres, who was re-elected by an overwhelming majority of the labor party's 1,250-member central committee, accused the likud of frightening the nation into believing yielding occupied territories would threaten israel's existence
we will opt for a political solution,'' he said. ``the camp of intimidation rejects any political solution. the camp of hope believes in such a solution.''
speaking at the same party gathering, defense minister yitzhak rabin said: ``peace is a more central element of security than (occupied) territories.''
in other developments thursday, israeli troops converted west bank schools into detention centers as they continued a campaign of mass arrests in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel seized in the 1967 middle east war
among those detained in the overnight roundups thursday were several palestinians allegedly responsible for drafting and publishing the latest underground leaflets, police ministry spokesman nahum mendel said
he declined to say how many suspects were arrested
in the west bank city of hebron, an islamic official said israeli troops detained about 200 imams, or moslem relgious leaders, in nighttime roundups this week. the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said most of those held were members of the fundamentalist islamic jihad movment
in gaza, israeli officials rounded up at least 15 palestinians wednesday night, bringing to more than 110 the number of arabs arrested there in the last four days, the gaza lawyers' association said
meanwhile, the roman catholic patriarch of jerusalem decided to suspend the palm sunday procession because of the possibility of violence along its narrow, winding route through arab east jerusalem, said the rev. caudio baratto, director of the christian information center
in another development, the government temporarily banned publication of israel's communist party daily, al ittihad
amos gilboa, prime minister yitzhak shamir's adviser on arab affairs, said the 40-year-old newpaper's ``statements had become far more extreme... and completely changed in character,'' since the anti-occupation unrest began
the communist party has four representatives in parliament. it has organized demonstrations and protests against israel's handling of the unrest and in favor of a palestinian state to replace the occupied territories' military government
two passenger trains collided thursday in a shanghai suburb, killing 27 japanese students on a school trip, the japanese embassy said. other reports said more than 100 other people were injured
china's official xinhua news agency said one of the trains had ignored a stop signal when it left shanghai station
there were discrepancies in death and injury reports. foreign ministry officials in tokyo, citing reports from the japanese consulate in shanghai, said the death toll of 27 included a victim that was possibly chinese
a total of 47 japanese and 57 chinese passengers were injured in the crash, government officials in tokyo said
shigekazu sato, an official with the japanese embassy in beijing, said the injured included 36 people from gakugei high school in southern japan's kochi prefecture
the crash, in the shanghai suburb of fengbang, occurred at 2 p.m. when a northbound train leaving shanghai for hangzhou collided with a southbound train arriving from changsha, said fu fenghao, spokesman for the shanghai foreign affairs office
fu said it had not been determined if there were other foreigners on the train
the departing train's first two cars and the luggage car of the other train were knocked off the tracks. most of the victims appeared to be in the first cars of the departing train, fu said
xinhua said the departing train ``rolled out of the kuangxiang station, ignoring the prohibiting signal, and collided with the train that was entering the station.''
kazuyoshi shoji at the japanese consulate in shanghai said one of the dead japanese was hideo shimomura, identified by television stations in tokyo as a 16-year-old student
the 193-member gakugei high school group was traveling on the hangzhou-bound train. shoji said the group was in the car immediately behind the engine
we were playing cards and suddenly there was a loud bang, and things went flying all over the floor,'' said an unidentified male student interviewed in shanghai by the japan broadcasting corp
there was a huge bump, and then one of our teachers came into the car and told us to get out,'' said another student. ``we broke the windows and climbed out.''
the train tracks were blocked seven hours after the accident, fu said. he said soldiers, police and medical workers took the dead and injured to nearby hospitals and that investigators were at the scene
it was china's fourth fatal train accident this year. three train accidents killed 141 people in january
lawmakers are crediting the budget summit accord between congressional leaders and the white house for the bipartisan ease with which the house sent a $1.1 trillion budget for fiscal 1989 to the senate
the spending plan, which alters some of the domestic priorities president reagan had included in his own proposed package last month, was approved 319-102 on wednesday by the democratic-controlled house. in contrast to last year, when budget writers toiled several weeks longer amid staunch opposition by republicans, gop lawmakers this time voted 92-78 for the resolution
i think it would have been impossible without the summit,'' rep. delbert latta of ohio, ranking republican on the house budget committee, said afterward
democrats and republicans in the house are trying to work together,'' said rep. william h. gray iii, d-pa., chairman of the budget panel
the spending plan would produce a deficit of $134 billion. it would thus avoid spending cuts that would be required under the gramm-rudman balanced-budget law should the deficit miss the 1989 deficit target of $136 billion by more than $10 billion
to achieve that $134 billion figure, however, lawmakers agreed to use economic forecasts made by the administration. had the legislators used the more pessimistic projections from their own congressional budget office, there would be $35 billion more in red ink, triggering spending slashes that are considered particularly untidy in an election year
shortly after the dow jones industrial average plunged 508 points last oct. 19, administration officials and congressional leaders held four weeks of closed-door bargaining aimed at slashing the federal deficit
the pact they emerged with last nov. 20 set broad outlines for federal budgets for fiscal 1988, which ends sept. 30, and for fiscal 1989
their agreement settled in advance many of the disputes that typically spawn bitter, long-running debates among lawmakers, such as over how much money the government should spend for defense, domestic and foreign assistance programs, and whether new taxes are necessary
the 1989 budget resolution approved by the house precisely met those summit targets, according to budget committee numbers
thus, the package provides $299.5 billion for the pentagon in budget authority, the amount up to which the military can commit itself in new contracts, and $294 billion in outlays, or money to actually be spent next year
in addition, it provides $148.1 billion in budget authority and $169.2 billion in outlays for domestic programs that are not controlled by automatic formulas. and it allows $18.1 billion in budget authority and $16.1 billion in outlays for foreign aid
the $14 billion in new 1989 taxes called for by the summit have already been enacted into law. lawmakers envision no additional taxes for the year
the budget would grant a hefty increase to space and science programs, although only about half as much as reagan wanted. it would also grant major increases in spending for education, the homeless, battling drugs and research and testing for aids
the legislators ignored reagan's proposals to end federal assistance to amtrak, the northeast passenger railroad, and to some development programs, and his effort to dramatically slash aid to mass transit programs
most federal agencies would be given a bit less money than they would need to keep up with inflation. but many urban and rural aid programs such as the farmers home administration's rural development grants and loans, which reagan had slated for substantial cuts, would receive the same amounts of money as this year
and many programs geared toward helping low-income people, such as job training, would receive enough money to keep up with the rising cost of living
military and civilian federal employees would be granted 3 percent pay raises
the budget resolution does not require presidential approval and sets spending targets. the actual money will have to be provided in later legislation
senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., said wednesday he did not expect full senate action on the budget before the second week of april
representatives of states vying for the superconducting super collider are seeking only about one-third of the funding initially planned for the project next year, in what they describe as a bow to political reality
rep. carl pursell, r-mich., said wednesday that lawmakers from six of the seven states still in the running for the $4.4 billion physics research complex agreed to press for around one-third of the $363 million requested by president reagan in his 1989 budget
representatives from the seven states formed a task force last week to support the project, which has been attacked by congressional critics as likely to siphon away money needed for research in other areas. the dispute comes as both congress and the white house are trying to reduce the federal budget deficit
during a private meeting, the representatives discussed funding ``somewhere around the bottom of $100 million plus,'' pursell said. ``we have not fixed on exact figures.''
they also discussed target dates in their drive to ensure that the project survives congressional budget cuts, pursell said
as long as we've got good support from the leadership, we're sure we can get through the budget process,'' pursell said
the representatives will meet soon with house speaker jim wright of texas and house minority leader robert michel of illinois to discuss appropriations, pursell said
officials have predicted that the super collider, centered on a 53-mile-round particle accelerator, will produce 4,000 jobs and have an annual operating budget of about $280 million
physicists at the center will study subatomic particles and the physical nature of the universe
states that remain in the running for the project are arizona, colorado, illinois, michigan, north carolina, tennessee and texas
arizona was unrepresented at wednesday's meeting, pursell said
the energy department has said it plans to decide in november where to build the super collider
the reagan administration is resisting calls to raise the level of u.s. diplomatic contact with vietnam, saying it wants to maintain pressure on the vietnamese to withdraw their troops from cambodia
sen. john mccain, r-ariz., and rep. tom ridge, r-pa., on wednesday called for the establishment of a ``working u.s. presence'' in vietnam. they said little progress has been made on numerous issues which remain as the ``legacy'' of the vietnam war, despite numerous visits to vietnam by congressional and administration delegations
the administration, however, said it opposed the lawmakers' call for the creation of ``interest sections,'' which are typically established between nations that don't recognize each other but acknowledge mutual concerns
the united states and cuba, for example, have interest section personnel stationed in third-party embassies in each others' nations
we continue to believe that political and economic isolation is the most effective way of pressing vietnam to end its occupation of cambodia,'' the state department said in a statement released wednedsay
we are prepared to discuss normalization with vietnam, therefore, only in the context of an acceptable settlement in cambodia which includes the withdrawal of vietnamese troops,'' it said. vietnam's military occupation of cambodia is in its ninth year
mccain and ridge are both vietnam veterans and mccain is a former prisoner of war. they issued their call for greater diplomatic contact with vietnam on the 15th anniversary of mccain's release after five years of captivity
mccain said establishment of interest sections ``falls far short of diplomatic recognition, and certainly implies no approval of a nation's policies.''
he said that if no progress is made on issues such as americans still listed as missing from the southeast asian conflict, then ``the option of further normalization'' could always be set aside
mccain said several members of the administration had indicated privately that they supported better communication between the nations, but that he expected that the administration's ``official'' position on vietnam would remain the same
mccain and ridge said greater contact also is needed to administer a two-year program to bring 8,000 to 12,000 children of american soldiers to the united states
there is a tremendous logistical problem and barrier to progress, just by the fact that all of our technical people must travel in and out of bangkok every time there is to be communication,'' ridge said
the house interior committee is chopping away at the huge timber harvests in alaska's tongass rain forest, the nation's largest national forest and the timber cutting programs's biggest money loser
the panel gave voice vote approval wednesday to legislation pushed by hard-lobbying conservation groups to scrap the 1980 law guaranteeing that the u.s. forest service gets at least $40 million a year to spend on tongass timber sales
the money, much of it for logging roads to ancient stands of huge trees, was mandated as part of the compromise that apportioned public lands in alaska for various uses, including commercial development and wilderness
the compromise gave protected wilderness status to 5.4 million acres of the 17.9 million acre tongass, which has the nation's largest populations of bald eagles and grizzly bears
the 1980 law, in what backers said represented economic guarantees for southeast alaska, set a goal of commercially harvesting 450 billion board feet of tongass trees every 10 years from non-wilderness sections
no other national forest has a congressionally mandated harvest goal or gets its appropriations without the year-by-year review congress gives to spending requests for other federal forests
rep. bruce vento, d-minn., said that because of low demand and falling prices for wood pulp from tongass, taxpayers have lost 99 cents for each $1 in sales, with some old trees going for $2 apiece
vento called the 1980 law ``a mandate to overcut ... one of the world's only temperate rain forests.''
we're changing the entire environment when we cut 400- and 500-year-old trees,'' he said
approved by the committee was a package put together by rep. george miller, d-calif., to scrap the 1980 timbering guarantees and assure that the tongass is subject to the same timber-harvest planning practices applied to all other national forests
the bill would put a five-year moratorium on commercial logging in about 1.7 million acres considered by the southeast alaska conservation council to be prime fish and wildlife habitat threatened by timbering
miller's plan also would require the agriculture department to renegotiate its long-term contracts to supply tongass timber to two large mills owned by louisiana pacific-ketchikan corp. and alaska pulp corp
about two-thirds of the tongass production goes to these mills, which convert it to pulp, principally for export to japan. critics say the 50-year contracts, executed in the 1950s, give the companies a regional monopoly and too large a voice in forest service management decisions for the tongass
miller said the tongass now is ``almost a scandalous operation.''
we have a process that is not driven by rational forest management,'' he said. ``we have cuttings driven by a political bargain.''
don young, alaska's only house member and the ranking republican on interior, opposed miller's plan because ``it basically shuts down the mills. ... we're talking about 6,000 jobs.''
young said the committee was being unduly influenced by conservation groups such as the wilderness society and sierra club, which have made the tongass and a proposal to drill for oil in the arctic national wildlife refuge their major capitol hill battlegrounds in 1988
young called the environmental groups ``special interests'' and said, ``the national environmental community is jerking our string.''
surgeon general c. everett koop says old people don't have to suffer poor health just because they're old
the whole theme of this meeting is it's never too late to start prevention,'' koop said wednesday at the close of a three-day workshop on health promotion and aging
how do older people maximize their health? the same way younger people do, said koop: don't smoke, don't drink too much, rest, eat right and exercise
old age is not a disease and there are many oldsters who are disease free,'' said koop. ``you don't necessarily have to have your kidneys fail, you don't necessarily have to have dementia. ... my plea would be to separate old age and disease. they don't necessarily go together.''
smoking is a prime example of the never-too-late approach, said koop
there is a tremendous tendency on the part of physicians to say, `well he's over 65, he hasn't got many vices, hasn't got many years left, why bother the poor old fellow?''' he said
but if they would just look him straight in the eye and say, `you're not going to live as long or have as good a quality of life as if you stop smoking,' if he stops he will note an immediate benefit.''
koop, 71, said he is convinced older people will shift to healthier diets and exercise more if properly counseled by their doctors
i do think you can change a person's behavior,'' he said. ``if somebody is willing to look at him from a bird's-eye view and try to rearrange his life and point out how he could do these things and what the benefits would be, people listen and they benefit.''
even though the u.s. population is aging, he said, it is not becoming less healthy
as we see people who are now in middle-age come along into the graying years they are going to be far healthier than this generation was when it entered the 65-and-older group,'' he said
these are the people who are jogging and swimming and hiking. these are the people who are snacking on salad and yogurt. these are the people who are wearing sensible shoes. they have stopped smoking. they have given up hard liquor. they wear seat belts. they understand the things they can do to preserve the quality of life and the function they already have.''
brahms and berlioz will be featured in the concert halls, but the european community youth orchestra has also been asked to belt out the u.s. and canadian anthems at a baseball game between the atlanta braves and the montreal expos
the orchestra's brass ensemble is scheduled to play at an exhibition game march 31 at municipal stadium in palm beach, fla
the orchestra's 140 musicians, aged 14 to 23, come from all 12 countries of the european community: britain, france, west germany, italy, ireland, denmark, belgium, holland, luxembourg, spain, portugal and greece
for the orchestra's 10th anniversary, it is making its first tour of the united states, arriving from london in palm beach on monday
they've asked us to send the brass ensemble for the game,'' explained boston-born joy bryer, the orchestra's secretary general. she has lived in britain for 31 years
we've mailed the scores to them all around europe. they don't know anything about america but what they see on television. now they'll be finding out more for themselves.''
the brass section consists of 20 instruments _ trumpets, french horns and others that furnish a maximum of volume
mrs. bryer gave reporters details about the trip on wednesday in washington
during its stay in florida, the orchestra will also send groups to schools, hospitals and a community center at belle glade on lake okeechobee, where the audience will be mostly migrant farm workers
its first formal concert will be on april 10 in the west palm beach auditorium. later concerts will be at clearwater, fla., april 11; new york's avery fisher hall on april 13; boston's symphony hall on april 15; and a final performance at the kennedy center concert hall in washington on april 17. the conductor will be erich leinsdorf
part of the proceeds will go to anti-drug efforts and to very special arts, the fund set up by violinist itzhak perlman to help handicapped musical students
lt. col. oliver north is beginning his retirement with more notoriety than most officers, but he is still entitled to the same benefits as any of the other more than 1.5 million men and women drawing military pensions
north, the former national security aide who was indicted last week in the iran-contra affair, announced two days later he had decided to retire on may 1 from the marine corps
north said he was taking the step because he would probably have to subpoena high-ranking government officials to mount his legal defense and didn't want to do so as a military officer
by specifying a may 1 retirement _ a request that has been approved _ north will have completed the minimum 20 years of active duty required to retire with a pension
unless an officer has served 20 years, he is not eligible to receive any type of pension. starting at 20 years of service, the size of the pension for officers of north's age is computed on a rising scale _ going from 50 percent of basic pay up to 75 percent of basic pay after 30 years' service
in north's case, the lieutenant colonel is drawing $3,693.60 in basic pay a month, or $44,323.20 a year. with exactly 20 years of service, he will be entitled to 50 percent of that as a pension payment
north's former boss, rear adm. john poindexter, retired in december with more than 29 years of service and is drawing a pension of more than $52,700 a year
north will have to pay federal income tax on his pension payments. but unless he goes back to work for the federal government, he's free to collect his military pension without limit for the rest of his life
like his other former brothers in arms, north also will be eligible for a number of other benefits to help ease his entry into private life
for example, if he wants to continue shopping at a military commissary or exchange, he'll have that right. the former marine will also be able to relax at military officer clubs, use military recreation facilities and read books at military libraries
if he wants to shop for liquor at a military package store or take in a movie at a theater on base, he can do that, too. and he can also drop off his laundry at a base dry cleaning store or buy new clothing
as a retired officer, north also is provided the right to medical care at a military hospital, but only on a space-available basis. active-duty servicemen are given first priority
if he can't gain admission to a military hospital, north will be covered by the defense department's champus health insurance plan. when he uses a private hospital and champus, however, he'll have to pay an annual deductible and 25 percent of his bill
as a retired officer drawing a pension, north also will be eligible for burial in a national cemetery. ^by richard carelli</byline>
united auto workers president owen bieber says the supreme court dealt a ``blow to working families throughout america'' by upholding a law limiting food-stamp eligibility for striking workers
the high court said wednesday a 1981 federal law imposing food stamp limits on strikers' families does not violate any constitutional rights
the 1981 law, amending the food stamp act, generally bars a family from becoming eligible for food stamps at a time when one of its members is on strike. families already receiving food stamps when a member goes on strike are not dropped from the program but are barred from receiving additional food stamps despite the loss of income
the law was challenged by the uaw and the united mine workers, and some of the unions' members. they said the law violated strikers' freedom of association and speech, and denied equal protection to strikers' families
the court, by a 5-3 vote, disagreed
bieber said wednesday's ruling ``serves only the interest of those who wage economic warfare against working people.''
he added, ``in a democracy which affords its citizens the legal right to form trade unions and engage in peaceful strikes, it is hypocritcal and inconsistent to punish the family members of those who choose to exercise that right.''
writing for the court, justice byron r. white said: ``union strike funds should be responsible for providing support and benefits to strikers during labor-management disputes. it was no part of the purposes of the food stamp act to establish a program that would serve as a weapon in labor disputes.''
but justice thurgood marshall contended in a dissenting opinion that the 1981 law amounted to such a ``weapon'' for management
no other purpose can adequately explain the especially harsh treatment reserved for strikers and their families by the 1981 enactment,'' marshall said
the food stamp act generally excludes benefits for people, and the households of people, unwilling to work. but marshall noted that people who can prove they quit their jobs for ``good cause'' may collect food stamps if otherwise eligible _ while strikers may not
white was joined in upholding the law by chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices john paul stevens, sandra day o'connor and antonin scalia
justices william j. brennan and harry a. blackmun joined marshall's dissenting opinion
justice anthony m. kennedy did not participate in the decision
the nation's food stamp program, paid for by the federal government and administered by the states, has supplemented the food-buying power of millions of low-income families since 1964
participating households receive food stamp coupons that can be used for food purchases at retail stores. eligibility for food stamps is based on income and several other factors
two agriculture department economists say the soviet union's agriculture is still in trouble, despite a couple of back-to-back bumper grain harvests
at the request of the united states, the soviets opened talks here last weekend on a new long-term grain agreement to replace the current pact which expires on sept. 30. the agreement commits moscow to buy at least a specified minimum amount of u.s. grain each year
the preliminary one-day session was adjourned without anything conclusive announced or any indication as to when and where the negotiations would be resumed
but chris foster and ed cook of the department's economic research service note that the soviet union ``doesn't always meet the provisions of the agreement'' by failing to buy the specified minimum amounts
last year's total soviet grain harvest was 211.3 million metric tons, up slightly from 210.1 million tons in 1986, the first time that two consecutive grain crops of more than 200 million tons have been produced by the soviet union
however, foster noted that last year's soviet harvest was of ``poor quality and contained above-average amounts of moisture.''
cook said soviet agriculture still has many basic inefficiencies and that soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has had only slight success so far in his efforts to reform his country's agriculture
gorbachev seems now to be taking a less radical approach to agricultural reform than was anticipated a year ago,'' cook said
there has not been a dramatic shift toward a ``market economy'' and the promised increases in local autonomy for farm managers has been slow to materialize. rather, cook added, ``the focus now seems to be on making adjustments to the traditional system.''
cook, whose comments appear with foster's in a forthcoming issue of farmline magazine, said the soviet system historically has been hampered by a lack of incentives and authority for farm workers and managers. policies have been decreed from above, with little reward for greater efficiency
gorbachev's reforms ``have succeeded somewhat in reducing paperwork associated with agriculture, but incentives and autonomy remain inadequate by our standards,'' cook said
in the soviet union, money is still taken from profitable farms and given to unprofitable farms, in part to even out differences in farm wages, he said. large disparities in income are avoided, but there is little incentive to make a farm more profitable
agriculture department on-site reviews of farmers home administration operations in texas have turned up sex discrimination and severe shortcomings in the hiring of blacks and hispanics in agency offices
the prevailing view expressed by female employees during interviews is that sex discimination often enters into employment decisions,'' the report said wednesday. ``this perception is corroborated by the number of sex discrimination complaints lodged and by the lack of women in higher graded positions.''
the review was made last year under the usda's equal employment opportunity (eeo) program, which calls for compliance checks of several department agencies in various states, including fmha, soil conservation service and the agricultural stabilization and conservation service
reports on the reviews have been released periodically by the department's office of advocacy and enterprise
in addition, the usda office released a number of reports on civil rights compliance by the agencies in louisiana and oklahoma. in each case, the on-site review found the operations ``generally in compliance'' with civil rights requirments and regulations
however, most of the civil rights reports noted numerous deficiencies in the employment of women and minorities, and shortcomings in outreach programs
a study of last year's wheat quality showed that 76 percent of the hard red winter wheat samples graded no. 1 or no. 2, compared with 70 percent in 1986, the agriculture department says
for hard red spring wheat, 75 percent graded no. 1, compared with 70 percent in 1986, the department's federal grain inspection service said wednesday
the annual survey involved 12,739 wheat samples from the 1987 crop, said w. kirk miller, administrator of the agency. the samples were taken during the first four weeks following local harvests around the country
yields on two-year treasury notes have risen in the government's latest auction to the highest level in two months
the average yield in wednesday's auction was 7.39 percent, up from 7.16 percent at the last auction on feb. 24. it was the highest rate since two-year notes averaged 7.4 percent on jan. 27
the notes will carry a coupon interest rate of 7] percent, with each $10,000 in face value selling for $9,997.30
a total of $8.53 billion in notes were sold out of bids totaling $25.08 billion
congress never intended to outlaw state rules against retaliatory firings when it gave the federal government the authority to protect union workers, the lawyer for a southern illinois woman says
paul alan levy told the supreme court that lower courts erred in ruling that illinois could not penalize a company for firing a union employee who filed a workers' compensation claim
he asked the court to overturn the decision and rule in favor of jonna lingle, a machinists union member dismissed from her job at the norge division of magic chef inc. in herrin, ill
the right of (state) action is available to both union and non-union employees alike,'' levy told the court in oral arguments wednesday. ``that right is independent of the rights enjoyed under a collective bargaining agreement.''
illinois is one of 21 states with laws against retaliatory firings
but a lawyer for norge said the federal labor-management relations act makes enforcement of union contracts _ through the decisions of an arbitrator _ the province of the federal government
if independent state laws were enacted that flew in the teeth of a labor contract, they were pre-empted,'' attorney charles c. jackson told the court. ``permitting the illinois law to stand would be an incentive to undermine collective bargaining.''
jackson conceded that states may act on health and safety matters but said mrs. lingle's firing was a contract issue covered by federal labor law
according to court records, the woman notified the herrin-based norge in late 1984 that she was injured on the job and asked the company to pay her medical bills, as provided for by the illinois workers' compensation law
norge fired mrs. lingle a week later, contending she filed a false claim
however, the machinists' contract with norge contained a provision protecting workers from dismissal without just cause, and the union filed a grievance the day she was fired
an arbitrator later ordered her reinstatement with back pay
but in the interim, mrs. lingle filed a circuit court lawsuit contending the dismissal violated illinois law and seeking additional compensation
the relief available through the illinois court was greater than what she could receive through arbitration, which did not include punitive damages and compensation for lost overtime
norge shifted the case to u.s. district court, where a judge threw out mrs. lingle's lawsuit, ruling that state law was pre-empted by the arbitration remedy provided by federal labor law
the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals in chicago upheld the dismissal in june 1987
the supreme court is expected to rule on the appeal in july
the state and local legal center in washington said 21 states and the district of columbia have laws protecting workers who file compensation claims
it identified the states as california, connecticut, hawaii, illinois, louisiana, maine, massachusetts, minnesota, missouri, montana, new jersey, new york, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, south carolina, texas, virginia, washington and wisconsin
disabled motorists suffer from a patchwork of state regulations that leaves them vulnerable to parking tickets when they drive to other states, say advocates of a national parking symbol for the disabled
it is ludicrous for us to remove one barrier to the handicapped by offering handicapped parking spots, only to erect another by refusing an out-of-state resident the right to park there,'' rep. sam gejdenson, d-conn., told a house subcommittee wednesday
if a person is disabled in one state, does not logic dictate that the same person is disabled in another state?'' he asked
gejdenson has drafted legislation that would require states to use a national handicapped access symbol and have reciprocity with all other states. states that do not comply would have federal highway safety funds withheld
a measure to withhold 2 percent of a non-complying state's highway safety funds was approved by the senate last year. the house has not acted
gejdenson said he raised the issue after being contacted by ruby degiovanni of middletown, conn., who started a campaign against the system three years ago after she was ticketed in lynn, mass., while parked in a handicapped zone
when states are allowed to ticket people for merely exercising their right to a handicapped parking space, it discourages handicapped people from going out,'' mrs. degiovanni told the house public works and transportation subcommittee on surface transportation. she called the current system ``ridiculous'' and discriminatory
there are 6.5 million disabled americans who use special parking permits. only 15 states honor handicapped parking permits from every state, according to a federal highway administration study conducted last year
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has a respected new ally in his presidential campaign: sen. bill bradley of new jersey, who hopes his dukakis endorsement will end speculation about a last-minute bradley bid
dukakis picked up fellow democrat bradley's endorsement here wednesday. the two held a news conference near the statue of liberty staged to highlight the presidential hopeful's immigrant roots
bradley said he believes the massachusetts governor is the best democrat to beat republican front-runner george bush
i believe michael dukakis can win. i believe he will be the next president of the united states,'' bradley told a crowd of reporters and supporters at liberty state park
the senator promised to campaign for dukakis both in new jersey _ which holds its primary on june 7 _ and around the nation
bradley said dukakis can defeat the vice president ``because he is tenacious, innovative, resilient and disciplined.''
this is a very important endorsement because it comes from one of the most respected and one of the most accomplished public figures in america today,'' dukakis said, adding that bradley would be ``very, very important to our success.''
bradley said he hoped the endorsement would end talk about his entering the race. the senator, a former rhodes scholar and new york knicks basketball star, has said repeatedly he does not feel ready for the white house
the plan i have for 1988 is helping michael dukakis,'' bradley said
he also said he did not expect to be considered as dukakis' running mate. bradley said such a ticket would be too heavily weighted toward the northeast
i think massachusetts and new jersey have a lot in common, but i don't think they go together on a national ticket,'' bradley said
bradley jokingly pushed aside a common criticism aimed by some at him and dukakis: that they are boring
it has been said of michael dukakis that he is dull, a charge with which i am not unfamiliar,'' said bradley, known as a somewhat wooden speaker. ``but governance is not an amusement park.''
bradley also praised the other democrats seeking the nomination, singling out jesse jackson as ``running a campaign that challenges the best in all of us.''
nagging disputes in afghanistan, central america and the middle east are casting a long shadow over the moscow summit only two months before president reagan sets out on his first trip to the soviet union
the outlook for a pact to sharply reduce long-range nuclear weapons is not all that bright either. the u.s. strategic defense initiative has not been swept away as an obstacle, and differences remain over how the bombers, submarines and missiles would be scrapped
i wouldn't want to lay you odds,'' was secretary of state george p. shultz's hesitant response wednesday night to whether the treaty would be ready for reagan and general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev to sign during the may 29-june 2 summit
mobile missiles and sea-launched cruise missiles are hard to spot. that makes verifying compliance with the 30 percent to 50 percent arms reductions more difficult than last year's treaty to ban medium-range nuclear weapons
experts on the two sides are still trying to mesh conflicting drafts. u.s. and soviet negotiators in geneva were directed by shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze to keep working at the verification problem and to report to them at their next meeting in moscow april 21
a treaty signing is not a prerequisite for a successful summit. reagan and gorbachev have plenty of issues to discuss at their fourth meeting
but the report shultz gave at a news conference of his talks with shevardnadze was generally bleak. it suggested the two leaders might not have much to celebrate
shultz seemed taken with a promise by the foreign minister to consider changes in the way the soviets deal with religious observances and with visa applications. emigration of ethnic germans and armenians is up, shultz noted
but he said jewish emigration had reached a plateau. besides, shultz said of the promised reforms, ``what we are interested in is delivery.''
when he turned to regional disputes, the clouds turned darker
gorbachev is committed to end the red army's occupation of afghanistan after more than eight years of bloody strife with u.s.-backed rebels
but shultz said the united states would not concur in an agreement to end the war unless the soviets also suspended military aid to the marxist government in kabul
the main purpose of the u.s. demand is to make it easier for an estimated 5 million refugees to return home. had moscow accepted, the united states would have stopped supplying stinger missiles and other weapons to the resistance
the moratorium would be in effect during the soviet troop withdrawal and for three months afterward
they didn't feel they could agree to that,'' shultz said
and yet, he said, ``those conditions are needed for us to be able to sign as a guarantor'' of an international agreement to end the conflict
at the soviet embassy, meanwhile, shevardnadze was taking a stiff stand
the aid is required by a soviet treaty with the kabul government. ``those are legitimate supplies, and we are not going to rescind that treaty,'' he said
the picture in central america and the middle east wasn't brighter
shultz said the soviets wanted u.s. military aid to an unspecified number of central american governments halted as a condition for them to stop supplying nicaragua for its war with contra rebels
it did not seem something we could pursue,'' shultz said
on the middle east, he said shevardnadze envisioned an active role for moscow in arab-israeli negotiations
shultz said that would get in the way of talks between the two sides. ``the soviet concept is sharply different from ours,'' shultz said
and in the persian gulf, shultz offered only hope that javier perez de cuellar, the u.n. secretary-general, would be able to persuade iran and iraq to end their 7{-year war
referring to pictures of iranian victims of alleged iraqi chemical weapons, shultz said: ``the horrors of this war are just being borne in on us practically every day. it's hard to think it might get worse, but it does get worse.''
for eight months, the united states has sought to persuade the soviets to support an international arms embargo against iran, which refuses to accept a cease-fire. but shevardnadze evidently did not give in
barry schweid is head of the ap's state department staff
moonlighting'' stars cybill shepherd and bruce willis were left speechless by the 2{-week scriptwriters' strike, but filled a five-minute gap in their latest script by rocking to the tune of ``wooly bully.''
miss shepherd and willis kicked and sang along as curtis armstrong, who plays novice detective bert viola, danced about in a pharaoh's outfit, mouthing the words to the 1965 song by sam the sham &amp; the pharaohs
the script for tuesday night's abc-tv show was written before the writers guild of america struck march 7. but when it was filmed last week, the producers discovered it fell about five minutes short. so the cast improvised
remember on the ozzie and harriet show?'' willis told the audience. ``see, sometimes their show would be short and then they would bring ricky nelson out and he would sing a song.''
co-executive producer jay daniel said there are no more scripts left, so ``moonlighting'' probably will go into reruns
no new talks are scheduled between the 9,000-member guild and the producers
singer dean martin needs several weeks to recover from a kidney problem, so the ``rat pack'' concert tour with frank sinatra and sammy davis jr. will go on without him, his spokesman says
martin, listed in fair condition wednesday at cedars-sinai medical center, had been playing to packed houses with sinatra and davis, who appear in concert friday in detroit before bringing their tour to the east
martin's physician, dr. charles kivowitz, has advised the entertainer to have at least three to four weeks rest before returning to work, said martin's publicist, susan reynolds
the tour continues march 26 at the pittsburgh civic arena; march 28 at the cleveland coliseum; march 29 at cincinnati's riverfront coliseum; march 31 at washington's capitol center; april 2 at the providence (r.i.) civic center
the spring tour concludes april 6 through 9 at new york city's radio city music hall, but resumes in the summer when it comes to los angeles's universal theater july 7
producers of the nbc series ``st. elsewhere'' have decided to include a rambling speech improvised by actor ed flanders in the show's final episode, scheduled for broadcast on may 25
flanders, who played dr. donald westphall before leaving the series earlier this season, was supposed to return for the final episode and read a sentimental statement about beginnings and endings
instead, flanders veered from the script and rambled on about death. co-executive producers bruce paltrow and mark tinker decided not to reshoot the scene because filming ended friday and the cast disbanded
instead, they will try to edit flanders' speech, said producer-writer tom fontana. ``we've done this before where he's gone a little off the printed page. we've usually been successful editing,'' he said
neither flanders nor his agent would comment
malcolm forbes, the american multimillionaire publisher of forbes magazine, has bought himself a barony connected to clan forbes of scotland and can add a title his name if he likes, says burke's peerage
mr. forbes can apply to the scottish court of chivalry in edinburgh for a coat of arms, which i think he is going to do,'' harold brooks-baker, publishing director of the british bluebloods' guide, said wednesday
the title is connected to land in aberdeenshire and mr. forbes can call himself malcom forbes of barnes _ which i think would be the more elegant _ or forbes of barnis-forbes or baron forbes of barnes,'' brooks-baker said
i do not intend to use the title,'' the aberdeen press and journal quoted forbes as saying. ``my father was born there (in aberdeenshire) in 1880. i thought it would be great to have the title back in the forbes family where it originated.''
domino's pizza magnate tom monaghan plans to open his collection of more than $30 million worth of frank lloyd wright creations to the public this week
monaghan, president of domino's and owner of the detroit tigers, said he has been ``evangelizing'' about the architect for more than 40 years, so ``it seems natural for me to open the first museum devoted to his work.''
monaghan has assembled a huge collection of wright buildings, drawings, designs, furniture, ceramics, decorative sculpture and glass in less than four years
monaghan's holdings include some 400 objects and considerable archival materials that belonged to wright, who died in 1959
this week, he is inaugurating the national center for the study of frank lloyd wright with a symposium beginning today and a public opening of the museum saturday
the gunman leveled his pistol at the convenience store clerk and pulled the trigger, twice. click, click. it didn't fire either time
i think i am pretty lucky to be alive,'' said 64-year-old nick daugherty, who had come to the aid of the manager during a robbery tuesday at a cumberland farms store
manager thelma jones, 50, said the man first pointed his gun at her, demanding ``all the money.'' she refused and screamed for help from daugherty, who was stocking shelves in the back
ms. jones said the man reached for the cash register but pointed the gun at daugherty as he approached to within 5 feet. ms. jones said she heard two clicking sounds from the gun
i was shaking,'' said daugherty, adding he yelled for the gunman to get out of the store. ``he didn't say a word. i think he was probably as scared as i was.''
the gunman ran out, virtually into the arms of a police officer who had spotted him earlier as a possible robbery suspect and radioed for help. detective carl oestreich ordered the man to drop his gun, but the suspect continued to run
oestreich ran after him and was soon joined by 15-20 other officers who ran him down and arrested him. police said they found a gun that been dropped during the chase. it was fully loaded
i bet one guy better count his lucky stars,'' said police investigator jeff gauntlett
phillip moultrie, 27, was charged with attempted murder and two counts of armed robbery with a firearm, gauntlett said
he was jailed without bond. ^laserphoto pan1</head>
according to martin blades, a poor fish and fries vendor, a crisis is gripping his country because ``the people who have the money, inside and outside the government, are fighting for it.''
he says he doesn't much care how this fight is resolved, as long as the combatants let him and his neighbors ``live in peace with enough to eat.''
as he spoke, blades held his 17-month-old daughter in his lap outside the dilapidated wood and tin structure his family shares with several others in the chorillo section of old panama city
neighborhoods like chorillo have been relatively immune from the violence borne of the campaign to oust military ruler gen. manuel antonio noriega
the opposition is led by a coalition of about 200 business, professional, labor, student and other groups. and most of the disturbances have occurred in middle- and upper-class neighborhoods
noriega, who comes from a poor family, has tried to exploit class and race differences in resisting the pressure to resign. he and his government portray the opposition drive as an attack on the poor and black by the rich and white
blades is quite aware of the argument
i think this whole thing is a class struggle,'' he said. ``there were those who always had the economic power. they are out and want to get back in, and they are trying to get the people to turn against the government.''
blades was born in chorillo and has lived most of his life in this collection of ramshackle buildings adjacent the headquarters of the defense forces that noreiga commands
the neighborhood was condemned as unsafe and taken over by the government more than 20 years ago. thousands of people live there, rent free
we just have to maintain them,'' blades, 34, said of the dilapidated structures
blades, who makes a few dollars selling fish and fries outside his home, once served in the defense forces. he still feels certain solidarity with the institution, which he says has provided stability
the people from the defense forces sometimes bring us lumber and other things we need to repair the buildings,' he said
like others in his neighborhood, blades described himself as apolitical, but discusses politics with ease
we all believe in democracy here. we are poor, but we are born democrats because we do not have much,'' he said
those who are born with much, i do not think they can feel the way we do about all being equal.''
many of chorillo's residents do manual labor or odd jobs or work as taxi drivers. many are unemployed
a change would not affect us much. i personally cannot say i have lost all faith in politicians, but i do not trust them much,'' blades said
around the corner, carlos rivas rushed up a flight of stairs carrying a large dish of rice and chicken from the soup kitchen at our lady of fatima church. he and his pregnant wife watched as their children ate
rivas said he is a construction worker who has been out of work since late november, shortly after the political crisis began to affect the economy
i have always worked,'' he said. ``i am a painter also. i'll do any kind of job.''
the family lives in a single room with a stove that doesn't work and a tiny altar. rivas gets by by peddling canned food provided by his father-in-law
but business is bad. banks have been closed for week, the government has not paid its employees and an opposition-called general strike has virtually shut down panama's economy
i am an honest man, but when i see them hungry, there are times when i feel like going out and doing something desperate,'' rivas said as his children ate. ``but my wife tells me to be patient. there has to be a solution. if noriega has to go, then he should go.'' reached</head> agreement. picks up 3rd graf pvs, bgng: ``it is ...''</note>
house democratic leaders said wednesday they would act quickly to send food and clothing to nicaragua's contras if the rebels and the leftist sandinista government reached a cease-fire
the promise came just hours before the two sides announced they had signed an agreement for a 60-day cease-fire to start april 1, and that the contras have agreed to accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization
neither the white house nor the state department had any immediate comment early thursday after the cease-fire was announced
at midday wednesday, a group of house members, including several moderates regarded as crucial ``swing'' votes on the aid issue, proposed a package of primarily humanitarian aid. the proposal was offered as house speaker jim wright began talking with republicans about breaking the aid deadlock
it is my earnest hope that we can obtain a bipartisan agreement on humanitarian aid so that the bill can be scheduled quickly,'' wright, d-texas, told reporters. ``that is the best way to encourage the peacemakers in central america.''
wright also had preliminary conversations on the aid issue with house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., and with white house chief of staff howard baker
house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif., said such a bill could be approved next week if the cease-fire talks under way in sapoa, nicaragua, bear fruit, and if aid would be consistent with whatever agreement is reached by the contras and the managua government
both wright and the reagan administration expressed encouragement at the progress being made by the two sides in their first face-to-face, high-level talks
we want to be cautious but we are encouraged,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater. ``they do seem to be making progress,'' he said, adding that was ``somewhat surprising'' in view of last week's sandinista incursion into honduras to attack contra camps
meanwhile, rep. edward feighan, d-ohio, said three officials from the general accounting office would leave for honduras on thursday to track the disposition of small arms, ammunition, jeeps and other materials that were brought to honduras by the u.s. troops
my concern is that the deployment of american troops and weapons to honduras could in fact be another diversion of arms to the contras,'' said feighan, who requested the gao investigation
the aid bill proposed by rep. buddy mackay, d-fla., and a dozen colleagues would provide $48 million for food, clothing, medicine and shelter for the rebels over the next year. it would allow the cia to deliver the aid, and to deliver some $2.5 million in previously stockpiled weapons
the legislation also would guarantee president reagan that he could seek a quick vote on a new request for military aid sometime in june, but would leave the exact nature of the follow-up aid package up to congress
the latter point seemed to meet a standard set by wright, who said any provision for a future aid vote would have to preserve congress' right to control its own legislation. wright would oppose any bill that includes the delivery of weapons as destructive to peace efforts, an aide said
mackay, who in the past has opposed any military aid to the rebels, acknowledged that the package reflected ``a hardening'' of his attitude toward the sandinistas
it reflects a realization that we really can't walk away and hope that (nicaraguan president daniel) ortega is going to act in good faith,'' mackay said. ``the guy doesn't act in a way that is rational, by my standards.''
several hard-line contra supporters, most of them democrats, joined mackay in sponsoring the aid bill, including reps. claude pepper and dante fascell of florida. moderate ``swing'' voters supporting it were reps. dave mccurdy, d-okla.; martin lancaster, d-n.c.; mike andrews, d-texas, and jim cooper, d-tenn
rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., who has led pro-contra efforts for the republicans, said he also favored the mackay bill. ``the problem is whether the speaker will let it come to the floor,'' edwards said. ``he is the obstacle.'' destroyers</head>
the stage for congressional warfare has been set by a house subcommittee's vote to kill funding for the trident submarine in the 1989 budget and use the $1.4 billion savings to build two more aegis destroyers
the house armed services seapower subcommittee voted in closed session tuesday for the funding switch, conceived by the panel's chairman, rep. charles e. bennett, d-fla
word of the vote came wednesday from rep. sam gejdenson, d-conn., who vowed to fight it and predicted trident funding would be restored. gejdenson's district includes the electric boat shipyard, the division of general dynamics corp. that builds tridents
bennett promised to defend the change when the full committee looks at the fiscal 1989 budget next week
the subcommittee vote reflects congressional opposition to an administration plan to sell two aegis ddg-51 destroyers to japan. bennett and others fear the united states would lose technological secrets as a result
under the subcommittee plan, the government would order five aegis warships in 1989 instead of the three requested by the administration. the two extra destroyers would be deployed in japan under u.s. control, protecting japanese security interests while keeping the aegis technology under wraps
lt. cmdr. chris baumann, a pentagon spokesman, said congress is ``very leery'' about selling the warships to japan because of revelations last year that toshiba corp. of japan sold submarine technology secrets to the soviets. but baumann said the pentagon has confidence in the japanese government
japan has held many of our secrets, so we don't seem them as a security risk at all,'' he said. ``toshiba is a company, not the government.''
the request from japan for two aegis ships has not been formally made, but is expected, baumann said
navy officials had no immediate response to the bennett plan, but any suggestion to eliminate a trident would likely be attacked by the pentagon
james h. webb quit as secretary of the navy last month in part because defense secretary frank c. carlucci refused to allow him to cut the trident from the budget
gejdenson, who is not a member of the armed services committee, noted that the seapower panel deleted funding for the trident two years ago, but funding was later restored by congress
while i am clearly disappointed by the decision of the seapower subcommittee, the subcommittee's decision is only the first step in a lengthy and complex budget process,'' gejdenson said
but bennett said in a telephone interview that he would fight to keep the trident out and the two extra aegis ships in. he said the program, which traditionally calls for one new trident each year, would be continued in the 1990 budget
electric boat is the sole builder of the 18,750-ton submarine, which is armed with 24 long-range, multiwarhead missiles. the subs are built at the company's yards in groton, conn., and north kingstown, r.i
the 8,300-ton aegis destroyer, equipped with 90 missiles, is being built by bath iron works in bath, maine, and the ingalls shipbuilding in pascagoula, miss
a common operation intended to prevent stroke causes death or serious stroke in 10 percent of the elderly patients who undergo it, a study published today concludes
the study, based on a large survey of the operation called carotid endartectomy, also found that two-thirds of the operations were judged to be unnecessary or of questionable value
the researchers concluded that the operation is substantially overused
in areas where the complication rate is as high as the average found in the survey, the surgery should never be done ``because the risks would almost certainly outweigh the benefits,'' said the rand corp. doctors in their study published in the new england journal of medicine
they recommended that the procedure be limited to hospitals and doctors that have low complication rates
if you look for very hard-nosed proof of the operation, it's hard to show that what we are doing is the right thing,'' said dr. john skillman, a vascular surgeon at boston's beth israel hospital. ``there are a lot of indications, as this paper suggests, that a lot of people are being operated on who don't need the surgery at all.''
the number of the operations grew from 85,000 in 1982 to 107,000 in 1985. however, in 1986 it dropped to 83,000, apparently as a result of growing criticism of the surgery
it's my hope that with the publicity, it may be that people are asking for second opinions,'' said dr. mark dyken of indiana university, who was one of the first to question the wide use of the operation
the surgery is performed on the carotid arteries in an effort to prevent strokes. these arteries run up both sides of the neck. if they become plugged, the flow of blood to the head is interrupted, and some of the brain may die, resulting in permanent damage. in the surgery, doctors open the arteries and clean out plaque that partially obstructs them
you ought to have the operation if it is truly indicated for you and if you have a surgeon with a record for complications that is very good,'' said dr. david h. solomon, one of the rand researchers. ``our guess is that if those two prescriptions were followed, there would indeed be a lot less operations done.''
the study reviewed the records of 1,302 randomly selected medicare patients who had the surgery in three different parts of the country. a panel of experts judged that one-third of the operations were justified, another third were questionable, while the rest were clearly unnecessary
in most cases, the rand researchers considered the operation appropriate only if patients suffered warning symptoms, had significant clogging of the carotid arteries and were in good enough health to withstand the surgery
in the survey, more than 3 percent of the patients died as a result of their surgery, while more than 6 percent suffered strokes during or immediately after the operations. solomon said that when the operation is studied at big medical centers, the combined death and stroke rate is usually under 3 percent
other studies have shown that if people have small strokes that cause momentary dizziness, brief blindness or other passing symptoms, they face a 10 percent annual risk of major strokes. if they have narrowed carotid arteries but no warning signs, their annual stroke risk is about 3 percent
despite the findings, however, experts said that some patients probably benefit from the operation
i don't think it suggests at all that the operation shouldn't be done,'' said dr. henry j.m. barnett of robarts research institute in london, ontario. ``it suggests, though, that a more critical view of who should have the operation is required of our profession.''
the top lobbying group for commercial banks is condemning a proposal by the chairman of the house banking committee that would narrowly expand bank securities powers
rep. fernand g. st germain, d-r.i., and the top republican on his committee, rep. chalmers wylie of ohio, on wednesday proposed legislation that would repeal parts of the glass-steagall act, which separated commercial from investment banking in 1933
but the proposal by st germain and wylie would restrict bank expansion into insurance and real estate and includes an array of pro-consumer provisions
hours after the bill was released, the american bankers association issued a statement saying the ``regressive ... and anti-competitive'' proposal would be ``unequivocably opposed by the banking industry.''
and a member of the banking committee, rep. stephen l. neal, d-n.c., said he would offer substitute legislation mirroring a broader bill approved march 2 by the senate banking committee
however, the proposal picked up praise from the national association of realtors, and the independent insurance agents of america says it can back provisions
rep. charles e. schumer, d-n.y., a strong proponent of the glass-steagall act, passed in reaction to the 1929 stock market crash, predicted the st germain-wylie legislation ``will win a bipartisan majority.''
the chairman's bill hits the heart of the house consensus: congress should grant banks some new powers, but it should do so carefully,'' he said
the bill would allow nationally-chartered banks to underwrite and deal in commercial paper and municipal revenue bonds. about 4,600 of the nation's 13,650 commercial banks are federally chartered
bank holding companies could underwrite and deal in securities through two types of affiliates: a limited subsidiary for commercial paper and municipal revenue bonds and a full-power subsidiary that would add securities backed by assets such as home, auto and consumer loans to the list
frankly, in terms of increased competition and increased benefits to consumers from that competition, i would say no bill is better than what he is recommending,'' neal said
the senate bill, which is supported by neal and by the banking group, goes further. it grants bank holding companies power to sell corporate bonds and mutual funds and provides for a separate congressional vote by 1991 on whether banks can underwrite corporate stock
like the senate bill, sponsored by william proxmire, d-wis., and jake garn, r-utah, the st germain bill bars bank holding companies from selling insurance outside the state in which they are headquartered and permits it only where authorized by state law
the bill would prevent federal regulators from expanding the real estate powers of national banks and bank holding companies
st germain also would require the federal reserve board to rate banks on their compliance with laws protecting consumers and barring lending discrimination against poor neighborhoods
only banks with good or excellent ratings would be permitted new powers, although banks with an average rating could get more powers if they make a specific commitment to make improvements
it also requires banks to provide ``lifeline'' checking accounts with minimum fees for customers with less than $1,000 to deposit. and it would require banks to cash federal, state and local government checks for non-customers
here is the text of the joint statement issued by secretary of state george p. shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze after their meetings wednesday
secretary of state shultz and foreign minister shevardnadze met in washington from march 21 to 23, 1988, for the second of a series of meetings to review developments in u.s.-soviet relations and to prepare for the meetings between president reagan and general secretary gorbachev, which will take place in moscow from may 29 to june 2, 1988
president reagan received the foreign minister for a discussion of the state of relations and of objectives in the coming months in arms control, human rights and humanitarian questions, regional affairs and bilateral matters
the two sides gave priority attention to implementation of the agreements and understandings recorded in the joint statement issued by the president and the general secretary in their washington meeting, as developed further during secretary shultz' visit to moscow in february 1988. both sides have worked hard and some progress has been realized in a number of areas, but much more needs to be done
by mutual desire, the meeting between the secretary and the foreign minister began with a frank and businesslike exchange on human rights and humanitarian questions. the discussion of these issues will continue at the expert level
the secretary and the foreign minister and their senior experts held extensive discussions on arms control
they reaffirmed the strong commitment made in the washington summit joint statement to make an intensive effort to complete a treaty on the reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms and all integral documents at the earliest possible date, preferably in time for signature of the treaty during the next meeting of the two leaders. the ministers reviewed the joint draft texts of a protocol on inspection; a protocol on conversion or elimination of strategic offensive arms; and a memorandum of understanding, developed in accordance with their directive at the february ministerial in moscow. reemphasizing their commitment to effective verification measures, they agreed that the negotiators in geneva will seek to resolve the remaining differences in these documents and report on progress at the next ministerial
the ministers continued their review of the key remaining substantive issues associated with the treaty, as well as a wide range of treaty topics of interest to each side, including problems associated with: verification and counting of nuclear-armed long-range air-launched cruise missiles; limitation and verification of nuclear-armed long-range sea-launched cruise missiles; and mobile icbms. they also reviewed issues related to sublimits on warheads within the 6000 level
the secretary and the foreign minister also reviewed the progress at the nuclear and space talks on the negotiations regarding the abm treaty as discussed at the washington summit. they directed their negotiators in geneva to expedite preparation of a joint draft text of a separate agreement building on the language of the december 10, 1987, joint statement issued by president reagan and general secretary gorbachev, allowing consideration of any unresolved issues at the next meeting of the secretary and the foreign minister in moscow
taking note of further progress in u.s.-soviet full-scale step-by-step negotiations on issues of nuclear testing and confirming the commitment by the sides to the implementation of the agreed mandate of these negotiations, the ministers instructed their delegations in geneva in particular to design and conduct as soon as possible the jve in full conformity with the december 9, 1987 ministerial statement; complete a detailed plan and schedule for the jve by the april ministerial; prepare a joint draft of the ttbt protocol by the time of the jve, to be finalized through the conduct and analysis of the jve; accelerate work on verification issues for the pnet
the two sides reviewed the situation on conventional arms control, with special reference to the mandate negotiations in vienna, and expressed the hope for their completion in the context of a successful outcome of the vienna csce meeting
the ministers discussed the ongoing multilateral and bilateral negotiations toward a comprehensive, effectively verifiable and truly global ban on chemical weapons, and instructed their delegations in geneva to continue working constructively in this direction
the secretary and the foreign minister observed a test of the communications link between the nuclear risk reduction centers established under the nuclear risk reduction center agreement signed on september 15, 1987
the sides held extensive talks on regional questions. they reaffirmed that the goal of the u.s.-soviet regional dialogue should be to help the parties to regional conflicts find peaceful solutions that advance their independence, freedom and security, and within this context reviewed the situation regarding afghanistan, central america, iran-iraq, the middle east, southern africa, cambodia and the korean peninsula. contacts and consultations on these issues will continue
the two sides examined the work under way to expand areas of bilateral cooperation between the united states and the soviet union
to continue their discussions on the wide spectrum of issues in u.s.-soviet relations and to ensure successful preparations for the moscow summit, secretary shultz and foreign minister shevardnadze agreed to meet again in moscow from april 21-25, 1988, and then again in the middle of may
end of joint statement
sam the dog, merlin the goat and scores of rabbits, chickens, finches and mice have been declared fauna non grata at the state hospital where they have helped soothe and socialize mental patients
mark stebbins is the recreational therapist responsible for the animal farm known since 1970 as the stress reduction learning center at the creedmoor psychiatric center. the hospital has ordered the program to shut down and the animals off the grounds by friday
at this point what i'm doing is putting myself in the position of willing insubordination,'' said stebbins, 48
he said the hospital administration engaged in ``a sham and a dupe job'' by investigating his program
we have many concerns,'' hospital spokeswoman rita amatulli said wednesday. chief among them are stebbins and his unorthodox approach to protocol in that most bureaucratic of institutions, a state mental hospital
stebbins says his eight patients _ down from 16 a few months ago _ feed, groom, exercise and care for about 60 animals
it opens them up to wonder. ... it makes them come alive,'' he said of the patients. ``there's an incredible sense of purpose and achievement because they know that these animals are dependent on them.''
it's just a really beautiful program,'' said photographer grace harrington, who has been documenting the animal farm on the queens hospital grounds for 11 months. ``it's just so beautiful to see how not only the animals are nurtured, but the patients are nurtured.''
stebbins contends that hospital director alan weinstock targeted the animal program for elimination shortly after he took over at creedmore about nine months ago
stebbins said weinstock asked him for information about the patients in the program, which he provided, and then asked him for budgetary and other information
stebbins said he refused to provide the information because by that time, he was convinced the hospital only wanted to shut down his program. among other things, he said, the administration confiscated the stress center's van, which he said was needed to transport both animals and patients
recently, he said, he and his patients were ordered reassigned and he was told to get rid of the animals. he said he reacted ``maybe arrogantly, maybe defiantly,'' and refused
ms. amatulli denied that the hospital set out to destroy stebbins' program. weinstock merely wanted to evaluate its effectiveness and costs, she said, and had no choice but to suspend the program when stebbins refused to cooperate
stebbins said creedmoor pays $200 a year for the program, and that he pays about $2,000 annually out of his own pocket for many of its costs. many thousands of dollars worth of goods and services are donated, he said
stebbins has his supporters outside the hospital who have rallied around him every time he has run afoul of the hospital administration
state sen. frank padavan, who acknowledges ``pulling mark's fat out of the fire for about 10 years,'' said problems with the program mainly involve stebbins' refusal to accommodate bureaucratic procedures, many required by law
padavan said he will meet with weinstock in about two weeks to see if he can work out a compromise that will save the program
the bottom line is that (stebbins) gets very good results,'' said padavan. ``unfortunately, he listens to the beat of a different drummer.''
here is the 319-102 roll call wednesday by which the house approved a $1.1 trillion budget for fiscal 1989
a ``yes'' vote is for the budget
voting yes were 227 democrats and 92 republicans
voting no were 24 democrats and 78 republicans
on this list, a ``y'' denotes a yes vote; an ``n'' denotes a no vote and an ``x'' denotes not voting
there are two vacancies in the 435-member house
democrats _ bevill, y; erdreich, y; flippo, y; harris, y; nichols, y
republicans _ callahan, y; dickinson, y
republican _ young, y
democrat _ udall, y
republicans _ kolbe, n; kyl, n; rhodes, y; stump, n
democrats _ alexander, y; anthony, y; robinson, n
republican _ hammerschmidt, n
democrats _ anderson, y; bates, y; beilenson, n; berman, y; bosco, y; boyer, y; brown, y; coelho, y; dellums, y; dixon, y; dymally, y; edwards, y; fazio, y; hawkins, y; lantos, y; lehman, y; levine, y; martinez, y; matsui, y; miller, y; mineta, y; panetta, y; pelosi y; roybal, y; stark, y; torres, y; waxman, y
republicans _ badham, y; dannemeyer, n; dornan, n; dreier, n; gallegly, n; herger, n; hunter, n; konnyu, n; lagomarsino, y; lewis, y; lowery, n; lungren, n; mccandless, n; moorhead, n; packard, y; pashayan, y; shumway, n; thomas, y
democrats _ campbell, y; schroeder, y, skaggs, y
republicans _ brown, n; hefley, n; schaefer, n
democrats _ gejdenson, y; kennelly, y; morrison, y
republicans _ johnson, y; rowland, y; shays, n
democrat _ carper, n
democrats _ bennett, y; chappell, y; fascell, y; gibbons, y; grant, y; hutto, y; lehman, y; mackay, y; mica, y; nelson, y; pepper, y; smith, y
republicans _ bilirakis, y; ireland, n; lewis, y; mack, y; mccollum, y; shaw, x; young, y
democrats _ barnard, y; darden, y; hatcher, y; jenkins, y; lewis, y; ray, y; rowland, y; thomas, y
republicans _ gingrich, n; swindall, n
democrat _ akaka, y
republican _ saiki, y
democrat _ stallings, y
republican _ craig, n
democrats _ annunzio, y; bruce, y; collins, y; durbin, y; evans, y; gray, x; hayes, y; lipinski, y; price, x; rostenkowski, y; russo, y; savage, y; yates, n
republicans _ crane, n; davis, x; fawell, n; hastert, y; hyde, y; madigan, x; martin, y; michel, y; porter, n
democrats _ hamilton, n; jacobs, n; jontz, y; mccloskey, y; sharp, y; visclosky, n
republicans _ burton, n; coats, y; hiler, y; myers, n
democrats _ nagle, y; smith, n
republicans _ grandy, n; leach, n; lightfoot, x; tauke, n
democrats _ glickman, y; slattery, y
republicans _ meyers, y; roberts, n; whittaker, n
democrats _ hubbard, y; mazzoli, y; natcher, y; perkins, y
republicans _ bunning, y; hopkins, n; rogers, y
democrats _ boggs, y; hayes, n; huckaby, y; tauzin, y
republicans _ baker, y; holloway, n; livingston, n
democrat _ brennan, y
republican _ snowe, y
democrats _ byron, y; cardin, y; dyson, y; hoyer, y; mcmillen, y; mfume, y
republicans _ bentley, x; morella, y
democrats _ atkins, y; boland, y; donnelly, y; early, y; frank, y; kennedy, y; markey, y; mavroules, y; moakley, y; studds, n
republican _ conte, y
democrats _ bonior, y; carr, n; conyers, y; crockett, y; dingell, y; ford, y; hertel, y; kildee, y; levin, y; traxler, n; wolpe, y
republicans _ broomfield, n; davis, y; henry, n; pursell, y; schuette, n; upton, n; vander jagt, n
democrats _ oberstar, y; penny, y; sabo, y; sikorski, y; vento, y
republicans _ frenzel, n; stangeland, y; weber, y
democrats _ dowdy, y; espy, y; montgomery, y; whitten, y
republican _ lott, y
democrats _ clay, y; gephardt, x; skelton, y; volkmer, y; wheat, y
republicans _ buechner, y; coleman, y; emerson, n; taylor, y
democrat _ williams, y
republican _ marlenee, n
republicans _ bereuter, n; daub, n; smith, n
democrat _ bilbray, y
republican _ vucanovich, n
republicans _ gregg, y; smith, n
democrats _ dwyer, y; florio, n; guarini, y; howard, y; hughes, n; rodino, y; roe, y; torricelli, y
republicans _ courter, y; gallo, y; rinaldo, y; roukema, y; saxton, y; smith, y
democrat _ richardson, y
republicans _ lujan, y; skeen, y
democrats _ ackerman, y; biaggi, x; downey, y; flake, y; garcia, y; hochbrueckner, y; lafalce, n; manton, y; mchugh, n; mrazek, y; nowak, y; owens, y; rangel, y; scheuer, y; schumer, y; slaughter, y; solarz, y; stratton, y; towns, y; weiss, y
republicans _ boehlert, y; dioguardi, n; fish, y; gilman, n; green, y; horton, y; houghton, y; kemp, n; lent, y; martin, y; mcgrath, y; molinari, n; solomon, n; wortley, y
democrats _ clarke, y; hefner, y; jones, y; lancaster, y; neal, y; price, y; rose, y; valentine, y
republicans _ ballenger, n; coble, y; mcmillan, y
democrat _ dorgan, n
democrats _ applegate, n; eckart, y; feighan, y; hall, y; kaptur, y; luken, y; oakar, y; pease, n; sawyer, y; stokes, y; traficant, y
republicans _ dewine, y; gradison, y; kasich, y; latta, y; lukens, n; mcewen, n; miller, n; oxley, y; regula, y; wylie, y
democrats _ english, n; mccurdy, y; synar, y; watkins, n
republican _ edwards, y; inhofe, n
democrats _ aucoin, y; defazio, y; wyden, y
republican _ d. smith, n; r. smith, n
democrats _ borski, y; coyne, y; foglietta, y; gaydos, y; gray, y; kanjorski, y; kolter, y; kostmayer, y; murphy, y; murtha, y; walgren, y; yatron, y
republicans _ clinger, y; coughlin, y; gekas, n; goodling, y; mcdade, y; ridge, y; ritter, y; schulze, y; shuster, y; walker, n; weldon, y
democrat _ st germain, y
republican _ schneider, y
democrats _ derrick, y; patterson, y; spratt, y; tallon, y
republicans _ ravenel, y; spence, n
democrat _ johnson, y
democrats _ clement, y; cooper, y; ford, y; gordon, y; jones, y; lloyd, y
republicans _ duncan, y; quillen, y; sundquist, y
democrats _ andrews, y; brooks, y; bryant, y; bustamante, y; chapman, y; coleman, y; de la garza, y; frost, y; gonzalez, n; hall, n; leath, y; leland, y; ortiz, y; pickle, y; stenholm, y; wilson, y; wright, x (by tradition, the house speaker seldom votes)
republicans _ archer, n; armey, y; bartlett, y; barton, y; boulter, x; combest, n; delay, n; fields, n; smith, y; sweeney, n
democrat _ owens, y
republicans _ hansen, n; nielson, n
republican _ jeffords, y
democrats _ boucher, y; olin, n; pickett, y; sisisky, y
republicans _ bateman, y; bliley, y; parris, y; slaughter, y; wolf, y
democrats _ bonker, y; dicks, y; foley, y; lowry, y; swift, y
republicans _ chandler, n; miller, n; morrison, y
democrats _ mollohan, y; rahall, y; staggers, y; wise, y
democrats _ aspin, y; kastenmeier, y; kleczka, y; moody, y; obey, y
republicans _ gunderson, n; petri, n; roth, n; sensenbrenner, n
republican _ cheney, n
here, at a glance, are some highlights of the fiscal 1989 budget approved wednesday by the house
_total spending: the budget envisions $1.098 trillion in government spending in the fiscal year beginning oct. 1. total new budget authority, which would stretch past the end of the fiscal year, would be $1.232 trillion. the totals are roughly the same as in president reagan's proposed budget
_revenues: the government would collect $964 billion in taxes and other revenues, based on reagan administration estimates. that includes $14 billion in new taxes already enacted into law for next year, beyond which no new levies are anticipated by congress this year
_deficit: $134 billion in red ink would be added to the national debt, under the goal of $136 billion in the gramm-rudman budget-balancing law
_programs eliminated: none. the president had proposed abolishing several subsidies, including amtrak, urban mass transit, and some urban and rural development programs
_domestic spending increases: budget increases for aids research, airline safety, education, science and space, anti-drug programs, and a pot of $100 million for possible boosts in medicaid and other entitlement programs
_federal pay: federal civilian and military employees would get a 3 percent pay increase. reagan had requested 4.3 percent for the military and 2 percent for the civil service
_defense spending: $294 billion, $8.6 billion over the current year but short of the amount needed to keep pace with inflation
_foreign aid: $16.1 billion
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,781.28 points, down 113.95 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on thursday
spending for politicial advertisements in michigan, which holds democratic caucuses on saturday, has varied widely among the candidates, with some making an all-out effort and others hoarding their resources for later races
leslie dach, a spokesman for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, said the campaign was spending about $200,000 on michigan television
dukakis is using two television ads _ a biography and another spot stressing his executive experience in balancing budgets and creating jobs. dach said a new and ``wholly positive'' ad around the jobs theme would be introduced today
missouri rep. richard gephardt, his campaign floundering after super tuesday, has much at stake in michigan. he is running ads in the state, but his campaign declined to say how much money he is spending
gephardt was using a tv biography and his ``hyundai'' trade spot. the bio features rep. claude pepper, d-fla., the oldest member of the house and a champion of elderly causes
in the trade ad, which helped gephardt win iowa last month and should have appeal in a car-producing state, gephardt alleges that tariffs boost the price of a chrysler k-car to $48,000 in south korea. he asks how many $48,000 hyundais the koreans could sell here
as far as negative ads are concerned, ``there will be no first use here in michigan but certainly a willingness to respond,'' dach said
by wednesday, no candidate had triggered anything like the punch and counter-punch ads that characterized the races leading up to super tuesday, march 8
jesse jackson planned a $70,000 television campaign in michigan starting today, with half of the money to being spent in detroit. the centerpiece was a bill cosby endorsement which he has used before. jackson also is spending $20,000 on radio, said spokeswoman pam smith
country singer johnny cash was praising sen. albert gore of tennessee in radio spots around michigan. gore is focusing more on the april 5 wisconsin primary and spokesman paul risley said he was unlikely to spend money on michigan television, although ``you can still buy time. i wouldn't rule it out.''
the fifth democrat still in the running, sen. paul simon of illinois, is also making a stand in wisconsin and plans no tv advertising in michigan. spokesman terry michael said simon, who won last week's illinois primary, is making new ads for wisconsin and expects to raise enough money in the next 10 days for a $100,000-plus tv campaign there
some 370 blacks and women who were rejected for jobs at honda of america manufacturing inc. will be receiving checks from the company averaging $16,200 to settle a discrimination complaint
roger lambert, a spokesman for the automaker, stressed that all the workers involved had been hired over the past few years and that the $6 million settlement had not been prompted by anyone suing the company for alleged discrimination
the matters in this agreement were not raised by any individual at honda of america manufacturing,'' lambert said wednesday in a telephone interview from company headquarters in marysville, ohio. ``they were raised by the eeoc. no one went to the eeoc.''
nevertheless, honda and the eeoc reached agreement in a settlement signed by the commission tuesday and announced by both parties wednesday
i think the very fact that it has been reached in good faith and announced indicates that both sides feel it is a fair, just and reasonable agreement,'' lambert said
the settlement ``provides $6 million in monetary relief and seniority adjustments to the approximately 370 specifically identified black and female individuals who applied for jobs at honda between 1983 and 1986,'' eeoc chairman clarence thomas said in a statement
it's a significant, large sum that fits into what we considered a just settlement,'' said jay friedman, director of the eeoc's systemic investigations division that had worked on the case since september 1984
in addition to the $6 million in back pay, honda also was required to provide jobs for all those people by feb. 29, friedman said
they've all been hired in the last couple of years, and they're still working here,'' lambert said. ``we have not been required to hire any additional people as a result of this agreement, and we have not hired anyone any earlier than required by our production needs.''
the settlement was among the larger monetary agreements reached in cases where no lawsuit was involved, but the $6 million is dwarfed by some other eeoc cases, commission spokeswoman renee devine said
we settled a similar charge in 1983 with general motors for $42 million,'' ms. devine said. there was no litigation in that race and sex discrimination case, which involved hundreds of people
in a pan am world airways age discrimination case that did involve a lawsuit, the eeoc settled feb. 3 for $17.2 million shortly before a jury was to return a verdict, she said. the case involved about 100 people
the agreement is the second eeoc-honda settlement in less than a year. the two parties reached agreement in june 1987 on an age discrimination investigation that provided back pay totaling $461,610. that case involved 85 people
friedman declined to say whether additional discrimination investigations against honda were pending
honda also agreed in the new settlement:
_to expand its recruitment area to cover columbus and expand specific recruitment efforts for blacks;
_to change promotion procedures and make a commitment to promote additional black and female production workers;
_to teach honda managers about discrimination law
honda employs about 5,900 people at manufacturing plants near marysville, outside columbus, and in anna, ohio. lambert said he expects the employees to number about 8,600 by 1991 when the company completes a $600 million expansion of an engine plant in anna and a $380 million new auto plant in east liberty, ohio. more details of agreement; background. edits to trim and conform. no pickup.</note>
the leftist sandinista government and u.s.-supported contra rebels signed an agreement wednesday for a 60-day cease-fire to start april 1, both sides announced in a joint communique
it was the first concrete step toward ending a six-year-old war that has killed more than 40,000 people. both sides scheduled a meeting in managua, the capital, for april 6 to start negotiations on a definitive truce
i think, i hope and i believe that we have made a start, a firm start to end this war that is killing ... sons of the same country, sons of the same mothers,'' said contra leader adolfo calero
president daniel ortega said he hoped a regional peace plan signed last august by the presidents of five central american nations would ``bury once and for all the military confrontation'' and ``end the hate and strengthen the brotherhood of nicaraguans.''
as president of nicaragua, i hope this peace plan becomes a reality,'' said ortega, who had arrived unexpectedly for the announcement
within the first 15 days of the 60-day truce, the rebels agreed to move into specified zones in nicaragua. delegations from both sides scheduled a meeting in sapoa on monday to work out those zones
the issue of the rebels laying down their arms will be discussed at the april 6 talks
the contras agreed to accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization. that would exclude military aid from the united states, which has been supporting the contras since the war began in 1982
in washington on wednesday, president reagan tried to revive his stalled effort to get congress to resume aid to the contras, which ended feb. 29
joao baena soares, secretary-general of the oas, announced the details of the agreement after cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the roman catholic archbishop of managua, offered a brief prayer asking that nicaragua be blessed for ``all it has suffered.''
both men attended the three days of talks as observers and signed the agreement as witnesses. gen. humberto ortega, the defense minister and head of the sandinista delegation, signed for the government and calero signed for the contras
the sandinistas agreed to release 100 contra prisoners on sunday and said the rest of the 1,500 jailed rebels would be released at a date to be worked out at the april 6 meeting
the 1,800 former national guardsmen in prison will be released after a final truce agreement is reached. the army was called the national guard under the late president anastasio somoza, who was overthrown by the sandinistas in july 1979
the government also said it would guarantee freedom of expression without restrictions, in accordance with the regional peace plan. many press liberties were barred for almost six years under a state-of-emergency decree
the nicaraguan government said it would grant gradual amnesty and allow all political exiles to return to the country without fear of persecution. it agreed to discuss the issue of military service in a national dialogue with the internal opposition
the meeting at sapoa, a town on the costa rican border, was the first time the two sides met on nicaraguan soil
both contras and sandinistas earlier had agreed to a battlefield truce while the negotiations, which began monday, took place. a reported contra breach apparently did not affect the talks
the voice of nicaragua radio said earlier that contras ambushed an army truck at 2 p.m. tuesday near mulukuku, in the northern province of matagalpa, killing two soldiers. it did not appear affect the negotiations
contra spokesman bosco matamoros told reporters earlier that ``there could be isolated'' truce violations, ``but there is a clear will from both sides to respect that decision.''
u.s. troops in honduras again held military exercises staged as what officials called a show of force against nicaraguan aggression. white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the withdrawal would be ``gradual.'' pentagon officials said they expected it to come next week
the u.s. troops were sent to honduras as the request of the honduran president, who charged that sandinista soldiers had penetrated honduran territory chasing contra rebels as part of a major military offensive. the contras maintain base camps in honduran territory
at the time, nicaragua said it had forced 2,000 contras out of its territory. contra forces number an estimated 10,000 troops
at the start of the talks, the sandinistas had said they would only discuss a cease-fire. two previous rounds of talks ended in stalemate when the government maintained that position while the contras insisted on broadening discussions to include political reform within nicaragua
but they agreed to discuss political issues with the rebels on monday after signing an agreement with eight opposition parties in nicaraguan
the national dialogue as well as the cease-fire are included in the regional peace plan signed by the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, costa rica, guatemala and honduras
the peace plan seeks to end civil wars in nicaragua, in el salvador and guatemala. it also calls for amnesties, democratic reforms and an end to logistical and strategic support for insurgencies
wearing a favorite pink sport jacket, a 62-year-old used-car salesman fired over what his boss said were his loud and ugly clothes signed an out-of-court agreement to end an age discrimination suit
i believe i have proved my point,'' lee grant said wednesday after ending the lawsuit known in courthouse circles as ``the dress of a salesman.''
terms of the settlement, reached the day the trial was scheduled to start, cannot be disclosed by either party under the agreement, said nancy donnellan, who represented grant in his lawsuit against darby buick of sarasota
but she said, ``we got a good settlement.''
darby's attorney, william sizemore, didn't immediately return telephone calls to his office wednesday by the associated press
grant charged he was forced out of his job at darby buick because of his age even though he was the top salesman with 30 years experience
grant said his attire led to his firing in may 1985, 1{ years after c. conrad darby jr. took over management of the dealership from his father, conrad sr
the younger darby started a ``new image'' campaign and required that sport coats be worn for a more professional look
the 6-foot-8 grant bought jackets he described as a pale pink and a rainbow plaid. the latter, he said, has every color in it and goes well with his gray slacks or green or red or blue
sizemore, however, contended in court documents that grant was stubbornly resisting the new image campaign
one jacket was multi-colored ... and the other was a loud fuchsia,'' he said
sizemore said grant had other irritating habits, such as catnapping on the job. grant said he only took a few winks, a habit he acquired when the elder darby was in control of the dealership
i wanted those sport coats vindicated,'' ms. donnellan said. ``they aren't really that bad.''
the house ethics committee has formally rebuked rep. charles rose, d-n.c. for improper use of campaign funds but recommended against further punishment for his violations of house rules
the ethics panel wrote rose on wednesday that it found ``clear and convincing'' evidence he improperly borrowed funds from his campaign and then failed to report the loans on his public financial disclosure reports
in addition, rose wrongly pledged a certificate of deposit from his campaign as collateral on a personal loan and failed to report liabilities to financial institutions on his public disclosure statements, the committee found
the panel, formally the committee on standards of official conduct, said those actions violate house rules
the personal benefit rose received in each instance of borrowing, and the lower interest rate received from use of the certificate of deposit, ``are the kinds of abuses'' the rules are designed to prevent, the committee said
the panel told rose his behavior was ``deserving of reproach.'' but in concluding no further punishment was needed against the eight-term lawmaker, the committee noted that rose tried to correct his mistakes
the committee recognizes and takes into consideration the fact that all funds borrowed were replaced in full without the insistence of this committee, and that this action was taken by you prior to this committee beginning a preliminary inquiry,'' rose was told in the letter, signed by panel chairman julian c. dixon, d-calif. and ranking republican floyd d. spence of south carolina
furthermore, the committee recognizes that the campaign certificate of deposit in question is no longer encumbered, due to restrictions placed on it in connection with your personal financial dealings.''
rose said, ``i am very happy that the committee found that no further action was warranted, other than the letter to me.''
he said he would not resign and described his violations as ``technical.''
a house rule restricts the use of campaign funds to bona fide campaign purposes. the committee called the requirement ``crucial to maintaining public confidence in the fund-raising system governing house members
the use of your campaign funds, as alleged and proved, is entirely inconsistent with this principle,'' the committee letter said
rose, 48, was first elected to the house in 1972. he is chairman of the house agriculture subcommittee on tobacco and peanuts
the lawmaker said he was disappointed the committee did not accept his contention that money he took from his campaign amounted to repayment of loans
he said he apologized for signing his name to the certificate of deposit, contending he hadn't known doing so violated house rules
the dollar closed lower against the japanese yen in tokyo thursday, while stock prices also fell moderately
after opening at 126.75 yen, the dollar slid further and closed at 126.30 yen, down 0.85 yen from its close of 127.15 yen on wednesday. it ranged between 126.15 and 126.81 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, a 52.48-point gainer wednesday, lost 113.95 points, or 0.44 percent, and ended the day at 25,781.28
foreign exchange trading was quiet in tokyo today without any notable movements,'' said an official of a major commercial bank, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the dollar's marginal decline in tokyo followed a lower closing in new york. analysts attributed the shift to a remark wednesday by martin feldstein, former economic adviser to president reagan, predicting the dollar could fall to a level of 120 yen or lower over the next six months
stock investors appeared to be staying on the sidelines to wait out the results of the current fiscal year, which ends march 31, said hiromi yoneyama of wako securities
but yoneyama said many market participants remained optimistic about market conditions after april
share prices on the first section were mixed in lackluster trading of about 500 million shares in the morning session
more than 15 percent of inmates entering state prison from new york city have tested positive for the aids virus, officials say
the finding, from anonymous blood tests of 500 inmates over two weeks early this year or late last year, will prompt further anonymous tests, said peter slocum, a spokesman for state health commissioner dr. david axelrod
the blood tests were part of a state program to check more than 100,000 blood samples statewide in an attempt to determine how far acquired immune deficiency syndrome has spread, slocum said wednesday
the blood samples are being collected at prisons, where all entering inmates are tested, as well as at family planning clinics, tuberculosis clinics and other health centers, he said
about 70 percent of the prison system's 41,559 inmates come from new york city, which has the nation's highest concentration of aids victims
the inmate test results were disclosed after state sen. israel ruiz met with axelrod and corrections commissioner thomas coughlin, and called for the prison system to offer aids tests to inmates about to be released
ruiz said axelrod told him that tests had indicated between 15 percent and 20 percent of the inmates might be carrying the aids virus
the senator said that with about 16,000 inmates being released annually, there could be 2,400 or more who are infected and don't know it
slocum said ruiz was making ``a crude extrapolation based on very limited data'' that might not give a clear picture of the prison system as a whole
slocum said ruiz must have been basing his projections on what axelrod had told him about blood tests from inmates entering the system at downstate state prison in dutchess county, about 50 miles north of new york city
corrections spokesman james flateau said inmates are now tested for the virus only on a doctor's orders for diagnostic purposes
flateau said that as of the end of last year there had been 597 confirmed cases of aids among inmates. of those, 346 died in prison, 152 had been released and 99 remained in custody
coughlin, axelrod and gov. mario cuomo have resisted calls for mandatory aids testing of inmates and have thus far refused to permit voluntary testing in prisons. ruiz said he would propose legislation to require it
slocum said inmates about to be released are given counseling about aids
some researchers have estimated that up to 50 percent of those testing positive for the virus will develop the deadly disease, which cripples the body's immune system and leaves victims susceptible to infections and cancer
most cases of aids have appeared in homosexual men and intravenous drug abusers. by march 21, 57,024 aids cases were reported in the united states, and 31,836 victims have died
most of the presidential candidates have agreed to take part in a new york primary eve question-and-answer televised session with mayor edward i. koch
the mayor announced wednesday that he had lined up the candidates, except for republican vice president george bush, to appear on the special program on april 18, at 11 p.m. on wnyw-tv
he said he has gotten commitments from the field of democratic candidates and kansas sen. robert dole on the gop side, but that bush opted out
koch said bush explained to him in a telephone call that when he ran in the republican primary against ronald reagan eight years ago, he had consented to a joint appearance and was defeated
he said bush said he did not want a repeat at this late date when he is leading in the primary results
gov. mario cuomo says that jesse jackson would be ``good for the ticket'' as the democratic vice presidential candidate
if he doesn't become the democratic nominee (for president) and wanted to become vice president, i don't think he'd be a burden to the ticket,'' said the new york governor during an interview wednesday with albany's wamc radio. ``i think he would be good for the ticket. i would hope that all the candidates who aspire for the presidency feel the same way.''
cuomo is one of several prominent democrats who may play kingmaker in negotiations leading up to the democratic national convention in july. the governor has also not ruled out accepting a draft for the presidential nomination himself if there's a deadlocked convention
for his part, jackson hasn't ruled out a possible run for vice president if he doesn't win the presidential nomination
the vice president option would be a serious consideration,'' he said last year during an appearance on the ``donahue'' television show
connecticut voters overwhelmingly favor vice president george bush in the republican presidential race and strongly support massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis in the democratic contest, according to a hartford courant-connecticut poll
the survey showed that bush is favored by 64 percent of likely gop voters polled, while his nearest opponent, sen. robert j. dole of kansas, is the choice of 20 percent. fourteen percent of those polled were undecided and 2 percent selected former television evangelist pat robertson
among likely democratic voters, dukakis leads jesse jackson, 50 percent to 16 percent of likely voters, with 27 percent undecided, the poll showed
trailing far behind were sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee with 3 percent, sen. paul simon of illinois with 3 percent, and rep. richard a. gephardt of missouri with 1 percent
the institute for social inquiry at the university of connecticut conducted the random telephone poll between march 9 and sunday. the final sample consisted of 990 people statewide who said they were likely to vote in tuesday's primary. at stake in the primary are 52 democratic delegates and 35 republican delegates
four contenders for the democratic presidential nomination have accepted invitations to attend the state party's jefferson-jackson day dinner april 30, according to indiana democratic chairman john b. livengood
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, sens. albert gore of tennessee and paul simon of illinois and rep. richard gephardt of missouri have committed to attend the dinner, the indiana party's largest annual fund-raiser
no formal response has yet been received from jesse jackson, who also was invited, livengood said wednesday
the dinner at the indiana convention center is being held three days before the may 3 primary when 79 delegates to the national convention will be at stake
nebraska republicans questioned in a recent survey said they favored george bush as their party's presidential nominee, while nebraska democrats said they favored michael dukakis as their nominee, according to the omaha world-herald
forty-five percent of 347 registered republicans surveyed in the telephone poll last thursday and friday said they would vote for vice president bush. thirty-two percent said they would vote for sen. bob dole of kansas, while 5 percent chose former television evangelist pat robertson and 18 percent refused to answer or said they were undecided, the newspaper said in its wednesday editions
among 278 democrats surveyed, 36 percent chose massachusetts gov. dukakis, 14 percent chose the rev. jesse jackson and 13 percent chose rep. richard gephardt of missouri, the newspaper said. six percent backed sen. albert gore of tennessee and 28 percent refused to answer or said they were undecided, the newspaper said
sri research center inc., a subsidiary of selection research inc., conducted the random survey of selected registered voters for the world-herald
the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5.1 percentage points for the republican primary and 5.5 percentage points for the democrats, the newspaper said
michael dukakis has a comfortable lead among pennsylvania democrats, while republican george bush leads his closest rival by a 3-1 margin, according to results of the pennsylvania poll
with more than a month to go before the april 26 state primary, the massachusetts governor took a 2-1 lead over jesse jackson, his closest competitor, among all democratic respondents, the pittsburgh post-gazette reported in today's editions
on the republican ballot, the vice president led sen. bob dole of kansas by more than 3-1, the newspaper said. dole followed bush with 18 percent and former television evangelist pat robertson had 5 percent, while 11 percent said they were undecided
among all democrats, dukakis led with 37 percent, followed by jackson with 18; rep. richard gephardt of missouri with 8; sen. albert gore of tennessee with 7; and sen. paul simon of illinois with 6. about 24 percent said they were undecided
the pennsylvania poll is sponsored by the post-gazette and the philadelphia daily news. the telephone survey of 1,094 randomly selected registered voters from across the state, 563 democrats and 531 republicans, was conducted march 16 to march 20
the margin of error is plus or minus 4 percentage points on figures from all respondents, and plus or minus 6 points for the 293 democrats and 293 republicans identified as those most likely to vote in the primary
whether people die young or have normal lifespans appears to be ruled more by their genes than their upbringing, a study today concludes
the research, conducted in denmark, was based on a followup of infants who were separated from their parents at birth
if the biologic parents died at an early age, there was an increased chance that their children would die during their first five decades, as well. but there was no such link with the deaths of adoptive parents
we conclude that premature death in adults has a strong genetic background _ especially death due to infections and vascular causes,'' wrote dr. thorkild i.a. sorensen and colleagues from hvidovre university hospital in copenhagen
by contrast, they wrote in the new england journal of medicine, they found that early death from cancer appears to be associated with behavior learned in the family
researchers have long known that some diseases, such as heart attacks and some forms of cancer, run in families. but it is often unclear how much of the risk is inherited and how much results from living habits that people pick up from their parents
the danish study, based on people who never lived with their biological parents, helps sort out these factors. it suggests that genes play the largest role in determining whether people will die at unusually young ages
the researchers wrote, ``the family environment apparently had no effect'' on the overall mortality rate from natural causes, although such influences cannot be ruled out
the researchers studied 960 families who gave up their children for adoption between 1924 and 1926. they looked at whether the adoptees died between ages 16 and 58 and whether their biological or adoptive parents had died of the same causes by age 50
among the findings:
_if a biological mother or father died of natural causes before age 50, this doubled the risk of premature death for their child. however, there was no association between the deaths of adoptive parents and their children
_if a biological parent died of an infection before age 50, the mortality rate among the adoptees from infections was five times higher than usual. the researchers said that suggests the strength of people's immune systems is inherited
_vascular disease that underlies heart trouble and stroke also were strongly influenced by inheritance. if a biological parent died early of this disease, the child was five times more likely than the others to die of this cause
_in cancer, the situation was reversed. those whose adoptive parents died before 50 of cancer had a five-fold increased risk of dying themselves of cancer. but the adoptees' cancer death risk was not increased if the biological parents died of cancer
in an accompanying editorial, dr. roger r. williams of the university of utah said the research provided ``splendid data.'' but he said it should not be used to argue that family habits don't contribute to heart disease or that genes never play a role in cancer
here is an abridged version of the text of a cease-fire agreement signed wednesday night by sandinista and contra leaders
it was translated from spanish by the associated press
an agreement between the constitutional government of nicaragua and the nicaraguan resistance (contras):
1. to cease offensive military operations throughout the national territory for a period of 60 days beginning april 1, 1988. during this period will occur negotiations to achieve a definitive cease-fire, and its effective implementation will be carried out jointly with the other commitments contemplated (in this accord) for the purpose of ending the war. both parties agree to meet again at the highest levels april 6 to continue the definitive cease-fire negotiations
2. during the first 15 days, the resistance forces will locate themselves in zones whose areas, size and modus operandi will be mutually determined through special commissions meeting in sapoa beginning monday, march 28, 1988
3. the nicaraguan goverment will decree a general amnesty for persons tried and convicted of violating public security law as well as for ex-members of somoza's national guard imprisoned since july 19, 1979
in the case of the former, the amnesty will be gradual... during holy week, on palm sunday, it will begin with the release of the first 100 prisoners
later, when it has been verified that the forces of the nicaraguan resistance have entered the mutually agreed upon zones, 50 percent of the prisoners will be released. the remaining 50 percent will be released at a later date at the moment when the definitive cease-fire is signed ..
the release of the prisoners mentioned in the second part of the first paragraph of section three will begin with the signing of the definitive cease-fire depending on prior decision of the inter-american commission on human rights of the organization of american states ..
4. to guarantee food and basic supplies for the irregular forces (the contras), exclusively humanitarian aid will be solicited and received ... and will be channeled through neutral organizations
5. the nicaraguan government will guarantee unrestricted freedom of expression..
6. when the nicaraguan resistance forces are concentrated in mutually accepted zones, they will send to the national dialogue (with the internal political opposition) as many as eight delegates. in the national dialogue, among other topics, issues related to military service will be treated
7. it is guaranteed that all individuals who for political or any other reasons have left the country can return to nicaragua and incorporate themselves into the political, economic and social life without any conditions other than those laid down in the laws of the republic
they will not be tried, punished or prosecuted for any political-military activities in which they might have engaged
8. the consititutional government of nicaragua certifies that the individuals who will have been reintegrated into normal civilian life will be able to participate, under equal conditions and guarantees, in the central american parliamentry elections and the municipal elections, on the dates scheduled for them, as well as in nationl general elections on the dates which have been determined in the poltical constitution
9. for the purpose of verifying the compliance with this agreement, a verification commision will be formed with the participation of ... cardinal miguel obando y bravo (nicaragua's roman catholic leader), and the secretary general of the oas, his excellency ambassador joao baena soares ..
in addition, both parties agree to prolong to april 1, 1988, the cessation of offensive militry operations agreed to by both parties on march 21
signed,
for the nicaraguan government:
gen. humberto ortega saavedra, minister of defense
hans juergen wischnewski, adviser
paul reichler, adviser
for the directorate of the nicaraguan resistance:
adolfo calero portocarrero
alfredo cesar guirre
aristides sanchez herdocia
witnesses:
cardinal miguel obando y bravo
ambassasoor joao baena soares
dallas county officials say they probably will let the chips fall where they may in the meadow muffin match up, which could be an illegal lottery
about 2,000 people have bought $5 tickets for a chance to win $1,500 on april 30 when a cow is allowed on the coppell high school football field
the field is divided into a grid, and the owner of the first square with a cow hit will receive the prize money
the event is sponsored by the coppell high school parent-teacher-student association, and money raised will go toward a college scholarship fund and the purchase of a school laminating machine
county officials downwind from the suburb caught a whiff of the event and said it is gambling
i don't write the laws, i just enforce them,'' said jeff keck, assistant district attorney. ``i think it's got some real liability problems.''
but keck said officials may ignore the event and let ticket holders take their chances
no one is likely to file a complaint,'' keck said
an official with the state attorney general's office said that although the money is being raised for a good cause, it is still gambling
but ptsa president brenda robertson said, ``i can't imagine anyone being ornery enough to try to stop us from trying to help our kids.''
sandra burton, a ptsa member, said some parents thought the event was a little off-color
i have to admit that at first i thought it was a gross idea,'' she said. ``but we all went home and thought about it ... and we were able to see the humor in it.''
ms. burton said the ptsa first considered using a horse instead of a cow. ``but horses drop a lot,'' she said. ``and we would end up owing the world a lot of money.'' soldiers fired mortars and howitzers. pickup 4th graf pvs, ``officers from...'' ^laserphoto teg1</note> ^by cam rossie</byline>
amid the deafening boom of live mortar fire and the sizzling heat of a honduran spring, american soldiers practiced for battle but thought about going home soon
a honduran artillery school in the sprawling pine-covered mountains of south-central honduras, was the setting wednesday for training exercises between american and honduran troops
about 120 soldiers worked together, loading and firing mortars and howitzers, radioing messages from the field, plotting diagrams of make-believe enemy positions and cheering when the artillery hit its mark a mile away
officers from both countries said the training was worthwhile
we're learning to adapt our ways to different areas,'' said cpl. charles schneider, 22, of washington, d.c
i'm learning spanish,'' said sgt. scott craig, 25, of charlotte, n.c
col. rene fonseca, commander of the honduran company taking part in the exercises, said his soldiers do not often get a chance to use live artillery. money is scarce in this country, so the exercises are u.s. funded
we don't have enough ammunition to last the whole year, so while they're here we take advantage of the opportunity to use live ammunition,'' he said
all the u.s. soldiers training at zambrano, 25 miles north of the capital of tegucigalpa, are from the 82nd airborne division based at fort bragg, n.c
president reagan rushed 3,200 american soldiers to honduras last week after honduran president jose azcona hoyo said sandinista troops from neighboring nicaragua had pursued u.s.-backed contra rebels into honduran territory
the reagan administration said the americans were in honduras as an emergency training exercise meant to show support for azcona
late wednesday, a honduran military source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 300 nicaraguan troops entered honduran territory in the region where sandinista soldiers had fought contra rebels last week
because of that, the state of alert continues for all combat units of the armed forces,'' said the source
the location was given as the san andres de bocay region in olancho province, but no other details were available
pentagon officials in washington said earlier wednesday that, unless the military situation in the region changed, the u.s. soldiers tentatively will return home early next week
cpl. rodney brooks, 22, who took time out from artillery practice to read letters from his fiancee in north conway, n.h., said he hoped he would be home in time for his june 18 wedding
he said he was ``relieved, very relieved'' when he learned that sandinista forces had retreated last week and that truce talks between the sandinistas and contras had begun in sapoa, nicaragua
we came down here to do what we had to do in any way, shape or form,'' he said from behind a 105mm howitzer
but if we can keep from firing one shot and the problems still get resolved, then that's great,'' he said
some soldiers said their trip to honduras, one of central america's poorest countries, had been an eye-opener
the children come running up to you for chocolate and money. and the way they live _ it makes you feel lucky to live in a house,'' said spec. 4 james holt, 20, of washington
it makes you want to get back home so badly.''
the only general assembly members to vote against a resolution condemning a u.s. attempt to close the plo's united nations observer mission were israel and the united states
the non-binding resolution was approved 148-2 on wednesday, a day after the justice department filed suit in federal court seeking to close the new york city townhouse where the plo has its offices
the palestine liberation organization vowed to fight the attempted closure, mandated by an anti-terrorism law passed by congress last year
the u.n. resolution calls on the united states to obey the international u.n. headquarters treaty, which permits foreign missions to operate and calls for arbitration of any dispute with the host country
what pride do you have in throwing your guests out?'' shouted plo envoy zehdi labib terzi after the vote
is this the message the u.s. delegation wants to bring to the world? that guests have no respect, the united nations has no respect, international law has no respect?'' he asked
the u.s. government said it will not take any physical steps against the plo until the issue has been settled in court
let me assure you, we will not disregard the summons by the u.s. district court,'' said terzi. ``but we will tell the court this is a dispute between the united nations and the united states, and that the only forum where such a dispute can be settled is found in section 21 of the headquarters agreement.''
israeli ambassador johanan bein rose to denounce the plo for, as he put it, seeking the protection of the u.n. charter as it pursues a goal contrary to that charter: the destruction of israel
the plo, since its inception, has been the principal terrorist organization of our time. it has systematically targeted and murdered innocent civilians,'' said bein
the plo, which has retained former u.s. attorney general ramsay clark as its counsel, has 20 days from the filing of the lawsuit on tuesday to respond
the united nations announced it will file a brief in support of the plo's defense motion. it retained attorney keith highet, who is also president of the american society of international law
sixty-five american organizations and citizens filed suit on wednesday in federal court in manhattan challenging the anti-terrorism act
they included former beirut hostage rev. benjamin weir, author studs terkel and actor ed asner, and the american friends service committee, the arab-american institute and the international jewish peace union
the lawsuit argues that the law infringes on the constitutional right of americans to hear all sides of the middle east controversy by barring the plo from public debate
a march 29 hearing date was set in u.s. district court in manhattan
wednesday's vote was the third time the general assembly condemned u.s. legal attempts to close the plo mission. the world body also condemned the anti-terrorism law last december after it was passed by congress, and rebuked the united states on march 2 after the united states announced that it would seek to close the plo mission
an australian company that developed an in-vitro fertilization technique celebrated its second anniversary with a party attended by some of its success stories
fifty-four babies and toddlers, all from the new york area, gathered with their families at a manhattan party wednesday. all were conceived through the programs of the ivf australia company, which has fertility clinics at united hospital in chester and another in alabama
all we see are positive pregnancy tests in ultrasound scans,'' said dr. john j. stangel, the program's medical director. ``we never get to see the babies.''
nurses, doctors and other members of the medical team handed out stuffed koala bears to the children, and a birthday cake was rolled out with 168 blazing candles to represent the number of babies born using the ivf australia technique
the oldest on hand wednesday was 16-month-old matthew martinez. the youngest was 5-week-old michael kiddo, who slept through the party
the ivf technique involves removing mature eggs from a woman's ovary, fertilizing them with sperm in a petri dish and implanting them in the woman's uterus
multiple births are more common in such pregnancies, with between 15 and 20 percent of ivf australia births being twins. the procedure costs $5,000, usually covered by medical insurance
witnesses in the armenian capital of yerevan today said red army helicopters circled the skies to guard against unrest after the government described armenian claims to an area in neighboring azerbaijan as intolerable
moscow dissident valery senderov said a correspondent for an unofficial human rights journal had called from yerevan to say that helicopters were patrolling the city, but that there was no widespread disorder reported
regyen sarkisyan, a senior editor of the communist party newspaper kommunist in yerevan, confirmed in a telephone interview with the associated press that there were helicopters overhead, but described the city as calm
he said most armenians were showing patience in awaiting resolution of the contentious national issue
armenians want the nagorno-karabakh region of azerbaijan annexed to armenia because more than three-quarters of the population in the region is armenian
the annexation appeal was rejected by the party central committee in early february, which triggered massive demonstrations in the region that is smaller than the state of delaware
the unrest spread to yerevan in late february, when hundreds of thousands of armenians marched through the streets bearing banners linking the nagorno-karabakh issue with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's social reforms
the yerevan demonstrations subsided after gorbachev appealed for calm and promised a party review of the annexation question. but the issue touched off rioting in the azerbaijani city of sumgait on feb. 28, when at least 32 people were killed in a rampage by ethnic extremists
soviet officials reported earlier this week that 197 people were injured in the sumgait rioting and that more than 400 have been arrested or charged in murders, rapes, looting and other violent acts
armenian activists claim the casualties were much higher and predominently among armenians at the hands of enraged azeris, the dominant population of azerbaijan
sarkisyan, the newspaper editor, said soldiers were deployed around yerevan to ensure order today, but no outbreaks of unrest had occurred to his knowledge since a government statement on the issue was made public wednesday night
the demonstrations had subsided until early this week, when reports in the party daily pravda said the annexation drive had a ``clear anti-socialist spirit.'' activists in yerevan said about 7,000 people protested that report, and one of the journalists whose name had been attached to it disavowed it
as recently as march 17, party officials in nagorno-karabakh appealed for permission to join the armenian republic
activists in yerevan had called for another show of support for the annexation appeal with demonstrations and strikes beginning saturday, when a self-appointed committee of activists and officials plans to meet and discuss a future course of action
sarkisyan, a 32-year-old candidate for membership in the communist party, said he supports the proposal for returning nagorno-karabakh to armenia, but doesn't expect the matter to be resolved soon
i believe that some day it will be united with armenia, but in the nearest days i don't expect this to happen. it is a very complicated issue, and i think most people understand that now,'' he said
he said he did not expect a large turnout at the demonstrations or widespread participation in the strikes called for by activists, although moscow-based dissidents say they've been told thousands plan to show their support for the nagorno-karabakh appeal by taking to the streets
the soviet government on wednesday rejected as ``intolerable'' the armenian campaign for annexation, indicating it would not bend to the pressures brought to bear by demonstrations and strikes
the meeting, attended by gorbachev, president andrei a. gromyko and other senior party officials, was held after carefully orchestrated appeals by subordinate legislative bodies in 13 soviet republics _ all but armenia and azerbaijan
the official tass news agency said the presidium of the supreme soviet, the nominal parliament, considered it ``intolerable when it is attempted to resolve complicated national-territorial issues through pressure on state authorities, in an atmosphere when emotions and passions are whipped up.''
the statement did not categorically deny the appeal, but declared that such issues would be resolved on the basis of economic concerns rather than ethnic differences
nightline'' anchor ted koppel has agreed to a long-term contract that will keep him at abc news but allow him to produce his own prime-time programs, a newspaper reported today
koppel had been working without a contract since last year, and there was spculation he might leave abc to start his own production company to make a syndicated version of ``nightline,'' according to the new york times
he has anchored the late-night program since it started in 1980 and has been linked to its success largely through his diplomatic yet confrontational interviewing style
under the new arrangement, koppel will get similar benefits as he has now, with abc agreeing to broadcast ``nightline'' five nights a week. koppel will be host for most, but not all of the broadcasts
in addition, koppel will get his own production company, which will produce each year at least four hour-long news programs to air in prime-time. abc will pay him for the right to broadcast those programs
koppel's company also will have the right to produce television programs that could be broadcast outside abc, according to the unidentified executives by the times
roone arledge, president of abc news, said wednesday the deal was agreed on but not signed. koppel did not return several telephone calls to his washington office, the times said
a convicted former wedtech corp. executive, who has confessed to stealing $1.5 million from the bankrupt defense contractor, admitted he has not had to give back any of his illegal earnings
under cross examination by the defense at the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi, d-n.y., and six others wednesday, mario moreno was asked about his plea bargain with federal prosecutors
biaggi attorney james larossa got moreno to admit he sought to avoid a racketeering charge ``which could carry up to 20 years in prison and forfeiting your assets.''
and you told your lawyer you didn't want that, right?'' asked larossa, ``and that is one of the things they negotiated and got for you, isn't that right?''
yes,'' said moreno, who later admitted his lawyer also got ``one of the most lenient judges'' to take his guilty plea
moreno is among four ex-wedtech officials who have admitted bribing public officials and other state and federal crimes in a plea bargain for leniency. all are cooperating witnesses for the prosecution. none have yet been sentenced
moreno faces a maximum 15 years in prison after pleading guilty to federal charges of bribe conspiracy and mail fraud. he also faces an additional seven years after pleading guilty to state larceny and bribery charges
larossa also got moreno to admit that ``not a penny'' of his assets have been seized or forfeited despite his numerous guilty pleas
biaggi, his eldest son, richard; wedtech founder john mariotta and four others are charged with turning wedtech, a bronx defense contractor, into a vehicle for paying millions of dollars in bribes to obtain government no-bid contracts
wedtech, currently in bankruptcy proceedings, grew from a small machine shop into a $100-million-a-year business through a series of no-bid contracts set aside for companies controlled by minority group members
earlier, moreno claimed attorneys at the firm of squadron, ellenoff, plesent and lehrer were aware of another wedtech scheme to make it appear the company was minority controlled in order to qualify for no-bid contracts
he said the lawyers knew the agreement to sell majority control of the stock to mariotta, who is of hispanic descent, was ``a sham.''
so they participated in your fraud, is what you are telling us, right?'' asked larossa
yes,'' replied moreno after a short pause
howard squadron, a partner in the firm, later issued a statement calling moreno's testimony ``untrue.''
neither he nor anybody else from wedtech advised anybody at this firm that mr. mariotta had agreed not to buy shares of stock pursuant to the purchase agreement,'' said squadron, noting that moreno previously testified he and other wedtech officials concealed other illegal activities from the law firm and ``if there was such an agreement with mr. mariotta, it too was concealed.''
high winds and snow today buffeted mountain areas of wyoming and colorado, which braced for gusts up to 80 mph and more than a foot of snow from a fast-moving cold front
strong winds blew through sections of south dakota, california, washington state, the midwest, and the east coast. showers and thundershowers fell in much of the midwest
a warning for heavy snow was issued for the northern mountains of colorado, where 8 to 14 inches was expected. the snow and winds predicted to hit 80 mph were expected to create blizzard conditions
an advisory for snow and blowing snow was posted for the mountains of southeastern wyoming, where 4 to 8 inches was expected
on wednesday, the front spawned 80 mph winds in the northwest, forcing army officials to cancel military helicopter flights and training with anti-tank missiles at the yakima firing center in central washington
up to 18 inches of snow fell wednesday in the cascade range, and a snow advisory remained in effect for the mountains
the high winds have been blamed for the death of a 15-year-old portland girl, who was struck by falling trees at a state park in oregon on tuesday
showers and thunderstorms extended from northeastern missouri and southeastern iowa across northern illinois to northern indiana, and were scattered over the lower mississippi valley. showers fell over minnesota and the lower great lakes region
today's forecast called for scattered showers and thunderstorms in the mississippi valley, the eastern plains, alabama, the lower great lakes and the northern ohio valley; severe thunderstorms with tornadoes possible from arkansas and eastern oklahoma northeastward to the middle mississippi valley; rain from the northern pacific coast to northwest montana, with snow in some higher elevations; scattered rain and snow showers in the northern and central high plains and strong, gusty winds in the rockies, the high plains and the middle mississippi valley
temperatures were expected to reach the 50s, 60s or 70s for most of the nation; the 40s from the northern and central rockies across the northern plains, from northern minnesota to the upper great lakes and across sections of northern new england; near 80 degrees over the central gulf coast states, the florida peninsula and southern west virginia; and the 80s to near 90 degrees over the desert southwest and much of texas
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 17 degrees at marquette, mich., to 73 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 55 partly cloudy; boston 46 windy; buffalo 44 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 55 foggy; cincinnati 60 partly cloudy; cleveland 52 cloudy; detroit 48 showery; miami 72 fair; new york 43 partly cloudy; philadelphia 46 foggy; pittsburgh 57 fair; portland, maine 37 cloudy; washington 53 cloudy
_central: bismarck 37 cloudy; chicago 47 cloudy; dallas-fort worth 65 cloudy; denver 40 cloudy; des moines 52 cloudy; indianapolis 59 cloudy; kansas city 61 windy; minneapolis-st. paul 38 partly cloudy; nashville 60 partly cloudy; new orleans 65 cloudy; st louis 63 cloudy
_west: albuquerque 53 fair; anchorage 22 fair; las vegas 70 windy; los angeles 57 fair; phoenix 67 fair; salt lake city 37 windy; san diego 59 fair; san francisco 51 fair; seattle 41 windy
_canada: toronto 36 partly cloudy
highlights of the cease-fire agreement signed wednesday night by the sandinista government and contra rebels:
_a 60-day cease-fire begins april 1, with a temporary truce that began monday remaining in effect until then
_two sides meet in managua april 6 for talks on a permanent truce
_rebels move into specified zones in nicaragua during the first 15 days of april. zones to be determined through special commissions at meetings beginning in sapoa on monday
_government will grant gradual amnesty and allow all political exiles to return to the country without fear of persecution. it will release 100 contra prisoners on sunday. half the remaining 1,400 jailed rebels are to be released when the rebels are in specified zones, the other half when a permanent truce is in place
_1,800 former national guardsmen in prison since the 1979 sandinista revolution to be released after a final truce agreement is signed
_contras will accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization. that excludes military aid from the united states
_government guarantees freedom of expression without restrictions, in accordance with a regional peace plan signed last august by president ortega and the presidents of four other central american countries
_contras are guaranteed representation in sandinista talks with internal opposition and participation in the electoral process
_a verification commission will be formed with the assistance of cardinal miguel obando y bravo, nicaragua's roman catholic leader, and the secretary general of the organinization of american states, ambassador joao baena soares
i think, i hope and i believe that we have made a start, a firm start to end this war that is killing ... sons of the same country, sons of the same mothers.'' _ contra leader adolfo calero, after the contra rebels and nicaragua's government agreed to a 60-day cease-fire to negotiate an end to their six-year war
i wouldn't want to lay you odds.'' _ secretary of state george p. shultz, on the chances for the soviet union and the united states agreeing on a treaty to sharply reduce long-range nuclear weapons before president reagan's may journey to moscow
i'm going to miss the birds on my balcony and the crazy drivers going by down below.'' _ mellissa l. sanders, on the end of her record 516-day stay atop in a shack atop two telephone poles to raise money for cancer research
only after soviet television broadcast a 1{-hour speech by mikhail s. gorbachev on agriculture and news on a territorial dispute did viewers learn president reagan will meet their leader in moscow in may
the brief announcement came about 11 p.m. wednesday, two hours into the news program ``vremya,'' or time, which has an estimated audience of 150 million. tass, the official news agency, announced the summit in a one-paragraph dispatch issued more than 2{ hours earlier
vremya'' showed videotape of reagan meeting soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze outside the white house earlier in the day
an announcer said reagan reported that the superpowers settled on the dates of may 29 through june 2 for the meeting, his fourth summit with gorbachev and first trip to the soviet union
the five-day visit will mark the first trip to the soviet union by an u.s. president since richard nixon's 1974 summer meeting with leonid i. brezhnev
vremya'' customarily lasts an hour or less, but its lead item wednesday was a long speech by gorbachev, the communist party chief, at the opening of a collective farmers congress. his remarks, which lasted 1 hour and 40 minutes, apparently were broadcast in their entirety
the evening newscast also reported that the soviet government rejected as ``intolerable'' a campaign by armenian activists to annex nagorno-karabakh, a predominantly armenian area of neighboring azerbaijan
that campaign fueled ethnic strife that led to rioting in the azerbaijani city of sumgait on feb. 28. officials say 32 people died
state-run media had no initial comment about the summit, whose projected centerpiece is the signing of a treaty now being negotiated that would reduce long-range nuclear weapons on both sides by 30 percent to 50 percent
tass gave no details in its dispatch beyond the time and place fixed for the meeting
a chain-smoking woman whose husband won a court order that banned her smoking around their children says the legal battle is over
it's all academic. i am quitting smoking today anyway,'' elizabeth roofeh, 41, said wednesday after an appeals court stayed the order. ``i was only doing it to annoy my husband.''
she and her husband jahanshan, a non-smoker, are divorcing. he went to court last year claiming he'd tried for 12 years to get her to curtail her habit, which he described as ``offensive and detrimental to the health of the children,'' aged 6, 7, and 9
mrs. roofeh said she enrolled in an anti-smoking clinic after her children said the legal wrangling was ``ludicrous.'' besides, she added, ``i'm coughing like crazy. this is killing me. i don't think it's helping the kids either.''
roofeh could not be reached for comment and his attorney, stephen schissell, had no comment on the stay. suspects</head>
two men fired rocket-propelled grenades at the u.s. embassy, slightly damaging the roof in an attack a leftist guerrilla group claimed was a response to u.s. intervention in central america
no one was hurt in the wednesday night attack in bogota
earlier in the day, the nation's council of state ordered the temporary suspension of arrest orders for five members of the cocaine-trafficking medellin cartel wanted for extradition to the united states
and in medellin on wednesday, gunmen ambushed and killed the security chief of a newspaper that had urged the government not to back down in its war on drug traffickers, police said
the suspension of the arrest orders is almost certain to bring an angry reaction from u.s. authorities, who have begun to question the colombian government's position on rounding up drug traffickers
the u.s. embassy officials said the only damage from the grenade attack on the building was to the roof, which sustained minor damage. they said one grenade apparently hit a security fence and exploded in the air
the two assailants fled in a taxi, people at a restaurant across the street from the embassy told an associated press reporter. bogota police and the army set up roadblocks throughout the capital in an attempt to catch the assailants
anonymous callers to two television stations said the attack was staged by the omar torrijos brigade of the m-19 leftist guerrilla group. torrijos was panama's military ruler when died in a 1981 plane crash
m-19 pamphlets found outside a bogota radio station said the attack was a response to u.s. pressure on panama and u.s. troops in honduras
washington is trying through economic sanctions to force torrijos' successor, gen. manuel antonio noriega, into exile. noriega has been indicted in the united states on charges of trafficking in colombian cocaine. about 3,200 u.s. soldiers were sent into honduras as a show of force after nicaraguan troops allegedly chased contra rebels into honduran territory
in medellin, el colombiano newspaper security chief jorge alberto stefan gomez was hit by five bullets fired by three men on motorcycles as he and his family were waiting for a taxi near their home, police said
stefan's 10-month-old daughter was grazed by a bullet and in satisfactory condition. his wife was not hurt
police said they didn't know who was responsible for the killing. the medellin paper he worked for has urged the government not to give in to drug traffickers, many of whom live in medellin
colombian drug traffickers have killed a justice minister, an attorney general, 21 judges, two newspaper editors and scores of policemen and soldiers in the last four years
the suspension of arrest orders for the medellin cartel applies to its alleged leaders: pablo escobar, gonzalo rodriguez gacha and three brothers, jorge luis ochoa, juan david ochoa and fabio ochoa
supreme court justice samuel buitrago, a member of the council of state, said the suspensions were ordered while the government studies possible charges in colombia against the five men
meanwhile, escobar's wife and 25 of his guards appeared wednesday before a judge in medellin after a shootout at escobar's home near that northwest colombian city. escobar apparently was at home when the shootout began tuesday but escaped. the u.s. drug enforcement administration says escobar is among the world's biggest cocaine traffickers
his wife was released by the medellin judge, the radio network rcn said, quoting a source with the attorney general's office. north</head>
most americans believe lt. col. oliver l. north should not be pardoned before he goes on trial on charges stemming from the iran-contra controversy, according to a new york times-cbs news poll
the poll found that 64 percent opposed a pardon for north before a trial while 27 percent favored such a pardon. the party affiliation of those interviewed by telephone for the poll did not appear to change results, the times reported today
the poll also found that a majority of americans believe president reagan should not have sent u.s. troops to honduras last week
fifty-two percent said the troops should not have been sent, while 35 percent said they should have been and 13 percent said they did not know, according to the poll
the poll, based on interviews of 1,654 people nationwide between friday and tuesday, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percent
americans split evenly on whether north should be pardoned if convicted, with 43 percent for and 43 percent against
by a 2-to-1 margin, those surveyed said he was a ``real patriot'' but they said by the same margin that he ``went too far with his actions,'' the newspaper said
the poll also found that 53 percent of the respondents were more concerned about the united states getting involved in a war in honduras than about a communist takeover in the area
thirty-seven percent were more worried about a communist takeover, while 4 percent said the factors were equal and 2 percent said they were worried about neither. four percent said they did not know
forty-eight percent of those surveyed did not think the united states should be giving military aid to the contras while 39 percent said the aid should be given and 13 percent said they did not know
a critical water shortage east of san francisco threatens to pit suburban homeowners against city dwellers as officials consider the most severe water conservation measures since a 1977 drought
state water resources department engineers said wednesday that low precipitation since october means river runoffs from snow melt will be 40 percent below normal statewide between april and july _ and even lower if spring rainfall is below average
east bay municipal utility district reservoirs that are half-full now could be one-quarter full by september unless there are major storms during the next two months, officials said
the district board declared a ``water shortage emergency'' tuesday and warned that as of june 1, they may ration water to their 1.1 million customers for the first time in a decade
the district, however, already is divided over whether to allow more water in warmer, drier areas such as the affluent san ramon valley than in the often foggy and rainy inner-cities should rationing becomes necessary
we are the hot weather part of the district. our needs are different than the cooler parts of the district,'' said mayor beverly lane of danville, a middle-class community about 10 miles east of oakland
utility board directors from urban berkeley and richmond argued it would be unfair for the suburbs, with their sprawling lawns and gardens, to receive an extra share
if a voluntary conservation plan approved by the district fails, the agency may impose water restrictions of up to 25 percent for homes and businesses in inland counties like alameda and contra costa from may through september
during the drought 11 years ago, water customers were charged up to ten times the normal rate for excessive water use
san francisco and coastal counties face possible water shortages next year, but are in better shape than the inland counties because they have more water sources and have received more storms
angry rightist leaders accused the governing christian democrats of trying to steal this week's legislative and municipal elections by manipulating returns
the charge of attempted fraud was made wednesday by leaders of the republican nationalist alliance, or arena. they warned that violence could occur if the incumbents continued the alleged attempt to rig results
hours after polls closed, leaders of all the parties recognized arena as the big winner in sunday's vote
comments monday by mario samayoa, president of the central elections council, implied arena would have at least 30 seats in the new 60-seat national assembly, the unicameral legislature. arena had said tuesday its projections gave it 35 seats, but the party said wednesday it had 31 seats guaranteed
the election panel, an independent body including representatives of the three major parties, has repeatedly postponed announcement of official nationwide results
samayoa said on wednesday the commission has received several challenges to preliminary official results reported from various provinces, and that final official results would be withheld until those challenges were resolved
arena founder roberto d'aubuisson, an ex-army major and alleged leader of early 1980s death squads, said at the news conference, ``if they continue with this fraud that they're trying to pull off, who knows what could happen here.''
leaders of the national association of private enterprise, or anep, called a news conference to back arena's claim and warn against attempts to manipulate results. they held out the possibility of a business strike if the gathering of official results is flawed
if there is an attempt at fraud, there could be a violent public reaction that would endanger the institutional existence of the country,'' said anep leader miguel angel salaverria
d'aubuisson called on the armed forces' high command to ensure the honesty of the vote count
if they do not, the accusing finger will point to them too,'' he said
guillermo guevara lacayo, the christian democratic president of the outgoing national assembly, denied the fraud allegations
the leaders of arena, being the experts in psychological warfare that they are, raised expectations with inflated early returns,'' he told reporters
he said his party's figures gave arena 27 to 28 deputies, with 25 to 26 for the christian democrats. such a final tally could leave the balance of legislative power with smaller parties
the rev. jimmy swaggart said he's going out of his mind not preaching, but he expects to be back within three months and urged his followers to ignore ``innuendos that are flying like confetti.''
this ministry is not going down, it's not ever faltering,'' swaggart told a congregation at the family worship center at the jimmy swaggart ministries here wednesday night
on monday, the 250-member general presbytery of the assemblies of god church plans to decide the fate of swaggart, who tearfully confessed on the pulpit feb. 21 that he had sinned. he has been following a three-month suspension recommended by state church leaders
the executive presbytery of the church met soon afterward in springfield, mo., and sent a harsher recommendation back to the state council, calling for a year's suspension from the pulpit
but after meeting again, the state council voted to return its original recommendation to the executive council of the church, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination. a final decision will be made by the general presbytery
swaggart, who occasionally addresses his old congregation at services conducted by his assistant pastor, the rev. jim rentz, indicated on wednesday that he expects the presbyters to approve the three-month suspension
he told about 400 congregants that he was going out of his mind away from his pulpit, but ``when i'm back in the pulpit on may 22, i'll be back in my mind.''
swaggart urged the congregation ignore ``innuendos that are flying like confetti'' and said he believes that god is going to help his ministry ``touch the world like it's never been touched before.''
the jimmy swaggart ministries, whose television broadcasts reach several countries, took in an estimated $150 million in 1986
church officials have confirmed that swaggart, one of the nation's most popular television evangelists, was photographed with a known prostitute outside a new orleans area motel last october. a woman who claimed she was that prostitute said swaggart paid her to perform pornographic acts
also wednesday, a state district court jury in texas held that a radio station owned by the swaggart organization owes $28,000 in real estate taxes, instead of the $64,043 claimed by the city of shenandoah
the jury voted 10-2 wednesday that the ministries should pay the smaller amount because only half of the building was a church and the other real estate and leased property. the ministry had claimed the radio station qualifies as a place of worship, and therefore was tax exempt
journalists and white civil rights activists held demonstrations in downtown johannesburg today to protest the government's closure of an anti-apartheid newspaper
the latest edition of the new nation, a black-oriented weekly published by the roman catholic church, was to have gone on sale today
but on tuesday, home affairs minister stoffel botha ordered the paper shut down for 12 weeks, saying it had published ``subversive propaganda'' in violation of state-of-emergency censorship regulations
more than 30 journalists from the new nation, the liberal weekly mail, and the star, the country's largest-selling daily, held up placards at busy downtown intersections during the morning rush hour
hands off the press,'' read one placard. another asked, ``who's next?'' on one side, and answered, ``you're next.'' on the other
white women from the black sash civil rights group held a similar demonstration outside the johannesburg stock exchange. their placards read: ``press in chains'' and ``free new nation.''
the weekly mail is among six other anti-apartheid publications notified by botha that they face possible closure or appointment of an in-house censor if they continue carrying material that dissatisfies the minister
under apartheid, south africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
in other developments:
_administrators at the university of the north, a college for blacks in transvaal province, today announced that student dormitories have been closed indefinitely because of disruptions and vandalism on campus. the university's rector, p.c. mokgokong, said the trouble began after politically oriented boycotts of classes friday and monday
when classes resumed tuesday, the rector said, there was an upsurge of ``anti-social and criminal conduct'' he blamed on militant students
_police said a 23-year-old female constable was shot and killed wednesday night while sitting in a car with her boyfriend near the port city of durban. police said the constable, of indian descent, was shot by a black assailant after another had smashed the car window with a brick
a renowned caviar expert and a miami roe dealer are accused of importing $1 million worth of iranian caviar in violation of a presidential trade embargo with that middle eastern nation
george stein, 49, a wholesaler and author of ``caviar! caviar! caviar!'' and patrick bachelier, 32, a caviar dealer, are charged with violating the oct. 29, 1987, ban on iranian imports, said u.s. customs spokesman michael sheehan
i'm innocent,'' bachelier told the associated press wednesday. ``it's a mistake.'' telephone calls to stein's wholesale company went unanswered
if convicted as charged, the two could face up to 16 years in prison and $150,000 in fines, sheehan said when the agency announced its case wednesday
the fish-egg probe began last december when customs officials received a tip about illegal iranian caviar, sheehan said. customs agents believe that bachelier sent iranian caviar to europe, where the shipments were disguised as soviet caviar and then flown to miami
the caviar was in fact falsely labeled in western europe in order to circumvent the embargo,'' sheehan said
after the cavier was released by customs, bachelier would transfer the caviar into iranian tins, which he had imported separately,'' said sheehan
customs agents followed a one-ton shipment from miami to new york before search warrants were served march 15, sheehan said
the search netted 1,400 pounds of caviar worth $400,000 at caspian caviar co., 1,000 pounds of caviar worth $400,000 at stein's firm, iron gate caviar co., and 1,000 pounds of caviar worth $200,000 at epicurean international inc., a rockville, md., company, sheehan said
stein is scheduled for an appearance at federal court in miami april 5 and bachelier was arraigned march 16. the seized caviar is on ice as evidence
bachelier said he imported some iranian caviar under a permit issued to a person he declined to identify. the rest of the caviar was genuine russian caviar, he said
i feel like i'm being treated unfairly,'' he said. ``i'm innocent. i have nothing to fear.''
general motors corp. is recalling about 4,900 1988 chevrolet corvettes to fix defective wheel welds that could cause the wheel center to separate from the rim during braking or cornering
the automaker said wednesday it is also recalling about 460 1987 gmc and chevrolet full-size vans to correct fuel tank filler pipes that could cause fuel to leak during refueling or turning
no accidents or injuries have been linked to either problem, gm said. vehicle owners are being notified of the recall by dealers, who will correct the problems at no charge, the company said
the corvettes, all equipped with 17-inch wheels, may be missing a weld on some wheels, gm said. the condition could result in partial loss of steering control and a sudden changed in vehicle direction, the automaker said
carlos salinas de gortari, almost certain to become mexico's next president, is promising a fraud-free election in the state that allegedly was a hotbed of bogus balloting two years ago
i come with the firm decision to respect the will of the people of chihuahua,'' he said at the outset of his five-day campaign swing through the northern border state of chihuahua, the largest of mexico's 31 states
the trip that concludes friday is being watched closely throughout mexico
the chihuahua case'' has become shorthand for alleged fraud that took place during state and local elections in 1986. at that time, salinas de gortari's institutional revolutionary party dealt a major setback to its rival national action party, which had won an unprecedented victory in chihuahua three years earlier
the governing party never has lost a presidential election or a gubernatorial race since its inception in 1929
as the party's candidate, salinas de gortari is virtually certain to win a six-year term on dec. 1 and succeed president miguel de la madrid
i come here with you to outline the strong commitment to govern with absolute respect for democracy,'' salinas de gortari said during his chihuahua campaign. ``of course we are going to war; that's why we come to chihuahua _ to win.''
on tuesday, salinas de gortari stopped in the southern towns of parral, camargo and delicias before returning to the state capital, the city of chihuahua. all were won by national action in 1983 and regained by the institutional revolutionary party party in 1986
a campaign official, who asked not to be named, said crowds of more than 5,000 people in those towns were considered a major achievement
the conservative national action party won seven mayoralties in 1983, including the state capital and ciudad juarez on the border with el paso, texas. it predicted an even greater victory three years later, but salinas de gortari's party won 65 of 67 mayoralties, the governorship and all 14 state legislative posts at stake
it insisted throughout that the vote was fair
the government shelled positions held by guerrillas in southern sudan, killing 295 rebels and regaining control of a town, an army statement said
government troops moving toward rebel-held nasir town in the southern upper nile region found the bodies of 250 rebels killed from shelling, according to the wednesday statement
it said that at the outskirts of nasir, the soldiers killed 45 other rebels. two government troops were killed and eight wounded before the army took over full control of the area, it said
it did not say when the operation took place
in other clashes, the statement said soldiers killed 19 rebels in an army attack saturday on the rebels' bekwy camp, near mundari town in the equatoria region
in another operation near the border with zaire, government and rebel troops fought saturday and a number of rebels were killed and wounded. the statement had no casualty numbers
the rebels began their insurrection in 1983 and are demanding more autonomy and administrative and economic reforms
a federal judge says attorney general edwin meese and the head of the justice department's civil rights division cannot take part in the department's criminal investigation of alleged harassment of a black fbi agent
meese and assistant attorney general william bradford reynolds are parties to a civil lawsuit in washington, d.c., alleging racial harrassment by white fbi agents against agent donald rochon
u.s. district judge john f. grady said wednesday he wants a ``chinese wall'' between the justice department attorneys handling the criminal investigation and meese and reynolds
grady suspended a grand jury investigation in chicago until government lawyers file a statement agreeing to abide by the order barring meese and reynolds from having access to the criminal file
the grand jury, the court and the public have a right to know that the grand jury proceedings are in the hands of persons who have no apparent interest other than to ascertain the truth,'' grady said in response to a request by rochon's attorney
justice department spokesman terry eastland said late wednesday that the department had just become aware of grady's ruling and it would have to be reviewed before there was any comment
rochon, 37, now assigned to philadelphia, filed suit nov. 5 in washington against the fbi and the justice department, accusing white fellow agents in chicago and omaha, neb., of racial harassment and threats of death and mutilation against him or sexual assault against his wife, susan, who is white. they are now separated
the federal equal employment opportunity commission has upheld rochon's racial discrimination allegations in connection with his stay in omaha in 1983 and 1984
supervisory and high-level officials of the fbi never confronted, stopped, investigated or even took seriously the sometimes daily racial degradation and the blatantly discriminatory employment actions,'' rochon's lawsuit contended
the justice department initiated the grand jury investigation after rochon's suit was filed
the senate judiciary committee also has conducted inquiries into rochon's allegations
meanwhile, in philadelphia, an attorney for rochon's former girlfriend, rosemary coleman peszko, said wednesday the woman was pressured by fbi agents to make false statements about rochon
ms. peszko was interrogated for 20 hours over a three-day period earlier this month regarding her relationship with rochon, attorney stefan presser said
ms. peszko said in an affidavit the fbi took advantage of her emotional state after a lovers' quarrel and pressured her to make statements she feared were inaccurate. she said she did not want those statements used against rochon
they wanted me to sign statements they prepared, but i refused,'' she said. ``i did not and do not intend to hurt don, whom i love, and i was misled by the fbi's frequently saying that all they wanted to do was help don by my saying what they wanted to hear.''
i was so tired, hungry and upset, i do not know what i told them or whether what they wrote down is accurate,'' she said. ``they were often suggesting things and leading me in certain directions, and much of what is in the statements they have may well be inaccurate.''
two fbi agents from philadelphia apparently tried to persuade ms. peszko to say that rochon first hit her during an argument march 4 at an apartment they shared in pennsauken, n.j., then broke his own nose to convince investigators both had been acting violently, presser said
rochon and ms. peszko filed simple assault charges against each other in camden county, n.j., then dropped them
the fbi said in a statement that the questioning followed normal procedures taken any time allegations of impropriety or criminal wrongdoing are leveled against an fbi employee
an organization of 25 latin american nations will hold an emergency meeting monday to discuss the crisis in panama, the group said
the meeting of the latin american economic system was requested by panama
panama's ambassador to venezuela, marcel salamin, said wednesday that economic sanctions against his country by the united states constitute an ``economic and financial aggression.''
panama is in the throes of a general strike aimed at ousting gen. manuel antonio noriega, the chief of the nation's defense forces and the power behind the government
the united states is using economic pressure to help oust noriega, withholding payments for use of the panama canal and freezing panamanian accounts in u.s. banks
the caracas-based latin american economic system was founded in 1975 as a forum for the latin american countries to debate their economic relations with the u.s. and the industrialized nations
president paul biya will seek a second five-year term, the ruling democratic people's assembly said in a communique
biya was elected to his first term in 1984 and is unchallenged in the election set for april 24. his candidacy was announced wednesday
the ruling party is the only legal party in cameroon, but the country's constitution allows candidates to run independently if they can produce petitions with at least 500 signatures of national assembly members, municipal counselers and chiefs
members of the national assembly also face re-election april 24
panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega is trying to arrange through a u.s. arms dealer for the immediate delivery of 5,000 semi-automatic pistols to his military forces, according to a secret document
coupled with the reported acquisition of large quantities of weapons from cuba in recent days, the proposed purchase of the pistols indicates that noriega may be intent on using force to remain in power, u.s. officials said wednesday
a proposal by the u.s. dealer promises delivery of an additional 25,000 pistols at the rate of 2,000 a month. a panamanian defense force major who defected last friday said over the weekend that cuba recently had provided panama with 94,000 pounds of weapons, including large numbers of ak-47 rifles
a general strike protesting noriega's continued rule has left the country virtually paralyzed, but noriega has given no sign that he intends to step down as commander of the defense forces
the dealer which is arranging for the export of the belgian-made browning 9mm pistols is americhina global management group of appleton, wis
a copy of the proposed transaction, marked ``urgent'' and ``confidential'' was provided to the associated press by panamanian ambassador juan b. sosa. he was informed of the possible transaction last saturday by americhina president leo wanta
sosa said wanta discussed the deal with him unaware that sosa had broken with noriega almost a month ago and has remained loyal to ousted president eric arturo delvalle. at sosa's request, wanta sent him a telecopy of the proposed deal, which was addressed to noriega and to his chief of ordnance services, lt. col. eugenio corro. the arms package is worth more than $10 million
state department officials said there was no legal way the u.s. government could block the transaction because the pistols are not of u.s. origin
but they expressed keen interest in a reference at the bottom of proposal to an apparent request by the panamanian military for m-16 rifles. the reference asked whether panama had reached any decision on the ``procurement-delivery'' of the m-16's
any such request would require u.s. approval and would be rejected, said the state department officials, insisting on anonymity
the m-16 is manufactured by colt industries, based in new york city. a colt official, who asked not to be identified, said colt would never export the m-16 without u.s. government approval
the state department officials said they had no record of any company by the name of americhina. they said all companies that manufacture or export weapons must register with the government and that failure to do so carries stiff penalties
reached by telephone at his wisconsin office, wanta asked how the ap had obtained a copy of his memo to noriega and was indignant when he was told of sosa's role
you tell sosa he will have a lot of explaining to do in about 12 minutes,'' wanta said. he then hung up
sosa said that in his conversation last saturday with wanta, the arms dealer had asked for panama's military attache but sosa took the call himself because the attache no longer shows up at the embassy
sosa said he felt it was his duty to make the proposed deal public because of the possibility that the weapons might be used against the panamanian people
the pistols are to be sent to panama from antwerp, belgium, the country where the weapon was originally commissioned more than 50 years ago
the weapons are described as ``high-power'' with fixed sights. the price listed is $398 each
the delivery schedule calls for shipment of 5,000 of the pistols immediately and an additional 2,000 units per month thereafter ``until 25,000 units are delivered.''
there are an estimated 10,000 to 11,000 members of panama's defense forces. they are supplemented by undisclosed numbers of paramilitary forces and militia
the soviet union today launched a satellite with supplies for the mir space station, whose crew is trying to set a record for time in orbit, tass reported
the official news agency said the progress-35 cargo satellite was carrying food and other supplies, but it did not provide details. data transmitted from space indicated the satellite was functioning normally, tass said
it was the second supply mission since cosmonauts vladimir titov and musa manarov blasted off dec. 21 to replace yuri romanenko and alexander alexandrov on the mir spacecraft
romanenko had spent 326 days in space and thus holds the record for the longest manned space mission. soviet space officials say titov and manarov will stay aboard the mir for a year in an effort to break romanenko's record
the account of the launch did not say when the link between the mir and the cargo spacecraft was expected. killed; adds byline. picks up 5th graf pvs, `an israeli ...</note>
israeli warplanes divebombed palestinian guerrilla bases on the outskirts of this southern port city today for the second day, killing nine people and wounding five, police said
a police spokesman said six israeli fighter-bombers hit the bases six times in 55 minutes with 30 rockets and bombs, starting at 1 p.m
the bases were manned by abu nidal's fatah-revolutionary council and the moscow-oriented democratic front for the liberation of palestine, police said
it was the third israeli strike against palestinian bases in lebanon in a week and the fifth this year. forty-seven people have been killed and 6 wounded in israeli air strikes on guerrilla bases in lebanon this year
an israeli army statement identified the targets as buildings used by the guerrillas to store weapons and equipment. the statement said israeli pilots returned safely and reported accurate hits on the targets
smoke and dust engulfed the villages of bekasta, majdelyoun, saliyeh and abra after the raids, and ambulances raced to the scene. all but abra had been bombed by israeli jets wednesday
a police spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity under standing regulations, said guerrillas sealed off the villages on the southern and eastern edges of sidon, 25 miles south of beirut
the villages were once populated by christians. but they fled in april 1985 when leftist moslem militiamen drove right-wing christian irregulars, allied with the israelis, out of the region
police said seven people were killed and 15 wounded when 12 israeli jet fighters raided six palestinian guerrilla bases in the sidon region in wednesday's attack
five were manned by abu nidal's fighters and one by the moscow-oriented democratic front for the liberation of palestine. the front, led by nayef hawatmeh, is part of yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization
abu nidal, whose real name is sabri al-banna, broke away from the plo in 1974 to found his own group. he tops the list of terrorists wanted by the united states and western european countries
abu nidal's group, in a statement issued after wednesday's raids, threatened to ``severely strike back against the zionist enemy's arrogance and barbarism ... at the right time and place.'' taxes</head>
a four-member family earning $31,000 a year pays three times as much of its income in state sales and excise taxes as does one making over $612,000, a private study reported today
the share of earnings soaked up by those taxes is almost five times as large for the poorest families _ those making less than $8,600 _ as it is for the richest, according to a report by citizens for tax justice. this happens because the taxes are applied at a flat rate regardless of income
in 23 states, the disparity is even worse than the national average. the poor in south dakota and mississippi pay about seven times as much of their earnings in sales and excise taxes as do the rich; in tennessee, alabama and louisiana, almost six times as much
the study focused on general sales taxes and on excise taxes, chiefly those on gasoline and tobacco. it concluded that:
_the poorest 20 percent of four-member families, averaging income of $8,581, paid 5.4 percent of their earnings in sales and excise taxes last year
_the second one-fifth, averaging $20,535, paid 3.9 percent
_the third, averaging $31,497, paid 3.3 percent
_the fourth, averaging $44,910, paid 2.9 percent
_the highest-earning one-fifth, averaging $66,912, paid 2.5 percent
_the top-earning 5 percent, averaging $187,316, paid 1.6 percent
_four-member families averaging $612,122 a year _ the richest 0.7 percent of americans _ paid 1.1 percent of their incomes for sales and excise taxes
citizens for tax justice is a washington-based research organization that is financed by organized labor and several liberal social groups. the organization considers income taxes more equitable than consumption taxes, including excise and sales taxes
income taxes generally take a bigger bite of each dollar as income rises and, thus, fall more heavily on upper-income americans
by relying on nickel-and-dime sales taxes, state governments across the country have quietly heaped an onerous burden on their poorest citizens,'' robert s. mcintyre, director of citizens for tax justice, said in releasing the study. ``the less you make, the worse you do _ especially in states with heavy taxes on food, utilities, tobacco and fuels.''
the ultimate solution, he said, is for states to rely less on sales taxes and more on income taxes. in the meantime, mcintyre added, sales taxes can be made less onerous by extending rebates to the poor and applying the levies disproportionately to services that are generally used by the well-to-do, such as club memberships and home-improvement services
the study concluded that the 10 states with relatively low tax burdens on the poor have considerably more money available for public services than do the 10 whose sales taxes on the poor are highest
taxing the poor heavily is both cruel and inefficient,'' said mcintyre. ``it doesn't produce much in the way of revenues because the poor don't make very much money.''
sixteen states still fully tax food; over 22 percent of all food purchases in the united states are taxed. in fact, the study found, the 10 states with the most onerous sales taxes on the poor all tax food. they are: alabama, mississippi, georgia, north carolina, south carolina, arkansas, tennessee, south dakota, virginia and hawaii
the poor spend 6.2 percent of income on electrical bills, more than double the rate of the middle-income family. but that middle-income family pays three times as big a share for electricity as do the rich, the study found
the portion of the $600,000-a-year family's income spent for tax on take-home beer is only 15 percent of the $8,600 family's share. on cigarettes, the upper-income family's share is 1 percent of the low-income family's; on gasoline, 4 percent; on fresh flowers, 98 percent; on legal fees, 100 percent; jewelry, 259 percent; wine for home consumption, 324 percent, and out-of-town lodging, 613 percent
the study found that only six states have set up a system of tax credits to reduce the sales-tax burden on the poor. in only one state, new mexico, would the credit offset as much as half the burden
the six states and the theoretical reduction for the poor, if all the poor applied for the credit: new mexico, 64 percent; kansas, 35 percent; vermont, 26 percent; idaho, 22 percent; hawaii, 17 percent, and north carolina, 7 percent. pvs bgng ``although the...</note>
democrat richard gephardt will become the next casualty of the 1988 presidential campaign if he fails to win the michigan caucuses on saturday, a campaign aide said today, as the other candidates took aim across party lines
republican bob dole criticized democrat michael dukakis, and democrats albert gore jr. and jesse jackson attacked gop front-runner george bush in a preview of what the fall campaign might bring
gephardt insisted publicly that no decisions had been made, but an aide said the missouri congressman would leave the presidential race early next week in time to file for re-election to his house seat by the tuesday deadline
he will be out if he doesn't win in michigan,'' said the aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
gephardt is running third in the polls in michigan behind dukakis and jackson
although the primary season is far from over, the candidates appeared to be shifting their attention toward the general-election confrontation in november between their two parties. after michigan, both parties hold primaries in connecticut on tuesday
heading into this round of contests, the democrats have largely avoided the bitter battles among themselves that were typical of the super tuesday campaign earlier this month. but there's still some infighting afoot
gephardt has sounded a drumbeat of attacks against dukakis in recent days, accusing him of inconsistency on trade issues. he was expected to bring up the subject again today in an economic address
in michigan, the missouri congressman has been courting workers, especially those in the auto industry, with his get-tough-on-foreigners trade message
gore, without mentioning gephardt by name, took a swipe at him for that. ``it would be easy to blame all our problems on foreigners,'' he told the wisconsin legislature
the tennessee senator is badly in need of a northern victory, and his political director, larry harrington, said wisconsin may be the place for gore to ``punch through.''
also making a big push in wisconsin is sen. paul simon, whose home-state victory in illinois last week revived his bid
if i can win wisconsin, two weeks later is new york. ... that would give me a lift and put me back in the ball game in a major way,'' simon told the green bay press-gazette
jackson was crisscrossing michigan, where polls have indicated he is running second to dukakis. other candidates may have more money, jackson told auto workers, but he has a richer message
i've been ... walking the assembly line, standing with and fighting for the workers,'' he said. ``i don't have the big engine, but i know the roads a lot better.''
that was about the closest jackson came to criticizing his democratic opponents. instead, he took the vice president to task, vowing to ``keep on challenging him on the leadership gap.''
gore, too, delivered a forceful attack on bush, saying the vice president ``wants another chance to cut taxes for the rich.'' he also questioned bush's role in the iran-contra affair
it's not as if he were a neophyte sitting in the white house with no basis of judgment on the arms-for-hostages swap,'' gore said of bush
in a cbs-new york times poll, 51 percent said yes when asked if bush was hiding something the public ought to know about the iran-contra affair; 28 percent said no and 21 percent said they didn't know. the margin of error was 3 points, cbs said wednesday night
bush got kinder treatment at the hands of dole, now a rival in name only. bush holds an overwhelming lead in delegates, and the kansas senator has abandoned his once-bitter attacks on the vice president
dole, in a washington speech on wednesday, accused the democratic contenders of a ``failure of nerve as well as a failure of vision'' in dealing with nicaragua's leftist sandinista government
the kansas senator singled out dukakis for the sharpest criticism, saying: ``he says that this country ... has no choice but to tolerate the existence of soviet client states wherever subversion might install them.''
dukakis spokesman leslie dach retorted: ``i guess bob dole is taking after michael dukakis because he's accomplishing what bob dole can't _ beating george bush in the polls.''
a poll published wednesday by the hartford courant suggested bush was favored by 64 percent of likely gop voters in connecticut, while dole was the choice of just 20 percent. dole, campaigning in connecticut, brushed that off
i don't pay any attention to polls. they said i was going to win in new hampshire,'' he said
bush, whose father was a u.s. senator from connecticut, further consolidated his strength in the state with the endorsement of gop state chairman robert s. poliner
dukakis, was raising money in california today, with a new endorsement of his own to point to: the popular sen. bill bradley of new jersey. the new jersey senator, who is sometimes faulted for a less-than-dynamic speaking style, used the occasion to poke a little fun at both himself and dukakis
it has been said of michael dukakis that he is dull, a charge with which i am not unfamiliar,'' bradley said wednesday. ``but governance is not an amusement park.'' 4th graf, `stranded motorists ....'</note>
a drawbridge that got stuck in the up position, snarling traffic for 20 miles and stranding hundreds of motorists, was fixed today after blocking auto travel to most of the keys, police said
the bridge just opened,'' florida highway patrol duty officer terri magee said at 8:30 a.m
rush-hour traffic on the snake creek bridge is normally heavy, she said. that, coupled with the hundreds of motorists stranded when the bridge broke down wednesday, means traffic jams will continue for a while, she said
the 300-foot bridge is about 30 miles down the 135-mile chain of islands, and is the only road link between the southern keys and those to the north and the mainland
i think every tourist in monroe county has called us tonight,'' highway patrol duty officer gregory harris said as crews worked to fix the bridge. ``apparently the bridge was raising ... most likely for a boat. i guess it just went up too far or the wind caught it and the gears are stuck in the upright position.''
stranded motorists were sheltered for the night in hotels and in schools. some drivers simply left their cars in the traffic jam and walked to nearby bars or restaurants
we're completely swamped in here and it's wall-to-wall people outside,'' said erik jorgensen, whose erik's floating restaurant is just south of the bridge. ``some are impatient, but mostly they're saying `give me another beer.'''
jorgensen said he unfolded every lawn chair he owned and was serving in the parking lot
plantation elementary school teacher barbara young said about 25 children were spending the night at the building because a bus taking about 45 of them home was stuck on the south side of the bridge
some students stayed at the home of friends who live on the south side, and others were fetched home by boat, she said
the florida keys are linked by the overseas highway. harris said the last time he could remember a similar incident was in 1981
seven mine employees were acquitted today of homicide charges arising from south africa's worst gold mine disaster, an underground fire that killed 177 men
six of the defendants who held supervisory positions at the kinross gold mine in 1986 also were acquitted on all lesser charges. a welder, frederick viviers, pleaded guilty to two charges of violating mining regulations and was fined $50
the fire broke out at kinross on sept. 16, 1986, in a tunnel that had been sprayed six years earlier with a polyurethene foam to prevent corrosion
experts said toxic fumes from the foam contributed to the high death toll
during the trial, an expert witness for the general union mining corp., which owns kinross, testified that the company had ordered a fire-retardant form and had been supplied with the wrong variety
magistrate j.w. pieterse, who presided at the trial in the transvaal province town of witbank near kinross, accepted this testimony. he said the mine staff could not be held responsible because they had not known they were supplied with the wrong kind of foam. back next week. pick up 8th graf: ``the u.s...''</note>
nicaragua has asked the international court of justice for an inquiry into alleged honduran armed incursions into sandinista territory, a court spokesman said today
the sandinistas also want a u.n. observer force to monitor the border between the two countries, the spokesman said
the request, filed with the court monday, was disclosed as the sandinistas and the u.s.-backed contral rebel forces trying to overthrow the nicaraguan government agreed to a 60-day cease-fire to begin april 1
the world court, based in the hague, is the judicial branch of the united nations
the nicaraguan gambit revives a case suspended in august as a result of the central american peace plan. the plan was signed by the presidents of nicaragua, honduras, costa rica, el salvador and guatemala
tensions on the nicaraguan-honduran border were reportedly abating, despite a honduran military report wednesday that small numbers of nicaraguan troops have entered honduran territory in the san andres de bocay region in olancho province. sandinista soldiers fought contra rebels in the region last week
the approximately 3,200 u.s. troops sent to honduras last week were to be flown back to their bases in the united states early next week, the pentagon said
the u.s. troops were dispatched to honduras after honduras accused the nicaraguan army of incursions into honduran territory earlier this month. the pentagon said at the time of the airlift that the american troops were in honduras on a training mission
the sandinstas have denied crossing the honduran border in their skirmishes with the contras and have in turn accused honduran troops of crossing the nicaraguan border to support the rebels
the nicaraguan embassy here claimed today that ``several contra incursions with honduran support'' occurred in the course of march
in its request, nicaragua asked the court to launch ``an inquiry ... investigating the recent incidents in the bocay (border) region and the causes of such incidents.''
and it requested ``the creation of a group of observers by the appropriate organ of the united nations to monitor incidents at the border region.''
the request is part of an ongoing case against honduras that nicaragua brought before the court 18 months ago
nicaragua originally sought a court ruling ordering honduras to halt alleged support for the contras. managua has repeatedly claimed that the contras are operating from bases inside honduras. honduras has not denied that there are contra bases on its territory but has said it is powerless to halt the rebel activities
no date has been set for hearings on nicaragua's request
actress jane fonda was both cheered and booed for her work against the vietnam war during a hearing on whether to snub her when she visits to shoot scenes for a movie
about 250 people attended wednesday night's public hearing at chicopee city hall, where the state commissioner of veterans service, john halachis, called an end to the arguments over fonda
arguing about the appropriateness of this movie will not heal one wound ... or provide jobs for one man or woman,'' halachis said
applause, cheers and whistles punctuated the remarks of bud gagnon, head of veterans services for chicopee, who referred to fonda's 1972 trip to hanoi during the vietnam war
she did make the statement she was sorry (and that) people misunderstood her intentions. it was our fault we misunderstood her. what was jane fonda's punishment? enormous wealth! jane fonda is not welcome in chicopee!'' gagnon said
fonda's planned presence this summer has stirred strong passions in the mill city of 55,112 people along the connecticut river outside springfield
the movie, ``union street,'' is about an illiterate mill worker. fonda is to play a woman who teaches the man to read
veterans from out of state have come to town to lend fonda their support, and even former u.s. house speaker thomas p. ``tip'' o'neill jr. issued a statement praising her for her anti-war activism
but several veterans' groups throughout western massachusetts have voiced their displeasure because of her trip to hanoi. at the urging of local veterans, aldermen in nearby holyoke voted 11-4 on feb. 2 to consider fonda a ``persona non grata'' if she comes to their city to work
chicopee aldermen called wednesday's hearing on a request that they pass a resolution similar to the one in holyoke
the holyoke aldermen, however, said they would not try to block the shooting of the movie. and the mayors of holyoke and chicopee have said they support the veterans' right to protest fonda's visit as well as her right to set foot in their communities
charles liteky, a medal of honor recipient, came from washington to speak on behalf of fonda
i'm very grateful for those who protested against the u.s. involvement in vietnam. had they not done that, i think we would have had more people die,'' said the former chaplain, whose trip was paid by a group of vietnam veterans who are now peace activists
before the hearing, vietnam veteran delfo barabani jr. said a dozen veterans' groups in the city, representing hundreds of people, unanimously approved a resolution opposing fonda's visit. ``she's got a right to her opinions. i've got a right to mine. this is my town. i don't feel particularly comfortable with her coming here.''
this impoverished mississippi river city has no money today, and may have no choice but to seek protection in bankruptcy court, says an attorney who garnished all of the city's funds to pay part of a $3.4 million judgment
they can file a petition for bankruptcy with the federal court, and a trustee can be appointed,'' said clyde kuehn, attorney for a city jail inmate who suffered permanent brain damage when he was beaten by another prisoner
east st. louis treasurer charlotte moore said there was about $800,000 in city accounts when the documents were served wednesday. she said about $85,000 in payroll and vendor checks are outstanding and apparently cannot be cashed
my real interest right now is payroll. that's critical,'' said alderman melvin frierson. ``it's bad that it happened, but it was a bad situation that caused the lawsuit, too.''
the city's next pay day is march 30
mayor carl e. officer declined comment
the judgment _ now about $4 million with interest _ was awarded in 1985 to walter debow, a granite city man who suffered permanent brain damage in a beating in the east st. louis jail in january 1984
debow was arrested for driving with an open bottle of malt liquor. he was placed in a cell with a man who was being held on misdemeanor charges but had a history of violent crime. kuehn said the man beat debow so severely that he suffered permanent brain damage and will require medical care for the rest of his life
in november, the illinois supreme court ordered the city to pay the judgment, clearing the way for kuehn and the debow family to seize the city's bank accounts by filing the garnishment documents
the garnishment affected city funds held in banks, and fines and taxes collected by st. clair county
as far as the people of east st. louis are concerned, this isn't going to hurt the citizens any more than they already are,'' kuehn said. ``they already don't get their trash picked up. they already have a fire department and police department that isn't properly equipped
perhaps if they go into bankruptcy and a trustee is appointed and starts making decisions, the people of the city will even be better off,'' kuehn said. department anti-boycott charges,'' which duplicates story moved march 15 under a los angeles dateline.</note>
a $2.4 billion ``self-funding'' anti-drug bill is ``the beginning of the first major assault'' on the nation's drug problem, according to one of the legislation's principal sponsors
we have to be more forceful,'' sen. dennis deconcini, d-ariz., said at a news conference wednesday with more than a dozen of the bill's 35 house and senate co-sponsors. ``we have mobilized a few assets; we have a lot more to do.''
the cost of the omnibus anti-drug abuse act of 1988 would be offset by an estimated $3.2 billion in debt collection mandated by the bill, deconcini said in introducing the legislation
the bill would add staff to the internal revenue service and the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms to collect an additional $1.25 billion in taxes owed the government, and direct other federal agencies to collect $2 billion in non-tax debt owed to uncle sam. the money would be placed in a new anti-drug abuse treasury fund to help pay for the bill, deconcini said
the 199-page bill calls for resurrecting the state and local narcotics control grant program by providing $1.5 billion over three years, including $250 million next year
additionally, the bill moves the coast guard from the department of transportation to the treasury department to provide better coordination with the u.s. customs service, and creates a streamlined deportation process for aliens who have been convicted of a drug-related or violent crime
a major environmental group says an unreleased report of the environmental protection agency shows that up to 14 percent of streams in sampled areas of eastern mountains are too acidic
the natural resources defense council wednesday accused the epa of ``sitting on'' the stream findings, and said it had been rebuffed in requests for release of the final report made under the freedom of information act
richard ayres, a council staff lawyer who chairs the clean air coalition of environmental groups, said: ``we tried to give them a break. we have had this document for over a year and have been urging them to release the final report. they stiffed us at every turn.''
as part of its research on the effects of acid rain, the epa extensively sampled lakes and streams in 1985 and 1986. lake results have been reported extensively
but the epa criticized the use of preliminary data by the group. spokesman chris rice said many tables would show ``significant changes'' when the document is ready for release, probably in may
the senate has approved the nomination of william ball iii to be navy secretary, replacing james h. webb
ball, a former reagan administration lobbyist on capitol hill, was appointed by president reagan after webb resigned in a budget dispute with defense secretary frank c. carlucci
ball's nomination, which had been unanimously approved by the senate armed services committee was approved by a voice vote in the full senate on wednesday. up 4th graf pvs, `in lebanon...</note>
israeli troops shot dead an arab today and wounded four others, including a 12-year-old, in clashes across the occupied territories, hospital officials said
overnight, troops swept through the occupied lands in a mass arrest of palestinians
majid mohammed ahmed sawalma, 21, died of two bullet wounds to the chest and heart during a clash in the balatta refugee camp near nablus, al ittihad hospital officials said
among the four palestinians wounded in scattered clashes frm hebron to nablus was a 12-year-old girl from the village of tamoun, 10 miles west of nablus, the officials said
arab media reports said troops were using several west bank schools as detention centers
the army said it was checking the reports of casualties and declined to comment on reports that schools were being used as detention centers
in lebanon, israeli warplanes attacked palestinian guerrilla bases on the outskirts of sidon for the second straight day. there was no immediate word on casualties
it was the third israeli strike against palestinian bases in lebanon in a week and the fifth this year
because of the ongoing violence in the west bank and gaza strip, monsignor michel sabbah, jerusalem's roman catholic patriarch, decided to cancel the traditional palm sunday procession from the mount of olives to jerusalem's old city
prime minister yitzhak shamir, acting in his capacity as interior minister, ordered the haifa-based al ittihad, a communist newspaper, closed until the end of the month on charges it was inciting arab unrest
an israeli court ordered the army to return film confiscated earlier this week from time and newsweek magazines and the reuters news agency but said israeli authorities had the right to process the film first. the film, taken sunday, showed an israeli soldier moments after he was shot and killed in bethlehem
the soldier was the first israeli soldier to be killed since the unrest in the occupied territories broke out dec. 8. according to u.n. figures, 107 arabs have died in the unrest, most of them killed by israeli gunfire
we're not satisfied with the decision,'' said robert slater, a time correspondent and chairman of the foreign press association. ``we had demanded the return of the film immediately without it being processed.''
israeli officials rounded up at least 12 palestinians in the occupied gaza strip overnight, bringing to more than 107 the number of arabs arrested there in the past four days, the gaza lawyers' association said today
one attorney, raji sourani, said the lawyers' association counts only those reported by family members and estimated the actual number of arrests in the past four days in gaza at about 350
an islamic official in hebron said israeli soldiers had detained more than 150 imams, or moslem religious leaders, in nighttime roundups this week. the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said most of those detained were members of the fundamentalist islamic jihad movement
the army has confirmed it is making arrests but has refused to give details. israeli officials have said the tactic has reduced arab violence
the patriarch decided to suspend this sunday's procession because of the possibility of violence along its narrow, winding route through arab east jerusalem, said the rev. cladio baratto, director of the christian information center in the old city. the procession commemorates jesus' entry into jerusalem before his crucifixion
prudence suggests this decision. it was a personal decision of the patriarch and no other forces influenced him,'' baratto told the associated press
baratto denied reports that sabbah, jerusalem's first arab patriarch for latin-rite catholics, had been pressured by the underground leadership of the palestinian unrest to call off the ceremony, which has been canceled only three times since 1932
baratto told the jerusalem post there were fears that christians from the occupied territories would be prevented from attending due to curfews
on tuesday, defense minister yitzhak rabin reportedly told a parliamentary committee that israel has jailed 3,000 arabs since anti-occupation violence began dec. 8. an additional 1,000 arabs were arrested but set free, he said
rabin on wednesday told officers in the gaza strip that large-scale rioting ``has been substantially reduced ... as a result of the general activity of the army, the security forces, the riot police
we feel a certain tiredness among the (arab) population,'' he said
chief of staff lt. gen. dan shomron said in bethlehem on wednesday that israel's policy was ``a prolonged combined action accompanied with patience and built on three elements: the military force, local punishments and economic pressure.'' graf pvs: ``the cease-fire....''</note>
pro-government newspapers today announced the 60-day cease-fire between the sandinistas and contra rebels with banner headlines but said the accord was only a beginning in efforts to end six years of war
the government and contra rebels on wednesday night agreed to the cease-fire to negotiate an end to their war and signed a nine-point accord that promises the rebels a role in nicaragua's political process
cease-fire! peace explodes?'' read the eight-column headline in el nuevo diario. barricada, the official paper of the leftist sandinistas, said: ``the first step toward peace.''
the agreement was the first concrete step toward ending the conflict that has killed more than 40,000 people
state-run radio voice of nicaragua in broadcasting the cease-fire softened its tones and referred to the rebels as ``the contras,'' instead of ``the mercenaries.''
el nuevo diario, in an editorial, offered a sombering note
is the mercenary directorate really disposed to fulfill the sapoa agreements?'' the editorial said. ``and if they are, are they capable of maintaing their positions while facing a negative reaction from the president of the united states?''
the cease-fire is to begin april 1, with negotiators meeting again april 6 in managua to work out a permanent truce. in the interim, a truce that took effect monday is to remain in force
president daniel ortega unexpectedly traveled to this small village on the costa rican border for the signing, which followed three days of talks
he called the plan ``a great challenge for all nicaraguans'' and called on the united states ``to support this effort and get ready to normalize its relations with nicaragua.''
i think, i hope and i believe that we have made a start, a firm start to end this war that is killing ... sons of the same country, sons of the same mothers,'' said contra leader adolfo calero
alfredo cesar, another leader of the u.s.-supported rebels, said the nine points in the agreement ``are not solely an opportunity to achieve peace and agreement, but the only opportunity.''
the agreement was made ``among nicaraguans, full of good will and confidence in the future,'' said cesar, who was among contra and sandinista leaders crowded on a makeshift dais
neither the state department nor the white house had any immediate comment on the agreement, which calls for the estimated 10,000 rebels to move into specified zones in nicaragua during the first 15 days of april. delegations from both sides will return to sapoa on monday to determine the zones
the contras also agreed to accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization. this would rule out further military aid from the united states, which president reagan has tried in vain to secure from congress. u.s. aid ended feb. 29 and a successful sandinista military offensive ensued
under the agreement, the sandinistas will on sunday release 100 contra prisoners and free half the remaining 1,400 such prisoners when contra fighters have moved into the designated zones. the remaining 700 contra prisoners will be freed when a permanent truce is in place
the 1,800 former national guardsmen in prison since the sandinistas overthrew the late president anastasio somoza in july 1979 will be released after a final truce is worked out. under somoza, the army was called the national guard
the agreement says the sandinista government will guarantee freedom of expression without restrictions, in accordance with a regional peace plan signed last august by ortega and the presidents of four other central american countries
many press liberties were barred in nicaragua for almost six years under a state-of-emergency decree that has since been lifted
the agreement says the sandinista government will grant gradual amnesty and allow all political exiles to return to the country without fear of persecution and be able to participate in the political process
the government also agreed to discuss the issue of military service in a national dialogue with the internal political opposition. the contras had sought a suspension of conscription
in managua, opposition leaders hailed the agreement
eric ramirez, president of the social christian party, said, ``it is a positive effort. hopefully, it will contribute to ending the war and to the rise of the democratization of nicaragua.''
gustavo tablada of the socialist party called the move ``a historic step ... a serious and responsible compromise.''
the agreement was signed by gen. humberto ortega, the defense minister and head of the sandinista delegation, and calero. also signing were joao baena soares, secretary-general of the organization of american states, and cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the roman catholic archbishop of managua
the secretary-general and cardinal attended the talks as witnesses
the meeting at sapoa was the first time the sandinistas and contras had met on nicaraguan soil
optic surgeons built eye sockets and an eyelid for a 7-year-old girl born with her eyes completely covered by skin, but they say they have failed in a long-shot attempt to give her sight
the surgery was unsuccessful,'' dr. allen putterman, an ophthalmologist who operated on dilek erdogan of istanbul, turkey, said late wednesday at the university of illinois hospital
surgeons hoped to implant a cornea in the little girl's right eye wednesday, but after three incisions guided by an ultrasonic scan they found no iris or pupil, putterman said. the eye appeared to be all sclera, or white. dilek's left eye is so deformed it is beyond sight, he said
putterman said doctors might make one more attempt to find the right part of the eye using magnetic resonance imaging but that it is highly unlikely the girl will ever see even partially
we are a long, long way from the needed technology,'' said a corneal transplant specialist, dr. joel sugar. ``i don't think i'll see it in my lifetime.''
the man who brought dilek to this country for surgery two years ago, chicago restaurateur ismet deletioglu, said he accepted putterman's verdict but couldn't stop hoping
the hope has to be there,'' deletioglu said. ``it's part of humanity, you know.''
dilek suffers from a rare condition callyed cryptophthalmos, or hidden eye, in which the eyes are below the skin, putterman said. she has a nose and a mouth ``and that's it for her face,'' he said
cryptopthalmos in both eyes is so rare that there are only three or four accounts of it in medical literature, putterman said
removal of the skin that had covered the girl's eyes revealed that the retina of her right eye could detect light, he said. but even if wednesday's implant had succeeded, he said, she would have been able to make out only vague forms
putterman had built sockets for both eyes and used tissue from the girl's mouth to construct a right eyelid. he is repeating the procedure for the left eye
putterman said cosmetic surgery probably will continue to make dilek's face appear more normal and that an artificial eye will be inserted in her right eye socket in the next three or four weeks. he said he plans to remove the badly scarred left eye and replace it with an artificial one in about five months
dilek's mother, guldane erdogan, 44, was silent for a few moments when she was told that her daughter probably would never see
then, through an interpreter, she thanked the doctors
i'm so thankful that these two gentlemen took the courage to even try,'' she said
she also said she was glad that the cosmetic surgery would eventually make her daughter's appearance normal
deletioglu, 44, who is from antioch, turkey, read of the girl's plight in a turkish newspaper. he has housed dilek and her mother in his home for the past two years and has held fund-raising events for the medical expenses. today. inserts 5 grafs after 10th, `we've been...' to update with seal's comment today. picks up 11th graf pvs, `he's great ....'</note>
she's $90,000 short of her fund-raising goal, but mellissa l. sanders was ready to descend from a record 516 days atop two telephone poles having gained a fiance and the pride of her pole-sitting mom
i'm going to miss the birds on my balcony and the crazy drivers going by down below,'' said miss sanders, who late this afternoon planned to climb down from the 43-foot-high shack she called home for more than 1{ years
miss sanders, interviewed today on abc's ``good morning america,'' joked that the first thing she wants to do when she climbs down is ``kiss the ground, and never leave it again. no, i don't really know.''
on feb. 25, the 19-year-old woman who had hoped to raise $100,000 for cancer research broke the 488-day mark for pole-sitting set by mark sutton of victoria, british columbia, and listed in the guinness book of world records
during that time, in which she endured two winters and many meals of pizza and submarine sandwiches, she raised $6,000
she said she stayed another month to raise more money, and reported $4,000 more in donations
even though miss sanders was far from the monetary goal, her mother, mauri rose sanders, said was still ``proud enough to burst.''
i feel like we both did it,'' said mrs. sanders, who broke a smiliar pole-sitting record in 211 days in 1959
her daughter's fiance, 25-year-old keith seal of monterey, calif., was on hand wednesday to help her prepare for her descent. they met after seal read an article about miss sanders and telephoned her. they announced their engagement in august, before meeting
we've been engaged and we haven't even gone on a date yet,'' seal said
but seal has been to the poletop abode
the first time, ``it was scary coming up here. i hate heights. but once i was up here, everything turned out fine. she's turned out better than i expected,'' seal said today on abc's ``good morning america.''
everything happened right. nothing was forced or pushed or anything. it just fell into place.''
he said a wedding date of nov. 5, 1989 _ the anniversary of the day they met _ had been discussed
he's great. he's been just great,'' said miss sanders, who grew up in tucson, ariz
her 6-by-7-by-9-foot shack was equipped with a plastic kiddie pool, television and a telephone that prompted regular $300 phone bills. for company she had her cat, pole cat
she even refused to come down last february, when 70 mph winds buffeted her during a major snowstorm
i've had mirror after mirror up here, and every one has broken almost immediately,'' she said. ``maybe that's why i've had bad luck'' in fund-raising
another bit of bad luck, her mother says, was in dealing with the man who initially sponsored the pole-sit, dick turner, as a way to advertise his restaurant, the south pole, and raise money for a charitable cause
miss sanders said she moved from arizona to do the stunt when she heard from a relative that turner was looking for a pole-sitter. miss sanders' sister, rebecca, had cancer, but her disease has been in remission four years. however, turner opted out of the project less than six months after it was started, contending the sanderses expected too much financial support and were claiming too large a percentage of the charitable proceeds
i'm glad she made it ... but she wanted to change the rules once she got up in the house,'' said turner, who plans to turn $3,300 in donations over to indiana university cancer research this week
mrs. sanders replied angrily, saying, ``we've done nothing wrong. it's just that he pulled out on mellissa.''
miss sanders said she plans to move back to arizona in may and attend a trade school
i'll miss being able to just do what i want and talk on the phone all night. i'm going to get back to nine to five,'' she said
i'm looking forward to walking around and spending time with family and friends and being able to drive my car.''
the last thing she will miss is taking a bath atop in the inflatable tub. ``i have water, but washing my hair was really difficult,'' she said
u.s. education secretary william bennett visited two schools here but said he saw nothing to change his assessment of chicago's system as the nation's worst, based on student achievement on standardized tests
of course, there are successes here. of course, there are positive things going on that deserve recognition,'' he said wednesday. ``but things are going to have to improve. we're going to need more than a few success stories.''
bennett visited an all-black elementary school in a crime-ridden neighborhood and an integrated high school at the invitation of jacqueline vaughn, president of the chicago teachers union
last fall, bennett said chicago's public schools were suffering an ``educational meltdown,'' and mrs. vaughn hoped to change his views with a look at what she called daily educational successes
bennett's first stop was mary terrell elementary school, where all the students in the upper grades are reading below their grade level, though scores have improved in the last year. the school serves the robert taylor homes, a decaying public-housing project
at william j. bogan high school in a predominantly white neighborhood, bennett visited a computer lab and an advanced algebra class where he saw a teacher he later described as excellent
bennett said he saw superb teachers at both schools and thought both had good principals. ``but two schools do not a system make. the facts remain the facts,'' he said
earlier, he had cited problems with the nation's third-largest school system that include a dropout rate approaching 50 percent and low standardized test scores. half of chicago's high schools ranked in the bottom 1 percent of u.s. schools for scores on the american college test
mrs. vaughn, sitting beside bennett at a news conference after the tour, said a recent survey showed chicago students ranked 20th out of 41 large urban school systems in scores on the scholastic aptitude test
she said a survey of 21 large urban school systems found that chicago ranked 16th for student performance on the act
americans' personal incomes rose a healthy 0.9 percent in february, the best showing in four months, while consumer spending climbed at the most rapid pace since december, the government reported today
the commerce department also said consumer spending, powered by a pickup in auto sales, advance 0.7 percent in february, a marked improvement from the 0.1 percent january increase
the rise in personal incomes followed a modest 0.3 percent january increase and was the best showing since a 1.9 percent increase in october
with incomes rising faster than spending, americans' savings rate climbed as well, rising to 5.2 percent of after-tax income last month, the highest level since october
the big gain in incomes reflected in part healthy increases in employment which occurred during february. the unemployment rate dropped to 5.7 percent last month, an 8{-year low
analysts said the new figures showed that the collapse of stock prices last october has had little impact on consumer spending decisions and provided fresh evidence that the economy should continue expanding this year with no threat of a recession
the 0.7 percent increase in personal consumption spending, the biggest advance since a 0.8 percent rise in december, which includes virtually everything except nterest payments on debt, reflected a big increase of $7.4 billion in sales of durable goods, a category which had declined $2.4 billion in january. the report said this swing came from a rebound in auto sales
purchases of non-durable goods, items not expected to last at least three years, rose $2 billion in february after having fallen $7.7 billion in january
purchases of services, which include housing costs, increased $12.4 billion following a $13.7 billion rise in january
wages and salaries, the most important segment of the income category, rose $15.4 billion in february after a $13.3 billion january increase
farm incomes increased $8.5 billion in february after a decline of $8.2 billion in janaury. the big february gain and the large january decline were both attributed to swings in government subsidy payments to farmers
disposable income, the amount left over after taxes are paid, climbed 1.1 percent in february, almost double the 0.6 percent january increase. it was the best showing since a 2.1 percent rise in october and was credited in part to individual tax cuts taking effect as part of the landmark 1986 tax overhaul legislation
the golden arches spanned the communist world for the first time as mcdonald's opened a fast-food restaurant today in the yugoslavian capital
this is just like home,'' said candace hackett of greeley, conn., an american living in belgrade who was among the first customers on opening day. ``i can't believe american hamburgers are finally here.''
police were called in to keep order as hundreds of customers waited in lines around the block at slavija, one of belgrade's main downtown squares
both the hamburger and the restaurant are fantastic, and i think yugoslavs will like them,'' said the 16-year-old dragan petrovic after eating his first big mac. five of his teen-age friends nodded in agreement
there are nearly 10,000 mcdonald's restaurants in the world, but the belgrade outlet is the first in a communist country. the american corporation plans to open five more restaurants in yugoslavia in the next five years
the new restaurant features a plush interior which can seat 350 visitors and serve up to 2,500 meals an hour, operators said. it is set in a neatly decorated, old building that has been extensively renovated with an interior of amber-colored marble floors and tables, soft illumination, pastel-colored upholstery, and modern art paintings
a big mac meal, consisting of a hamburger, coca cola and french fries, costs the equivalent of $2.57, competitive with similar foods in the city's other restaurants
the belgrade media has said the success of mcdonald's in yugoslavia depends on its acceptance by people long accustomed to a hamburger-like fast food dish called the pljeskavica
the traditional dish is made with ground pork and onions instead of the beef used in big macs and other american hamburgers. it is also served in a bun and sold throughout the country in fast-food outlets and other restaurants
in fact, this is a clash between the big mac and pljeskavica,'' said vesna milosevic, an official of genex, a yugoslav state-run enterprise that contracted the joint venture agreement with mcdonald's. they'll share profits equally, but the restaurant will be managed and run entirely by 110 yugoslavs
mcdonald's will also bump heads with other yugoslavian customs, such as the time-honored balkan tradition of lingering after meals. in the first few months of its operation, specially-trained personnel will issue warnings to loiterers, said predrag dostanic, managing director of the facility
the next eastern european mcdonald's is scheduled to open in budapest, hungary, next month, according to mcdonald's officials. instead</head>
an exiled soviet artist who painted a picture of mickey mouse partly as an expression of his love of american life has incurred the wrath of the walt disney co
artist mihail chemiakin said he wrote to disney chairman michael eisner inviting him and other company officials to see the painting ``sorokin soup,'' then on display at the bowles-sorokko gallery in beverly hills. he even suggested disney might want to buy it
instead, he said wednesday, he was answered with a march 11 legal response saying not only would disney not accept his invitation to look or buy, the company objected to the gallery display and to any attempts to sell the painting because the face of mickey mouse belongs to disney alone
it is sad and ironic that an artist who was forced out of the soviet union because of political censorship for his artwork would come into the west ... and be hit by censorship here,'' gallery co-owner serge sorokko said wednesday
the painting since has been taken down, said sorokko, who called from san francisco, where he co-owns another gallery
sorokko said the new york-based artist chose the image of mickey mouse more as a tribute to the late artist andy warhol, who reveled in pop icons, and certainly not to rip off the good disney name
mickey mouse is a symbol of america. ... their approach is just totally ludicrous,'' he said
chemiakin, who came to the united states in 1978, is known for creating a painting style called ``metaphysical synthesis,'' which combines images from various cultures and times, sorokko said
he was exiled from the soviet union in 1971, according to information released by his publicist here. he had been accepted at the soviet's repin academy of art at age 14, but was thrown out two years later for failing to conform to the traditional ``socialist realism'' style of painting
recently though, chemiakin has been invited back to the soviet union to display his work, sorokko said. update with more arrests.</note>
about 400 people decrying what they called a lack of government concern about aids demonstrated today in the city's financial district, and 105 protesters were arrested when they blocked the streets
we're protesting the same thing we've been protesting for the past year, lack of government oversight of the whole aids predicament, the whole aids crisis,'' said david erwin, a founder of act up _ the aids coalition to unleash power
most of the demonstrators circled inside police barriers on the sidewalk at broadway and wall street as wall street workers headed to their offices. then, 19 protesters, one in a wheelchair, formed a line across broadway. they were arrested and placed on a police bus, but 19 more people sat down in the street to block the bus. they too were arrested, as was a third group of 11 who also tried to stop the bus
others were arrested after they tried to block nearby intersections
inspector robert baumert said the protesters would be charged with disorderly conduct, blocking vehicular traffic and resisting arrest. reaction. a longer version moved on the financial wire.</note>
northwest airlines' bold step in banning smoking on most of its flights is not expected to be followed soon by other major u.s. airlines, industry analysts say
northwest, the nation's fifth-largest airline, announced wednesday it will prohibit smoking on all its domestic flights except those to and from hawaii and on some foreign routes
the ban makes eagan, minn.-based northwest the first major u.s. airline to mandate a smoke-free environment, surpassing federal regulations that on april 23 outlaw smoking on all domestic flights less than two hours
it does run the risk of some loss of business,'' said james v. cammisa, publisher of travel industry indicators, a new york-based newsletter. ``i guess they (northwest officials) really stuck their neck out.''
wall street seemed unimpressed by northwest's move. the airline's stock closed on wall street at $45.75 a share, down 12{ cents from tuesday
several smokers waiting to depart on northwest flights wednesday from minneapolis-st. paul international airport said they don't object to the smoking ban
it's probably a good idea,'' said janice davis, a boston real estate broker. ``i can get by without smoking.''
some northwest flight attendants who are smokers said the new policy might help them quit smoking, the st. paul pioneer press-dispatch reported today
the new policy, ``northwest clears the air,'' takes effect april 23 with the new federal regulations. it applies to flights within the contiguous 48 states and to and from alaska, mexico, canada, jamaica and the cayman islands
the longest flights covered by the smoking ban are four or five hours, the airline said. about 30 percent of northwest's domestic flights and about 20 percent of all domestic flights last more than the two-hour federal duration. northwest flights to and from hawaii and overseas will offer smoking sections because those flights ``carry a greater proportion of foreign passengers who feel differently about the issue,'' the airline said
a.b. magary, northwest's marketing chief, said the ban accedes to passenger and employee requests. the policy is not risk-free, he said, but ``we believe more nonsmokers will switch to northwest than smokers will leave.''
that wasn't the case for muse air corp. of dallas, a regional carrier that failed to establish itself as the only non-smoking airline in 1985. its research showed the policy diverted as many as 35 percent of potential fliers
surveys showed customers find ``price, convenience and service more important than non-smoking'' in an airline, muse spokeswoman shari cohen said at the time. the policy ended when muse was sold to southwest airlines co
no. 2 american airlines is watching northwest's lead but, ``we have no plans to follow that move,'' said american spokeswoman mary o'neill. its surveys indicate a significant number of people want to smoke on planes
american and other big airlines contacted wednesday said their no-smoking policies would meet the new federal law, which mandates civil fines of as much as $1,000 for smoking, $2,000 for tampering with lavatory smoke alarms
we are ready to implement our no-smoking policy ... in line with the federal law,'' said dan sheehy spokesman for united airline, the nation's largest airline
airline analyst anthony hatch of argus research corp., said he did not expect other carriers to match northwest's policy. ``it's a gutsy move and most airlines don't make gutsy moves,'' he said. ``it could alienate some people.''
the alienated include the great american smoker's club of dallas, which on april 22 offers smoking flights and the same fares as southwest airlines from dallas to such cities as austin, houston, new orleans and oklahoma city
using leased planes from las vegas-based royal west airlines, the club hopes to serve 63 cities from five hubs with 60 planes in two years, said club president glenn herndon
when the smoking ban begins, we want to offer smokers an alternative _ and, hopefully, make some money,'' he said. non-smokers will be allowed on board, but they will have to be ``tolerant,'' the club says
the new president of the southern baptist alliance says he intends to continue working within the southern baptist convention, though he says his group is taking on the appearance of a separate denomination
the alliance represents a moderate group within the 14.7 million-member convention, which is dominated by fundamentalists
we are not a fringe group, we are not an avant garde faction of the southern baptist convention,'' the rev. john thomason said wednesday. ``the great majority of sba members are denominational loyalists.''
thomason said, however, that the alliance may appear to be headed toward denominational status because of its publishing activities and its discussions concerning the possible need for a new seminary or divinity school
whenever we take specific steps like that, we are acting independently of the institutions of the southern baptist convention and that gives the appearance of independence, but it is not our desire to forge a permanent split with the sbc,'' thomason said
nevertheless, he said, the alliance has to be an ``advocate for groups and causes we feel are disenfranchised. ... if this means acting independently of the existing agencies and channels of sbc life, then for the time being, we are willing to do that.''
thomason is pastor of the 561-member northminster baptist church in jackson, miss., the third church to join the alliance after its formation in february 1987. the alliance has grown from 22 founders to more than 25,000 members, including 40 churches in 11 states and more than 2,000 individual members
the fundamentalists have gained control of the southern baptist convention hierarchy by electing their presidential candidates for the past nine years. the president has broad appointive powers, naming hundreds of people annually to various baptist institutions, including the boards of the six seminaries and the five major operating agencies of the denomination
while both groups generally are conservative, they disagree on key issues, including biblical inerrancy and ordination of women. fundamentalists, who oppose ordination of women, say the bible is without factual error, not only in matters of faith but also in science and history. moderates maintain there is room for interpretation, especially in non-religious areas. pvs, a survey</note>
the federal election commission today agreed to grant federal matching funds to the presidential campaign of political extremist lyndon larouche, who is standing trial on a charge relating to alleged irregularity in his 1984 campaign
the commission on a 5-1 vote said that larouche has fulfilled the requirements for eligibility to receive matching funds
commissioner joan aikens, voting against the majority, said that an fec survey of larouche contributors raised ``a question of patent irregularity'' in fund raising
but commissioner scott thomas said there was not enough evidence to deny certification, and he added, ``presidential candidates and campaigns can come in many different shapes and colors.''
a survey by the fec's audit staff found that several people whose checks ended up in larouche's 1988 presidential coffers did not intend to contribute to his campaign
that was the response of 6 percent of the 713 larouche contributors who answered the fec's survey
in describing the responses, the fec audit staff wrote in a report:
many of the responses included unsolicited written comments wherein the individuals described instances where he@she 1. felt pressured into making a contribution, 2. made contributions believing that the contribution was for a specific purpose other than furthering lyndon h. larouche jr.'s presidential nomination campaign, 3. made loans to the campaign, and 4. had contributed to a number of larouche's interests, while making all checks payable to ldc.''
the audit staff recommended the commission find that larouche is not eligible for matching funds
but the fec's legal staff came up with the opposite recommendation, stating that the ``patent irregularities indicated by the survey results do not justify an unfavorable eligibility report.''
the commission was expected to make its decision at a meeting early today
fec legal counsel lawrence noble's written opinion said some of the responding contributors seemed confused, or contributed to larouche thinking he was a republican or independent candidate instead of a democrat, which he is. those responses should not have been considered negative, noble said, because the donors did apparently intend to give money to a presidential campaign
the auditors contacted 1,062 of those contributors, after finding that some of the checks he submitted with his application for federal matching funds were made out simply to the initials ``l.d.c.''
in some cases, those initials were written over the initials ``sdi.'' and some checks contained memo notations regarding aids or sdi _ which generally refers to president reagan's strategic defense initiative _ indicating the donors may not have intended to give money to a presidential campaign, but to one of those causes
some contributors contacted by the associated press said they were under the impression they were contributing to an anti-aids campaign when they gave checks to larouche solicitors
while the survey results raise serious questions regarding whether contributions submitted by the larouche campaign were made with the requisite donative intent, they do not show a clear pattern of fraud or patent irregularities,'' noble wrote. he also said the percent of negative responses _ 39 out of 713 _ was ``arguably small.''
nonetheless, the counsel recommended that the commission take special precautions in approving larouche's submissions for matching funds. instead of the usual five-day approval period, a review period of 25 days should be allowed for the larouche submissions to give the fec staff time to check for irregularities in the checks before giving him any money, the counsel recommended
the recommendation also suggests that any checks written out simply to ldc, or those with memo notations ``indicating lack of donative intent'' should be automatically declared unmatchable
to be certified for matching funds, a candidate must raise $100,000 across 20 states in individual contributions of $250 or less. after becoming eligible, the candidates can receive matching funds for each contribution of $250 or less that they raise privately
larouche is on trial in boston, charged with conspiracy to obstruct a grand jury investigation into alleged credit card fraud and other irregularities in his 1984 campaign
yugoslavia's ruling body today called for the first time for a ``radical'' reduction of state interference in the economy as a way to solve the nation's worst economic and political crisis in history
the lengthy statement from the presidency also urged new regulations on joint ventures with foreign partners, more private business in the nation's economy and changes in the tax policy which would stimulate economic growth
the unusual statement, carried by the official tanjug news agency, marked the first time yugoslavia's ruling body had called for changes in the running of the economy of this nonaligned communist nation
the statement appeared designed to give guidance to the government for tackling the economic and political problems expected to arise when a wage and price freeze imposed last november expires in may
there have been increasing calls for the state and the communist party to relinquish control of the economy
with the current annual inflation rate of around 170 percent and a foreign debt exceeding $20 billion, yugoslavia is faced with its worst economic and political crisis in history
the presidency demanded that ``a program of measures and activities'' be made by the federal government to strengthen market forces and called for ``radical reduction of state regulations ... in order to overcome the dominating role of the politics over the economy.''
the statement said the implementation of this program is of ``prime interest'' and should be monitored by the presidencies of yugoslavia's six constituent republics and two autonomous provinces
critics of yugoslavia's unique system of self-management, whereby factories, farms and offices are nominally run by the workers, say the system is hampered by interference from the state and the communist party
the government last year imposed a series of price and wage freezes in an attempt to control inflation and stabilize sinking living standards. however, 1987 saw a record 1,500 strikes as workers protested low wages
the government of yugoslav premier branko mikulic has recently faced sharp criticism even in the state-run press for its economic policies. there have been repeated calls for the premier and his cabinet to step down _ something that has never happened in communist yugoslavia
the statement by the presidency said such calls ``represent an unacceptable political campaign'' that hurts the government's domestic and foreign activities
the presidency demanded, without specifying, an ``urgent'' passing of new joint venture laws
according to current law provisions, foreign companies can own no more than 51 percent shares in their joint ventures with yugoslav enterprises and have no right to manage the companies
the current law attracted little investment by foreign partners since the unstable economic situation in this balkan country frightens off possible investors
according to a draft of a new joint venture law, which has been waiting for a long time to be passed by the parliament, foreign partners may be allowed to hold up to 99.9 percent of shares in joint ventures and the right to manage such companies
the ruling body also called for ``substantial'' reduction of administrative curbs on private business and changes in the income tax policy. back to zeebrugge and restores dropped word `the' in 2nd graf. picks up 3rd graf, `coast guards ...</note>
a blaze erupted today in the engine room of a british ferry shortly after it left the belgian port of zeebrugge with 348 people aboard, but tugs towed the ship to port and no one was injured
p and o, owners of the 18,000-ton nordic, said the two-hour fire wrecked the ferry's power system
coast guards called a major alert after the nordic, on a six-hour english channel crossing from zeebrugge to the english port of felixstowe, reported fire aboard 30 minutes before it had been due to dock
the nordic, surrounded by a flotilla of tugs and life boats, was stranded for several hours five miles off the coast before tugs got the vessel under tow and brought it to felixstowe, in southeast england
three life boats were dispatched and a helicopter was put on standby,'' said john davies, coast guard spokesman at the nearby port of harwich
a p and o spokesman said the fire was put out by automatic firefighting equipment and the crew. the fire was confined to the engine room
everyone on board was very calm and there was no danger to anyone,'' said p and o spokesman chris lamming
last march, another p and o ferry, the herald of free enterprise, capsized after leaving zeebrugge, killing 193 people
a man being sought today for questioning in his 5-year-old daughter's death was previously accused of abusing the girl but the charge was dropped for lack of evidence, court records show
police want to question ibrahim thiab mubarak, 38, a substitute teacher, about the death of julianna cathleen olson, whose decomposed body was found in his deserted apartment
an autopsy conducted wednesday showed evidence of trauma but a ruling on the cause of death was awaiting further tests, said deputy coroner chuck bolton
based on preliminary findings, however, ``this case is being handled as a homicide,'' bolton said
in january 1986, mubarak had been charged with one count of felony child abuse and one count of assault after the child was hospitalized. the charge was dismissed later in the year
mubarak obtained cstody of the girl after his ex-wife, cathleen olson, died in 1983. the couple had been married briefly in 1981, separating after three weeks
last fall, mubarak won a custody dispute involving the child's grandmother, betty olson of san diego
in awarding custody, superior court judge napoleon jones expressed concern about reports in court files and ordered that no corporal punishment was to be used on the child
betty olson continued to seek custody of the child, said her attorney, kathryn ashworth
she's absolutely devastated,'' ashworth said. ``i'm pretty devastated too. she was a lovely, charming little 5-year-old girl.''
julianna's body was found tuesday in the two-bedroom apartment by nita morin, who manages the seven-unit building. deputy coroner penne hammerstead said that the girl had been dead for more than a week. with persian gulf incident. pick up 6th graf: ``iran also...''</note>
iran and iraq fired eight missiles into each others' capitals today, and tehran claimed new victories in heavy fighting in northeastern iraq
iraq said it fired six long-range missiles into tehran at a rate of one a minute in retaliation for iranian artillery bombardment of iraqi cities. iraq said it was destroying tehran ``piece by piece.''
iran reported at least 10 civilians dead and 100 wounded after the missiles hit two schools, two mosques and two hospitals as well as shops and houses
iran's official islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, cyprus, said iranian revolutionary guards fired two missiles into baghdad in reprisal
there was no immediate confirmation of those missile strikes from the iraqi capital
in the persian gulf today, a ship put out a distress signal and appeared to be the victim of an iranian attack, maritime salvage executives said
the executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the friendship reported its engine room was on fire. if it was the victim of iranian attack, it would be iran's 10th attack on neutral shipping in the gulf since last friday
iran also claimed its troops routed two iraqi commando brigades and four armored battalions early today and advanced to within five miles of the mountain town of sayyid sadiq. the reports came in the latest phase of iran's 9-day-old offensive into northeastern iraq
iran said today's ground assault retaliated for iraqi chemical bomb attacks last week that killed 5,000 iraqi kurds whose hometowns were overrun by iranian troops fighting with the autonomy-seeking kurds
tehran's news agency said the iranians repulsed a counterattack by iraq's 5th army corps, killing or wounding 1,000 iraqis, capturing 400 and knocking out 30 tanks and armored vehicles
but the official iraqi news agency, also monitored in cyprus, said ``thousands of iranians were killed'' in artillery barrages and air strikes
the charlatan regime in tehran is reaping today the harvest of its crimes,'' said an iraqi military communique broadcast by the agency
iranian jets flew 14 ground attack missions against iraqi forces in the battle zone and shot down an iraqi warplane, tehran's news agency said. it said ground fire downed an iraqi helicopter gunship, but baghdad denied losing any aircraft
iraq has said it has fired 42 al hussein missiles into tehran since march 15 in what is known as the ``war of the cities.'' iran has retaliated by lobbing 14 missiles into the iraqi capital, which has a population of 5 million
scores of other cities on both sides have been hit with missiles, air raids and shellfire, with hundreds of civilians killed or wounded on both sides
the iranian news agency said the latest phase of the offensive, the heaviest fighting in the northern part of the 730-mile front, was launched in retaliatiation for iraqi chemical bomb attacks on halabja, khormal and dojaila, three of the kurdish towns captured last week
the iranians claimed the poison gas attacks killed 5,000 kurdish civilians and injured 5,000. western reporters flown to halabja by the iranians this week reported seeing hundreds of dead civilians there with no obvious wounds
the correspondents reported that many people had died of asphyxiation in their homes. survivors were seen suffering from burns consistent with poison gas
u.s. state department spokesman charled redman charged in washington wednesday that iraq had used chemical weapons, banned under a 1925 geneva agreement, and urged the united nations security council to mount an international protest
declaring the iraqi action ``a particularly grave violation'' of the geneva protocol, redman said there was evidence the iraqis had also fired chemical shells into iran
the iranian news agency said earlier this week that iraqi warplanes had dropped chemical bombs, believed to contain mustard or phosgene gas, on eight towns in northwest iran, causing scores of civilian casualties. picks up 7th graf, `feldman said ...</note>
an israeli court today convicted former nuclear technician mordechai vanunu of treason and espionage for telling a british newspaper his country possessed nuclear weapons. he could receive a life prison term
the verdict, read behind closed doors in a courtroom with boarded-up windows, climaxed the saga of the 34-year-old israeli who said he revealed his country's nuclear secrets for the good of mankind
mordechai is not desperate. he still wants to fight,'' said defense attorney avigdor feldman as he emerged from the five-minute session. he said vanunu sat silently as the verdict was announced, showing little emotion
i guess it was kind of inevitable,'' said vanunu's younger brother, asher, who was not permitted into the secret proceedings. ``but i'm surprised they convicted him for treason.''
vanunu was hustled into the courtroom more than an hour before the session, amid the same tight security that accompanied the trial since it began in september. the three-judge panel had refused an open trial, saying it would harm state security
prosecutor uzi chasson said he would ask the court for a life term, which in israel is limited to 20 years. sentencing is scheduled sunday
feldman said he would appeal the verdict to israel's high court of justice
vanunu, a former technician at israel's nuclear facility in dimona and a jewish-born convert to christianity, was charged with treason and espionage for describing israel's nuclear capacity in an interview with the sunday times of london. based on vanunu's information, the newspaper concluded israel had stockpiled the world's sixth largest nuclear arsenal
israel has never responded directly to allegations of its nuclear capacity, saying only it would not be the first country to introduce nuclear weapons into the middle east
vanunu has insisted he made his revelations to alert the middle east and the world to the dangers of nuclear weapons. the state argued he intended to harm israel's security
feldman said earlier he thought vanunu had been given a fair hearing, but complained about ``an atmosphere of guilt, with all the attention and the crazy precautions taken around him.''
each day of the trial, vanunu was taken to the jerusalem district courthouse from his jail in central israel in a white van with painted-over windows
his head was often covered with a motorcycle helmet to prevent contact with waiting reporters, and police cars blared sirens as he was hustled indoors
in prison, vanunu has been held in near isolation, permitted to see only his attorney and relatives. at one point, he went on a hunger strike to demand the right to see his american girlfriend, judy zimet
vanunu's mysterious saga began in 1985 when he was fired from the dimona nuclear center in southern israel, where he worked for nine years. he went to australia, where he became acquainted with a priest and converted to christianity
vanunu later traveled to london, but disappeared in october 1986, just days before the sunday times published his revelations. israeli officials acknowledged several weeks later he was in custody in israel
details of vanunu's dramatic journey back to israel were revealed by his brother, meir, who said vanunu was lured from london to rome by an american woman named cindy, who promised him sex. in rome, he was abducted by israeli agents and spirited home, meir said
at a pre-trial court appearance, vanunu managed to flash reporters a message scribbled on his hand which told of the alleged abduction. the incident led to increased security precautions
during the trial, feldman presented witnesses who said vanunu had not harmed state security because the information he revealed was already available in the academic world
other defense witnesses testified vanunu's revelations actually bolstered israel's security because they created the impression among the country's arab enemies that israel was a nuclear power, providing a deterrent effect
feldman argued alternatively that if israel had nuclear weapons, it was acting outside international supervision, a position that was morally and legally unsound
in a surprise move, he also subpoenaed foreign minister shimon peres and senior legislator abba eban in an effort to show israel's leaders kept the decision to build nuclear weapons from the parliament and the people, thereby violating israeli law
authorities will ask gov. bob martinez to appoint a special prosecutor to handle the case of an assistant state attorney who police say tried to bully an officer into letting her go
chief assistant state atorney mack futch also said he is suspending jan bamping until state attorney frank schaub returns next week from vacation and reviews his decision
police say ms. bamping, 32, and a passenger, assistant state attorney jerry blevins, 27, threatened an officer in an attempt to avoid getting into trouble, the bradenton herald reported wednesday
their car had been pulled over by bradenton beach patrolman ron robertson early sunday after a 1{-mile chase at speeds of up to 90 mph, police reports said
robertson said he believed ms. bamping had been drinking, but didn't order her from the car for a sobriety test because she was naked from the waist down
when he asked ms. bamping why she was partially nude, robertson said, she became upset and answered that it's ``not against the law to drive nude.''
robertson charged ms. bamping with fleeing to elude an officer and improper passing
she threatened (his job) right away,'' said acting police chief bill tillner. ``in my opinion, (blevins) did try to influence the officer with his position.''
she said because she was with the state attorney's office, she should not be treated like this,'' robertson said. ``i told her she had no right to endanger other people because of her job.''
ms. bamping demanded his name and identification number and said ``she would see me in court,'' he said
robertson's back-up officer, patrolman john cosby, confirmed robertson's account, tillner said
no charges were brought against blevins
ms. bamping's telephone number is not published, and she could not be located for comment. the herald also said it had been unable to reach her
but blevins told the herald: ``i don't think we did anything improper as far as using this office.''
ms. bamping's case was scheduled for may 11 in traffic court
the lawyer for a man charged with sexually assaulting his daughter says the allegations are more of the same from the man's ex-wife, who last year went to jail rather than let him visit their children
mark russell murabito, 33, of derry pleaded innocent wednesday in rockingham county superior court to the charge of felonious sexual assault. bail was set at $5,000 personal recognizance on the condition that murabito have no contact with the daughter, now 5, or her 3{-year-old brother
murabito since march 1987 has had unsupervised visits with the children, after a judge found no evidence to back jesse murabito's claims that murabito sexually abused their daughter
a grand jury last week indicted murabito based on events since the judge's decision, county attorney carleton eldredge said
after wednesday's arraignment, raymond kellett, murabito's lawyer, said the charge ``is simply an extension of the divorce proceedings ... the same type of thing that the court has already ruled on in hearings last year.''
i am fairly convinced by the evidence, or i wouldn't have gone to the grand jury, that these children are being sexually abused,'' eldredge said, adding that he has an ``obligation, in my job and my conscience, to alleviate that situation.''
eldredge blamed the media for ruining any chance he would have had to negotiate an out-of-court agreement with murabito that would result in ``long-term meaningful protection of the children without public fanfare or trial.''
in march 1987, superior court judge douglas gray ruled after a seven-day civil hearing that mrs. murabito and the experts she marshaled had not proved murabito sexually abused the girl
in a 19-page divorce decree, gray admonished both parents to stop ``tearing (the children) to pieces'' and gave murabito unsupervised visits, alternating weekends and holidays, as well as two weeks each summer
gray did not return a telephone call seeking comment on wednesday
a month before the divorce hearing, gray had jailed mrs. murabito for a week _ and gave murabito temporary custody _ when she refused to obey a court order to let her husband see the children during supervised visits. gray released her after she agreed
sen. joseph r. biden jr., d-del., left the hospital today, smiling, joking and saying he feels better than he looks
i've decided to re-enter the race for president,'' he joked. the senator dropped out of the democratic race last fall
biden had been in walter reed army hospital for 11 days so surgeons could implant a small umbrella-like filter in a vein to prevent blood clots from reaching his lungs
a clot formed in the wake of surgery biden had on feb. 12 to correct the ballooning of an artery that supplied blood to his brain
he was to have a second operation for a similar but smaller aneurysm on the other side of his head but instead returned to walter reed on march 13 and doctors discovered a blood clot in his lung
the clot itself was absorbed into the body without any damage, a hospital spokesman said, but to prevent any further problems a team of doctors last friday inserted a tiny filter in a major vein. the small device was implanted in the vena cava, an area just below the breast bone
biden said doctors will allow him to work two to four hours a day at home in delaware and that he should walk as exercise
he said that for the first time in years his waist size is 34
a judge has blocked the ku klux klan from holding a rally in a predominantly black neighborhood, citing zoning laws that prohibit public gatherings without special permission
we consider (the klan) similar to clubs and other organizations such as churches or synagogues'' which cannot hold public gatherings in residential areas without special permits, said superior court judge william fleming
fleming on wednesday enjoined the klan from holding a rally and cross-burning friday in the yard of robert long, grand dragon of the christian knights of the ku klux klan
the judge ruled that the gathering was public because klan members had distributed flyers inviting the public
the group could ask for a special exemption from the zoning board, but long said the rally will be moved instead
the richmond county commission and sheriff charles webster had gone to court to oppose the rally
last april, county investigators interrupted a cross-burning in long's yard and filed charges of terroristic threats and acts against 13 people, including long. that case is pending
twenty-eight current and former health inspectors were named in complaints today accusing them of extorting hundreds of thousands of dollars from restaurants to ignore sanitary code violations, authorities say
the charges in the federal complaint involve at least one-third of the city health department's inspection force of 70 and 300 restaurants in all five boroughs, u.s. attorney andrew j. maloney of brooklyn said in a news release
the arrests this morning culminated a three-year undercover investigation by the fbi, the city department of investigation and the u.s. attorney's office. this week agents confronted a number of suspects to get them to wear microphones to gather evidence against the leaders of the bribery ring
a report today in the new york daily news said the operation was code-named alternatively ``operation kitchen'' and ``operation fork-it-over.''
the restaurants paid the bribes to avoid citations for violations either real or invented, authorities said. the names of the restaurants were not made public, but they ranged from fast food restaurants to famous eateries, they said
the investigation also found that on-site inspectors split their take with supervisors, who allegedly would punish inspectors who were reluctant to share the extortion money with them, authorities said
in one incident, inspectors demanded $1,400 from a restaurant owner so his restaurant would not be closed for serious health violations, according to the news release. in another, inspectors charged a restaurant $1,200 to allow it to reopen despite serious violations
payoffs reached hundreds of thousands of dollars altogether. the news said the restaurant owners are considered extortion victims and are not being charged
inspectors and supervisors are paid $25,000 to $30,000 annually by the city. more than 15,000 food establishments are inspected each year for compliance with health and cleanliness standards
four military leaders imprisoned for an alleged coup attempt against mao tse-tung in 1971 have been released, a government spokesman said today
all four were top assistants to defense minister lin piao during the ultra-leftist cultural revolution that began in 1966, and all were convicted of aiding him in an aborted attempt to murder mao and seize power
the releases leave only the ``gang of four'' still in prison from among the 10 fallen cultural revolution power brokers convicted in 1981 after a lengthy show trial
lin was mao's designated successor, a key creator of the mao cult and author of the ``little red book'' of quotations from mao. he allegedly died in a plane crash in mongolia while fleeing arrest
zeng tao, a spokesman for the national people's congress, china's legislature, disclosed the releases at a news conference
he said former air force commander wu faxian, former navy political commissar li zuopeng and former army gen. jiang tengjiao were released on bail for medical treatment, but he did not say when or disclose the nature of their illnesses
qiu huizuo, former director of the military's general logistics department, completed his 16-year term in september and was released, zeng said
he did not explain why as recently as january, the ministry of public security insisted that all four former military leaders remained in prison. wu's and li's terms end this year, while jiang's ends in 1989
zeng said two of the gang of four members _ mao's widow jiang qing and former vice premier zhang chunqiao _ were being treated in prison for unspecified ``geriatric diseases.'' jiang qing is 74 and zhang is 70
the gang of four, which also included former politburo members wang hongwen and yao wenyuan, was accused of ordering illegal arrests during the decade-long cultural revolution and trying to seize total power after mao's death in 1976
their arrest shortly after mao died marked the end of the cultural revolution, an era of bloody persecutions of intellectuals and anyone suspected of lacking revolutionary fervor. legislation</head>
landmark aids legislation described by sponsors as a model for america has gone into effect in washington, aimed at protecting the disease's victims and stopping its spread
the measure, funded by an appropriation of more than $5 million, will tackle the killer disease through education, testing, counseling, civil rights protection, and prosecution of people who intentionally spread acquired immune deficiency syndrome
gov. booth gardner signed the bill wednesday and it took effect immediately
we must recognize that aids is only beginning to take its toll on human life and in costs to our society. by acting now, especially with a strong public education program, we hope to save many of our citizens' lives,'' the governor said
key provisions of the measure are:
_a 10-year prison sentence for intentionally spreading the aids virus
_mandatory aids education in grades 5 through 12 and availability in colleges and trade schools. mandatory aids training for all public school personnel, emergency services crews and health professionals
_mandatory testing and counseling for all convicted of sex crimes, prostitution or intravenous drug use. violent prison inmates would be tested at the request of the prison and approval of the local health officer
_a procedure is created for confronting, examining, detaining and confining infected individuals who refuse to modify their behavior so they don't pose a threat to others. due process protections are provided
_regional service networks will be set up in the six most populous counties by oct. 1
_those who carry the aids virus, or who are perceived to have it, will be protected from discrimination
jule sugarman, head of the department of social and health services, said he already had followed the bill's directive and created a new office on aids. he said he began to confer with county health officials on setting up regional aids service centers across washington
those centers will do the mandatory and voluntary aids testing, counseling, public education, and outreach to ``street kids'' and other target populations. they also will plan and coordinate services to aids patients, develop volunteer networks and notify partners of infected people
this bill will make an enormous difference,'' said jim holm of the privacy lobby and the gay rights dorian group. ``we've taken a step toward making it safe to know your antibody status, whether you're at risk, and safe to seek public health (services)
in this state we've finally said civil rights and public health go hand-in-hand.''
the important thing is that we did get a statewide policy on aids,'' said state sen. alex deccio, co-sponsor of the measure. ``it's the first omnibus bill of its kind in the country, so i guess it's the best available.''
checks that disintegrate into confetti shortly after being deposited have cost banks nearly $50,000 this year, the chicago clearing house association says
it warned banks this week to be on the lookout for dissolving checks, and the fbi has been asked to determine whether the chemical used to destroy the checks is harmful to humans
northern trust bank has been hit by a number of the checks, an association memo says
in one case, a northern customer deposited a $4,000 check in a savings account on feb. 16, then withdrew the same amount a week later from one of the bank's branch offices, the memo said
the $4,000 check was returned to northern in a check carrier on march 2, but by then it had been ``reduced to mere confetti, small bits of paper that appeared to be treated with chemicals that caused the paper to break into pieces to a point where it was impossible to identify any information on the check,'' the memo said. vote</head>
a union negotiating committee has voted to submit a tentative contract for ratification by northwest airlines' 6,500 flight attendants, says a teamsters official
the 15-member committee met at teamsters headquarters in bloomington and approved the vote wednesday night, said jeff musto, a teamsters spokesman
my personal feeling is that yes, they will ratify it,'' musto said
it will take about 30 days to complete the vote, he said
musto declined to release details of the tentative accord, although he earlier confirmed that the contract will require all flight attendants to join the union
both sides said the march 29 strike deadline, set by the flight attendants last week, provided the impetus for an agreement
the key issue has been northwest's two-tier wage structure. the airline had proposed extending the lower-paid, b-scale to eight years from the current five years
b-scale flight attendants said the airline was trying to break a promise that they would earn a-scale wages after five years
the star tribune of minneapolis, citing unidentified sources, reported today that the tentative agreement calls for b-scale employees to move up after seven years
a man whose conviction on a charge of failing to comply with peacetime draft registration rules was overturned says he has spent quite enough time in jail
i think there's a strong argument to be made that the government should not retry this case at all, since i've already served more time than most people convicted of failing to register,'' said gillam kerley, whose conviction was thrown out wednesday by the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals
kerly served four months of his sentence
the appeals court ruled that u.s. district judge john shabaz gave the jury flawed instructions
shabaz sentenced kerley to three years in prison and fined him $10,000, one of the most severe sentences in a draft case since the vietnam war
u.s. attorney patrick fiedler said he would review the decision before deciding whether to seek a new trial
kerley pleaded ``not guilty by reason of sanity'' in 1982 to a federal indictment for failing to register. he fought the government for 4{ years as his own attorney before being convicted last april. 0620</first> gephardt's...</note>
richard gephardt will end his campaign for the democratic presidential nomination and file for re-election to his missouri house seat if he doesn't win the michigan caucuses on saturday, a campaign aide said today
speaking on the condition of anonymity, the aide said gephardt would probably announce the end of his campaign on monday and file for re-election to his house seat by the tuesday afternoon deadline
he will be out if he doesn't win in michigan,'' said the aide
while gephardt's spokesmen officially denied any decision has been made, the congressman's wife told a radio interviewer that the end may be near
i think dick has to come in first or a real strong second to remain in the race, because at some point if you don't do well here, it becomes difficult to raise money,'' she told wtvb radio in coldwater, mich. ``dick's message will be very popular in the industrial states, but if we don't do well here, we will not be able to continue.''
gephardt is running third in the polls in michigan behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson. gephardt is badly in need of a win after a weak showing in the super tuesday contests earlier this month
the aide also said some consideration was being given to gephardt's ending his presidential bid even if he wins in michigan
only as rep. gephardt can he raise the money to pay off the debts'' from the presidential campaign, the aide said
spokesmen for gephardt denied that a decision has been made
this notion that the decision has been made before the results are in is false,'' said mark johnson in washingon
johnson also said that the campaign ``does not have a large debt. we have virtually no bank debt. ... we have some vendor debts.''
there's never been any question that if the presidential effort was not successful that dick would probably run for his house seat,'' said ali webb, gephardt spokeswoman in detroit. ``he's going to pursue his political agenda and his issues for this country from the house, if not from the presidency. but right now, he's running for president.''
publicly, gephardt on wednesday refused to link his showing in michigan to his candidacy
asked if his saturday's results would make or break his campaign, gephardt said, ``that's unthinkable.''
all decisions are made in due time,'' he said
earlier, a st. louis democratic leader said a weekend meeting was scheduled among the democratic contenders for gephardt's congressional seat
the dallas times herald reported today that the participants at that meeting would be told gephardt was preparing to seek re-election to the house instead of the white house
we're getting the major candidates together and talking about procedure and unity, said the democratic leader, tony ribaudo. ``that's normal in st. louis politics. i don't know what dick gephardt's going to do.''
state rep. philip barry of st. louis county, one of the leading contenders for the congressional seat, told the times herald the meeting would be attended by six candidates who have filed for gephardt's seat, plus a st. louis alderman who is expected to file if gephardt decides not to seek re-election
one of the candidates, george kerry, an administrative aide in gephardt's st. louis office, told the assoiated press wednesday night that he knew nothing of the meeting
kerry, who has said he would drop out of the race if gephardt files for re-election, said he understood gephardt was waiting to see how he fared in michigan on saturday before making a decision
the nation's federally insured savings institutions lost $3.2 billion in the last three months of 1987, pushing the industry's losses for the year to a post-depression record of $6.8 billion, the government said today
the industry, composed of 3,147 thrift institutions, had earned $132 million a year earlier. the 1987 loss was nearly 50 percent greater than the previous record of $4.6 billion, set in 1981, when the prime lending rate soared above 20 percent
the fourth quarter loss compared to a loss of $1.8 billion in the third quarter, 1.9 billion in the spring quarter and a profit of $100 million in the first three months of 1987
james barth, chief economist of the federal home loan bank board, which released the figures, said losses were heavily concentrated in the southwest, which is dependent on the ailing oil and gas industry
sixty-six percent of the institutions nationwide reported a total profit of $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter, while the 1,058 unprofitable s&amp;ls lost $4.5 billion in all
for the year, the profitable two-thirds of the industry earned $6.6 billion, which was more than offset by the $13.4 billion deficit of the money-losing s&amp;ls
the percentage of the industry earning a profit has steadily declined for two years, from 81 percent in the first quarter of 1986 to 66 percent at the end of last year
barth said the worst 20 institutions _ most of them in the southwest _ lost a total of $2.1 billion in the final quarter of last year, accounting for two-thirds of the overall industry loss
barth said 345 of the s&amp;ls were insolvent at the end of 1987 under regulatory accounting principles and 510 were insolvent under the stricter, generally accepted accounting principles that will be used beginning next year
an institution is considered insolvent when its loans and other assets are worth less than what it owes to depositors and other creditors
the federal savings and loan insurance corp., the fund backing deposits up to $100,000 in federally insured s&amp;ls, has been hampered in closing insolvent s&amp;ls by lack of money. congress in august authorized a three-year, $10.8 billion recapitalization
last month, the bank board announced a plan to spend $6 billion to $7 billion in insurance fund money to close insolvent texas institutions or merge them into healthier s&amp;ls. the bank board is still accepting applications from private investors to participate in the restructuring and doesn't plan any announcements before early april
the nation's 13,700 federally insured commercial banks earned $3.7 billion last year, their lowest profit since 1933, the federal deposit insurance corp. reported earlier this month
the senate judiciary committee approved by voice vote today legislation designed to restore legal rights to individuals who were exposed to radiation when the united states tested atomic weapons
the measure, whose chief sponsor is sen. paul simon, d-ill., would repeal a provision of a 1985 defense department bill that curtailed sharply the legal rights of civilians and veterans who participated in the atomic testing program
until 1985, radiation victims could file suit against contractors who participated in the testing programs. the 1985 act shifted the target of radiation suits from defense contractors to the federal government. version also moved on the financial wire.</note>
david a. stockman, the former white house budget director, is leaving the investment firm salomon brothers to join its smaller rival blackstone group, it was announced today
stockman, a managing director at salomon since leaving the white house in 1985, will handle all merchant banking activities and merger transactions for the blackstone group, the company said
his departure from salomon comes against a background of turmoil within the venerable investment firm, a partial result of the uncertain outlook for wall street in the aftermath of the stock market crash five months ago
several other high-ranking executives also have quit salomon recently, although stockman was quoted by the new york times today as saying his departure was unrelated to the company's problems
my experience at salomon was absolutely agreeable and i have a high regard for (salomon chairman) john gutfreund,'' stockman said. ``...there's one thing i couldn't do there _ which is have my own shop.''
former commerce secretary peter g. peterson, chairman of blackstone, said that stockman will take charge of a jointly owned firm called ``stockman &amp; co. _ a blackstone group affiliate.''
peterson said he wanted stockman to bolster blackstone's emerging merchant banking business in japan
dave stockman will be an immensely valuable asset in meeting that goal,'' he said. ``he brings a global perspective on business and financial issues as well as intimate familiarity with both u.s. and japanese government policies.''
blackstone recently represented sony in a $2 billion acquisition of cbs records late last year and represented firestone tire &amp; rubber co. in its $2.6 billion acquisition by japan's bridgestone corp
stockman, 41, was white house budget director from 1981 to 1985
quotes from survivors and report that one train ran signal. adds byline. no pickup
two passenger trains collided head-on today in a shanghai suburb, killing 12 people and injuring more than 40, the state-run xinhua news agency said. it was china's fourth fatal train accident in three months
china's second official news agency, the china news service, said only seven were dead, including five japanese, a chinese soldier and a railway worker. it said 40 to 50 people were hospitalized
the japanese embassy confirmed that a 193-member japanese high school tour group was on one of the trains. it said the japan travel bureau, which arranged the tour, reported two japanese killed and 29 injured
xinhua said 11 japanese were killed
the cause of the collision in the shanghai suburb of fengbang was not immediately clear, said fu fenghao, chief of the shanghai foreign affairs office's public relations division
xinhua, however, said one of the trains ignored a stop signal when it left the shanghai station
the crash occurred at about 2 p.m. when northbound train no. 311, leaving shanghai for hangzhou, collided with southbound train no. 208 arriving from changsha, fu said
no. 311's first two cars and the luggage car of no. 208 were knocked off the tracks, he said
television footage by japanese camera crews broadcast in japan showed the luggage car resting on one end of the other train's engine. the china news service said the two first-class passenger cars behind the no. 311 engine were crushed together by the force of the collision
the news service said shanghai had rain and heavy fog today but did not say if this was believed to have contributed to the accident
xinhua said the no. 311 train ``rolled out of the kuangxiang station, ignoring the prohibiting signal, and collided with the no. 208 train that was entering the station.''
kengo kobayashi of the japanese embassy in beijing said two people from a high school in southern japan's kochi prefecture were among the dead, and 29 others were injured
fu confirmed that japanese students were among the dead and injured but said the number was not yet determined
we haven't heard any information about other nationalities,'' he added
we were playing cards and suddenly there was a loud bang, and things went flying all over the floor,'' said an unidentified male student interviewed in shanghai by the japan broadcasting corp
there was a huge bump, and then one of our teachers came into the car and told us to get out,'' said another student. ``we broke the windows and climbed out.''
the train tracks were blocked seven hours after the accident, fu said. he said soldiers, police and medical workers took the dead and injured to nearby hospitals and that investigators were at the scene trying to determine the cause
shanghai vice mayor huang ju also went to the scene, the china news service said
in january, three separate train accidents killed 141 people. china's minister of railways resigned this month to take responsibility for those accidents
this year's train accidents, together with a plane crash outside chungking in january that killed all 108 people aboard, have prompted severe calls by the beijing government for greater attention to safety
a pair of barges loaded with a flammable liquid today slammed into the end of the pensacola fishing pier, a former bridge billed as the world's longest fishing pier
the barges were wedged into the l-shaped vehicular turnaround at the tip of the pier, formerly a highway bridge across pensacola bay connecting pensacola and gulf breeze. the bridge was divided into two sections, each becoming fishing piers. the pensacola pier is 1.5 miles long
the wind caught it and blew him into the bridge (pier),'' said grey jewett, risk manager for escambia county, which owns the pier. ``it destroyed the end of the pier, a turnaround. it's not reparable.''
the pier is only 75 feet away from the new pensacola bay bridge. officials said they planned to block traffic on the new, four-lane bridge while attempts were made to pull the barges, which were tied together along with a towboat, from the pier
the barges were loaded with benzine, a colorless, flammable liquid used as a motor fuel and solvent in dry cleaning
none of the benzine apparently leaked, but officials were worried about possible fire or explosion
it's not the benzine, it's the vapor,'' said chuck ramsey, an engineering technician for the county. ``it would go with one spark.''
one of the barges was pushed into the shipping channel, blocking navigation traffic
six disneyland hotel workers who rebelled against the magic kingdom's ban on facial hair were suspended for three days without pay and given an order to shave or be fired
the hotel's 1,600 workers recently came under the famed amusement park's dress and grooming codes when their former boss, the wrather corp., sold the property to the walt disney co
the dress code, established in 1957, bans facial hair on men, mandates short haircuts and bars women from wearing heavy makeup, long fingernails or excessive jewelry
the six suspended wednesday have until monday to shave or lose their jobs, said disneyland spokesman bob roth
a dozen male employees have been issued warnings for facial hair, and although half of those shaved, all 12 filed grievances with their unions
earlier wednesday, the five unions representing hotel workers united in opposition to the disney dress code, but wouldn't say whether they were willing to strike over it
a hindu occult priest strangled a 7-year-old girl to offer her blood to a goddess in a ritual and stored her body in his temple complex, it was reported thursday
the priest, narayan gangadhar poojary, and four others were arrested after residents of manpada village in the central indian maharashtra state complained of a foul smell and called police, the hindustan times and patriot newspapers said
police inspector r.m. patil said the body of the girl, identified as nandita shinde, was found in the loft of a building near the temple. it was hidden in fodder and cow dung
police said the priest apparently called the girl inside the temple friday, the newspapers said. he was believed to have strangled her and cut an artery in her left leg to draw blood for the ritual offering aimed at pleasing a goddess, they said
human sacrifices are outlawed in india, but still occur from time to time, mainly in rural areas
this is one of a series of periodic reports compiled by associated press bureaus on how the u.s. presidential election campaign is viewed abroad
here's a sampling of what newspapers abroad are saying about the u.s. presidential election campaign and the candidates seeking the republican and democratic nominations:
_the times of london (conservative), on democrat michael dukakis: ``the rest of the world should start thinking about a possible president dukakis. and a possible president dukakis should start thinking about the rest of the world
his apparent ignorance of it will provoke the traditional censoriousness about american politicians, not just from europeans, but from well-bred americans. ..
unlike most american politicians, mr. dukakis speaks a foreign language (spanish). this means he addresses the newly-important hispanic vote in its mother tongue. if it means much else, it is something to worry about. if american politicians start addressing special groups of voters in languages unintelligible to the majority, it is one more denial of the notion of america as melting pot.''
_the independent of london (independent), on george bush: ``it is tempting to conclude that he achieved this pre-eminent position because of the errors and failings of his opponents rather than through his own efforts. it is true that his chief rival, sen. robert dole, has had a disastrous campaign following his one transient success in iowa. but to give mr. bush credit, his campaign has been almost faultless and it was largely due to his good organization and well-lined campaign coffers that he was able to recover so convincingly after the setback in iowa.''
_la repubblica, national (liberal): ``the dilemma that confronts the candidates is not between the `poor' and the `rich.' ... the dilemma is in the schizophrenia of middle america, divided by the desire not to change anything and the fear of not being able to stay the same
this uncertainty, more than the fear of confronting the unknown in the cursed equation `italian equals mafia', is the real calculation that has kept mario cuomo out of the competition. his capital of expectations and fascination is too big to be gambled today on the roulette of the american mood in 1988.''
_new straits times of kuala lumpur, english language (pro-government): ``democrat richard gephardt terrified americans about the invasion of cheaper foreign goods
his clarion call to raise high the trade barriers in retaliation for unfair trade practices summoned few followers to the barricades, and his campaign should be spluttering to a halt soon.''
_japan times of tokyo, english-language (independent): `` ... this year's most watchable `devil' _ at least as far as japan was concerned _ was laid low by (super tuesday's) results. we are referring, of course, to the forceful voice of articulate, and therefore frightening, nationalistic protectionism: democratic congressman richard gephardt of missouri. ... but tuesday's outcome almost certainly ensures that he will not be the democratic party standard bearer in november.''
_political columnist paulo francis, writing from new york in folha de s. paulo (liberal), on the connecticut primaries march 29: ``connecticut has more millionaires per square meter than anywhere else in the united states. any doubts about the winner? there are liberal millionaires here _ many more than people in brazil think _ such as the two senators from connecticut, lowell weicker, a republican, and christopher dodd, a democrat. ... we presume that on the democratic side these liberals will reinforce dukakis, the least bad of the democratic candidates. ..
the george bush `express' seems unstoppable. ... however, he's not as bad as brazilians might imagine. he's from the east coast elite. and there was a time when this liberal elite dominated, or at least heavily influenced, the republican party.''
a 20-year-old east german scaled a 10-foot fence under thick fog in northern bavaria to escape his communist homeland, west german police said thursday
the escape took place wednesday night in the upper franken section of the region, according to munich police. the man was not identified
east german guards were seen searching the area after the escape over the steel-mesh fence. they apparently were tipped off by electronic sensors on the barriers, police said
at least 20 east germans have fled over their homeland's fortified barriers into west germany this year
an iranian slashed his wrists thursday minutes before he was due to board a flight deporting him to turkey, officials said
the iranian, who was not identified, was taken from heathrow airport to a nearby hospital. a foreign office spokesman said he there was no word on how badly the man was injured
the iranian was being deported to turkey after being turned down for political asylum in britain, largely because he had already applied for asylum in turkey where he had been living
the iranian came to britain while turkish authorities were still considering the application, said the spokesman, adding, ``clearly he was returnable to turkey.''
the spokesman, who in accordance with british practice declined to be identified, said the iranian had been living in turkey for five months and his wife was there
a fire in one of india's largest munitions depots detonated artillery shells thursday, forcing evacuation of two villages and closing an airport
shivraj patal, minister of state for defense production, told parliament that the blaze, which began wednesday in the central indian depot's underground sheds, was largely under control. but he said sporadic explosions of ammunition continued
army officials told the united news of india news agency that the blasts in the two sheds could continue for up to 10 days. at least 10,000 rounds reportedly were stored in the burning areas, mainly for 105-mm artillery guns
patal said the two villages were evacuated as a precaution after the blasts in madhya pradesh state 155 miles east of bhopal, the state capital. jabalpur's airport 28 miles away was also closed
two depot workers suffered minor injuries in fighting the blaze, patal said. there was no word on its cause. i would hope.</note>
the senate foreign relations committee today rejected a move by sen. jesse helms to require new intelligence studies of what helms says are soviet missiles unaccounted for by the u.s.-soviet treaty on medium-range atomic weapons
the committee voted 15-2 against helms' amendment to the treaty which would have required president reagan to certify the accuracy of the soviet claims that there are 650 ss-20 missiles. the declared weapons will have to be destroyed after the treaty takes effect
helms, r-n.c., argued that up to 300 more ss-20s are ``hidden,'' and he cited defense intelligence agency reports which he said support his claim
but sen. daniel evans, r-wash., said, ``i don't believe president reagan would have signed this treaty'' if he believed the soviets had successfully hidden a large force of ss-20 missiles
the vote was the latest decision in which the panel decided by large bipartisan majorities to reject attempts by helms and sen. larry pressler, r-s.d., another conservative critic, to change the treaty
sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the committee, said the panel was headed toward overwhelming approval of the pact
i would hope _ and i think _ that we will continue to show strong bipartisan support,'' said pell after the panel voted by lopsided margins wednesday to reject amendments by helms and pressler
helms had originally proposed 36 amendments and pressler offered three more, despite appeals from the reagan administration for the senate to approve the treaty without changes
after it became apparent he had few votes on his side, helms said he planned to drop most of his amendments
pell announced that the committee will finish voting on all amendments by tuesday afternoon next week and will then decide on the treaty itself
when the measure finally reaches the floor, overwhelming approval is expected with no more than 10 to 12 of the 100 senators expected to vote against it. ratification requires a two-thirds vote
the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, requires the elimination within three years of all missiles with a range of 300 to 3,400 miles. it includes on-site inspection among its strict verification provisions
helms dropped many of his amendments after he came under fire from fellow republicans, some of whom claimed he was trying to delay a final senate vote until after the next summit meeting between reagan and gorbachev
that meeting has now been set for may 29-june 2 in moscow, the white house announced wednesday
sen. richard lugar, r-ind., said: ``we're just in a delay, stall situation which i find disagreeable. ... if you don't have the votes and just try to overload it with amendments, that isn't fair.''
meantime, pell and other democrats tried to work out some type of compromise between congress and the white house over the chief remaining hurdle, a dispute about the legal power to interpret treaties
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., said in a floor speech that it will be necessary to add a reservation or an understanding which spells out the senate position
this matter is not going to be resolved, in my judgment, by any exchange of letters, because a future administration can say, `we don't agree with that interpretation at all,''' byrd said
reagan asserts that the executive branch can unilaterally change the u.s. intepretation of a treaty, a view disputed by the senate. the fight arises from a difference in how to interpret the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
as it worked through the treaty, the panel:
_voted down, 12-3, a helms proposal to change the treaty and allow the united states to deploy non-nuclear cruise missiles. the treaty bans all cruise missiles, whether equipped with nuclear or conventional warheads, because there is no effective way to verify which warheads are on the missile
_voted down, 12-2, a helms amendment which would include the soviets' scud b missile as one of the banned weapons. the missile is not now banned because it has a shorter range than 300 miles, but helms claimed scud b missiles sold by the soviets to iraq have been fired at ranges which would fall within the inf ranges
_rejected, 13-2, a helms plan that would prohibit either side from testing missiles in the inf range
_defeated, 15-2, a pressler amendment which would block the treaty from taking effect until reagan certifies that there is parity in europe between nato and warsaw pact forces. the soviets have a large advantage in some categories of non-nuclear weapons and pressler and other treaty critics say the elimination of medium-range atomic missiles will take away a major nato deterrent to a soviet attack
a philosophy student who outraged people with his threat to publicly kill a puppy to demonstrate the brutality of war said today the whole thing was a prank
it was a prankish threat to kill one mythical animal,'' said david read
but he said his threat to burn to death a 10-week-old dog at the university of wisconsin-madison campus monday served its purpose in getting attention. the threat drew protest calls to the dane county humane society and local radio stations
people panicked to save the life of one mythical puppy while thousands (of people) were dying'' elsewhere, read said
the student said he opposed cruelty to animals and never intended to carry out his threat, despite earlier claims he was serious that prompted humane society officials and university police to investigate
police said wednesday they would consider seeking an injunction against read's plan to kill the dog
earlier, read said burning the puppy would be ``an exhibition of what suffering and cruelty is all about,'' he said. ``i think our attitudes about war and human suffering are complacency and numbness. this is one thing that will combat that numbness.''
read, 26, is chairman of the nihilist workers party, a campus organization the university said does not have its official recognition
he said the group, organized two years ago, has about 12 active members who advocate nihilism, a belief that existing social institutions need destroying to make room for a new order
the group announced the puppy-burning plan tuesday. radio stations, humane societies and police said wednesday they were flooded with telephone calls
read said he anticipated the reaction. ``i'm quite pleased,'' he said. ``i'm the most reviled character in town.''
he said he had nicaragua in mind when he conceived of the idea of burning the dog to demonstrate suffering. he said people living in the united states lead sheltered, comfortable lives and avoid thinking about the horrors occurring in other nations
i want them to get down and wallow in the filth, which is truth,'' he said
shock is the best method of making people aware of ugliness, he said, calling peaceful protest a waste of time
his organization has distributed obscene posters on the campus, including one portraying adolph hitler pointing a gun and reading: ``i love you.''
former federal reserve board chairman paul volcker cautioned presidential candidates on thursday to avoid ``washington bashing'' in their campaigning,
volcker spoke to a house civil service subcommittee as chairman of the national commission on the public service. his 37-member panel is working on recommendations for making civil service more attractive to talented individuals
while the presidential candidates don't seem to be ``running against washington'' this year, volcker hinted he's ready with a strong lecture for anyone who tries such an approach
we're never very far from the telephone,'' volcker said. ``we will try to keep after those candidates. ... we will urge them to stay on the high road.''
he suggested attacks by candidates on washington institutions have hurt the image of public service. volcker called it ``the washington bashing syndrome.''
too many of the best at the upper ranks have been leaving government, with not enough of quality being recruited at the entry level,'' said volcker, who retired from government service last summer
volcker, who worked for the governmment most of his life, including eight years as head of the nation's central bank, recently became a professor at princeton university and chairman of a small new york investment firm
rep. patricia shroeder, d-colo., chairwoman of the subcommittee, told volcker: ``hopefully, we can head off a race in which everyone sees how bad a thing they can say about public service.''
the last two presidents have gratuitously slandered the bureaucracy,'' said ms. schroeder, who was mentioned as a possible 1988 presidential contender herself before she withdrew from consideration
norman ornstein, a political analyst with the american enterprise institute who serves with volcker on the commission, told the subcommittee that ``we've been seeing a change'' toward the positive in public attitudes toward government service
part of this is the ironic success president reagan has had in getting people to feel better about the government. it's ironic because i don't think he meant it that way. he had two campaigns against washington.''
no candidates this time have picked up on the theme of bashing government and bashing bureaucrats,'' ornstein added. ``there is a good climate to create a different set of attitudes.''
members of the commission also include former president gerald ford and former vice president walter mondale
a landslide from a trash heap crashed down onto a rail line in the western ukraine, burying the tracks under a giant layer of dirt that in spots was as said a special commmision is investigating the cause of the landslide. loans; picks up 2nd graf pvs, bgng: the gore...</note>
sen. albert gore jr. said today he was willing to release information on more than $1 million in loans taken out by his presidential campaign, but members of his staff who heard the senator's remarks said no decision had been made on the matter
gore's pledge to release the material came in the wake of a report in a nashville, tenn., newspaper that his campaign had put up the proceeds of future fund-raisers and federal matching funds as collateral for almost $1.5 million borrowed from banks about two weeks ago
i have no problem with telling you the amount of the loans and which banks they came from, be glad to,'' gore said at a news conference
gore said details of the loans would be contained in reports to be filed in the next two or three weeks with the federal election commission ``so if you can wait two or three weeks all of that will be available, but as for now i have no problem with giving you the amount of the loans, the banks et cetera.''
however, gore aide mark armour said as the candidate was leaving the news conference that no decision had been made on releasing the information
the gore campaign previously has acknowledged only that it had established a $1 million line of credit to be used as necessary for television advertising on super tuesday
gore borrowed $750,000 from sovran bank-d.c. national, a washington-based bank which handles his campaign accounts, the tennessean reported. the remainder of the loans came from a collection of small banks in tennessee, the democrat's home state, the newspaper said
each of the banks has strong democratic party and gore ties, the paper said. officials at each of the banks refused to comment on whether gore had received a loan
gore's staff has refused to give any details of campaign loans
gore pledged future federal matching funds against the sovran loan, a standard presidential campaign procedure, the tennessean reported, quoting sources familiar with the transaction
at the tennessee banks, the candidate pledged the proceeds of future fund-raising events, and in at least some cases, guaranteed 10 percent of the note on his personal signature, the report said
the gore campaign has made complete disclosure of our finances every four weeks as required by the federal election commission,'' campaign manager fred martin said wednesday
for me to disclose the details of our finances before the fec reporting date would be to give key strategic information to the other candidates a full month before they are entitled to have it and that would be a disservice to my campaign,'' he said
the next fec reporting date is april 20. the loans were taken out after feb. 29 so they did not have to be disclosed march 20
gore campaign officials talked with a number of tennessee banks about participating in the loans, which were used to finance a media blitz before the march 8 primaries and caucuses in 20 states, the paper says. gore won five of those contests
federal election commission laws and regulations require that any loans be transacted ``in the ordinary course of business,'' have a written instrument, have a due date or amortization schedule, and be subject to ``the usual and customary rate of interest'' charged by the bank
the due date for the gore loans is july 15, three days before the democratic national convention begins in atlanta
the latest gore fec disclosure, made public sunday, covers the period from feb. 1 to feb. 29
it shows that, to date, gore has spent $6 million on his presidential bid, and had $342,964 in cash on hand as of feb. 29
campaign sources have said gore's bid raised almost $1 million in the first 15 days of march, the paper reported
about 350 government workers demonstrated thursday in a week-old strike that has virtually halted ferry service across the english channel
a delegation of protesters met with pierre-olivier drege, chief of staff for the secretary of state for maritime affairs, where the protest was held
government officials refused to comment afterward, saying the conflict must be settled by the sailors' employer, the state-run railroad
railroad officials have said they will not negotiate with the strikers until they end their occupation of the ferry nord-pas de calais
the strikers are protesting what they say is a threatened privatization of their company and loss of purchasing power. on the other side of the channel, about 2,200 employees of p and o european ferries have been striking for seven weeks
thursday's demonstrators arrived in buses from the french port cities of boulogne, calais, dieppe and dunkirk. they represented about a third of the 990 officers and sailors working on ferries for the railroads' maritime arm
traffic remained backed up at channel ports on the french side thursday, where only one ferry _ with a british crew _ was in operation between calais and the british port of dover. says</head>
time after time, the big jackrabbit avoids attacks by the five harris hawks that dive and feint with the precision of a military unit. but finally, the rabbit is exhausted and a powerful talon slashes quickly. the hunt ends and winged predators feed together
in a report to be published friday in science magazine, biologist james c. bednarz said he repeatedly witnessed such coordinated hunting by harris hawks. it is, he said, the first documented proof that hawks are able to organize and cooperate with almost human skill in such a complex series of manuevers
people have suggested it in the past, but this is the first documentation of it,'' said bednarz, who is director of higher education research at the hawk mountain sanctuary in kempton, pa., and an associate professor at the university of new mexico
we expected to see two hawks hunting together. i was amazed to see units of four, five and six hawks. ... we got to see it repeatedly,'' bednarz said in a telephone interview
cooperative hunting, in which predators work together to kill prey larger than they could bring down individually, is well known among lions, wolves, hyenas, wild dogs, killer whales _ and humans. but bednarz said his study shows that hawks also are able to hunt together for their mutual benefit
in more than 400 hours of observations at the los medanos raptor area near carlsbad, n.m., bednarz said he watched groups of five to six hawks use two basic coordinated attacks to bring down rabbits
bednarz said the most common tactic, which he called the surprise pounce, required the hawks to attack a rabbit from several different directions at once, forcing it to stay away from cover
they will work the rabbit in such a way that it becomes mentally and physically exhausted,'' bednarz said. ``they keep it moving and keep it making decisions until it makes the wrong decision.''
bednarz said if the rabbit leaves its back unprotected, a hawk swoops in and delivers a lethal blow to the back of the neck. that's the only way, said bednarz, that a harris hawk, which weighs about 2 pounds, can kill a jackrabbit, which can weigh as much as 7 pounds
another tactic bednarz observed is what he calls the ``flush and ambush.''
a team of hawks, e said, will chase a rabbit until it finally takes cover. two or three hawks will perch nearby and a pair of the birds will land near the rabbit and try to flush it from the cover. when the bunny finally flees, the perched hawks drop swiftly for the kill
even dinner time is coordinated for the harris hawks, bednarz said
when the hawks are feeding, two of the group will remain at a nearby high place, on the lookout for eagles or ospreys or other species who might try to steal the kill. when an intruder is spotted, the sentinel will sound an alarm and the harris hawks rise and attack together, usually chasing away the invader
bednarz said most of the hawk groups that hunt together are extended families that may include a mated pair, yearlings and older offspring. the group usually is no larger than six
the female is the larger of the harris hawks and usually dominates the group, bednarz said. but on the hunt, the female is less likely to attack the prey and more likely to play ``a distractor role.''
she distracts the prey and keeps it in play for the other hawks, forcing it back into the area of vulnerability,'' the researcher said
he said birds seem to communicate with body movement. as the hunt begins, he birds will perch hundreds of yards apart. when one of the hawks sights a possible meal, its movement quickly attracts the other birds and the hunt is on, bednarz said
harris hawks live in the deserts of texas, arizona and new mexico. they feed on rodents and lizards during part of the year, but apparently hunt together to bring down jackrabbits and desert cottontail rabbits in the winter months
the federal judge in the iran-contra case indicated thursday that trial of a florida lawsuit that accuses former government officials of collaborating with colombian drug dealers may be postponed
the civil lawsuit is set for trial june 26. the 29 defendants in the case include richard v. secord and albert hakim, two businessmen who have been charged with conpiracy and theft in the iran-contra case
secord and hakim, along with oliver l. north and john m. poindexter, were arraigned before judge gerhard gesell thursday in u.s. district court
during the proceedings, secord's lawyer, thomas green, told gesell about a potential conflict in scheduling between the iran-contra case and the case in miami's federal court
it will not go forward,'' gesell said. ``a criminal case takes precedence. this case has got to take priority.''
gesell said: ``i've cancelled every case i have and i've cancelled my vacation.''
secord and hakim are accused of helping north and poindexter, two former white house aides, secretly sell weapons to iran and divert the profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
the florida lawsuit was filed by martha honey and tony avirgan, two freelance reporters based in costa rica. they are represented by the christic institute, a liberal policy group
the lawsuit accuses the defendants of drug-trafficking, gun-running and plotting assassinations. the defendants have denied the charges
billions of locusts are moving across north africa in the worst plague since 1954, blotting out the sun and settling on the land like a black, ravenous carpet to strip it clean of vegetation
algeria, morocco and tunisia have put aside political differences to fight the locusts, with help from the united states, western europe and the soviet union, but a u.n. official said thursday it may not be possible to save the food supply
as many as 250,000 of the insects settle on each acre whent the horde alights. they devour 100,000 tons of crops and other vegetation at each stop, according to the food and agriculture organization, a u.n. agency based in rome
wind currents pushed the insects into northeastern africa from their breeding grounds, the fao said. they fly in waves of up to 50 million per square kilometer over 400 square kilometers, which means as many as 20 billion covering an area of 160 square miles
we are facing a very dangerous situation, which may affect north africa's food production for years to come,'' said lukas brader, director of fao's emergency center for locust operations. ``we are not optimistic that the situation can be effectively controlled.''
he said the current infestation is worse than the 1950s plague, which lasted more than 10 years. breeding has been aided by abundant rains and heat in the area, brader said
edouard saouma, director-general of the fao, said in a statement: ``we are in a state of general alert. swift and decisive action is needed to avoid a major regional food crisis later this year.''
brader said $30 million had been donated by the united states, western europe, the soviet union and others to finance the spraying of pesticide on infested areas. he said at least $150 million will be needed to fight the plague, which he said may peak in late summmer
algeria has sprayed more than 494,000 acres of land and morocco has been treating about 62,000 acres a day. no figures were available for tunisia
published reports in algiers say more than 40 aircraft have been provided by libya, the soviet union, france and spain to spray crop and pasture land threatened by locusts
spraying has been hampered by inadequate and outdated pesticide and equipment, the presence of nomads in some infested regions and the difficulty of detecting locusts in areas of sand, rock and scrubland, officials said
no estimate was available of the total damage to crops
specialists say the locusts originated near the red sea, invading sudan and chad and then swarming through the sahel countries below the sahara desert before moving north ``in a tidal wave.'' libya and mauritania also are threatened
to coordinate logistics the algerian agriculture minister, noureddine keddara, visited tunisia on wednesday and driss basri, morocco's interior and information minister, was in algiers
until about two weeks ago, a long-standing territorial dispute over the western sahara had stymied the exchange of information between morocco and algeria about the common danger
the nation's poorest families, with incomes averaging less than $8,600 a year, pay five times as much of their earnings for state sales and excise taxes as those who make more than $600,000, a research and advocacy group reported thursday
the less you make, the worse you do,'' robert s. mcintyre, director of citizens for tax justice, said in releasing a comprehensive study of taxes in the 50 states. the unfairness is especially bad in states that impose heavy taxes on food, utilities, tobacco and fuels, he said
it is not just the poor who spend a disproportionate share on sales and excise taxes, such as those applying to alcohol, gasoline and tobacco, the study found. a four-member family earning $31,000 a year spends three times as much of its income on these taxes, compared with the richest americans
sales and excise taxes generally are at a flat rate, meaning that in a state with a 5 percent tax that applies to food, for example, the rich and poor would pay the same $1 tax on a $20 bag of groceries
citizens for tax justice, which is financed by labor unions and liberal social organizations, opposes such ``consumption taxes'' because they are not based on ability to pay. there is some support in congress for a national sales tax to replace at least part of the income tax
mcintyre, whose organization was a major influence in the thorough revision of the federal income tax enacted in 1986, said some ``tax reformers'' spend too much time in pursuit of the perfect income tax while ignoring the onerous burden that sales taxes create for the poor
that's a mistake, because the worst state income tax in the nation is still a far sight fairer than any state sales tax,'' he said
in 23 states, the disparity between shares of income taken by sales and excise taxes is worse than the national average, the report said
the poor in south dakota and mississippi pay about seven times as much of their earnings in sales and excise taxes as do the rich; in tennessee, alabama and louisiana, almost six times as much
the study found:
_the poorest 20 percent of four-member families, averaging income of $8,581, paid 5.4 percent of their earnings in sales and excise taxes last year
_the second one-fifth, averaging $20,535, paid 3.9 percent
_the third, averaging $31,497, paid 3.3 percent
_the fourth, averaging $44,910, paid 2.9 percent
_the highest-earning one-fifth, averaging $66,912, paid 2.5 percent
_the top-earning 5 percent, averaging $187,316, paid 1.6 percent
_four-member families averaging $612,122 a year _ the richest 0.7 percent of americans _ paid 1.1 percent of their incomes for sales and excise taxes
until states begin relying more on income taxes, mcintyre said, sales taxes can be made less onerous by extending rebates to the poor. the taxes also could be applied disproportionately to services that are generally used by the well-to-do, such as club memberships and home-improvement services, he suggested
only six states have sales-tax credits for the poor, and only in new mexico does the credit offset more than half of the burden for low-income people. the other five are kansas, vermont, idaho, hawaii and north carolina
sixteen states, including the 10 with the most onerous sales taxes on the poor, all tax food, the study found. they are alabama, mississippi, georgia, north carolina, south carolina, arkansas, tennessee, south dakota, virginia and hawaii
the poor spend 6.2 percent of income on electrical bills, more than double the rate of the middle-income family. but that middle-income family pays three times as big a share for electricity as do the rich, the study found
the portion of the $600,000-a-year family's income spent for tax on take-home beer is only 15 percent of the $8,600 family's share
on cigarettes, the upper-income family's share is 1 percent of the low-income family's; on gasoline, 4 percent; on fresh flowers, 98 percent; on legal fees, 100 percent; jewelry, 259 percent; wine for home consumption, 324 percent, and out-of-town lodging, 613 percent. burner</head>
a panel of mideast experts on thursday urged the next u.s. administration to place mideast peace talks high on its foreign policy agenda and to include negotiators approved by the palestine liberation organization
a prolonged impasse in the peace process could endanger american national interests,'' the panel of 19 academicians and former state department officials said in a report issued by the brookings institution, which sponsored the study
we would like to see a steady, high-level commitment of american resources to the arab-israeli peace process,'' the report said
samuel lewis, who served as u.s. ambassador to israel from 1978 to 1985, said the panel ``has a very strong sense that it's going to take a protracted investment by senior levels to achieve even partial success.''
speaking at a news conference, lewis said the mideast peace plan offered in 1982 by president reagan lacked sufficient preparation, while the one currently being proposed by secretary of state george p. shultz may be the victim of bad timing
any future u.s. plan must be presented at a time when both arabs and israelis are ready for peace talks, he said
the palestinians may be too ``eupohoric'' over their success in the 3{-month uprising against the israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza strip to be ready for the compromises each side must make in negotiations, lewis said
william quandt, a senior research fellow at brookings and the project's coordinator, said the mideast peace issue has not been high on the u.s.-soviet agenda so far. it should be explored in that framework further to see if it can yield some solutions, he added
the report's authors agreed that israeli-arab peace talks should be conducted within an international framework, although such a forum would not be empowered to impose solutions. the shultz plan contains a similar proviso
palestinians should be represented in any negotiations with israel by spokesmen of their own choosing, whether in a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation or in some other configuration,'' the report said
the shultz plan envisions palestinian representation as part of a jordanian delegation in peace talks. ``the tone, though, seems to be that jordan can choose the palestinians,'' quandt said
palestinians are unlikely to come forward to negotiate with israel without having the implicit endorsement of the palestine liberation organization,'' the report said. israel and the united states refuse to negotiate with the plo directly
quandt said panel members differed on whether the plo should be included in negotiations, and also could not agree on whether palestinians should be given an independent state. some argued that inclusion of the plo and the establishment of a palestinian state would be ``irritants'' that israel would reject, he said
the experts believe substantial preparation is needed to get the parties ``to be willing to make hard choices'' before bringing them to the negotiating table, quandt said
shultz and other officials have conducted preparatory talks with israeli and arab leaders since january, but the united states is pressing for negotiations to begin by may 1
dozens of honest citizens showed up at police stations across the city thursday to return thousands of dollars in cash that fell out of an armored truck, police said
we have a lot of very honest people here,'' said inspector jim shaw
on wednesday night, however, money-grabbing chaos erupted on toronto's gardiner expressway after the rear door of the armored truck flew open and spewed a blizzard of bills that blew onto windshields and covered the highway
drivers stopped their cars in the middle of the road in the rush for cash, and traffic was tied up for miles
a guard in the loomis armored car service truck eventually had to pull his gun to halt the free-for-all
two bags that each contained $75,000 _ worth about $60,000 u.s. _ were scooped up by drivers who threw the booty into their cars and sped away and have not been returned, shaw said
a third bag holding the same amount broke open, spreading the cash in the air
shaw said auditors were counting up how much was returned. under canadian law, the cash belongs to loomis and not whoever finds it
one cab driver was charged with theft for grabbing some of the money
jurors couldn't decide on the best english-language novel this year, so the $50,000 prize in the ritz paris hemingway literary contest will go to charity, it was announced thursday
the three nominees for this year's annual prize were the south african writer nadine gordimer for ``a sport of nature,'' american novelist toni morrison for ``beloved,'' and ``in the skin of a lion,'' by canadian writer michael ondaatje
to choose the best novel of the year is always a difficult task,'' said pierre salinger, the abc news journalist who served as jury president. ``this year, three excellent authors of great reputation were nominated. but none of the works received a majority of the votes from the 10 jurors.''
the contest's rules thus call for the money to go to charity. half was donated to the georges pompidou foundation, which helps the elderly. the other half went to the franco-american volunteer association, which helps handicapped children get involved in sports
the first ritz paris hemingway award was given in 1985 to peruvian writer mario vargas llosa. the other winners were marguerite duras of france and peter taylor of the united states
detroit mayor coleman young, long at political odds with jesse jackson, is striking a more conciliatory tone toward the democratic presidential candidate this year
i'd be a fool not to recognize the massive contribution jesse has made to the electoral process, and putting some color _ finally _ in the rainbow,'' young said. ``obviously ... that's not enough to win, but it's an important beginning.''
young still argues that jackson's candidacy represents wasted votes, political polarization and help for the republicans. but he also credits jackson for reaching some whites with his more mainstream democratic candidacy this year, and expressing surprise at his degree of support from blacks
young is supporting jackson's chief rival michael dukakis in michigan's statewide caucuses saturday. he says his is not so much an endorsement as a statement of whom he supports _ a distinction young says means the political organization that has served him for 15 years as mayor of detroit is free to do as it wishes
jesse has a tremendous emotional appeal to the black community in this city,'' young said in an interview wednesday in his office with several out-of-town reporters. ``i think that the chief objective ... is to win the white house.''
dukakis is airing radio ads featuring young's support, targeted at black audiences in detroit. he is bidding to win delegates in the city's two largely black congressional districts, the 1st and 13th, which requires winning at least 15 percent of the vote in those areas
young maintained that he has ``truly'' released his organization to go as it pleases and says he's not asked key supporters to report back on whether they are siding with dukakis, jackson or another candidate
some politicians aren't so sure, however. state house speaker gary owen of ypsilanti, backing albert gore jr., said he understood young was ``coming down hard'' on his supporters to produce for dukakis, particularly in those key congressional districts
in announcing his support for dukakis a week and a half ago, young said, ``anybody who respects my opinion will do likewise.'' and young's top political aide, larry l. simmons sr., said last week that young would ask his staff members to inform him of their actions in the presidential campaign
young, who has seen his city's optimism decline with the fall in federal urban aid under the reagan administration, said a democratic victory in november is his paramount concern and his reason for supporting the massachusetts governor
dukakis, he said, has the best chance to win. jackson, he said, ``can't win.''
young finds fault with jackson's lack of government experience, but said no black candidate could be elected this year or in the immediate future because of white resistance
i think it's rooted in race _ i don't have to look anywhere else,'' young said
even if he should win michigan's caucuses, young said, jackson would achieve at best a plurality of the democratic vote, not a majority
the great majority of the black votes will follow jesse off to one side, whereas the great majority of the white vote will be split among the other candidates,'' young said. ``that is the essense of polarization
i think the overall thrust of jackson's campaign might very well be to help the republicans,'' he said
young endorsed walter mondale in 1984 over jackson, and he has remained apart from jackson this year even as some other black leaders who were cool toward jackson four years ago have been won over. while there may be political risks for himself, young said he thinks voters' attitudes toward him won't be affected
i'm trying to preserve the unity _ i do not want to be responsible for creating any disunity in the black community,'' young said
secretary of state george p. shultz today called the nicaraguan cease-fire agreement ``an important step forward'' and said there is ``no excuse'' for any additional soviet bloc weapons deliveries to the sandinista government
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater reacted with cautious optimism to the agreement while house speaker jim wright hailed it as ``a new chapter in the unhappy history of that war-torn country.''
shultz urged congress to immediately approve additional humanitarian aid to the contra rebels while they negotiate terms for a definitive cease-fire with the sandinista government
he said the agreement would not have been possible without years of sacrifice by the rebels
their strength and perseverance have created this opportunity for peace and freedom,'' shultz said. ``we consider this agreement to be an important step forward.''
under questioning, shultz said he feels the agreement may be a ploy on the part of the sandinistas to disarm the contras. he said that if the sandinistas don't carry out their promises under the agreement, the united states would have to reevaluate its policies
both the white house and wright promised to seek quick action on a humanitarian aid package for the contra rebels
we're glad that it occurred,'' the fitzwater said, when asked whether the administration was embracing the plan
there is a lot of room for encouragement here, yes, but there's also a lot of room for skepticism, and i'm trying to balance those two off,'' fitzwater said
we're beginning the process. we need to watch it. we've seen processes like this start before and fail,'' he said. ``this seems like a more concrete step, and there certainly reason to be hopeful. but i do not want to play down the skepticism side of it either because we are skeptical.''
wright said he would meet monday with house republicans and representatives of the white house to begin drafting a bill to send food, clothing, shelter and medicine to the rebels before easter
fitzwater said the white house, too, hopes an aid package can be passed ``on a bipartisan basis'' before the recess
wright said the precise form of the aid package remained to be worked out, but that it would have to conform to the cease-fire agreement announced wednesday night in sapoa, nicaragua, after three days of talks
that agreement calls for ``exclusively humanitarian aid'' to be channeled through a neutral, international relief organization
wright refused to speculate on whether there would be gop demands to include in the package some standby procedure for authorizing new military aid for the rebels should the peace process become derailed
republicans, contending nicaraguan president daniel ortega cannot be trusted to fulfill his promises without such a threat, have insisted on such a provision in previous debate on the issue
i think it would be counterproductive to talk about it,'' wright told reporters. ``we don't want to rekindle the war.''
he said he envisioned quick action on ``some minimal something that both sides (democrats and republicans) can wholeheartedly embrace.''
for heaven's sake, if the nicaraguans, who have been shooting at each other, can agree, then surely republicans and democrats can agree,'' he said
wright began discussing ideas for an aid package on wednesday in conversations with house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., and white house chief of staff howard baker. but he said no deals had been made
the cease-fire talks have made it possible, by entering into an entirely new era, to bury our hatchets in the same trenches where they're burying their machetes in central america,'' wright said
the aid bill likely would be similar to a $30 million package rejected by a narrow margin on march 3, although house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash., said it was unclear whether the dollar amount would be the same
the rebels' last u.s. aid expired on feb. 29
earlier, interviewed on cbs television, wright said nicaragua is wracked by poverty and needs to begin diverting its slender resources to educate, feed, and clothe its people
both sides were war-weary but were ready if they could to find an accommodation to guarantee the integration back into their society of these people who have been estranged from it,'' he said
problems remain, wright said, but ``there is a disposition on both parts to enter into a more peaceful society and a more democratic society in which freedom of the press and of expression will be guaranteed and the rights of those who formerly made war against that government will be fully protected.''
those of us in our congress are anxious to do whatever we can to encourage the fulfilment of the democratization of that country,'' he said
meanwhile, rep. edward feighan, d-ohio, said three officials from the general accounting office were leaving for honduras today to track the disposition of small arms, ammunition, jeeps and other materials that were brought to honduras by u.s. troops sent last week to respond to a sandinista incursion
my concern is that the deployment of american troops and weapons to honduras could in fact be another diversion of arms to the contras,'' said feighan, who requested the gao investigation
six members of a laboratory group who were detained during a search for a missing frozen head have filed false arrest claims with the county totaling $225,000
the six claims, filed individually at various times this month, stem from the december beheading of 83-year-old dora kent so her head could be frozen to preserve it for theoretical revival using as-yet undiscovered medical techniques
the six members of the alcor life extension foundation were detained by police jan. 7 during a search of the premises. they were questioned at the police department then released
all six say they were arrested for investigation of obstruction of justice
filing a claim is a preliminary step toward suing. riverside county has the option of settling the claims, or rejecting them after they are reviewed by claims adjustors
in one claim, five alcor members contend they ``suffered emotional stress arising from the purposeful, wrongful conduct of the coroner's investigators.'' they seek damages totaling $125,000. the sixth person filed a separate claim for $100,000
during two searches at the lab, authorities found mrs. kent's hands and some equipment allegedly stolen from the university of california, los angeles. her head never was found
last month, the coroner's office ruled the woman's death a homicide, finding she had been killed by a lethal dose of barbiturates. alcor officials contend the woman was dead when they began their procedure
the case was sent to the district attorney's office, but prosecutor jay thompson hanks said thursday no decision regarding charges has been made
west german opposition leader hans-jochen vogel today praised president reagan's arms-control advances and said the atmosphere had greatly improved since their last meeting five years ago
vogel, chairman of the social democratic party, told reporters after a 20-minute meeting with reagan at the white house that he and the president had discussed arms control, the economy and human rights
we had a very friendly and constructive conversation with the president,'' he said. ``i ... said, remembering five years back, we are very impressed especially by the inf (intermediate nuclear forces) treaty, by the cooperation which developed with the soviet union.''
vogel said he told reagan he hoped he and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev also would be able to agree soon on reducing long-range nuclear forces
he said the president ``seemed to be satisfied about the work, what has been done in the last two or three days. they worked very hard, they worked very (thoroughly) through the details.''
he was referring to a visit by soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze, who has been meeting with secretary of state george shultz and reagan in washington this week
remembering my visit five years ago, it is a remarkable change. it was a relaxed conversation. there are still some points of different views and different opinions, but there are points which we join and which we agree (on).''
in '83 we were in the middle of the argument about the deployment of pershing ii and there have been some other fields of different opinions. many of them are gone. the president making the inf treaty and preparing start is a president more close to us than some remarks and some positions of '81 or '82 or '83,'' vogel said
the social democrats were part of the widespread opposition to nat0's deployment of the u.s. medium-range pershing ii and cruise missiles in europe to counter soviet ss-20 missiles aimed at western europe. the inf treaty would eliminate both the u.s. and soviet land-based medium-range missiles
vogel said reagan listened but didn't comment when he told him that west german social democrats, like the coalition government, oppose modernization of short-range nuclear weapons in europe. he said he made clear that the social democrats go further than the government in urging negotiations to eliminate the weapons
i think he was not surprised,'' vogel said
west german chancellor helmut kohl, of the ruling christian democrats, advocates a reduction in the number of the missiles but not their elimination
the united states, britain and france favor the modernization of the short-range weapons as part of nato's nuclear deterrent against a soviet bloc attack on western europe
a bill introduced in parliament on thursday would allow britons to demand to be segregated from smokers at work
the measure lacks the support of the conservative government of prime minister margaret thatcher and was given little chance of passage, but it reflected a growing anti-smoking campaign
smoking must now be treated like any other industrial heath hazard,'' said george foulkes of the opposition labor party, who introduced the health and safety at work bill in the house of commons
he said there was ``overwhelming'' public support to ban smoking at work except in designated areas
the bill would not require companies to set up non-smoking areas in offices, but it would forbid them from firing or disciplining any worker who refused to work alongside a smoker
smokers are rarely segregated in british restaurants and other public places, although smoking has been banned in london subways and the number of british rail cars where smoking is permitted has been reduced from 25 percent to 20 percent
the independent newspaper said a private survey of 1,000 companies found that almost half had either a voluntary or formal agreement on no-smoking areas
in a report released wednesday, the independent scientific committee on smoking and health said passive smoking, or non-smokers' exposure to smoke, may cause several hundred lung cancer deaths a year. it said passive smoking increases the risk of lung cancer by 10 to 30 percent
in government reaction to the report, junior health minister edwina currie said, ``the government accepts the thrust of the report, which reflects established policies of voluntary arrangements.''
the state-funded health education authority launched a $457,000 advertising campaign thursday with full-page advertisements in major newspapers urging non-smokers to stand up for their rights
the ads say, ``if you're a non-smoker who works with smokers, you probably suffer in silence. yet everybody has the right to a healthy working environment.''
for 58 hours after jessica mcclure tumbled into an abandoned well, hundreds of rescuers worked together to free her. but now they are divided over tv movie rights and have formed two rival groups
jessica, now almost 2 years old, was trapped 22 feet down an abandoned well after she fell in oct. 14 and rescued after teams bored through rock to reach her. rescuers dug a parallel shaft and then a tunnel into the well near the spot where jessica was stuck
one of the associations formed over a tv movie is committed to producer larry spivey, president of highland communications group inc. the group's 32 members, most of them rescue volunteers, have been asking all participants to join them
the group, called the jessica mcclure rescuers' association, is headed by kragg robinson, chief of robinson rathole inc. of albuquerque, n.m
robinson diverted a rathole rig from a nearby texas department of highways and public transportation project to dig much of the parallel shaft
robinson's mother, yvonne, said today that no plans have yet been announced by the group
i don't think they have accepted a proposal,'' said mrs. robinson
the second group, the mcclure rescue association, is comprised of municipal workers, including police chief richard czech, fire chief james roberts and paramedic robert o'donnell, who plucked the child from the well and brought her to the surface
some rescuers have decided to stay neutral
i personally don't feel that i should join any association until a uniform group is together,'' said bruce peeler. ``and that means all people involved, whether they are with the police department, the fire department or the lady who made hamburgers at three in the morning.''
peeler is president of air master equipment corp., a midland company that donated jackhammers and other pneumatic equipment for the rescue
he and another neutral participant, charles boler, president of boler construction of midland, said they have attended the volunteers' weekly meetings for about six weeks
attempts to bring the two groups together have been frustrating, they said
the municipal workers' group has yet to commit its rights either but interviewed six producers and narrowed its preference down to one, said attorney martin allday of midland
the girl's parents, chip and cissy mcclure, have said they are not interested in exploiting jessica's story for profit but did not want to stand in the way of other plans
the son of a mosaic designer has gone to court to try to prevent the city from altering the art work's portrayal of a smiling black man celebrating his freedom from slavery
edward a. kane jr. filed suit this week seeking a preliminary injunction barring the city from changing the mosaic outside city hall ``because of the love i have for my father's memory,'' he said wednesday
i don't want to see the change made because in my opinion you set a precedent to change paintings, books,'' kane said. ``it offends me. if you don't like the smile on the mona lisa, are you going to change it?''
a hearing was set for friday in madison county circuit court
in his lawsuit, kane said alterations to his late father's ``work of art'' would violate constitutional rights to free speech and artistic expression
the 10- by 40-foot mosaic shows white settlers in covered wagons and a freed slave, with a broken rope hanging from his wrists, celebrating his freedom
complaints about the portrayal began in 1986. opponents contend it was demeaning to blacks because it does not show them making any contribution to the city
in october, city council agreed to remove the man's smile, add other facial features and replace the ropes with a hoe. groups favoring the change said they would pay for alterations
tim early, chairman of the city's human rights commission and a supporter of the change, said work would begin as weather allowed
early also said the mosaic, constructed in the mid-1960s, was not the work of edward kane sr. alone but had been designed by a committee. ``i'm sure his father assisted in terms of artistic direction. but to give him full credit is just wrong,'' early said
a priest who was invited to baptize nicaraguan president daniel ortega's seventh child says the ceremony was delayed when 3,200 u.s. soldiers were airlifted to honduras
they went into a state of alert and the baptism was called off,'' the rev. ray bourgeois said here wednesday
he said he had given up was preparing to leave managua on friday when he got a call from foreign minister miguel d'escoto, a fellow maryknoll priest, who said the ceremony was on
we drove to the president's house. it was comfortable, but no mansion. kids were running around all over the place. his mother lydia was there, his wife, rosario, and the godparents,'' bourgeois said
ortega was watching the cbs evening news via satellite
after some small talk, everyone moved outside to the patio where camila, ortega's first daughter, was baptized
i asked him (ortega) to share one of the readings about the greatest commandment, to love god and your neighbor as yourself,'' bourgeois said
bourgeois, 48, said ortega extended the invitation to managua in december, about a month after they met at an organization of american states meeting in washington
he said ortega wanted to meet him because bourgeois had recently been released from a prison term for trespassing on government property during a protest against the contra rebels
the baptism was no different from the hundreds of others i've done,'' bourgeois said. ``it was a family affair. a religious event, not a political event.'' california, picking up 5th graf pvs, `mack was arrested ....' corrects name to paul steven, sted steven paul, in 2nd graf.</note>
a man arrested in the poisoning death of a california beauty queen on a tip resulting from a tv show waived extradition today, saying he wanted to ``get it done with.''
during a three-minute hearing before 5th circuit judge paul g. grant, paul steven mack, 39, said he wouldn't oppose efforts to return him to sacramento, calif., to face charges in the 1987 slaying
i am fully knowledgeable of the extradition proceedings and i wish to waive it and get it done with,'' a handcuffed mack told grant
deputy salt lake county attorney bud ellett said he expected mack, accompanied by sacramento county sheriff's officers, to be flown out of salt lake city later in the day
mack, who had been working as a restaurant chef for the past eight months under the name sean paul lanier, was arrested tuesday near his home, said police sgt. bill brusik
he was wanted in the slaying of karen grace winslett, 21, of carmichael, calif., who disappeared in february 1987, shortly after winning the title of miss english leather in las vegas, nev
mack was arrested by police acting on a tip from a marion, ohio, woman who watched fox broadcasting co.'s ``america's most wanted'' program sunday night and recognized mack as having once worked at a country club where she worked
the woman also remembered receiving a call from a man in salt lake city who wanted information about a man named lanier, said sharon telles, a spokeswoman for the sacramento county sheriff's office
she ``put two and two together and called authorities,'' telles said
ohio authorities contacted sacramento county officials, who alerted salt lake city police. a check revealed that a sean paul lanier had been involved in an october 1987 traffic accident and had produced an ohio driver's license
sacramento police contend mack lured winslett to his apartment to be photographed for a possible calendar spread, then killed her with an overdose of the painkiller percodan, telles said
winslett's body was found in her car in the parking lot of a north sacramento motel 12 days after she disappeared. detectives said mack was linked to the crime by physical and other evidence that they would not detail
mack also is sought for questioning by ohio authorities in the 1981 slaying of a young woman who had worked as a secretary for him at the marion country club
salt lake city police detective don bell said records showed mack has used six or more aliases and has been married seven or eight times, including a marriage last month to a utah woman
telles said police view him as a con artist who dabbled in ``all kinds of fraud schemes.'' a convicted forger and burglar, mack served two prison terms and was paroled in 1985
sacramento county sheriff's detective bob bell said the ``america's most wanted'' show generated 170 calls, most of them involving ``look-alike'' tips about men who resembled mack
the arrest was the fourth stemming from the ``most wanted'' show, according to fox
hundreds of hospitals will offer free blood cholesterol testing may 4 in the first national screening for the fatty substance that is a leading contributor to heart disease and strokes
the program, organized by the voluntary hospitals of america, was outlined thursday at a news confrence. officials said they were announcing the national program well in advance to give people plenty of time to learn where they can go for testing
about 400 not-for-profit hospitals that are members of the association have agreed to participate, and organizers estimate 400,000 americans will get the test
while most will do the test free, a few will charge $3
a public service television spot promoting the program, called ``countdown usa,'' will begin airing next week
it includes a toll-free telephone number _ 800-634-9541 _ for people to call weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. (est) to find out which hospitals in their areas will offer the testing
we want every american adult to know his or her cholesterol level and if it's high, do something about it,'' said dr. dewitt s. goodman, professor of medicine at the columbia university college of physicians and surgeons and a member of the staff at new york city's presbyterian hospital
blood cholesterol levels below 200 milligrams are associated with a low level of coronary heart disease. levels over 240 milligrams double the risk. twenty percent to 25 percent of americans have cholesterol levels in this range, the american heart association says
goodman, who heads the hospital organization's screening effort, said one valuable bit of information researchers hope to gain is insight into which people respond. ``we really don't know who will come to be screened,'' he said
don l. arnwine, chairman of the voluntary hospitals of america, acknowledged that the estimate that 400,000 people will be tested is little more than a guess
if 4 million show up, it may be the third or fourth day before we can get to everyone, but we will try to serve them,'' arnwine said
the screening program was developed in association with the national heart, lung and blood institute to assure uniformity from city to city
former national security aides oliver l. north and john m. poindexter and two businessmen pleaded innocent thursday to charges they ran the iran-contra affair as a vast criminal conspiracy and defrauded the government of $17 million
one by one, the defendants were called before u.s. district judge gerhard gesell at their arraignment, and asked by courtroom clerk barbara montgomery, ``how do you wish to plead?''
not guilty,'' replied poindexter, president reagan's former national security adviser; and north, a top assistant to poindexter
not guilty, your honor,'' responded retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and albert hakim, who controlled the money and procured the arms for the once-secret iran-contra operation
all four defendants were released on their personal recognizance and told to report weekly by telephone to a pre-trial agency. although criminal defendants are often asked to surrender their passports, gesell said he would not impose that condition
dressed in conservative business suits, the four men made their first appearance in court since a federal grand jury, convened by independent counsel lawrence e. walsh 14 months ago, handed down a 23-count indictment march 16
north, retiring as a marine lieutenant colonel may 1, and poindexter, a retired navy rear admiral, embraced before the judge entered the crowded courtroom
the defendants are charged with conspiring to defraud the united states ``by deceitfully ... organizing, directing and concealing'' a program of support for the nicaraguan contras rebels at a time such assistance was banned
the indictment also said the defendants ``knowingly did embezzle, steal and convert to their own use'' part of the proceeds generated by the sale of weapons to iran
although no exact figure was specified in the theft count, it was reported elsewhere in the indictment that the arms sales generated proceeds of some $30 million while the government was paid only $12.2 million for the weapons
gesell set no trial date but said he would hold an early hearing to determine whether evidence gathered by walsh is free of taint and therefore admissible
all the defendants except secord testified before congress under a grant of immunity from prosecution, preventing walsh from using any of that testimony
walsh has said fbi agents assigned to his staff made sure that he wasn't exposed to any new stories involving the hearings or later developments. as he obtained his independent evidence, he filed it under seal with the court. walsh has the burden of proving that his evidence was not tainted
the court has an independent obligation to determine ... whether the prosecution up to this stage is or is not tainted ...'' gesell said. ``this ought to get resolved and get resolved quickly.''
gesell ordered written motions on the taint question to be filed by april 7, and set a preliminary proceeding for april 12. a full hearing would likely be held later in april, he said
walsh pointed out he has hired retired federal judge herbert stern to argue such motions, and said he was ready to move ahead
gesell told the lawyers he would not allow a civil suit arising from the iran-contra affair, in which secord and hakim are defendants, to interfere with the criminal case. the civil trial had been set to begin june 27
it will not go forward,'' gesell said. ``a criminal case takes precedence. this case has got to take priority.''
outside the courtroom, a crowd of demonstrators gathered to show support for the defendants. sen. steven symms, r-idaho, called on president reagan to issue ``an immediate pardon'' of north and poindexter
the defendants were met by a mob scene of reporters and supporters as they left the courthouse
as poindexter stood by silently, attorney richard beckler said, ``we are going to vigorously contest this case with all our strength and might.''
north left through a separate door and did not get close to reporters. however, television cameramen and still photographers mobbed his gray limousine as it drove by the building. north waved and smiled from the car
before the arraignments, some 30 supporters of the defendants chanted as poindexter, the last of the four to enter the building, walked through the front door
god bless you, sir. god bless john poindexter,'' shouted one demonstrator
the group chanted, ``fund the contras, not the lawyers'' and waved signs reading ``investigate communists in congress'' and ``$10 million witch hunt.''
we're here to support ollie north. i think he's a man of action and a true american citizen,'' said katie collins of arcadia, calif
peter flaherty, chairman of citizens for reagan, said the demonstrators represented several organizations, including young americans for freedom, the national defense council and the coalition for america. he said they wanted to ``show friendship and support for ollie and solidarity with him.''
industrialist armand hammer says eight soviet and american medical specialists will discuss the latest treatment for cancer during a fund-raising program to be broadcast in both nations, western europe and the middle east
the satellite television conference is an outgrowth of the 1986 summit conference between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev and is part of an effort to raise $1 billion a year for cancer research in the united states
hammer, chairman of occidental petroleum corp. and head of the president's cancer panel, recently helped establish the non-profit stop cancer foundation whose goal is to raise $500 million a year for cancer research
i know many people have said they hope to find a cure for cancer,'' hammer said during an interview wednesday
but this time i believe we are truly on the verge of conquering it. we just need more money.''
hammer, 89, said he believes a cure can be found within 10 years, adding, ``i hope to celebrate my 100th birthday ... knowing i have achieved the last remaining mission in my life by ridding the world of this scourge.''
the two-hour teleconference on tuesday will link cancer specialists in washington and moscow. about half of the conference will be composed of film clips of medical researchers and cancer patients plus taped comments by reagan, gorbachev and other political figures
the full conference will be broadcast to more than 1,250 hospitals in the united states for the benefit of doctors, researchers and staff members
it also will be beamed to 43 cities in countries throughout europe and the mideast by the u.s. information agency, and will be broadcast in a shortened, one-hour form on soviet television, which reaches 150 million people
u.s. doctors participating in the conference will be vincent t. devita jr., director of the national cancer instititute; steven a. rosenberg, chief of surgery for the nci; robert gale, director of the ucla bone-marrow transplant unit, who treated victims of the 1986 chernobyl nuclear plant disaster in the soviet union; and richard j. steckel, director of the jonsson comprehensive cancer center at ucla
hammer said wednesday that he and nine wealthy acquaintances agreed to donate $100,000 each to the stop cancer foundation as ``seed money.''
some of the leaders of violent student demonstrations at columbia university will gather at the campus for a 20th anniversary reunion next month, university officials said
among those expected to attend are mark rudd, a former leader of the students for democratic society who later became a member of the radical weather underground, surrendering to police in 1978 for his role in chicago demonstrations in the summer of 1968. he is now a teacher in arizona
fred knubel, the university spokesman, said the april 22-23 reunion was not an official function, but was being organized by the school's episcopal chaplain, the rev. william starr
knubel said wednesday that the university is ``a changed place'' from the days when 700 students were arrested on campus after they took several university officials hostage and seized some campus buildings
richard and andrea egan, who got married at a sit-in at one university building, have confirmed they will attend the reunion, he said
the protest was sparked by university plans to build a gym in nearby morningside park and grew into a general demonstration against the vietnam war and government contracts for scientific research. prison</head> conference of mayors. subs 8th graf, `alexander would ...,' to add surrender date and alexander to be sent to medium-security federal prison.</note>
former mayor lee alexander was sentenced to 10 years in prison today for extorting $1.5 million in kickbacks from businessmen during his years as the city's top elected official
alexander, 60, pleaded guilty jan. 6 to charges of racketeering, conspiracy to obstruct a government investigation and tax evasion in connection with what federal prosecutors called one of the biggest public corruption cases ever uncovered in new york state
at his sentencing, alexander, who once served as president of the u.s. conference of mayors, also was ordered by u.s. district judge thomas j. mcavoy to pay $100,000 in restitution to the city of syracuse in lieu of a $100,000 fine recommended by federal prosecutors
i've brought great pain to my loved ones and the people of my city and stand here now ready for my punishment,'' alexander said before sentence was pronounced
alexander said his demise occurred when an effort to build a political war chest was ``allowed to grow into a cancer.''
before alexander's 10-minute speech to the judge, his attorney, harold boreanaz, made an impassioned plea for leniency
boreanaz rebutted statements made by prosecutors that alexander had not fully cooperated with the government's efforts to identify and turn over his assets
alexander would be eligible for parole after serving a third of his sentence. u.s. attorney frederick scullin said alexander must surrender by april 14 and would serve his sentence at a medium-security federal prison that has yet to be determined
the former mayor faced nearly seven centuries in prison after being named in a 40-count federal grand jury indictment that accused him of 65 separate acts of extortion
alexander earlier surrendered to the government more than $1.4 million in assets the government has linked with the extortion-kickback scheme he admitted running during his four terms as syracuse's chief executive between 1970 and 1986
the former mayor was to have been sentenced on march 10 but questions by the government about whether alexander had withheld any assets caused mcavoy to delay sentencing until today. alexander met with government attorneys for more than 20 hours and submitted to at least two polygraph tests during the past two weeks
alexander was indicted july 16, 1986, by a special grand jury investigating public corruption in syracuse. alexander initially denied the charges, but the the overwhelming and highly detailed evidence, including testimony from alexander's pick-up men and other co-conspirators, caused him to seek a plea bargain
six religious activists seeking greater religious freedom in the soviet union called thursday for a new russian orthodox church leader to replace the ailing patriarch pimen
the activists, led by the rev. gleb yakunin, sent an appeal to the 78-year-old pimen asking that he step down because senility and poor health make him incapable of fulfilling his duties
the group, who met with reporters, said they have noted some encouraging changes in official tolerance of religion and believe it is time for a change at the top
they also sent their appeal to the church synod that meets next week, yakunin said, in the event pimen does not choose to leave. the synod is responsible for making church appointments
yakunin acknowledged that it would be unprecedented for the church hierarchy, which is subordinate to the communist party government, to oust the church leader against his will
on the shoulders of the church leader rests the heavy weight of spiritual and historical responsibilities,'' the appeal reads. ``you, your supreme holiness, are not up to bearing this weight.''
pimen's office recieved the appeal, church chancery director irina a. tsyganova told the associated press
i can't say whether it will be discussed by the synod or not,'' she said. ``i rather doubt it as the synod's business agenda has been determined for a long time.''
she said pimen, who is widely reported to be in poor health, was not available for comment
i doubt he will leave of his own accord,'' yakunin said. ``but we sent the letter with the hope that those around him who assist him in carrying out church duties will be able to influence him.''
religious activist andrei bessmertny said pimen rarely appears in public and his crucial role as liaison between the russian orthodox church and the government is filled by an unknown cast of supporters
he has been seen by foreign visitors to ask his deacons where he should go and what he should do,'' bessmertny said. ``he has to be led around like a very old man.''
yakunin and fellow priest nikolai gainov said they were not appealing for any particular church official to succeed pimen
yakunin, who was imprisoned for six years because of religious activism in the 1970s that authorities considered to be dissident behavior, was restored to the ministry last year after 20 years of exclusion
more than 200 churches have been reopened recently for the observance of the 1,000th anniversary of the coming of christianity to russia. whether that trend will continue after the formal observances in june is not clear, the activists said
yakunin also said church activists have found it easier now to receive religious materials from foreign affiliates, including bibles and magazines that once were deemed anti-soviet
the appeal to pimen also noted the positive trends, although it criticized the dearth of monasteries, seminaries, churches and priests
paradoxically, it is not the church but the government that is taking the initiative in drawing believers into the social mainstream,'' the appeal to pimen said. ``society has survived a spiritual crisis and the russian orthodox church can play a significant role in its recovery.''
while there have been encouraging signs of change, none of the laws instituted in 1929 to break the church's influence with the peasantry has been repealed, yakunin said. those laws prohibit charitable work by churches as well as religious education, arguing that such work violates the principle of separation of church from state
the religious activists said 54,174 churches were open at the time of the 1917 bolshevik revolution, and now there are about 7,000. the number of russian orthodox priests has declined on a similar scale
president p.w. botha issued a stinging attack thursday on anti-apartheid clergymen, saying they praise guerrillas who commit horrendous atrocities
the accusation came in a five-page letter released by botha in response to a letter from the rev. frank chikane, general secretary of the south african council of churches, who defended the clergy's growing role in anti-government protest
the exchange of letters is the latest round of a bitter church-state confrontation that began last month when the government banned all activities by 17 major anti-apartheid organizations. chikane, anglican archbishop desmond tutu and other clegymen vowed to fill the void created by the bannings
on feb. 29, chikane, tutu and 23 other church leaders were arrested while trying to march to parliament with a petition protesting the crackdown
chikane, in a letter to botha a week ago, defended the clergymen's decision to protest against ``ungodly acts of oppression.''
botha, in his response, described himself as a devout christian. he said his government, which denies the black majority a vote in national affairs, strove to broaden democracy and remove discriminatory laws
referring to the outlawed african national congress and south african communist party, botha said to chikane: ``you love and praise the anc-sacp, with its marxist and atheistic ideology, landmines, bombs and necklaces perpetrating the most horrendous atrocities imaginable, and you embrace and participate in their call for violence, hatred, sanctions, insurrection and revolution
in the name of god,'' added botha, ``i call upon you to be messengers of the true christian religion and not of marxism or atheism.''
necklacing'' is a form of execution in which a gasoline-soaked tire is placed around a victim's neck and set alight. in nationwide unrest from 1984 through 1986, many blacks suspected of collaborating with the government were necklaced by black militants
the anc, which wages a bombing and sabotage campaign aimed at undermining white-minority rule, repudiated necklacing last year and the method has been used infrequently in recent months
at an emergency meeting tuesday, anglican bishops from across south africa pledged support for tutu in his confrontation with botha. the bishops said they rejected the president's efforts to depict the dispute as a choice between marxism and the government's programs
sen. joseph r. biden jr., d-del., thin and full of good cheer, left the hospital thursday saying ``i feel good'' despite a setback that has delayed a second operation on an artery in his head
i've asked you all to come today because i've decided to announce that i am re-entering the race for president,'' the delaware senator joked to reporters waiting outside walter reed army hospital where he had spent the last 11 days
biden dropped out of the democratic campaign last sept. 23
he had undergone surgery to correct an aneurysm in an artery that supplies blood to the brain on feb. 12 and was scheduled to have a second artery similarly repaired early in april
but on march 13 he re-entered the hospital for a suspected blood clot in his leg. it turned out the clot had lodged in biden's lungs, where it dissipated and was absorbed by the body
to prevent more such clots, which occur frequently after medical intrusion into the artery, doctors last friday implanted a tiny, umbrella-like filter in a large vein that conveys blood to the right atrium of the heart. the arterial surgery now probably will be the end of may
they don't want me working, but do want me walking,'' biden said. ``the most disturbing part of the intermediate step i've had is the delay of the second operation for a month or so. the second operation should be a relatively easy piece of cake.''
he said he won't be back in the senate until he recovers from that surgery
biden looked thin and said he is now down to a 34 inch waist
i probably don't look very hot, but i feel fine,'' he said
he declined to talk politics, saying that ``if you are out of the loop more than a couple of days in this race, you are really out of the loop.'' and of the race, he said: ``i think it would be much better if i were still in it.''
the senator wore a baseball cap with the letter ``d.'' he had worn the same cap on his first hospital release and said he'd gotten mail asking why he was a detroit tigers fan
this is a university of delaware baseball hat,'' he said. ``i hope this will put an end to the most serious problem i've confronted in the last six weeks.''
and, added the senator, who is nearly bald, ``the reason for the hat is that they kind of took some of my hair off and i didn't have a lot of hair to begin with.''
walt disney world has handled hazardous waste materials in a sloppy and potentially dangerous way, the state department of environmental regulation reports
the der told the company it would be fined $174,399 unless it can show that the violations are not as serious as the state agency contends
it looks as if they (disney supervisors) do not have good control of their hazardous waste,'' said george gionis, enforcement section manager for der's central florida district
a two-day inspection of the 43-square-mile tourist attraction in january found nine violations, seven classified as major. the der wants the company to test for possible groundwater contamination in two of the nine areas inspected
disney spokesman john dreyer said thursday the company had ``always tried to comply with der regulations, and we will make whatever improvements are deemed necessary.''
the inspection was conducted after the der received an anonymous complaint
much of the criticism involved a maintenance yard in the epcot center section, where toxic paints, solvents, pesticides and other chemicals are stored
the der described the maintenance yard as an ``uncontrolled, unsupervised, unmanaged and unposted site.''
state inspectors said they found steel drums stored indiscriminately and filled with waste and unknown chemicals. many drums were unlabeled, rusty, open or lying on their sides, with their contents running off a concrete slab where they could contaminate groundwater
there were no precautions to guard against fires, explosions or spills, the inspectors said
such dangers, plus a possible contamination of groundwater, ``could threaten human health or the environment,'' according to the report
inspectors found only one employee that had received training in handling the materials, and the der asked that disney set up a training course on hazardous-waste management
the park passed similar inspections in 1984 and 1985. no inspections were made in 1986 or 1987. in 1981 and 1983, it was cited for minor violations
disney officials have 10 days to meet with the regulatory agency to set up a plan for correcting violations and negotiate penalties. it could take months or even years to make some of the changes requested, gionis said
fire officials on thursday investigated a blaze at an abandoned house used by crack cocaine addicts, the fifth such fire which officials said may be the work of anti-drug vigilantes
i don't have a gut feeling whether it's the same person,'' said fire lt. john gilbert. ``it could be one person or four different people. i do know that whoever it is is not serving the community.''
as in the other cases, police found little evidence to aid their investigation of the fire which broke out tuesday in a working-class neighborhood, according to fire spokeswoman cristy hickman
investigators believe the blaze may be related to fires that gutted three houses march 17 and another house two weeks ago near coral gables, a suburb of miami, ms. hickman said thursday
one firefighter suffered a heart attack during one of the fires last week and is still hospitalized, she said. six other firefighters and one civilian have also sustained minor injuries
the latest fire was confined to a small area of a vacant two-story house and appeared to involve a flammable liquid. no injuries were reported
although not in the same neighborhoods, the fires have all involved vacant buildings that were hangouts for vagrants and crack users, and all involved a flammable liquid, fire officials said
people seem to know where they are,'' gilbert said of the crack houses. ``police know where they are, too. they try their best but as soon as they close someone down, someone else moves in.''
gilbert is concerned that more people could get hurt, or even killed, and that copycats may prompt more fires, especially since avenging arsonists are gaining prominence around the country
two men who recently set fire to a crack house in their detroit neighborhood were featured on three national news magazines and a national morning television show
i resent all this attention they're getting,'' said lt. jon bozich of the detroit fire department. ``the more you make heroes out of these guys the more problems we're going to have. everybody wants to be a hero.''
representatives of the recreation and small aircraft industries and other insurance users claimed thursday that insurance costs have skyrocketed in the past four years because of problems with the legal system, not because of insurance company conspiracy
the groups stopped short of directly criticizing lawsuits filed tuesday by eight states that accused dozens of insurance companies of conspiring to curtail insurance coverage. instead, the groups told reporters that the suits, filed in federal court in san francisco, served to draw attention from what they believe is the main problem: high damage awards by the courts and frivolous suits
we would love to find a simple solution to this,'' said derrick crandall, president of the american recreation coalition. ``unfortunately, having lived with this crisis for the last four years, we've concluded there are many factors involved
we don't believe this is an issue of insurance companies colluding,'' crandall continued. ``if that were the case, why can't some recreation companies find insurance at any cost?''
edward w. stimpson, president of the general aviation manufacturers association, echoed crandall's contentions
many of our companies are now self-insured or self-insured for the first $50 million or $100 million,'' stimpson said. ``so, our problem is not an insurance problem, but what's going on in our courthouses and legal system.''
he presented figures showing that the number of fatal accidents involving small planes decreasing in the past decade, while the amount of paid claims rose significantly
william kronenberg, president and chief executive officer of environmental compliance services inc., which manages insurance programs for companies involved in storing, cleaning up and disposing hazardous wastes, agreed that the court system is to blame
kronenberg said ``it is clear that many of the insurance companies did not have an adequate understanding of the pollution industry'' when they originally wrote policies and then sharply increased rates or stopped writing insurance when they realized their risks
blair childs, executive director of the american tort reform association, which says it represents more than 400 trade associations, businesses and professional groups, said his group has been pushing for several pieces of legislation at the state level, among them one that would give judges more power to impose sanctions on lawyers who bring frivolous lawsuits
the white house said today that the upcoming summit between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev will be ``quite productive'' even though the two sides are separated by a wide range of major differences
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater denied that reagan had scheduled his fourth summit with the soviet leader merely as a wrap-up to the president's second term
the may 29-june 2 moscow summit ``will be well prepared; there will be substance to discuss; there will be good prospects for success,'' fitzwater told reporters
he added that ``there will be a number of important and substantive and meaningful issues to be resolved and all of those things will occur at the moscow summit. it meets all the criteria that needs to be met.''
if u.s. and soviet negotiators can unravel disagreements over the next nine weeks, reagan and gorbachev will sign a sweeping pact to cut long-range nuclear weapons arsenals
i think this summit will be quite productive, well defined, well prepared,'' the spokesman said without citing any specific areas of agreement
fitzwater was queried about summit prospects amid indications from both secretary of states george shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze on wednesday that little agreement was found on an array of troublesome issues
prior to reagan's first summit sessions with the soviet leader, the white house had repeatedly insisted reagan would not meet with gorbachev unless substantive progress on matters such as arms control could be achieved
fitzwater said the success of the shultz-shevardnadze sessions this week lies in the fact that both sides had ``faced all the tough problems'' and that there is no confusion about where both sides stand
we made enough progress to keep going and presumably we will make more in the days ahead,'' the spokesman said
fitzwater also announced that reagan had accepted an invitation from the finnish government to travel to helsinki from may 26 to may 29, prior to the summit. afterward, he will stop in london on the way home
the president will deliver an address while in helsinki and might deliver another in london, the spokesman said, but he gave no other details
shultz, in a meeting with reporters wednesday evening, was asked about chances for reaching an arms control agreement in time for it to be signed at the summit
i wouldn't want to lay you odds,'' he responded
the road to the summit is also littered with divisions on central america, the middle east, and above all, afghanistan, where plans by the soviets to end their 8-year intervention have hit a snag
reagan has been talking about going to the soviet union since the autumn of 1985 when he and gorbachev were in geneva for their first meeting. not since president nixon visited moscow in 1974 and president ford went to vladivostok later that year has an american chief of state traveled to the land reagan once called ``an evil empire.''
the summit's proposed highlight would be the signing of a treaty to scrap 30 percent to 50 percent of the superpowers' long-range bombers, missiles and submarines. but major differences remain, despite pronouncements that progress was made during shevardnadze's three days of talks in washington
asked if a treaty would be ready in time, reagan said, ``i have no way of answering that.'' shevardnadze called it ``a possibility.''
the envisioned treaty would set a ceiling of 6,000 warheads on long-range missiles and bombers, but the two sides must still set sub-limits on the various types of weapons and decide how to verify compliance with a pact
the compliance issue is especially thorny because the weapons are among the hardest to detect in the superpower arsenals: sea-launched cruise missiles, ballistic missiles on submarines and cruise missiles launched from bombers
shevardnadze said progress has been made on verification, but ``much more work needs to be done,'' at the continuing round of talks in geneva and at two more shultz-shevardnadze sessions, first in moscow april 21-25 and then in the middle of may at an unspecified site
shultz and shevardnadze portrayed their governments as working with a common purpose to fit pieces of the arms control puzzle in time for the summit. they made no effort to hide their sharp disagreements over regional issues like afghanistan
the soviets rejected shultz's proposal for a freeze in supply of military aid to the afghan government during a withdrawal of the soviet union's 115,000 troops and for three months afterward. the united states would stop aiding the afghan resistance during the same period
shevardnadze adamantly rejected the offer, telling reporters the soviet backing for the afghan government was codified in a treaty and ``we are not going to rescind that treaty.''
the soviet union has pledged to withdraw the troops, which went into afghanistan in december 1979, but lack of agreement on aid cutoffs has complicated the process
shultz said the soviets were willing to withdraw forces by the end of the year, beginning with a 50 percent pullout during the first three months. but unless the soviets stop aiding the marxist government at the same time as it withdraws, afghanistan will remain unstable, he said
the two foreign ministers also apparently hit a dead end in talks about central america
the united states wants the soviet union to stop supplying weapons to nicaragua, but shevardnadze wants the united states to stop doing the same for other central american nations before the soviets will stop helping nicaragua, shultz said
orchestra conductors don't expect to have weekends off, but james conlon faces a saturday that's close to ridiculous
in the afternoon, he will conduct mussorgsky's ``khovanshchina'' at the metropolitan opera and in the evening he'll be next door in avery fisher hall conducting the new york philharmonic in an all-mahler program
he knew about the double workshift about a year ago, conlon said thursday. ``i thought, `i can do that.'''
he'll be free between 5:30 and 8 p.m., conlon said. ``i'll go home, shower, dress again, sit quietly for an hour and a half.'' he says he won't even need a snack between performances
it is actually less exhausting to do this than to rehearse all day,'' said conlon, 38. ``rehearsals are very intense. they take a lot out of you
concerts wind you up and give you energy. i find, after a concert or particularly after an opera, physically you can be extremely stimulated, for several hours to come.''
the agriculture department proposed thursday a national grower-financed program to promote more watermelon eating
officials said the plan was endorsed by the national watermelon association to implement the 1985 watermelon research and promotion act. it would be financed by an annual levy of 2 cents per 100 pounds on watermelon handlers and farmers who grow five acres or more
public comments, in quadruplicate, can be sent by may 23 to: hearing clerk, room 1079-s, usda, 14th and independence, washington, d.c. 20250. meteorites</head>
scientists have used lasers to identify organic chemicals in meteorites, and say the new technique may revolutionize analysis of certain pollutants, oil-bearing rocks and other chemicals
the procedure is much faster than standard chemical tests, requires only a tiny sample and doesn't destroy the material, said a statement by the scripps institution of oceanography
the technique was developed by chemist richard n. zare and colleagues at stanford university
its use to identify organic compounds in six meteorites was outlined in a study, published in friday's issue of the journal science, by zare and his colleagues at stanford and by jeffrey l. bada, a marine chemist at scripps, which is part of the university of california, san diego, located in la jolla
the problem with standard chemical techniques for doing organic analyses of meteorites and other rare materials is that they are laborious, destroy the sample and require one to 10 grams of the material to be tested,'' bada said
a gram is about one-30th of an ounce
our method can reduce the analysis time from a month or more to just a few minutes, and we need only one millionth of a gram to do the test,'' he said. ``in addition, the technique does not require the use of solvents that can contaminate the sample, and is non-destructive to the sample.''
the new method may be used widely to analyze meteorites, cosmic dust, environmental pollutants and oil-bearing sediments, the scripps statement said, adding that the technique ``may revolutionize the way certain chemical compounds are analyzed.''
the study found wide variation in the content and relative amounts of organic substances known as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, or pahs, in the meteorites that were tested
scientists believe meteorites are remnants of the young solar system, and analyzing their contents may provide clues as to why life arose on earth but not elsewhere in the solar system
the researchers placed tiny amounts of meteorite samples on a teflon-coated probe, then inserted the probe into a vacuum chamber. each sample was hit with a 10-millionth-of-a-second burst from a carbon dioxide laser, which heated the samples to about 1,000 degrees fahrenheit
the heat released molecules of the samples into the vacuum chamber, where they then were struck by an ultraviolet laser beam. that electrically charged the organic compunds in the meteorites so the chemicals could be separated and identified by matching their masses with masses of known substances. it</head> by iranians, adds identity of ship. picks up 6th graf pvs, `the executives...</note>
a supertanker put out a distress signal in the southern persian gulf today and appeared to be the victim of an iranian attack, but the captain denied it had been hit, maritime salvage executives said
the executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the 267,589-ton friendship l reported in a radio contact that its engine room was on fire. the captain did not say what caused the fire
in a later contact, the captain denied his vessel had been the target of an iranian raid. the iranians have launched nine attacks on neutral shipping in the southern gulf since friday
the ship attacks are part of the so-called tanker war, an offshoot of the 7{-year-old iraq-iran conflict. about 500 ships have been attacked by both sides, according to the london-basec lloyd's shipping intelligence unit, which monitors worldwide navigation
salvage tugboats rushed to the friendship l, which gave its location between the southern gulf emirates of ajman and ras al-khaimah, close to the strait of hormuz, said the executives. the strait is the sole entry to the gulf. there was no immediate word on the extent of damage
the executives said the vessel in distress was in almost the same area where a cypriot freighter, the odysseas h, was attacked by two iranian gunboats on wednesday. eight other attacks on freighters and tankers of different nationalities were hit by the iranians in the past week, all in the same vicinity
salvage tugboats were still struggling to contain a blaze in the crew quarters of the odysseas h, 24 hours after the attack. no casualties were reported on board
strong winds were whipping up the flames and impeding the salvage operation, the executives said. reports indicated the vessel was being steered in the direction of omani waters for shelter where the salvage operation would be completed. line.</note>
the du pont co. plans to end production of chlorofluorocarbon compounds, the most potent destroyers of the earth's ozone shield, the company said today
but the company's chairman, in a letter to several senators, did not say when the production would cease
du pont chairman richard e. heckert told sen. robert stafford, r-vt., that the company decided on ``an orderly transition to the total phaseout'' of the compounds following a report last week that they probably were responsible for a 2.3 percent decline in the thickness of the earth's ozone shield from 1969 to 1986
the ozone shield, generally 15 to 25 miles high, blocks harmful ultraviolet rays from the sun that can cause skin cancer
the compounds are used for refrigeration fluids, plastic foam blowing agents and cleaning solvents, and aerosol propellants outside the united states
the united states ended aerosol use in 1978, which caused worldwide production to dip, but production resumed its upward climb in the early 1980s
in 1985, the nations of the world produced 2.28 billion pounds, about 30 percent in the united states
the report, by a panel of scientists assembled by the national aeronautics and space administration, constitutes ``important new information'' justifying du pont's reversal of its previous position that an end to cfc production was not justified, heckert said
the letter was made available by stafford's office. similar letters were given to sens. max baucus, d-mont., and david durenberger, r-minn
it's a very responsible move. du pont must now press their industry colleagues'' for similar action, baucus said in a statement
the three senators challenged du pont on feb. 22 to live up to the company's mid-1970s pledge that it would end production of cfc compounds if a threat to health were demonstrated. heckert wrote back on march 4 repeating the pledge but adding, ``at the moment, scientific evidence does not point to the need for dramatic cfc emission reductions.''
today's letter said du pont was encouraging other producers to ``join us in pursuit of this goal,'' and would ``urge all nations to treat this new scientific information seriously.''  
the united states moved 250 more military police into panama this week, more than doubling the number of security personnal assigned to the strife-torn country since march 14, the pentagon said thursday
pentagon spokesman dan howard said the latest deployments brought to 670 the total of extra security personnel airlifted to panama, ``and that's it.''
at least, that's it for the interim,'' howard said. ``this was part of a general, supplemental deployment of military policemen, and that supplemental deployment has now come to an end. so i don't expect it to go any higher.''
the u.s. southern command, which is headquartered in panama, had about 600 security personnel assigned to it before the united states stepped up its campaign earlier this month to oust strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega. the new deployments thus more than double the number of security personnel in the country
howard, asked why the pentagon thought it needed to airlift additional personnel when there were already 10,000 u.s. servicemen in the country, said the concern was having sufficient ``people who are trained as military policemen. ... they're trained to handle riot control and all sorts of things. and this has to do with the physical security of our military installations, housing areas and the like due to civil unrest and potential for civil unrest in the country.''
capt. nancy laluntas, a pentagon spokeswoman, said thursday the latest group of approximately 250 mps had been drawn from the 503rd military police battalion at fort bragg, n.c
earlier this week, the pentagon announced it had dispatched about 212 soldiers from that unit to panama, at the time bringing the ``security augmentation'' to 420
although no moves have been reported against american servicemen or their dependents, defense officials are said to be concerned that noriega might lash back at the united states by attacking or sabotaging facilities there. second charge, picking up 7th graf, `asked by ....'</note>
the prosecution rested its case today in the second of three impeachment allegations against gov. evan mecham being tried before the arizona senate
after the prosecution called its last witness, presiding officer frank x. gordon jr. denied a defense motion to dismiss the charge that mecham misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
the defense called as its first witness roger hagadorn, a valley national bank vice president who said he had loaned money to members of the mecham family for decades and none had ever defaulted
earlier today, sen. tony west said the allegation that mecham loaned public money to his auto dealership is serious and could have been the subject of a criminal investigation
west spoke as former state attorney general jack lasota testified that he believed the $80,000 loan from the governor's protocol fund was illegal
your testimony, if accurate, is either a nuclear explosion or at least devastating,'' west said
a criminal charge that mecham misused public money would be a class 4 felony carrying a penalty of up to $150,000 and five years in prison, the senator said
jeffrey colville, a developer and mortgage banker, testified today that there were three previous liens totaling $3.7 million on the mecham pontiac property, in addition to the deed of trust for the $80,000 loan
the property was appraised at $3.35 million a year earlier, colville ssid. in the event of a foreclosure, the previous liens would have to be paid off before the $80,000 loan could be repaid, he said
however, defense lawyer jerris leonard questioned whether the appraisal was low as part of a general industry practice
asked by prosecutor paul eckstein if he would have made the $80,000 loan to mecham pontiac based on that information, colville said, ``i would have to answer no.''
the prosecution has contended the auto dealership needed the money badly, and that the $80,000 loan was not simply a business deal intended to benefit the protocol fund as the defense said
lasota, who was attorney general under the republican governor's predecessor, democratic gov. bruce babbitt, testified wednesday that the loan violated several state laws
earlier, an accountant who examined the records of the dealership said it would have been overdrawn at its bank had mecham not borrowed the $80,000 on july 17, also contradicting the governor's previous testimony
unless these funds had been paid from the protocol fund, mecham pontiac would have had an overdraft the following wednesday in excess of $60,000,'' said accountant randall sorensen
mecham's lawyers contend the protocol fund, created with fund-raising proceeds from the governor's inauguration, is private money and the loan was merely a good business deal intended to provide a higher interest rate to the fund
the prosecution, however, says the protocol fund is state money since it is intended for the purchase of ceremonial state gifts and other means of promoting arizona's image
in january, mecham testified before a house impeachment committee that his dealership did not need the money to pay its bills
however, sorensen said his analysis of the dealership's records showed that it paid first interstate bank $81,309 owed for six cars on the day it received the $80,000 from the protocol fund
defense attorney jerris leonard suggested the dealership could have had other assets which could have been converted to cash, but sorsensen said he had found no such assets
lasota testified that he had examined the way the protocol fund was set up and the applicable state laws and concluded it was public money, even though it was not officially turned over to the state treasury
the $80,000 loan violated state laws against loaning state money, failing to keep the fund intact until it was properly disbursed and transferring money when not authorized by law, lasota said
mecham, the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades, also has been charged with obstructing the investigation of an alleged threat and concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
the first-term governor also faces an april 21 criminal trial on felony charges of concealing the campaign loan and a may 17 recall election
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham in the impeachment trial
the winds of change are shifting fast in french fashion
having barely coaxed women into knee-baring minis, several important designers did an about-face to long skirts in winter ready-to-wear collections
the different lengths shown over eight days give a wealth of options to women who choose to bare or hide their legs
influential creators such as yves saint laurent, valentino, christian lacroix are among those whose fashions still are above the knee
but saying he's tired of minis, karl lagerfeld showed some nearly ankle-length skirts in his own collection. his skirts for chanel were both short and long
yohji yamamoto's somber looks were all long. but many others, including rykiel, kenzo and ungaro, offered optional lengths
trousers are back in a very big way, another boon to women who have never given them up for city wear, no matter what paris has decreed lately
claude montana featured nearly all slim pants, and only a few ankle-length skirts, in his sharp collection. the ``clothes sculptor'' outlined his handsome jackets with enormous funnels or big collars turned down to eclipse the shoulder, the waist looking tiny over trumpet-shaped jacket hems
other pants ranged from gray flannel and straight with pleats from the waist, as at scherrer, saint laurent and cerruti. at chanel they appeared full, as ``pant-skirts.'' at ungaro they were slightly draped
besides these developments, there's a big range of silhouettes, although a note of sobriety has crept in. in a competitive market characterized by a shaky and lower dollar, designers are aiming to sell to a more cautious consumer who is looking for wearability rather than gags in their clothes
overpadded shoulders are out. belted or boxy coats were topped with big bertha collars or wraps, which were handsome in dazzling colors at lacroix. ankle or knee-length princess or redingote styles swept down the runways, as did tent-like greatcoats, plus capes and caped shoulders
suits came back in force, silhouettes lean and sophisticated, or full-skirted for ingenues. jacket options were often fine for adventurous businesswomen who like to dress with style, in everything from lively boleros to sharply pointed spencers. saint laurent's stunning classics were fronted with geometric or cubist patchwork effects
christian lacroix topped his high-waisted checked suit with a cropped v-neck bolero. lagerfeld opted for very long jackets for his own and the chanel collection, along with good short jackets at the latter. another easy topper is a wrapped surplice blouse or sweater
shawl collars, shoulder wraps and fur-trimmed lapels were frequent favorite details on suits or coats
the new quiet looks featured plenty of easy lines in jersey. there were belted bicolored tunic outfits at saint laurent, layers of flowing a-line jerseys at issey miyake. even fashion's former ``bad boy'' gaultier went into easily fluid clothes, leaving behind his weird padded corset-looks
ungaro varied his complicated, waist-cinched puff-sleeved looks with a big line of flowered babydoll flyaway dresses in light fabrics, which should please the full-figured woman. he also brought back the chemise, shaped mainly by a low knotted drape in back
daytime fabrics featured bright windowpane plaids, gray or black and white checks, chevrons, tweeds and pinstripes. dressier were the flowered light wool fabrics at lanvin and ungaro. paisleys looked lovely in the new suits, as did tapestries or oriental-rug motifs at lacroix
the fabrics bonanza also included smooth or stretch lycra jersey, cashmere, cable-knits, mohair, broadcloth or serge, lots of suede or lambskin, and curly mongolian lamb for warm-looking coats
daytime colors abounded in browns from beige to chocolate, all shades of gray, plus grayish pastels. autumnal notes of burgundy, plum, grape, siena and ochre contrasted with the luminous colors: flame red, royal blue, emerald, tangerine and lemon
for evenings, there were sexy styles, although simpler clothes were offered along with the fancy
body-hugging little black suits and dresses were dolled up in all sorts of ways: chandelier crystals at saint laurent, billiard balls, silver nails or pearly hearts at patrick kelly; sequins, lace, bows and rhinestones nearly everywhere
the lacroix influence in puffs, bubbles and strapless bustier-topped mini dance dresses is still on the party circuit. flounced taffeta or faille gowns, knee-baring in front with trains in the back are adding gala touches at laroche and saint laurent
besides ubiquitous black, the opulent late-day clothes came out in zingy shades of yellow, amethyst, green and fuschia taffeta and faille. lots of black velvet and guipure or heavy lace starred as well, along with some shimmery flower prints
less elaborate evening choices were some strikingly simple at-home or dinner outfits. they were great at chanel in a drape-fronted ivory crepe number topped by a long cable-knit cardigan and pearls. also elegant were lagerfeld's velvet and satin ``medieval'' gowns with very high waists to emphasize the decollete
congress and the reagan administration clashed thursday over who is at fault for recent cuts in postal services and what future would be best for the embattled mail system
federal budget director james c. miller iii and members of the house post office and civil service committee sought to place blame for the postal cutbacks on one another _ with both sides calling the accounting process ``smoke and mirrors.''
the postal service curtailed some window hours and halted sunday collections and some sorting after the federal budget reconciliation bill required it to reduce spending without increasing revenues
postage rate hikes slated for april 3, boosting a first-class stamp price to a quarter, are unrelated to the dispute
in addition to finding fault with one another for the agency's budget crisis, disagreements flared over proposals by miller and others to ``privatize'' the postal service by making it a private firm and opening mail delivery to business competition
miller said that plan would cut costs, imoprove efficiency and probably result in better service and lower costs for consumers
but moe biller, head of the american postal workers union, told the house subcommittee on postal operations that, in his opinion, all miller wants is to destroy the postal service
privatization is only political jargon for ``profitization,'' biller said, terming the idea ``the tale of an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.''
rep. frank horton, r-n.y., said he believes that instead of improving service, turning postal services over to private hands could well destroy the service
the prime bone of contention, however, was delegating blame for the federal budget process last december that ended with the postal service being directed to cut spending as part of overall reductions in the federal budget
the office of management and budget is not seeking to manage the postal service and did not impose the cuts, miller told the congressmen. he said that the decision was made by members of congress themselves
miller said he only agreed that the cuts would reduce the federal deficit, because the postal service is counted in the federal budget. ``i did not advocate it,'' he said
who did?'' asked horton, contending that the ``heavy hand'' of the budget office was felt at the session where decisions were made, because that office refused to approve other proposals that had been made instead of the postal cuts
horton and rep. mickey leland, d-texas, both said they are now supporting a bill to take the postal service out of the federal budget so it would not become involved in this type of problem in the future. the postal service, an independent federal agency, was not counted in the overall federal budget until 1985
i think the postal service should be placed off budget,'' miller, who has long opposed the idea, told a momentarily stunned audience. then, he added: ``by making it part of the private sector.''
you take a very crass and insensitive approach to things,'' leland said, stating that he is concerned that privatization would lead to a loss of federal jobs and to the opportunities for minorities that the post office has long provided
why do you think that would end if it were transferred to the private sector?'' miller asked
leland shot back, ``you want to break it up and sell it off and those people who are buying do not necessarily believe in affirmative action. your administration does not believe in affirmative action.''
women may have a better chance of being cured of breast cancer by surgery if they undergo the operation at the right time in their menstrual cycle, a study of mice suggests
even post-menopausal women, who get the most breast cancers, might be helped if such an effect is found and studied in humans, said researcher william hrushesky of the university of minnesota
if scientists could tailor a woman's treatment to reproduce factors responsible for higher cure rates, ``we could do that in any woman, whether she was pre- or post-menopausal,'' hrushesky said
breast cancer will appear in 135,000 american women this year and kill 42,000. surgery can remove the tumor, but cancer cells that escaped before surgery can cause recurrence elsewhere in the body
hrushesky described the mouse experiment wednesday at a science writers seminar sponsored by the american cancer society. the work focused on the 5{-day mouse estrous cycle, which corresponds to the monthly menstrual cycle in women
tumors that grow faster in response to the hormone estrogen, as many human breast tumors do, were implanted in the mice. later analysis showed the timing of the implant in the estrous cycle made no difference in cure rates
but the timing of surgery to remove the tumors markedly influenced the likelihood that cancer would have spread to the lungs by 28 days after the operation, hrushesky said
sixteen of 60 mice that underwent surgery near the fertility peak of the cycle were found to be free of lung involvement, compared with nine of 73 that had surgery during the infertile phase
that translates to 27 percent versus 12.3 percent. under a different method to determine estrous stage, the percentages came to 31.3 percent and 14.9 percent
in human terms, the higher cure rate corresponds to surgery just before and during ovulation, with the lower rate corresponding to surgery around menstruation, hrushesky said
in the mice, fluctuation in the cure rate mirrored changes in activity levels of ``splenocyte natural killer'' cells, which attack cancer cells that have spread from tumors, he said. but that does not prove the cells play a role in the findings, he said
hrushesky said he had no detailed explanation for the results. the trauma of surgery may affect the balance between cancer and the disease-fighting immune system differently at different times in the estrous cycle, he said
he emphasized the results do not imply that cancer cells are spread from the tumor by surgery
the next step is studying hospital records for evidence of any protective pattern in past surgeries, and following the progress of women after they have breast cancer surgery at known points in the menstrual cycle, he said
within a few years we may know if this is true in human beings,'' he said
it certainly deserves study. i think it will get it,'' said benjamin byrd jr., clinical professor of surgery at vanderbilt university medical school
byrd said the evidence so far does not convince him that the stress of surgery plays a role, but that hormone levels may
this is a whole new look'' at appraising or altering immune sytem response to cancer, said byrd, a past president of the cancer society
hrushesky also said a chemotherapy schedule tailored to the natural day-long rhythms of the body prolonged survival in 50 people with cancer that had spread from the kidney
patients received a continuous drug infusion with the dose peaking every night. that let them tolerate twice as much drug per week than if the dose level were fixed, hrushesky said
the former armed forces radio disc jockey portrayed by robin williams in the hit movie ``good morning, vietnam'' says hollywood distorted his original idea for a screenplay and his life
no, i did not try to meet girls on street corners. no, i did not teach american slang to the vietnamese. no, i was not thrown out of vietnam and to my knowledge, no vietnamese friends of mine were viet cong,'' adrian cronauer told students wednesday at mississippi state university
but he praised williams' performance, which has been nominated for an academy award
cronauer, 49, a law student at the university of pennslyvania, bellowed ``goooood mooooorning, vietnam'' at the beginning of his popular ``dawn buster'' 1965 saigon radio show
his trademark sign-on was adopted by succeeding saigon djs, including ``wheel of fortune'' host pat sajak
families should avoid measuring themselves against their television counterparts, who generally are beautiful people in dazzling situation far removed from reality, actress meredith baxter-birney says
you'll never come out on top,'' said ms. baxter-birney, who plays elyse keaton on nbc's ``family ties.''
the lifestyles portrayed on tv are so ``outside the realm of the average person that inevitably unconscious comparisons are made,'' she told wilson college students wednesday
maybe kids would like their own families better if they weren't comparing them to the ones on tv,'' she said
i guess our obligation is to be alert to the messages being sent _ educate our children and ourselves and not measure ourselves'' against television, said ms. baxter-birney, one of several people speaking at wilson this year as part of a discussion on values in american society
teen-age aids victim ryan white will attend ``ryan white day'' activities this week in omaha, neb., and also will visit council bluffs, iowa
ryan, 16, and his mother, jeanne white, will visit father flannigan's boys town on friday in omaha before speaking at a forum on aids and aids education, the indianapolis star reported thursday
in council bluffs, ryan will visit a children's home
ryan's efforts to attend school even though he carries the aids virus divided the community of kokomo
in spite of national health officials' assurances, school officials and worried parents weren't convinced that other children would be safe sitting next to ryan, who contracted aids through infected treatments for hemophilia
the fight eventually drove ryan and his family from kokomo to cicero
rock star michael jackson, reportedly fascinated with ancient egyptians, made a quiet trip to the museum of natural history to see a touring exhibit on the pharaoh ramses ii
since the reclusive star arrived monday for three concerts this week, he has been staying in his hotel suite
but he ventured out tuesday night just long enough to see ``ramses ii, the great pharaoh and his time,'' which leaves the denver museum of natural history after this month
jackson and a party of five or six others arrived shortly before the museum was to close, museum officials said
nightline'' anchor ted koppel has agreed to a long-term contract that will allow him to have his own production company to produce at least four hour-long, prime-time news shows for abc a year, a newspaper says
koppel will get similar benefits as he has now, with abc agreeing to broadcast ``nightline'' five nights a week. koppel will be host for most, but not all of the broadcasts, the new york times reported thursday
koppel had been working without a contract since last year
in addition to the four news programs for abc, koppel's company also will have the right to produce television programs that could be broadcast outside abc, according to unidentified executives quoted by the times
roone arledge, president of abc news, said wednesday the deal was agreed on but not yet signed
david a. stockman, the former white house budget director, is leaving the investment firm salomon bros. to join its smaller rival blackstone group, it was announced thursday
stockman, 41, a managing director at salomon since leaving the white house in 1985, will handle all merchant banking activities and merger transactions for the blackstone group, the company said
my experience at salomon was absolutely agreeable,'' stockman said. ``there's one thing i couldn't do there, which is have my own shop.''
his departure from salomon comes against a background of turmoil within the venerable investment firm, a partial result of the uncertain outlook for wall street in the aftermath of the stock market crash five months ago
several other high-ranking executives also have quit salomon recently. california</head>
a man arrested after police followed a tip generated by a television show was extradited thursday to california to face charges in the poisoning death of a beauty queen
during a three-minute hearing thursday, paul steven mack, 39, told 5th circuit judge paul g. grant he wouldn't fight efforts to return him to sacramento, where he is charged in a felony homicide warrant in the 1987 slaying of karen grace winslett
sacramento county sheriff's department spokewoman sharon telles said mack was expected in sacramento later thursday
mack, who had been working as a chef for eight months under the name sean paul lanier, was arrested tuesday night near his home
california authorities had been seeking mack in the slaying of winslett, 21, of carmichael, calif., who disappeared in february 1987, shortly after winning the title of miss english leather in las vegas, nev
mack was arrested by utah police acting on a tip from a marion, ohio, woman who had watched the sunday night showing of fox broadcasting co.'s ``america's most wanted'' program and recognized mack as having once worked at a country club where she works
the woman also recalled receiving a call from a man in salt lake city who wanted information about a man named lanier prior to entering into a business deal, telles said
ohio authorities contacted sacramento county, which then alerted salt lake city police. a check revealed that a sean paul lanier had been involved in an october 1987 traffic accident and had produced an ohio driver's license
sacramento police allege mack lured winslett to his apartment to be photographed for a possible calendar spread, then killed her with a ``massive dose'' of the painkiller percodan
winslett's decomposed body was found in her sports car in a parking lot
mack also is sought for questioning by ohio authorities in the 1981 slaying of annette huddle, 19, who had worked as a temporary secretary for mack at the marion country club
salt lake city police said mack has used six or more aliases and has been married seven or eight times. a convicted forger and burglar, mack served two prison terms and was paroled in 1985
a justice department official said thursday there are more grand jury investigations under way into price-fixing, bid-rigging and other criminal antitrust violations than at any time in this century
in a speech, assistant attorney general charles f. rule defended the reagan administration's approach to antitrust enforcement which emphasizes price-fixing prosecutions while making it easier for mergers to occur
criminal antitrust enforcement today is at an all-time high,' rule said. he said that in the first seven years of the reagan administration, the justice department's antitrust division, which he heads, has filed 555 criminal antitrust cases. the division filed 531 criminal antitrust cases from 1890 when the sherman act was passed to 1949
the department has vigorously pursued bid-rigging in the roadbuilding and auction industries and other areas of business
reporters don't believe protecting consumers is news unless you block a merger between two steel companies or indict the head of one of the country's biggest corporations,'' rule said. ``in fact, we file cases every week that have more direct impact on consumers than both of those actions together.''
former mayor lee alexander, a one-time leader among the nation's big-city mayors, was sentenced thursday to 10 years in prison for orchestrating a $1.5 million extortion-kickback scheme
alexander, 60, spent 16 years as mayor of new york's fifth-largest city and often was a spokesman for the nation's mayors. he has served as president of the u.s. conference of mayors and the national conference of democratic mayors
in a jan. 6 plea agreement, he admitted to charges of racketeering, conspiracy to obstruct a government investigation and tax evasion
u.s. district judge thomas j. mcavoy also ordered alexander to pay $100,000 in restitution to syracuse in lieu of a $100,000 fine recommended by federal prosecutors
i've brought great pain to my loved ones and the people of my city and stand here now ready for my punishment,'' alexander said at the close of a 10-minute statement. ``the punishment you are about to impose on me ... pales against the pain and remorse i feel.''
alexander offered an explanation for his demise, saying it occurred when an effort to build a political war chest was ``allowed to grow into a cancer.''
before alexander spoke, his attorney, harold boreanaz, made a 50-minute impassioned plea and denied charges that alexander had not cooperated with prosecutors in identifying his assets
while you brought the city national attention and did many fine things for the city, your criminal actions have placed national attention on it again in another light and for that you must pay,'' mcavoy said
there had been speculation alexander was in line for a high-level job in federal government and that he might some day run for governor. democratic party leaders made him their candidate for the u.s. senate in 1974, but he lost the primary to former u.s. attorney general ramsey clark
alexander was indicted july 16, 1986, by a special grand jury empaneled 18 months earlier. he initially denied the charges but later sought a plea bargain
a 40-count indictment accused alexander of 65 acts of extortion. it charged that alexander extorted money from businessmen, professionals and consultants
alexander has already turned over to prosecutors more than $1.4 million in assets the government has linked with the extortion-kickback scheme he admitted running during four terms as mayor from 1970 to 1986
seven others co-conspirators also were to be sentenced thursday
alexander will be eligible for parole afer serving a third of his sentence. u.s. attorney frederick scullin said alexander must surrender by april 14. the prison has not been determined
pakistan has removed a major obstacle to a settlement of the war in afghanistan by withdrawing its demand for formation of an interim government, a senior u.s. official said thursday
the soviet union, charging pakistan with bad faith, had refused to complete an agreement for withdrawal of an estimated 120,000 troops from the war-torn country
initially, the united states supported the demand of its ally, which is negotiating terms of a settlement with the afghan government through a united nations mediator
but the reagan administration subsequently back-pedaled _ while pressing its own demand that the soviets cease their military aid to the marxist government
the u.s. official said pakistan was now willing to have the red army retreat even while the u.n. mediator, diego cordovez, consulted with warring factions on formation of a transition government
the interim government issue, which has been an obstacle, is now swiftly soluble,'' he said
the official, who played a leading role in talks here this week with soviet officials, briefed reporters under rules that gave him anonymity
pakistan had contended that the safe return of millions of afghan refugees to their homeland would not be possible under the current government in kabul
the u.s. official said the only major remaining issue was a u.s.-soviet dispute on military aid
secretary of state george p. shultz on wednesday night ruled out any agreement to end the war in afghanistan unless the soviet union suspended military aid to the pro-moscow government
he said foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze had rejected the proposal, which would include a suspension in u.s. support for the afghan resistance
the moratorium would be in effect during the soviet pullout and for three additional months. the u.s. official said ``it would allow the dust to settle'' without prejudice to u.s. and soviet claims to back rival factions
they didn't feel they could agree to that,'' shultz said
and yet, shultz said, ``those conditions are needed for us to be able to sign as a guarantor'' of the geneva agreement to end the war
shevardnadze told reporters before flying home that the soviet union had no intention of stopping its aid to the afghan government
the aid is required by a soviet-afghan treaty, ``those are legitimate supplies, and we are not going to rescind that treaty,'' shevardnadze said
shultz said the soviets were willing to withdraw the red army by the end of the year, beginning with a 50 percent pullout during the first three months in which the agreement was in effect
the guarantee of a withdrawal filled ``a great big hole'' in the situation, shultz said
but, he said, soviet military aid to the marxist government must cease for stability to return to the war-torn country and for an estimated 5 million refugees to go home
the proposal remains on the table,'' shultz said. ``if our thought or something close to it is accepted we would be pleased to sign on as a guarantor.''
the u.s. official who briefed reporters on thursday said the pullout could be carried out over 7{ months
smokers reacted with irritation thursday to northwest airline's plans to ban smoking on all domestic routes except those to and from hawaii
i think it stinks,'' said dennis kenyon, 43, as he puffed a cigarette in a designated smoking area of minneapolis-st. paul international airport. ``i'll fly any other airline before i fly northwest.''
a frequent business flier, the st. paul park salesman said the ban is unreasonable. ``it's hard for me to believe that cigarette smoke bothers someone 20 rows away,'' he said
northwest, based in eagan, minn., announced the ban wednesday, becoming the first major american carrier to prohibit smoking on extended flights
airline officials said the ban, which also applies to some foreign flights, was a response to employees' and passengers' requests, and they predicted it would attract more people than it would drive away
a.b. ``sky'' magary, northwest's executive vice president for marketing, said in new york wednesday said a survey found that nine out of 10 passengers prefer to sit in the no-smoking section, and that even 30 percent of the smokers supported a ban on smoking in flight
one non-smoker at the minneapolis airport thursday said it didn't make much difference to him
as long as they have a smoking section, it doesn't matter,'' said larry briggs of ashland, ohio
dan bridges of memphis, tenn., said he travels in the non-smoking secion ``and it's never been a problem.''
some analysts believe northwest, the nation's fifth largest carrier, risks losing customers. other major airlines said they have no immediate plans to follow suit
kenyon's wife, joann, who manages an airport gift shop, said she has heard many smokers grumble about northwest's action
they're not going to fly northwest. they're going to do anything they can not to fly northwest,'' she said
when i go to california, there's no way i'm going to sit for six hours and not smoke,'' said todd parron, a college student from the cincinnati suburb of silverton. ``i'd find another flight and take it.''
however, one non-smoker at the cincinnati airport said northwest's move will make her more likely to choose it over other airlines
those airplane cabins are too small. even with smoking only in the back rows, smoke still bothers me,'' said erin weglicki of memphis, tenn. ``it would make a difference to me in choosing an airline. it's a pretty brave move on their part.''
under new federal regulations going into effect april 23, smoking will be banned on all domestic flights of less than two hours. violators will face civil fines of as much as $1,000
northwest's policy will take effect the same day
some smokers said they can live with northwest's policy
it's probably a good idea,'' janice davis, a boston real estate broker, told the st. paul pioneer press dispatch. ``i can get by without smoking.'' 0190</first>
rep. james howard, d-n.j., was hospitalized in very critical condition today after suffering a heart attack while playing golf, the hospital said
howard, the chairman of the house public works and transportation committee, collapsed while golfing at the manor country club in rockville, md., said a woman who answered the club's telephone
he was taken to montgomery general hospital in olney, md., where spokeswoman linda janzik said howard had had a heart attack and his heart had stopped
but his heart was revived and, four hours after the attack, he was ``breathing on his own and talking,'' janzik said
howard was later transferred to the washington hospital center
a former schoolteacher and principal, howard has been in congress since 1965
howard has suffered two heart attacks during his more than two decades in congress. he was hospitalized for several days in 1984 in an episode doctors attributed to fatigue. he is a heavy cigarette smoker
he has been chairman of the public works committee since 1981. the panel considers multi-billion dollar highway and water projects title.</note>
the senate voted 93-2 today to allow republicans to continue delaying action on a bill requiring the government to warn workers about carcinogens and other job hazards
the vote against shutting off a gop filibuster allows members of both parties to start offering amendments to a weakened version of the measure that was substituted wednesday night in an effort to win more support for it
only democratic sens. dennis deconcini of arizona and claiborne pell of rhode island voted to stop the filibuster
once this vote is disposed of, the bill is open to amendments,'' sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, the bill's chief author, said today. ``there is nothing unseemly about making changes in a bill on the floor of the senate.''
however, sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, the leader of the filibuster, called the new, weaker version a ``fire sale'' to special interests made for ``the perception of a political victory.''
hatch, after refusing wednesday to allow democratic amendments to weaken the bill, indicated he is prepared to continue his filibuster
we intend to talk a little more at length to explain the problems with this bill,'' hatch said today. ``you can't do it in a few hours.''
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, substituted the weaker version at metzenbaum's request in response to hatch's filibuster
the legislation is aimed at what the national institute of occupational safety and health says are the one in every four americans who have been exposed to carcinogens or other hazardous substances on the job
the ``high risk occupational disease notification and prevention act'' would establish a seven-member panel of scientists to determine the biggest hazards in workplaces and identify what groups of workers are most at risk
the government would then have to notify between 100,000 and 300,000 of those workers individually each year, and their employers would have to provide them with annual medical monitoring tests costing up to $250 each
a similar bill was passed by the house on a 225-186, largely party-line vote last october despite vehement opposition from the reagan administration
hatch, voicing the objections of hundreds of business groups, said the bill could open up employers to billions of dollars in liability damages from suits by their workers and former workers placed in the at-risk groups
metzenbaum could muster only 33 votes wednesday to cut off hatch's filibuster, while 59 senators, including 16 democrats, said they wanted the filibuster to continue
they found out that this bill is going nowhere except to the elephant graveyard of legislation,'' said acting senate republican leader alan simpson of wyoming
simpson called kennedy's substitute a ``sweeten-the-pot theory of legislating that i find a little disturbing.''
the new version exempts both companies with fewer than 50 workers and farms from having to continue paying wages and benefits for up to a year to workers ordered off the job because of the danger that might be raised by continued exposure to hazardous substances
it also puts restrictions on what information from the program could be used by workers and former workers in pursuing liability suits against employers
democrats admitted that kennedy's parliamentary maneuver, although allowed by senate rules, could be used to thwart republicans from offering amendments of their own. but they maintained that was not the intent
i don't think it's fair,'' said house democratic leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va. ``the parliamentary landscape has shifted. we've seen now how senators can be shut out from offering amendments circumstantially with no malice intended.''
soldiers shot two palestinians dead in street battles thursday after a night of israeli raids in which arabs were arrested and taken to schools converted into detention centers
seven arabs were wounded in confrontations in the occupied west bank, including a 12-year-old girl shot in the left leg in tamoun, a village 10 miles west of nablus, hospital officials reported
thursday's deaths brought to 109 the number of palestinians killed since the arab rebellion began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, according to u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has been killed
monsignor michel sabbah, roman catholic patriarch of jerusalem, canceled the traditional palm sunday procession from the biblical mount of olives to jerusalem's old city because of continuing violence
ariel sharon, the hawkish former general who now is industry and trade minister, said palestinians involved in the rebellion might be expelled from israel and the territories it has occupied since the 1967 middle east war
israeli warplanes raided palestinian guerrilla bases on the outskirts of sidon for the second straight day. it was the third israeli air raid into lebanon in a week and the fifth this year
soldiers have rounded up at least 700 palestinians in the past week in nightly sweeps through villages and refugee camps aimed at removing leaders of the rebellion, and about 3,000 since the rebellion began
among those detained wednesday night and early thursday were several men believed responsible for the latest palestine liberation organization leaflet, said nahum mendel, spokesman for the police ministry. he would not identify them or say how many were arrested
an islamic official in hebron said about 200 imams _ moslem religious leaders _ had been arrested in the west bank city this week. he said, on condition of anonymity, that most were members of a fundamentalist group
many of those arrested were taken to half a dozen arab schools the army converted into temporary detention centers, according to mohammed abdel majid melham, a palestinian detained sunday night in halhoul high school, and other arab reports
melham, a 45-year-old pharmacist, said he was held at the school with 12 other villagers from halhoul, 2 miles north of hebron, after a midnight roundup
six soldiers and three intelligence officers came to my house. they handcuffed and blindfolded me, then they took me to the school,'' he said. ``we were held in a large, open room. it was very cold. there were no blankets or mattresses.''
he said the detainees were transfered the next morning to a center near hebron and he was released wednesday
three army battle tanks, two transport vehicles and two tents could be seen thursday from a slope overlooking the high school's walled compound
school desks were piled near the wall in one corner. coils of barbed wire ran along the top of the wall and an israeli flag flew from the roof of the three-story building
troops occupied three arab school buildings in hebron on thursday and closed four in ramallah in an apparent effort to thwart student protests ordered in a plo leaflet
an associated press photographer saw about 2,000 children streaming from the ramallah schools
a middle-aged israeli officer guarding the entrance of hussein high school said soldiers moved into it at about dawn and would remain until sunset
in the occupied gaza strip, israeli officials rounded up at least 15 palestinians overnight, bringing to more than 110 arrested there in four days, the gaza lawyers association said
raji sourani, a member of the association, said it counts only arrests reported by family members. he estimated the the true number of detentions in four days at 350
the army confirms making arrests but has refused to give numbers or details
sourani said israeli authorities limit visits by gaza lawyers with their jailed clients to the hours of 8 a.m.-2 p.m. each tuesday and require written permission from the military command
army spokesmen said the two palestinians were killed when soldiers fired on a crowd throwing rocks and bottles in the the balata refugee camp near nablus
officials at al ittihad hospital said majid mohammed ahmed sawalma, 21, died of four bullet wounds in the chest and heart and mohammed ali abu zor, 19, was dead on arrival with a gunshot wound in the neck
commissioners of the south carolina state museum are suing a slot machine, but only because they want to keep it around
state law forbids possession of a slot machine, but the state museum commission has an old one-armed bandit it hopes to display after the new museum opens later this year
to get around the law, the museum needs to have a judge rule that the law is inapplicable in this case
but before a judge can rule, there has to be a lawsuit
since there was nobody available to sue, museum sued the slot machine, said jane mccue johnson, the assistant attorney general who is handling the case of south carolina museum commission vs. one mills slot machine
the machine, now in the custody of the state law enforcement division, is not represented by counsel
the mechanical, wood-and-steel slot machine was built about 50 years ago by mills novelty co. in chicago
it was given to the museum recently by james graham jr. of newberry, who discovered it under a blanket while he was preparing to sell his father's country store
the plaintiff is informed and believes the slot machine is of significant historical value as a reflection of the history and customs of the people of south carolina, said the complaint filed in richland county court of common pleas
you put a nickel in and it works _ or so i'm told. i didn't try it because it's illegal,'' said rodger stroup, the museum's chief curator
he said the machine won't be used for play, just display, if the museum is allowed to keep it
the machines were once legal, and graham's machine bears a south carolina tax commission stamp dated june 30, 1952
just as a penny saved is a penny earned, but an hour spent may be $60 saved
that's the bait for prospective buyers of an apparel store owned by ed dollus, who also owns the dollus bros. shoe store next door
every business hour, dollus is marking down the price by $60
when he started on thursday, the price was $240,000
karen morgan, a clerk at the shoe store, ``is supposed to change the price every hour, but sometimes she forgets,'' dollus said
dollus said he also would sell the three-story building which houses the shoe store, but only if the buyer bought the three-story apparel building
if i sell it (the shoe store building), i'm gone out of the city of belleville,'' dollus said. ``but i'm going to keep selling shoes somewhere. after 64 years in the business, i've got too many good, faithful customers i wouldn't desert
my motto has always been `it's a feat to fit feet,' and i fit customers with a quality shoe made in america to fit american feet. i've never sold a plastic shoe.''
when the world's tallest woman left her job at the guinness museum of world records to become the mayor's tallest secretary, she didn't have a thing to wear
the clothes sandy allen had worn as a``live attraction'' at the guinness museum in niagara falls, ontario, for eight years were too informal for the office of mayor william h. hudnut iii
but at 7 feet, 7\ inches, off the rack was out of the question
thanks to some helpful seamstresses and consultants, however, the 32-year-old shelbyville native goes to work in style
sandy's circumstances bring a whole new meaning to `i haven't a thing to wear,' '' said sherry boram, a personal image consultant with color 1 associates
the two women hit it off immediately and ms. boram, who lives in pendleton, began organizing the forces to bring miss allen's wardrobe up to date
ms. boram first planned a ``capsule wardrobe'' that included nine color-coordinated pieces that could be mixed and matched
then she recruited volunteer seamstresses, sewing supply retailers, pattern drafters and fitters to produce miss allen's tailor-made wardrobe
three purdue university instructors and six students drafted the sewing patterns and several area merchants donated fabric and notions for the project
the 24 members of the american sewing guild's indianapolis chapter made the garments
the project also included making custom-sized accessories, including a shoulder bag, a reversible vest and more than 30 handmade wooden clothes hangers
i'm quite flattered,'' miss allen said. ``saying thank you doesn't seem enough
i'll be at least a half-hour late for work every morning because, with all of my lovely new clothes, i'll have a hard time deciding which to wear,'' she said. which source now says in error</note>
the national park service says the white house will be a safer place and have a better-looking sidewalk in front of it when a million-dollar-plus construction project is completed in july
the project, a compromise between security requirements of the secret service and aesthetic standards of the commission of fine arts, has gone through several changes since it was first proposed
the first proposal was a 42-inch-high concrete wall, with the white house's existing ornamental iron fence on top of it, according to charles h. atherton, administative officer of the arts panel
it would have made the white house look even more like a fortress,'' atherton said. the commission must approve design changes affecting federal buildings and momuments in the central are of washington
after the terrorist attack on the marine barracks in lebanon in 1983, which killed 241 american servicemen, low concrete walls called jersey barriers were erected around the white house and many other public buildings in washington
that was always regarded as a temporary measure,'' said park service spokesman jim mcdaniel
after the wall was rejected, there were discussions between the arts commission and the park service, with advice from the secret service, resulting in the present plan
it consists of 274 bollards, or thick cement and aggregate posts, each 38 inches high, placed four feet apart and joined by chains, along 832 feet of pennsylvania avenue sidewalk
we, of course, would have hoped that they would be farther apart,'' atherton said of the bollards. ``they're actually awfully close together.''
the secret service, however, determined that this spacing was the most effective way to stop a vehicle of a certain size, going at a certain speed, from crashing into the white house
we certainly agree that the first order of business would be the protection of the president at any cost, and if the aesthetic element has to be compromised, so be it, sad as that may be,'' said atherton
i think the secret service feels that we now have a system that will do the job physically and at the same time we hope will be more acceptable to look at. it certainly, i think, will be more acceptable than the original scheme.''
mcdaniel said the park service, which is in charge of the white house grounds, dealt separately with the secret service and the commission
you play one against the other,'' he said. ``if you work hard at it, you can usually find a solution.''
the first phase of the project is scheduled for completion in july
mcdaniel said the security work will cost $670,000 and the park service is spending an additional $365,000 to replace the sidewalk with a more decorative granite walk with trees and tree boxes
a second phase is expected to be completed about the end of july, but mcdaniel said the cost has not been determined. girl</head>
the police department in this central florida community is in turmoil over allegations by lower-ranking officers that a captain took a teen-age girl along on a confidential stakeout and kissed her against her will
the alleged incident last month resulted in the demotion of capt. doyle hensley, 42, to lieutenant and has led to a state investigation and several internal investigations
hensley had supervised an investigation last month on similar charges against the officer who relayed the latest allegations
the chief of the 45-member force is suspicious
i haven't been able to prove that it's a setup yet,'' chief tom collins said wednesday. ``sooner or later, i'll find out. some officers may be running scared right now.''
the officers who investigated the captain and had pictures taken of him and the 16-year-old girl deny any setup
hensley declined comment
collins said the problems began when hensley asked the girl, who lives with a roommate and works as a waitress, to join him on a stakeout at the local high school on feb. 26
the girl said this week she was interested in police work but was ``half afraid'' of hensley because of his flirtatious comment that it would be cold and she might have to keep him warm. she said she told officer greg horne about the invitation
horne passed the girl's comment on to sgt. jeff ujcic, who then notified his lieutenant, ralph caldwell
last month, horne was the target of an internal investigation, supervised by hensley, into accusations that he was dating another teen-ager
caldwell and ujcic enlisted former police officer gary granttham to take pictures when hensley picked up the girl at the restaurant. also in the parking lot was a carload of the girl's friends, whom she had asked to follow her. hensley realized he was being followed and gave them the slip, collins said
what disturbed me the most is that this was supposedly a confidential mission'' to catch suspected burglars, caldwell said. ``this special operation was no longer a special operation. everybody and their brother knew about it.''
the chief isn't happy that his nightshift officers started investigating a fellow officer on their own. he is investigating horne's role
meanwhile, horne's family has befriended the teen-ager, and she has complained to the state attorney's office that two officers pressured her to withdraw her complaint about hensley
the chief is angry that the officers got civilians involved _ granttham and the horne family
i don't need their help,'' collins said. ``i can take care of my own shop. i will take them to court if they slander my name.''
state attorney robert eagan said in orlando, ``we're looking at a matter involving the police up there. we're taking statements from witnesses.'' it</head> 3rd graf pvs: ``it's a...''</note> ^by freddy cuevas</byline>
honduras said today it filed a protest with nicaragua over an alleged incursion by sandinista soldiers in the same spot where nicaraguan troops fought contra rebels last week
nicaragua denied its troops crossed the border
a foreign ministry communique said a total of nearly 460 sandinistas crossed the border late tuesday. an ``energetic protest'' was filed with nicaragua over the incident, it said
it said 300 heavily armed sandinistas entered about 8 p.m. tuesday in the san andres de bocay region in olancho province, where sandinistas chased contras back across the border last week. it is about 150 miles east of this capital city
at the same time, 50 nicaraguan soldiers entered at the village of pico espanol in el paraiso province. the village is about two miles from the nicaraguan border
the statement, read to the associated press by telephone, did not say if there were any confrontations in the areas or whether the troops were still believed to be inside the country
in managua, the nicaraguan capital, a defense ministry spokesman was asked about the report. ``that's negative,'' he said, speaking on condition of anonymity
a honduran military official had reported the new incursion on wednesday
we don't know the purpose of this new entry and violation of our country, but the situation is being studied by the high command,'' the official said
it's a matter of small armed groups of sandinistas. because of that, the state of alert continues for all combat units of the armed forces,'' said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the location was given as the san andres de bocay region in olancho province, but no other details were available
in washington, a government source speaking on condition of anonymity, said there had been unconfirmed reports that an estimated 300 sandinista soldiers had entered honduras
the reported incursion did not affect peace talks then under way between top sandinista and contra officials in nicaragua, even though both sides said their forces would stop fighting during the talks. late wednesday, the talks produced an accord calling for a 60-day cease-fire beginning april 1
earlier wednesday, pentagon officials in washington had said that unless the military situation in honduran changes, the approximately 3,200 u.s. troops sent to honduras last week would return home early next week
the u.s. troops were ordered to honduras as a show of force after 2,000 sandinsta soldiers allegedly chased contra rebels from nicaragua into honduras
two education associations called for an end thursday to what they called the growing practice of subjecting kindergarten children to standardized tests to determine promotion to first grade
the groups said the same tests are being used to determine whether a youngster is admitted to kindergarten or advised to spend another year in preschool
our children are being tested too early and failed too soon, and parents should ask for what purpose,'' said sue bredekamp, accreditation director of the national association for the education of young children
her group was joined by the national association of early childhood specialists in state departments of education calling for an end to mass standardized testing of children before the third grade
they said they did not object to testing of individual children whose teachers or parents suspect they have a learning or developmental problem. but for most children, they said, ``parents should trust their own instincts and the observations of trained and experienced preschool and kindergarten teachers.''
leaders of the groups said at a news conference they do not know how many schools are resorting to standardized placement or promotion tests for 4-, 5-and 6-year-olds
but bredekamp said that in some areas, ``it is not unusual now for 20 percent or more of young children to be advised to wait a year before entering kindergarten, or to `flunk' kindergarten, or to be assigned to a special track called `readiness,' `transitional' or `developmental' kindergarten.''
georgia recently became the first state to require standardized testing of kindergarten children. the city of minneapolis began testing kindergarteners in 1984 on basic math and reading skills, and has been holding back 10 percent of the children, most of them minorities
but last september the north carolina legislature voted to discontinue mandatory standardized tests for first and second graders
asa hilliard, an atlanta child psychologist and professor at georgia state university, said the tests are being used to hold children back or track them into remedial programs or special education, despite a lack of evidence that such steps improve their schooling
he said the tests have ``a disproportionate impact on those children who need school the most, the minority children.''
bredekamp said testing ``narrows and misdirects the curriculum.''
the most important things to learn in kindergarten, such as self-esteem, social competence, confidence, self-discipline, desire to learn, cannot be measured on standardized tests,'' she said
louise bates ames, co-founder of the gesell institute, which produces a widely used screening test, said it was ``discouraging that these groups have taken this political position.''
our position is that if there are 25 children in a classroom, all acting at 5-year-old maturity level, the teacher still has to individualize the curriculum to different ability levels. but if you put children together at different maturity and ability levels, then you have differences you can't possibly span,'' she said in a telephone interview from the institute's new haven, conn., headquarters
bredekamp said the testing issue ``is part of the bigger issue of pushing academic subjects at too early an age.''
the association's president is child psychologist david elkind, author of ``the hurried child'' and the leading critic of that trend
the association has 60,000 members, including teachers and others involved in preschool, kindergarten and early elementary education
former rep. john jenrette, who served a prison term for an abscam conviction, says he plans to challenge democrat robin tallon for his old seat from south carolina's 6th district
in new york, meanwhile, john b. levitt, a democratic district leader from manhattan, announced his candidacy thursday for the congressional seat held by republican bill green
i feel there are three urgent and pressing problems and they haven't been addressed,'' levitt, 28, said, citing homelessness, drug abuse and drug trafficking, and the overcrowding of hospitals sparked by the aids epidemic
they haven't been effectively dealt with everywhere in our area or in washington. we really need aggressive leadership and that's what i'm offering in my campaign. i think we need a congressman who will really go down and fight in washington and get dollars in this area.''
green, 58, has represented the 15th congressional district since 1978. he has not made a formal announcement for re-election, but his staff said he will
jenrette, who lost his seat in 1980 after being convicted in the abscam scandal, told the state newspaper in columbia on wednesday that he expects to make a formal announcement of his candidacy early next month
tallon declined comment on jenrette's possible candidacy
jenrette, 51, acknowledged he would be an underdog in a democratic primary against tallon, a 41-year-old clothing store operator elected in 1982
jenrette was convicted in october 1980 of conspiracy and accepting a $50,000 bribe from an fbi agent posing as an arab sheik. on probation after 13 months in federal prison, jenrette is a disbarred lawyer and reformed alcoholic
jenrette said he expects a federal judge to lift his probation before the june 14 primary
his felony conviction apparently does not prohibit jenrette from running for office or taking a seat in congress, although he is barred from voting in elections. according to a 1965 opinion by the south carolina attorney general, a candidate for the u.s. house of representatives does not have to be a qualified elector of the state in order to be seated
smarting from an argument with his mother, 10-year-old andres rascon and his 7-year-old sister headed for mexico in the family car after everyone else was asleep, police report
police were alerted after the boy tried to sell the car to a convenience store clerk tuesday
by the time authorities caught up with the runaways, they had traveled 65 miles south on interstate 19 to nogales on the u.s.-mexican border
our officers were _ how do you call it? _ amused initially, then amazed that he could do it,'' nogales police capt. antonio estrada said wednesday
though the youth said he planned the escapade after an argument with his mother, bertha rascon, she said the only argument she could remember occurred two weeks ago when she scolded andres for watching too much television
the boy apparently waited until everyone in his grandmother's home had gone to sleep, then took $20 and his mother's keys to her 1984 chevrolet sedan and slipped out a bedroom window. he persuaded his sister, maria fernanda, to go along
he told me they were going to have a spin around sonora,'' the mexican state immediately across the border, ``but then they decided to return,'' his mother said
she said she thought the youngsters may have been trying to find their father, who lives in mexico, though neither has any idea just where
andres, who is 4-foot-6, added a pillow to the car seat so he could see over the dash, estrada said. andres learned to drive when he was 6, when his father plopped the boy on his lap and showed him how to maneuver
after closing hospital beds in recent years, new york city faces a crisis because it didn't foresee the virulence and consequences of the narcotics epidemic, according to a study released thursday
from 1985 to 1987, time in hospitals increased for drug users and for victims of the side effects of narcotics use _ aids patients and babies born too puny to go home
psychiatric admissions not related to drugs also increased, but all other categories of patient care followed the predicted downward trend
had it not been for the growth in psychiatry, substance abuse, aids and neonatal services, inpatient hospital use in new york city would actually have fallen roughly 5 percent between july 1985 and july 1987, as was expected by planners and regulators who oversaw the closure of 1,800 hospital beds citywide during that period,'' the survey preparers said in a statement
they described the hospitals knotted in a ``medical gridlock'' in which ``literally hundreds of patients needing acute care services spend each night in emergency rooms because no beds are available on inpatient services.''
various forms of social pathology visible, but inadequately addressed, in many parts of the community are coming home to roost within the city's health care facilities,'' the study said
the study, prepared by the united hospital fund and the bigel institute for health policy at brandeis university, was based on data from 69 of the city's 81 municipal and voluntary hospitals. it covered about 89 percent of the approximately 35,000 certified hospital beds in new york
medical authorities are divided on what must be done, said bruce c. vladeck, president of the united hospitals fund
the greater new york hospital association's position is we need another 1,500 to 2,000 beds in this city fast,'' said vladeck
others, including dr. david axelrod, the state health commissioner, and stuart h. altman, dean of social policy graduate studies at brandeis, suggest a mix of community-based services, nursing care and special housing
during 1985-87, hospital stays grew by 44 percent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome patients, 15 percent each for psychiatric and substance abuse patients and 14 percent for newborns, the study found
the increases have been concentrated in low-income communities, another indicator that the hospital occupancy crisis is grounded in what vladeck called the ``general socio-economic disintegration of parts of the city.''
vladeck said crack, a form of cocaine, accounted for a large part of the problem
in addition to admissions traceable to crack-induced psychosis, ``there's a lot of crack-related respiratory illness _ people literally burn out their lungs smoking crack,'' he said. ``obviously, a lot of those low-birth-weight newborns are to crack-using mothers.''
officials fearing an explosion closed the bridge between pensacola and gulf breeze on thursday after two barges containing highly flammable chemical vapors slammed into a fishing pier
liquid cyclohexane had been unloaded from the barges before the collision but the vessels, being pushed by a towboat, still contained residue and dangerous vapors, said mark snowden, emergency response coordinator for the florida department of environmental regulation
if it were to explode i suspect it would be a catastrophic explosion,'' snowden said. sparks from an autombile ignition or removal efforts might be enough to set off the vapors if they should leak, he said
one of the two barges was removed about two hours after the collision about 9 a.m., but the other remained wedged into the tip of the 1.5-mile-long pensacola fishing pier
the pier is part of an old bridge about 75 feet from and parallel to the u.s. 98 bridge that spans the three miles across pensacola bay in the western end of the florida panhandle
the pier also was evacuated
the bridge was expected to remain closed for at least four hours, and motorists faced a detour of about 50 miles. escambia county administrator gus ellis ordered the bridge closed but he permitted emergency vehicles to cross. the coast guard also ordered all boats to stay clear
authorities were waiting for representatives of capitol towing, owner of the barges, to arrive from houston before making any decision on removing the barge
the vapors also could cause asphyxiation, snowden said. the chemical, composed in part of benzine, is used by monstano textile co. in pensacola to make nylon for carpeting, tires and other things. experts from monsanto also were on the scene
weather was clear but seas were choppy and winds were gusting from the southwest at up to 20 miles per hour when the collision occurred
the wind caught it and blew him into the bridge (pier),'' said grey jewett, risk manager for escambia county, which owns the pier. ``it destroyed the end of the pier, a turnaround.''
only three anglers were at the end of the pier, and there were no injuries. proposal, her comments, update with judge requesting briefs.</note>
less than two weeks before gary michael heidnik goes on trial on rape and murder charges, lawyers are haggling over rights to the story that began with the discovery of three half-naked women chained in a basement
a year ago friday, police found the women, as well as the limbs of a fourth woman in a freezer and then the naked body of a fifth woman in a new jersey forest
heidnik's trial begins april 4, but on wednesday in federal bankruptcy court, attorneys for heidnik's creditors proposed an agreement that would assign movie, book and entertainment rights to the estates of heidnik and his defunct church, the united church of the ministers of god. heidnik and the church are in bankruptcy
in the agreement, heidnik's attorney, a. charles peruto jr., would get one-third of any book and movie profits. the rest would go to heidnik's estate for payment to the alleged victims
but assistant district attorney harriet brumberg argued that state law provides that 100 percent of such profits go to victims of crimes
if anything in the book contains any thoughts, feelings, impressions of mr. heidnik, that belongs to the victims,'' ms. brumberg said
if i bring in money to enhance the estates, i get one-third of what i enhance,'' peruto said. ``the estates would get two-thirds.'' as part of the agreement, peruto would not get fees for defending heidnik
u.s. bankruptcy judge david a. scholl asked for legal briefs in the case by tuesday and said he would issue a ruling after that
one author researching a heidnik book was in court wednesday. and at least one other writer is said to be working on the story. atlanta writer ken englade, who has a contract with st. martin's press in new york to write the book, said the story was ``lurid,'' but facinating. calderon's arrival. picks up 9th graf, `almost all...</note>
gen. manuel antonio noriega was defiant today in the face of a nationwide general strike aimed at his ouster and said his opponents can't overthrow him
as the strike moved into its fourth day with no sign of letup, noriega once again lashed out at the opposition and the united states in a speech to a group of about 500 supporters wednesday night
the united states, noriega said, wants to create a panamanian political system ``in its image and reflecting its plans to subject'' central america
he accused the reagan administration of misjudging the ``patriotic feelings of panamanians'' because they ``are not made of chocolate, nor of sugar.''
washington has been trying to pressure noriega into leaving the country
the general also criticized his opponents for rejecting his offer to resign in exchange for a national dialogue, saying they have neither the ``capacity to represent'' nor to defeat ``the nationalistic forces.''
an organization of 25 latin american nations will hold an emergency meeting monday to discuss the crisis in panama, the group said wednesday. the meeting of the latin american economic system in caracas, venezuela, was requested by panama
a prominent opposition leader, ricardo arias calderon, returned from exile to join in the fight to oust noriega, head of the 15,000-strong panama defense forces and the power behind the civilian government
almost all businesses were shut down across the country again wednesday. lacking food and money, thousands of people lined up at soup kitchens set up by churches throughout the country
also wednesday, the government ordered a u.s. diplomat expelled, but the state department said in washington that economics counselor david miller would not leave as demanded. the state department said it would ignore the order because it considers panama's government illegitimate
it gave the same reason for rejecting an earlier attempt to expel terence kneebone, head of the u.s. information service in panama
in other developments wednesday, a dozen u.s. soldiers were detained by panamanian police, and 100 people shouted anit-noriega slogans after a funeral for a man killed at an earlier anti-government rally
panama is out of cash because washington cut off the supply of u.s. dollars, the panamanian national currency, in a bid to drive noriega into exile. the general was indicted in the united states last month on federal cocaine trafficking charges
jose mulino, an attorney active in the opposition national civic crusade, acknowledged that some action from within the defense forces may be necessary to end the monthlong crisis
there are growing pockets within the defense forces that are against noriega,'' he said. ``what we don't know is if they will act.''
leaders of the crusade _ an alliance of 200 professional, business, labor and other groups formed in june _ suggested some officers might fear acting against noriega because of the fate of 11 military rebels taken into custody after an abortive coup attempt last week
osvaldo velasquez, head of the panamanian committee for human rights, said wednesday, ``we know for certain they are being tortured.''
defense forces members are due to be paid at the end of the week. opposition leaders said their loyalty to noriega could fade if they, like most other panamanians, are unable to cash their checks because of the freeze on the country's deposits in u.s. banks
arias calderon, president of the opposition christian democratic party, told a news conference wednesday in san jose, costa rica, that he would return to panama today because: ``i want to share with the panamanian people in the dramatic days of fighting for democratization of the country.''
authorities refused to allow arias calderon to enter the country last month on his return from a business trip. he said he would be accompanied on an afternoon flight by legislators from central american and european countries
about 300 people attended the funeral wednesday of alcibiades vasquez, 24, a private security guard shot during rioting last week. the panamanian human rights panel said he was killed by a pro-government paramilitary squad
his death was the first in nearly a month of often violent civil unrest that began after president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire noriega on feb. 25 and was dismissed the next day. the united states still recognizes delvalle, who is in hiding in panama
a group promoting the religious freedom clause in the u.s. constitution announced plans thursday to hold a ``first liberty'' summit to call attention to the religious liberties enjoyed by americans
the williamsburg charter foundation said it will hold its summit in williamsburg, va., june 24 and 25. during the summit national political, business and religious leaders will sign a charter that celebrates the religious clause in the first amendment to the constitution and reaffirms freedom on conscience for people of all faiths
the first amendment begins with freedom on conscience, and upon this premise all other freedoms are made possible,'' said foundation chairman alonzo l. mcdonald. ``these clauses allow us to live with our deepest differences and encourage pluralism and diversity of opinion.''
the non-sectarian foundation already has released a survey of american attitudes on religion in public life and is sponsoring a symposium of scholars and religious leaders next month in charlottesville, va
communism suffered its first big mac attack thursday as mcdonald's opened a restaurant in yugoslavia, and police were called in to keep customers who lined up for hours from getting too unruly under the golden arches
i just wanted to taste genuine american hamburgers,'' said milica nikolic, a high school student who waited for three hours to taste her first big mac
people curiously examined the renovated restaurant's plush interior and the back-lit signs depicting the hamburgers, french fries, milk shakes and other fare more familiar in the west. it also featured amber-colored tables and floors, pastel-colored upholstery, modern art paintings and discreet illumination
the fast-food outlet, located on a downtown square, had drawn crowds in recent days, and they began gathering long before it opened thursday
police kept watch on the lines of customers snaking around the block, and they regulated the number who came inside to avoid overcrowding
no opening of a restaurant in belgrade has created such a sensation as this one today,'' one policeman said
i think this restaurant has no competition in belgrade,'' said milica danic, a housewife who treated her son to a cheeseburger. ``it is much cleaner, the service is faster, the interior is nicer and it is not too expensive.''
the belgrade media have suggested that the success of mcdonald's in yugoslavia depends on its acceptance by citizens long accustomed to a hamburger-like fast-food dish called the pljeskavica: ground pork and onions on a bun
in fact, this is a clash between the big mac and pljeskavica,'' said vesna milosevic, an official of genex, a yugoslav state-run enterprise that has contracted a joint venture agreement with mcdonald's
our aim is not to destroy the pljeskavica on the yugoslav market,'' said predrag dostanic, managing director of the genex-mcdonald's. ``we want to change customs of the local people used to completly different eating habits.''
he said that lounging at tables for a long time after a finished meal will draw a warning. also, smoking is forbidden and alcohol will not be served
this contrasts sharply with the balkan and yugoslav custom of sitting with a drink in smoke-filled restaurants and chatting with friends after the meal
the big mac meal, consisting of a hamburger, soft drink and french fries costs the equivalent of $2.57, or about as much the similar meal would cost in numerous pljeskavica joints around town
sadik seljami, a waiter in a small pljeskavica outlet just a few hundred yards from the mcdonald's, suggested that the american restaurant wants to drive yugoslav fast-food outlets out of business
however, we will not give up the fight even if we have to lower the prices,'' said seljami
glen cook, an executive of the mcdonald's corp., said during the opening ceremonies, ``we are very excited about the opening of this restaurant, not only because it is the first one in a communist country, but also because it is one of the nicest in europe.''
mcdonald's and genex contribute $1 million each for the flagship restaurant. they will also share the profits equally even though it will be managed entirely by yugoslavs
the restaurant has 350 seats and employs 110 people capable of serving 2,500 meals per hour. in an effort to keep a high level of services, the management is entitled to fire any employees who fail to perform
the american corporation plans to open five additional restaurants yugoslavia in the next five years. the next east european mcdonald's, and the first in a soviet bloc country, is to open next month in budapest, hungary
a federal appeals court on thursday upheld the convictions of two men found guilty of setting a fire at hotel fire in puerto rico that killed 97 people
the 1st u.s. court of appeals rejected arguments by armando jimenez rivera and jose francisco rivera lopez that the trial judge abused his discretion in sentencing them to 75 years and 99 years in prison, respectively
jimenez rivera and rivera lopez, both workers at the dupont plaza hotel, admitted setting the fire as part of a labor dispute with hotel management
the fire on new year's eve 1986 at the beachfront hotel also injured more than 140 people
in return for their guilty pleas and cooperation in the investigation, the government had recommended a maximum penalty of 25 years in prison for rivera lopez and 24 years for jimenez -rivera
u.s. district judge jose antonio fuste of puerto rico rejected the government's recommendation, saying the crimes amounted to felony murder. the judge also noted that a third man convicted in the case was found guilty of first-degree murder
jimenez rivera and rivera lopez appealed on the grounds that the judge's remarks at sentencing were improper and that fuste failed to consider migating factors
the judge's concern over the deaths that resulted from their crime indicates that he determined the sentence in reference to the particular actions'' of the two men, the appeals court said
the justices did, however, order fuste to hold a new hearing on the rivera lopez sentencing to determine if he relied on inaccurate statements in a pre-sentencing report. if so, the court said he should hold a new sentencing hearing
israeli jets bombed palestinian targets on the outskirts of sidon for the second straight day thursday, hitting a base of abu nidal's guerrilla faction
police said nine people were killed and five wounded in the raid, the third this week near the port city 25 miles south of lebanon
police said most of the casualties were members of nidal's fatah-revolutionary council, and the group issued a statement pledging ``merciless retaliation.''
a police spokesman described the attack as ``very fierce.'' he said six israeli warplanes dropped 30 bombs in six sorties within 55 minutes
lebanese prime minister salim hoss instructed the country's u.n. ambassador, rashid fakhoury, to complain to the world body about the israeli attacks, state radio said
but lebanon did not ask for a security council meeting on the issue, it said
the police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity in keeping with standing regulations, said the main target of the raid was nidal's guerrilla base, but the jets also hit a position of the marxist democratic front for the liberation of palestine
the israelis plowed the olive groves where the stricken bases are,'' he added
the bases were engulfed by smoke and dust as ambulances arrived to evacuate casualties
the police spokesman said nidal's guerrillas cordoned off the bases in the villages of bekasta, majdelyoun, salhiyeh and abra on the southern and eastern edges of sidon
the attacking jets dropped scarlet balloons to deflect heat-seeking missiles. the guerrillas fired at the roaring jets with soviet-made anti-aircraft guns. no hits were reported
let the enemy wait for coming blows of our revolutionary fighters,'' said a statement issued by the fatah-revolutionary council. ``we shall strike doubly in merciless retaliation.''
abu nidal, whose real name is sabri al-banna, broke away from yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization in 1974. he has since claimed attacks against a series of civilian targets around the world
the elusive terrorist mastermind tops wanted lists in the united states and europe. his whereabouts are not known, altough recent reports said he has been shuttling between libya and algeria
his group had also vowed revenge after wednesday's strike, saying in a statement it would ``severely strike back against the zionist enemy's arrogance and barbarism ... at the right time and place.''
wednesday's attack also targeted abu nidal and dflp bases, killing seven people and wounding 15
the dflp, headed by nayef hawatmeh, is one of the plo's largest factions
former president chun doo-hwan decided to cut short a visit to the united states after prosecutors linked his brother to a growing government corruption scandal, officials said thursday
the prosecutor general's office said its inquiry of corruption involving the saemaul development group may be expanded to investigate other possible wrongdoings under the chun administration
chun, who has not been implicated, yielded power on feb. 25 to president roh tae-woo. but chun has clung to a measure of power behind the scenes
prosecutors said thursday that about 200 saemaul and government officials had been questioned since monday to find out if chun's younger brother, former saemaul leader chun kyung-hwan, and his aides amassed fortunes by embezzling the group's funds
the former president was on a three-week private visit to the united states in which he met with president reagan on wednesday, but south korean officials said thursday he planned to leave early
the opposition parties contend the government is trying to hide the extent of corruption under chun. they have called for a broader inquiry that would look into any corruption by the chun family and supporters
the ruling democratic justice party has rejected the charges as an attempt to blacken the government's reputation. but its leaders promised to investigate any official corruption
the semi-official saemaul, or ``new community,'' is a group of community leaders that has evolved into a huge organization since it was created in 1971 to promote urban development. it has launched projects from building model communities to organizing neighborhood clean-ups
but critics have said saemaul worked with past authoritarian governments to organize support and dole out patronage
prosecutors said thursday they had uncovered more evidence that saemaul officials embezzled millions of dollars, peddled government patronage and misappropriated property. they said they questioned government officials to find out if they aided corrruption within saemaul
prosecutors also said the younger chun was suspected of diverting saemaul funds to personal land speculation and of making money with influence peddling. local newspapers reported the younger chun and his aides may soon be officially charged with corruption, but prosecutors declined to confirm the reports
many in south korea believe the new government is using the saemaul investigation to discredit the former president
roh, a former general who helped put chun into power with military backing in 1980, has vowed to end authoritarian rule and has been moving to cut ties with the former president. top chun supporters have been removed from the ruling party and the former president's role as a government adviser has been reduced to a largely ceremonial function
however, members of the opposition party for peace and democracy say roe may also have been involved in the corruption when he served as home minister in 1982
a turkey chase left 71-year-old lucille andrews stuck in the mud in her car for two days. ``miss curiosity'' had a wonderful time
when she was located wednesday by frantic relatives, the st. clair county woman said she spent her time spying on wildlife, and wasn't concerned about food and water
i was no more scared than i am right now,'' mrs. andrews said from her home. ``i knew someone would find me.''
the air and ground search began after she was reported missing monday afternoon
mrs. andrews said she had been out driving, and caught site of a turkey
i saw that turkey going out there and i thought, `you fool thing. if you got a nest out there, i'm going to follow you and find you,''' she said
she followed the turkey across a field, but her car got stuck in a swampy ditch
at night, i locked the doors and rolled up the windows and went to sleep. during the day, i looked around and thought, `boy i'd like to have my house up on that hill,''' she said
mrs. andrews didn't see the turkey again, but did see three deer and a bear cub
the moon was shining so bright that i raised my head up and there was a little old bear. he was just a baby,'' she said
while mrs. andrews communed with nature, her eight children, most of her 15 grandchildren and assorted friends and relatives formed a ``family posse'' that combed the woods around her house
we were driving everywhere,'' said grandson mark andrews, 21
andrews said his grandmother, who walks with a cane because of arthritis, is called ``miss curiosity'' by family members because ``she's always doing something.''
i hate housework and all of that stuff, but i do love to drive,'' mrs. andrew said. ``if i had to stay in the house i think i would die.''
a federal plan to allow oil and gas exploration off the florida keys was dropped for five years thursday after state officials agreed to withdraw pending legal challenges
this is to benefit not only the environment, but the tourist industry and the people who live along the shores,'' gov. bob martinez said at a ceremony on a key largo beach. ``i think this decision is a flagship-type decision that other states will use.''
martinez and u.s. interior department secretary donald hodel announced separately the settlement which removes about 11.1 million offshore acres from a five-year leasing plan. the preserved area goes from key largo south around the keys and dry tortugas and north to naples on the gulf coast. the area would extend 60 miles west of dry tortugas
three months of negotiations with hodel and a january snorkeling trip the men took together on the coral reefs off key largo cemented the agreement, martinez said. the republican governor denied that election year politics had any effect, but said hodel was aware of opposition from the florida congressional delegation and environmental groups
u.s. sen. bob graham, a democrat who built a reputation as a defender of florida's environment while preceeding martinez in the governor's mansion, noted that 130,000 people signed petitions opposing oil drilling in the keys of florida, which has 2,200 miles of coastline
this is the first time that (the federal government) have ever deleted significant areas of a lease sale from a plan,'' said charles lee, senior vice president of the florida audubon society. legal challenges similar to florida's have been brought by massachusetts, california and alaska, with little result
florida attorney general bob butterworth had a pragmatic explanation for martinez's negotiating success: ``i think most people thought it was, at best, insane to explore for oil off the florida keys.''
under the settlement, martinez and butterworth agreed to drop as early as monday the lawsuit against the plan, and the state also will drop its challenge to leasing 41,000 acres to the seaward of a protected area planned off cape san blas, in the florida panhandle. in return, interior will impose a one-year moratorium on development of any leases that should be awarded there
that panhandle area is believed to contain gas, not oil. martinez has reserved his rights to object to oil development if any should be found off cape san blas
the interior department last year included the florida straits _ atlantic ocean waters off the keys _ in a five-year plan for developing the oil resources of the outer continental shelf, shallow waters extending 200 miles from the u.s. shoreline
an interior department study released last year concluded that the cumulative danger from drilling, leaking tankers and other sources added up to a 48 percent chance of a major oil spill along florida's coast within 35 years
americans' personal incomes rose at the fastest clip in four months during february while consumer spending was propelled upward by a rebound in car sales, the government reported thursday
the commerce department said personal incomes advanced 0.9 percent, reflecting strong employment gains in the past few months. spending rose 0.7 percent, up sharply from a tiny 0.1 percent january increase
economists said the new figures provided further evidence that the economy has suffered no long-run effects from the october stock market crash. five months ago, analysts feared that consumer worries about the future would cause them to cut back on spending and could push the country into a recession
for people who were worried about a major consumer retrenchment, these numbers are encouraging,'' said sandra shaber, an economist with the futures group. ``as long as income gains hold up, people will continue to spend.''
bruce steinberg, an economist with merrill lynch, said consumer spending will rise by about 3.5 percent in the first quarter of this year, after adjusting for inflation, a major rebound after a spending decline in the final three months of last year
he said consumer spending would be the major factor contributing to expected economic growth during the january-march quarter of around 2 percent, as measured by the gross national product
a few months ago many analysts worried that growth in the current quarter actually would be a negative figure, indicating the country was headed into a new recession
steinberg said the fear now was that consumer spending would spurt ahead at such a fast pace that production bottlenecks could occur and inflation would be rekindled. but ms. shaber said she did not consider this a danger because she believed slower income growth in the months ahead would slow the growth of spending as well
analysts said the february gain in incomes, which followed a 0.3 percent january rise and was the best showing since a 1.9 percent october increase, reflected good employment news. the jobless rate fell to an 8{ year low of 5.7 percent during the month
the key category of wages and salaries climbed by $15.4 billion in february, a 0.7 percent increase which was the fastest advance since november
disposable income, the amount left over after taxes are paid, climbed 1.1 percent in february, almost double the 0.6 percent january increase. it was the best showing since a 2.1 percent rise in october and was credited in part to tax cuts showing up as employers held back less from paychecks
the individual tax cuts were the last round of reductions scheduled under the landmark 1986 tax overhaul legislation
the 0.7 percent increase in personal consumption spending was the biggest advance since a 0.8 percent rise in december. it reflected a jump of $7.4 billion in sales of durable goods as consumers responded to new incentive programs for autos. durable goods sales had fallen $2.4 billion in january
with incomes rising faster than spending, americans' savings rate climbed as well, rising to 5.2 percent of after-tax income last month, the highest level since october
purchases of non-durable goods _ items not expected to last three years _ rose $2 billion in february after having fallen $7.7 billion in january. purchases of services, including housing costs, increased $12.4 billion following a $13.7 billion january increase
farm incomes increased $8.5 billion in february after a decline of $8.2 billion in janaury. the big february gain and the large january decline were both attributed to swings in government subsidy payments to farmers
the cease-fire agreement signed by the nicaraguan government and resistance forces appears to signify the onset of the post-contra era in nicaragua and an entirely new political dynamic in that country
the administration was officially upbeat about the agreement but the contras, with little prospect of receiving more u.s. military aid, were forced to drop virtually all the concessions they had been seeking earlier this year
the agreement clearly falls short of the administration goal of an ``irreversible'' democratic process in nicaragua as its price for suspending aid to the contras
achievement of that objective is apparently dependent on sandinista good will coupled with whatever diplomatic and economic pressures the industrialized democracies can muster to prod the nicaraguans in that direction
in theory at least, the nicaraguan war could be revived if upcoming talks break down. but the short-term prospect is for the dismantling of the contras accompanied by a number of gestures by the sandinistas, including a phased release of prisoners, permission for political exiles to return, participation of contra representatives in a national dialogue and guarantees of free expression
all of this was agreed to in the sandinista-contra cease-fire talks this week. still, the contras have relatively little to show for their six-year effort, particularly when compared with their goals as recently as late january
at the time, they still were receiving u.s. military supplies and were cautiously optimistic about the prospects for more aid when that issue came to a congressional vote in early february. but contra aid foes prevailed on that vote
the contras' settlement terms in late january called for the implementation of 17 democratic reforms during a proposed 30-day cease-fire period. they demanded gradual disarmament of both sides, the repatriation of soviet bloc military advisers, formation of a single ``apolitical'' national army, suspension of compulsory military service and the disbanding of the sandinista militia
these demands received no attention at all or were dismissed with no more than vague references in the communique signed wednesday night
assuming that the contras are dismantled, several questions arise: will president daniel ortega pursue with vigor the communization of nicaragua, as administration hardliners fear? will he strengthen his ties to the leftist insurgency in el salvador? will he proceed with plans to acquire mig jet fighters from the soviets? will he build up the nicaraguan armed forces to 600,000, as his defense minister suggested? will he move toward a uniquely nicaraguan system, which is neither modeled after cuba nor his democratic neighbor, costa rica? or will there be a genuine national reconciliation in nicaragua, as ortega suggests?
secretary of state george p. shultz outlined in generally positive terms the administration's reaction to the cease-fire agreement, calling it an ``important step forward.''
other officials, asking not to be identified, said they preferred not to offer their own assessments of the agreement even on an anonymous basis because to do so would undercut shultz
this suggests continued skepticism within the administration about the terms the contras agreed to and continued anger with the congress for letting the rebels down
ever since the central america peace agreement was signed last aug. 7, the administration had been steadily scaling back on its expectations in central america
last fall, the administration was asking the congress for $270 million in contra aid. faced with congressional opposition, president reagan lowered that figure to $36.2 million, with only 10 per cent of that earmarked for military aid
that proposal was defeated seven weeks ago and congress mandated an end to all aid deliveries by feb. 29. slightly more than three weeks later, the contras settled with the sandinistas, accepting terms that they would have rejected out of hand not long ago
editor`s note _ george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968
fifty-one illegal aliens smuggled into the country from mexico to sell frozen fruit bars and ice cream from pushcarts were arrested and held for deportation wednesday, authorities said
the aliens, most of whom told authorities they had been brought into the country in the last eight to 10 days, were sleeping on the floor of the warehouse where the carts and products were stored, said ron rogers, spokesman for the immigration and naturalization service
there were beer cans scattered all over the place, and pillows and blankets on the floor,'' rogers said. he said the men told authorities they had been recruited in mexico as street vendors
the operators of the vending company were being sought, he said
the aliens, one a teen-age boy and the rest adult males, were being held for deportation hearings, he said
nearly half a million 1985 cars and light trucks made by general motors corp. must be recalled because they fail to meet federal air pollution standards, the environmental protection agency said thursday
a faulty thermal vacuum switch is part of the reason the vehicles' exhaust contains excess carbon monoxide and evaporated gasoline, the epa said
the vehicles affected by the recall are equipped with 5.0 liter (305 cubic inches) and 5.7 liter (350 cubic inches) engines, the epa said
they were sold as the chevrolet impala, caprice classic, camaro, monte carlo and el camino; the pontiac firebird, bonneville, grand prix and parisienne; and the gmc caballero, epa said. models sold in california, which are built to stricter standards, are also included
earlier, we offered to recall the vehicles to replace the thermostatic vacuum switch,'' said jane mott, gm spokeswoman in detroit. ``we will review the order and determine how best to respond.''
such recall orders by the epa are rare and generally indicate the agency and a manufacturer could not agree on something, such as the cause of the problem, its scope, the necessary repair, terms of the recall or something else. most recalls are made voluntarily
ms. mott said gm told the epa it believed replacing the switch on the vehicles would be sufficient to bring emissions into compliance with federal standards
the epa, however, said its tests showed that ``replacement of the (switch) alone will not completely remedy the problem and that additional repairs may be necessary.''
gm has 45 days either to request a public hearing to contest the order, or to submit a repair plan for epa's approval before notices are mailed to owners
the company last year recalled more than a million vehicles from the 1982 and 1983 model years for similar problems
the savings and loan industry, drained by insolvent institutions in texas, last year recorded its worst loss since the great depression, the government said thursday
the federal home loan bank board said a $3.2 billion loss in the last three months of 1987 pushed the industry's red ink for the year to a record $6.8 billion
that was nearly 50 percent greater than the previous post-depression record of $4.6 billion, set in 1981, when the prime lending rate soared above 20 percent
i hope it's the worst we'll ever see,'' said james w. christian, chief economist of the u.s. league of savings insitutions, the industry's largest trade group
the nation's 3,147 federally insured s&amp;ls lost $1.8 billion in the third quarter of last year and $1.9 billion in the spring. they earned $100 million in the first three months of the year and had a modest $132 million profit for all of 1986
in contrast, the federal deposit insurance corp. said earlier this month that the nation's 13,700 federally insured commercial banks earned $3.7 billion in 1987. still, it was their lowest profit since 1933
despite the overall loss for the s&amp;l industry, 66 percent of the s&amp;ls earned money in the fourth quarter. the $1.3 billion earnings of 2,089 s&amp;ls partly offset the $4.5 billion losses of the remaining 1,058 institutions
for the year, the profitable two-thirds of the industry earned $6.6 billion, which was more than wiped out by the $13.4 billion deficit of the money-losing s&amp;ls
the percentage of institutions earning a profit has declined steadily for two years, from 81 percent in the first quarter of 1986 to 66 percent at the end of last year
james barth, chief economist of the bank board, said s&amp;l losses were heavily concentrated in the southwest, which is dependent on the ailing oil and gas industry
barth said the worst 20 institutions _ most of them in the southwest _ lost a total of $2.1 billion in the final quarter of last year, accounting for two-thirds of the overall industry loss
an unprofitable instituion is not necessarily insolvent. an s&amp;l is considered insolvent when its loans and other assets are worth less than what it owes to depositors and other creditors
the bank board said 345 s&amp;ls were insolvent at the end of 1987 under regulatory accounting principles, 109 of them in texas alone. there were 510 insolvent s&amp;ls under the stricter accounting principles that will be used beginning next year
by another measure of health, return on assets, savings institutions' performance was not quite as bad as 1981 and 1982. the return was negative 0.56 percent last year, compared with negative 0.73 percent in 1981 and minus 0.65 percent in 1982
barth said some of the overall industry loss in 1987 can be attributed to a decrease in the corporate tax rate. he said some s&amp;ls decided to push profits into 1988, when the top tax rate is 34 percent, rather than take them in 1987, when the rate was 40 percent
barth said he believed the industry's problems have ``plateaued out'' and that ``there is some light at the end of the tunnel'' in the southwest
but martin a. regalia, chief economist of the national council of savings institutions, warned that most economists believe interest rates will edge higher and said southwest real estate shows no sign of a sharp rebound
regalia said the performance of the thrift industry this year will depend on how quickly the bank board resolves problems at texas institutions
you have to be as expeditious as possible at getting them closed down. so far i think (the bank board) has recognized the problem. now it's time to get out and do it,'' he said
lack of money to pay depositors had forced the federal savings and loan insurance corp., which insures deposits to $100,000, to keep many insolvent s&amp;ls open. now that money is flowing into the fund from a $10.8 billion recapitalization authorized by congress in august, the bank board is moving to close ailing institutions or merge them with healthier s&amp;ls
last month, the bank board announced a plan to spend $6 billion to $7 billion in texas over the next several years, but it doesn't anticipate announcements on specific s&amp;ls before early april
richard gephardt could run for both the house and the white house if he so chose _ at least temporarily
under missouri law, gephardt could file for re-election by next tuesday's deadline and still remain in the presidential race at least until may 17, the deadline for withdrawing from the state primary ballot. if gephardt withdrew by then and decided to continue his presidential bid, filing for his congressional seat would re-open for five days
gephardt has another option, according to cheri ghan, a spokeswoman for the missouri secretary of state
he could file for re-election and would remain on the aug. 2 missouri state primary ballot even if he somehow managed to win a spot on the democratic presidential ticket in july
in that case, gephardt would have a decision to make after the state primary, if he won. democratic officials would select the congressional nominee if gephardt gave up his congressional seat to be part of the presidential ticket
former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane testified for three hours thursday before a federal grand jury investigating attorney general edwin meese iii's ties to a $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline
mcfarlane, who declined to comment during a break in the grand jury proceedings, became involved in the pipeline project in the spring and summer of 1985 through contacts with meese, longtime meese friend e. robert wallach and wallach's client, swiss oilman bruce rappaport
mcfarlane was accompanied to the federal courthouse by legal counsel, peter morgan, who said his client is a witness in the grand jury investigation
independent counsel james mckay is investigating whether meese may have violated the foreign corrupt practices act in connection with the pipeline project
in a september 1985 memo to meese relating wallach's conversations with rappaport, wallach said a portion of up to $700 million from the pipeline would be paid to the israeli labor party of then-israeli prime minister shimon peres
meese has said he doesn't recall reading the reference to labor party payments in the memo, which was found in the attorney general's files at the justice department last year in connection with mckay's investigation
mckay is presenting evidence to the grand jury in an attempt to determine whether there was a conspiracy to pay bribes to israeli politicians to ensure that israel would not bomb the pipeline passing through iraq and jordan close to the israeli border. rappaport has denied making or offering bribes, and denies that there was any plan to do so
wallach went to meese for help on the pipeline in may 1985 and the attorney general referred him to mcfarlane, who then was president reagan's national security adviser
the referral resulted in a meeting in june 1985 between mcfarlane, wallach and rappaport
the pipeline's backers wanted to enlist the support of the u.s. government in assembling an insurance package that would protect the project in the event of an israeli attack
on march 11 in connection with the iran-contra arms and money affair, mcfarlane pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges that he misled congress in 1985 by assuring lawmakers the reagan administration was not helping arm nicaraguan rebels during a ban on u.s. military aid
angry shouts erupted thursday between 30 supporters of defendants in the iran-contra case and three anti-contra protesters outside the federal courthouse
an elderly woman ripped up signs calling oliver l. north an ``american hero'' and shouted obscenities at demonstrators for addressing her as ``old lady'' and ``communist.''
several police officers stood a few feet away but took no action
the woman, who identified herself as lillian geckter of new haven, conn., boasted that inside the court building where north, john m. poindexter, richard v. secord and albert hakim pleaded innocent to a 23-count indictment, she looked north in the eye and said: ``don't you smile at me, traitor.''
the pro-north demonstrators chanted, ``ollie's right, wright's wrong,'' a slap at house speaker jim wright, d-texas, who led defeat of contra military aid in the house
fund the contras, not the lawyers,'' the group shouted as independent counsel lawrence e. walsh, the prosecutor, told reporters he was pleased that u.s. district judge gerhard gesell intended to handle the case expeditiously
walsh, who said he would not comment on the case now that it is under gesell's control, was booed by the protesters as he got into his car
north emerged from a door far from the demonstrators, but his car was mobbed by supporters and scores of reporters and photographers as it passed slowly in front of the building where the crowd had gathered. north smiled and waved from the back seat but remained in the gray limousine
i think ollie is getting a bum rap out of all this,'' said steve bridgett of greenville, ill., who said he belonged to no political organization
peter flaherty, chairman of citizens for reagan, said his and several other groups were represented. ``we came to show our friendship and support for ollie and our solidarity with him,'' he said
for a time during the arraignment, aron kay of new york city was the lone anti-contra demonstrator
after north passed by and kay shouted, ``ollie north's a liar,'' several pro-north demonstrators taunted him with, ``why don't you get a job?'' and several more caustic suggestions
kay, who described himself as a long-time peace activist, shouted back, ``our job is protesting.''
iran angrily left an islamic conference thursday after fellow moslems decried its failure to heed cease-fire calls in its war with iraq and accused it of instigating rioting in the holy city of mecca
iraq and egypt said the withdrawal proved the ``loneliness'' of iran's stance toward the islamic world
the iranian envoy to the meeting of the organization of islamic conference, mohammed ali taskhiri, flew out of jordan at the head of his five-man delegation
we were not happy,'' taskhiri, his voice quavering with anger, said in a telephone interview. he said his group boycotted meetings wednesday night and thursday
the conference is taking place only to serve the interests of a certain country,'' he said, referring to iraq. ``therefore, we don't see why we should stay at this meeting.''
egypt and other arab countries were drafting a resolution on the iran-iraq conflict to submit to foreign ministers of the 46-member conference
sources close to the conference confirmed that the draft denounces iran's failure to heed last july's u.n. security council resolution 598, which calls for a cease-fire in the 7{-year-old war
the sources, speaking on condition they not be identified further, said the draft also criticizes iran's purported leadership of the violence in mecca, saudi arabia, and calls for future ``security measures'' to protect moslem pilgrims
in a statement to the jordanian government announcing its withdrawl, the iranian delegation specified it was unhappy with the draft ``resolution on the gulf war...and the resolution on the holy places.'' the text of the statement was provided by one of the sources
the conference sources also said the draft of the final communique, likely to be issued by friday, also called for:
_ an immediate soviet withdrawal from afghanistan;
_ support for the 15-week-old palestinian uprising in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip;
_ guaranteed rights for moslem minorities in bulgaria and other countries where they might suffer persecution;
_ unspecified measures against air piracy
iraqi foreign minister tariq aziz said ``iran's withdrawal demonstrates its loneliness'' in the ranks of moslem countries. ``they wanted to express their voice, or better, their lies, to the organization, but they did not find ears.''
egyptian foreign minister esmat abdel-meguid, whose country was the target of iranian criticism earlier in the conference, echoed aziz, saying: ``the voice of the iranian representative is an odd voice and it represents the loneliness in which iran lives.''
the iranians attended the meeting after boycotting last year's summit of islamic heads of state in kuwait, which tehran accuses of aiding iraq's war effort
iran, which is persian and not arab, sent a low-level delegation to the amman meeting. taskhiri is head of the foreign relations department in iran's islamic guidance ministry
iran and iraq have been blasting each other's cities for more than three weeks with missiles and air raids, and the iranians have pushed into northeast iraq
iran was lambasted in amman for allegedly inciting rioting last year in mecca in which 402 moslems, 275 of them iranian, were killed
saudi authorities said the pilgrims were killed in a stampede triggered by iranian rioters, and in subsequent violence. iran claimed police mowed them down with machine guns
the saudi foreign minister, prince saud al-faisal, said his country will restrict the number of pilgrims to mecca this year as a ``temporary measure'' because facilities there needed to be expanded. he did not elaborate
iran has said it will send 150,000 people to this year's pilgrimage
the saudis reportedly have made it clear that mecca and medina, islam's holiest shrines, can accommodate only around 1 million pilgrims at a time. connecticut</head>
democrat richard gephardt, who has fallen on hard times since his iowa victory 45 days ago, will quit the presidential race unless he scores an upset victory in michigan this weekend, aides said thursday. george bush, meanwhile, headed for connecticut expecting to pad his huge lead on the gop side
gephardt said he'd made no decision to drop out, declaring, ``my mother always told me to cross one bridge at a time.'' but the scramble was already on to pick up supporters who would be freed if he withdrew
there's no question there are some union leaders who are now supporting dick gephardt who would find paul simon the most attractive of the alternatives,'' said illinois sen. simon at an appearance in kalamazoo
simon, who is in fourth place in the democratic delegate count, just ahead of gephardt, spoke of getting ``back in the ballgame.''
among the republicans, former transportation secretary elizabeth dole, wife of bush's main rival, sen. bob dole, said in oshkosh, wis., that her husband now has merely a ``long shot'' chance, but she added, ``he's got the grit and determination needed to keep him in the running.''
she said neither she nor her husband have discussed the possibility that one of them might be bush's running mate for the general election. ``i'm really not seeking to be on the ticket. i'm going 12 hours a day just trying to carry bob's message,'' she said
vice president bush, holding a commanding lead in the battle for republican convention delegates, was traveling to connecticut, saying he was taking nothing for granted in the primary there next tuesday
however, public opinion polls give him a big lead over dole in the state where bush was born and where his father once served as a u.s. senator
gephardt, just a few weeks ago the victor in iowa's caucuses, now lags behind michael dukakis, jesse jackson, albert gore jr. and simon in delegates to the national convention. he trails dukakis and jackson in public opinion polls preceding saturday's michigan caucuses
he said thursday in detroit, ``rather than trying to guess all the different hypotheticals of what might happen, i just think we have to be patient, wait to see the outcome and then decide what other steps should be taken.''
still, gephardt's wife jane told a radio interviewer in michigan, ``i think dick has to come in first or a real strong second to remain in the race. ... if we don't do well here, we will not be able to continue.''
the missouri congressman has only until tuesday to file for re-election to his house seat, and one aide, commenting only on condition he not be named, suggested that it was important for the congressman to retain that office in order to raise money. his campaign has been strapped for cash for weeks
money was in the news for several other current and former candidates on thursday:
_gore said in washington he was willing to release information on more than $1 million in loans taken out by his presidential campaign, but members of his staff who heard the senator's remarks said no such decision had been made
gore's pledge to release the material came after a report in a nashville, tenn., newspaper that his campaign had put up the proceeds of future fund-raisers and federal matching funds as collateral for almost $1.5 million borrowed from banks about two weeks ago
_the federal election commission said that gary hart, now that he is no longer a presidential candidate, can use leftover 1988 campaign funds toward retiring his lingering debt of about $1 million from his 1984 race
_the fec agreed to grant federal matching funds to political extremist lyndon larouche's presidential campaign, even though he is standing trial on a charge relating to alleged financial irregularity in his 1984 campaign. larouche is running as a democrat, although the national party has disavowed his candidacy
the democrats, including gephardt, were concentrating on michigan and on wisconsin, which has its primary on april 5
massachusetts gov. dukakis, who spent the first part of the week trading charges with gephardt on foreign-trade policy, a major issue in a state heavily dependent on u.s. auto sales, was in california but planned to spend all day friday in michigan. the detroit free press endorsed him on thursday
dole's aides said he had no campaign events scheduled thursday, and former television evangelist pat robertson was to address a rally in falls church, va., working to shore up his strength in his home state
the federal election commission on thursday declared fringe presidential candidate lyndon larouche eligible for federal matching funds, even as a former aide was testifying elsewhere of being pressured to wring donations out of people for larouche's 1984 campaign
larouche is standing trial in boston federal court on a charge relating to alleged irregularity in his 1984 campaign
while the federal election commission was certifying larouche to receive federal funds for his 1988 campaign, former aide charles tate testified at the trial that larouche solicitors were warned in 1984 that that falling short of daily fund-raising quotas was ``the moral equivalent of treason'' and would result in the collapse of western civilization
the fec, on a 5-1 vote, said that larouche has fulfilled the requirements for eligibility to receive matching funds. but the commission also said special review procedures would be undertaken to evaluate each of his submissions for matching funds, in light of irregularities found in his first submission
larouche spokeswoman mary jane freeman said the ruling was ``terrific.'' she noted the campaign had ``no problem with the conditions'' the fec imposed
in voting with the majority, commissioner scott thomas said, ``presidential candidates and campaigns can come in many different shapes and colors.''
overall it does look like there is substantial support for a presidential campaign from american citizens for mr. larouche,'' he said noting that larouche has raised more than $2 million from contributors
but commissioner joan aikens opposed the majority, saying an fec survey of larouche contributors raised ``a question of patent irregularity'' in fund raising
a survey by the fec's audit staff had indicated that 6 percent of 713 larouche contributors contacted had not intended their checks to go to his campaign
the survey was undertaken because some contributor checks had the letters ``ldc,'' presumably for larouche democratic committee, written over ``sdi'' as the payee. and some checks contained memo notations regarding aids or sdi _ the first referring to the disease and the second referring to president reagan's strategic defense initiative _ suggesting the donors may not have intended to give money to a presidential campaign, but to one of those causes
fec auditors said many people who responded to the survey ``described instances where he@she 1. felt pressured into making a contribution, 2. made contributions believing that the contribution was for a specific purpose other than furthering lyndon h. larouche jr.'s presidential nomination campaign, 3. made loans to the campaign, and 4. had contributed to a number of larouche's interests, while making all checks payable to ldc.''
the auditors had recommended that larouche be found ineligible for matching funds, but the fec legal staff had said ``patent irregularities indicated by the survey results do not justify an unfavorable eligibility report.''
instead of the usual five-day approval period, a review period of 25 days will be allowed in which the fec staff will check for irregularities in the checks he submits to be matched
in addition any checks written out simply to ldc, or those with memo notations ``indicating lack of donative intent'' will not be matched, the commission said
to be certified for matching funds, a candidate must raise $100,000 across 20 states in individual contributions of $250 or less. after becoming eligible, the candidates can receive matching funds for each contribution of $250 or less that they raise privately
larouche is on trial in boston, charged with conspiracy to obstruct a grand jury investigation into alleged credit card fraud and other irregularities in his 1984 campaign
president reagan on thursday lauded a trend toward ``free-market principles'' in education that provide incentives for teachers who achieve superior performance
joining education secretary william j. bennett in a visit to oakton high school just outside washington, reagan said recent tours of this sort ``have strengthened my confidence in our country's future.''
but the president said much work still lies ahead if the nation is to bring about the sort of educational reforms called for in a 1983 government report, ``a nation at risk.''
the president said he expects a status report on american education, which he is to receive next month from bennett, to ``tell us what things we still must do'' as well as what progress has been made
he also said that interest in teaching has increased in recent years, partly because ``we've begun to introduce free-market principles like incentivies and accountability to education.''
he praised fairfax county, in which vienna is located, for initiating a plan in which ``career ladders, performance-based pay and other initiatives help to keep good teachers in the profession.''
but reagan said no improvements in the caliber of instruction or the quality of teachers will be helpful ``if a school has a drug problem.''
if students are using drugs, then no education reform can work,'' the president told several hundred students and teachers in the school auditorium
reagan made several light-hearted references to his boyhood school days, saying he wasn't a particularly good student, and telling how he'd been called to the principal's office once. ``it wasn't an invitation,'' he quipped
when a student asked reagan whether he could attend the seniors' high school graduation june 15, he smiled broadly and said he didn't know if he could make it
some people think i'm the most powerful man in the world,'' he said, (but) ``every day they hand me a piece of paper that tells me everything i'm going to be doing every 15 minutes.''
a broken drawbridge that stranded hundreds of motorists, some holding parties and others asleep in their cars, was fixed just in time for thursday's morning rush-hour, police said
there are a lot of happy people out there,'' said monroe county sheriff's sgt. lee pinder
the snake creek bridge reopened to traffic at 8:10 a.m. after several gears jammed on the bridge wednesday and locked it in the upright position for more than 15 hours, snarling traffic for 30 miles on u.s. 1, the main highway from miami to key west
every hotel room on both sides of the drawbridge at plantation key was taken, and hundreds of people spent the night in their cars. police said motorists were remarkably patient
there were no arrests, no wrecks, no real problems,'' pinder said
one man who suffered a mild heart attack had to be ferried across snake creek to an ambulance, pinder said
a crane arrived from key west at about 1 a.m. thursday, and two barges were brought in to aid state department of transportation workers who fixed the bridge, said monroe county sgt. scott cockrell
james rocheleau, 25, and his friend george kotval, 23, sat in their car at the front of the line going north
you just have to roll with the punches,'' said rocheleau, who said he served with the marines in beirut, lebanon. ``i got it worse in the marine corps anyway. we'll just sit and wait.''
some florida state university students on spring break had a party at the holiday isle hotel
i had 10 rooms and i rented them all in about 10 minutes,'' said alfrieda bressler, night manager at the chesapeake motel in islamorada. ``it's not unusual for the bridge to get stuck, but it's usually only for an hour or two. this is the worst i've ever seen it.''
in florida city, the highway patrol set up a roadblock to turn back southbound drivers
the snake creek bridge is expected to remain closed to boat traffic for two to three weeks, restricting boat traffic to those small enough to move under the span, pinder said
the following graphics are available in ap access
in this menu each graphic's file name (all caps) is followed by a brief description, time of input into the ap access host computer and the sau column measurement. all times are eastern standard

events, 5 election graphics, mi caucuses, ct primary at a glance; blank results charts; calendar of campaign events april-july, 3-24 310p,various
personal, personal income and personal spending, 3-24 1250p, 1c x 3~ and 1c x 3~
advances, behind the wheel; detroit unemployment; and wall st. over the counter comeback; 3-24 12p, standard and 2c x 2\ and 2c x 2]
attack, spots sidon, lebanon, israeli jets strike, 3-24 915a, 1c x 2|
surgery, carotid endarterectomy explained , 3-23 630p, 2c x 7{
auto, us auto sales for march 11-20 compared, 3-23 630p, 1c x 3|
tuition, college tuitions 1976-88 (bar chart), 3-23 630p, 1c x 4~
the following graphics are available in ap access
in this menu each graphic's file name (all caps) is followed by a brief description, time of input into the ap access host computer and the sau column measurement. all times are eastern standard

britaingdp, gross domestic product since thatcher, 3-24 430p, 2c x 3
events, 5 election graphics, mi caucuses, ct primary at a glance; blank results charts; calendar of campaign events april-july, 3-24 310p, various
personal, personal income and personal spending, 3-24 1250p, 1c x 3~ and 1c x 3~
advances, behind the wheel; detroit unemployment; and wall st. over the counter comeback; 3-24 12p, standard and 2c x 2\ and 2c x 2]
attack, spots sidon, lebanon, israeli jets strike, 3-24 915a, 1c x 2|
surgery, carotid endarterectomy explained , 3-23 630p, 2c x 7{
auto, us auto sales for march 11-20 compared, 3-23 630p, 1c x 3|
tuition, college tuitions 1976-88 (bar chart), 3-23 630p, 1c x 4~
the chairman of the house finance subcommittee said wednesday he will write legislation reforming the nation's financial markets without waiting for the reagan administration to resolve disputes among warring regulatory agencies
for the investors of this country, justice delayed is justice denied,'' said rep. edward j. markey, d-mass
at a four-hour hearing of his house energy and commerce subcommittee on finance, markey sharply criticized the creation of an administration working group to coordinate recommendations on what should be done to prevent a recurrence of the oct. 19 stock market crash
the panel, headed by treasury undersecretary george d. gould, has the job of trying to resolve a turf fight among the federal reserve board, securities and exchange commission and the commodity futures trading commission over regulating the various financial markets
president reagan signed an order last friday creating the panel and gave it 60 days to report back to him. his spokesman, marlin fitzwater, warned that the issues ``may not be resolved quickly or without considerable reflection.''
markey, however, complained that the recommendations delivered in janaury by a presidential task force headed by former new jersey sen. nicholas brady should have been enough for the administration to make up its mind
he complained that waiting two more months would make it increasingly difficult to pass legislation this year, adding, ``in my judgment congress must act this year.''
the greatest danger facing our financial system is the safe course of delay,'' he said
gould responded that his panel, which will include representatives of the sec, the federal reserve and the commodities commission, is not conducting another study
we are anxious to create action from this, not simply more discussion,'' he said
markey said his committee, with the help of brady, would proceed on a ``parallel track'' without waiting for gould's group to formulate a position
brady's commission called for giving the federal reserve the power to coordinate regulation of the stock, options and futures markets
the sec, which regulates stocks and options, also wants jurisdiction over stock futures, which currently are overseen by the commodities commission. that agency opposes jurisdictional changes, and the fed has rejected taking on the additional responsibility recommended by brady
markey has called for one regulator over stocks and stock futures, but did not say which agency should get that power
brady, who agreed to help markey write his bill, said he did not agree that the creation of the gould group would unduly delay action and said he did not see why congress and the administration could not work simultaneously
meeting with reporters after the hearing, brady moderated earlier remarks on the urgency for reform
in a line that has become much quoted, brady had compared the markets to a gun and said, ``we are looking down the barrel of the same gun, and it is still loaded.''
but on wednesday, he said, ``i didn't say anybody was going to pull the trigger.'' group,' with 2 grafs to fix that talks began wednesday, sted thursday, and to insert dropped word `aid'</note>
congress and the reagan administration warmly welcomed a nicaraguan cease-fire agreement thursday, and some officials said it could usher in a new era of bipartisan u.s. policymaking on central america
we consider this agreement to be an important step forward,'' said secretary of state george shultz, who added that the truce leaves ``no excuse'' for continued soviet-bloc weapons shipments to the leftist managua government
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said the nicaraguan agreement marks ``a new chapter in the unhappy history of that war-torn country'' and vowed to move ahead before easter on a package of humanitarian aid for the contra rebels
this is a bad day for the cynics,'' said sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., a leading contra opponent. ``a piece of paper has been signed by people who many thought would never be able to sit down face to face.''
but the white house and some in congress also said the accord, while a strong sign of new health for the regional peace process, rests heavily on promises of future moves by both sides that could prove difficult
president reagan, getting into his limousine after speaking to high school students in suburban vienna, va., was asked whether he thought the cease-fire agreement would hold up
i don't know. we're looking carefully at it,'' he replied
there is a lot of room for encouragement here, yes, but there's also a lot of room for skepticism, and i'm trying to balance those two off,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater
we're beginning the process. we need to watch it. we've seen processes like this start before and fail,'' he said. ``this seems like a more concrete step, and there certainly reason to be hopeful. but i do not want to play down the skepticism side of it either because we are skeptical.''
congressional leaders and the administration began conferring on a new package of aid to the contras on wednesday, and more meetings were scheduled for monday. wright said a vote could come later next week and food, clothing and medicine could begin flowing to the rebels by easter
the cease-fire agreement reached wednesday night in sapoa, nicaragua, calls for ``exclusively humanitarian'' aid for the rebels to be channeled through a ``neutral'' organization, presumably the united nations, the red cross, the organization of american states or some similar group
wright said any aid package would have to conform to that language, and democratic leaders on the issue said that would rule out provisions for future military aid to the rebels
but some republicans insisted that any aid bill include provision for a quick vote in congress on new military aid if the sandinistas fail to live up to promises made in the cease-fire agreement, including amnesty and the release of prisoners
i think it is important to keep in there some speeded-up mechanism for the president and congress to get together in case the peace process fails,'' said sen. dan evans, r-wash., a sponsor of a contra aid package that includes such a guaranteed vote
it's a recognition that there is still lots of skepticism, maybe even suspicion, all the way around,'' evans said. ``people have been at each other's throats, and that's not going to dissipate easily.''
but of such suggestions, wright said: ``i think it would be counterproductive to talk about it ... we don't want to rekindle the war.''
house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif., said compromise on language about future contra aid was possible
we are willing to talk to the republicans about anything, but we are not willing to set up a process that the nicaraguans could interpret as allowing for more military aid,'' coelho said
it looks like there may be a pretty good possibility of congress getting together on something the administration could buy,'' evans said
we haven't had a strong voice for american policy in central america in five years'' because of partisan divisions over the administration's contra policy,'' he said. ``we would finally be sending a clear message.''
for heaven's sake, if the nicaraguans, who have been shooting at each other, can agree, surely republicans and democrats can agree,'' wright said
the promises of quick action on a new aid package for the rebels contrasted sharply with the inaction of recent weeks. the issue had been stalled since the house narrowly defeated a $30 million humanitarian aid package on march 3, and the rebels have been without u.s. assistance since feb. 29
coelho said lawmakers had been intentionally moving slowly on the issue since march 17, when contra leaders called wright's office and said they were optimistic about achieving a cease-fire in the talks that began monday and asked that congress hold back on voting for new aid
the state department's chief spokesman said on wednesday that taiwan has been ``repeatedly'' reminded to stick to a pledge against building nuclear weapons, but he declined to comment on a report the united states pressured the asian nation to stop work on a plutonium processing plant
taiwan halted work on the secret plant, which could have processed plutonium, a key component of nuclear weapons, and shut its largest civilian research reactor at u.s. insistence, the new york times reported
it was not clear whether the planned installation, which could have extracted plutonium from spent reactor fuel, indicated a decision to build a bomb or just an attempt to keep open a nuclear option, according to unnamed officials quoted by newspaper
state department spokesman charles e. redman would neither confirm nor deny the report, but he acknowledged that the united states has expressed concerns to taiwan about the proliferation of nuclear weapons. and his comments suggested that if the united states did indeed use pressure to stop the taiwanese program, the pressure worked
we've repeatedly conveyed the importance that the united states, including both the administration and the congress places on taiwan's adherence to its non-proliferation commitments, and we are confident that taiwan understands this,'' redman said
it is our belief that taiwan is not engaged in activities which are inconsistent with its commitments,'' he said
he noted statements by taiwanese leaders that they have no intention of developing nuclear weapons. also, redman said that taiwan has undertaken obligations of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, in which countries agree to let international inspectors monitor programs to make sure nuclear material is not being diverted to use in weapons
all nuclear materials on taiwan are subject to safeguards applied by the international atomic energy agency,'' redman said. ``we are not aware of any violation of those safeguards.''
according to officials quoted by the times, the united states learned of the project from col. chang hsien-yi, a top-level informant at a taiwanese research institute who left taiwan a few months ago with the help of the central intelligence agency
chang, deputy director of the nuclear energy research center at the military-run chungshan institute of science and technology, has been missing since january
taiwanese newspaper reports said he might have fled to the united states with documents showing that taiwan planned to make nuclear weapons. his whereabouts is unknown
u.s. officials said the effort to build an installation capable of plutonium extraction violated taiwan's secret commitment to the united states that it would not undertake research to develop atomic weapons, the times reported. manufacture</head>
the du pont co., producer of one-quarter of the chemicals destroying the earth's ozone shield, plans to stop making them because of new research showing decay of the ozone, the company said thursday
the company gave no deadline for ending manufacture of the ``fully halogenated chlorofluorocarbons,'' or cfcs. these non-toxic, non-flammable compounds that du pont helped develop in the 1930s are widely used as refrigeration fluids, cleaning solvents, plastic foam blowing agents and, outside the united states, as aerosol propellants
i don't see it in the near term,'' not for five years, but at the end of such a period policymakers and the chemical industry should know ``how rapidly the transition can take place,'' joe steed, environment manager in du pont's freon products division, said in an interview
our intention is to move as smoothly as possible from these compounds into alternatives,'' steed said
du pont announced in january it had developed a substitute foam blowing agent. also, petroferm inc. has announced a replacement solvent for cfcs, and other chemicals are in the works at several companies
on thursday the company began notifying customers, competitors, employees and members of congress of its new policy
environmentalists were quick with praise, hailing du pont's ``courage'' and ``leadership.''
as recently as march 4, du pont said a proposal from three senators that the company immediately stop making cfcs was ``unwarranted and counterproductive.'' the senators _ robert stafford, r-vt.; max baucus, d-mont.; and david durenberger, r-minn. _ had written du pont chairman richard e. heckert calling on him to redeem the company's mid-1970s pledge to end cfc production if a threat to health were shown
a march 15 report of scientists convened by the national aeronautics and space administration found a 2.3 percent decline in ozone at mid-latitudes between 1969 and 1986, most probably the result of cfc accumlations high in the atmosphere. that is ``important new information,'' heckert wrote members of the subcommittee on which the three senators serve
i hope it's clear that it's the science of last week we're responding to,'' steed said
heckert's letter said the company believes ``the short-term risk to health and the environment from cfcs is negligible'' but ``additional actions should be taken.''
ozone, a pollutant at ground level, at high altitudes blocks ultraviolet rays of the sun that cause skin cancer. the environmental protection agency has estimated that a 1 percent decrease in ozone thickness _ it would be only 3 millimeters thick if it were at sea level _ causes a 2 percent to 3 percent increase in ultraviolet and a 4.8 percent to 7.5 percent increase in the most common skin cancers
last fall in montreal, major producers agreed on a treaty, now signed by 31 nations but ratified only by the united states and mexico, agreeing to cut cfc production 20 percent in 1992 and another 30 percent in 1998. the environmental defense fund has estimated that the two cuts could amount to only 35 percent instead of 50 percent if all the exemptions are used
the treaty was accelerated, many experts acknowledge, by a 1985 finding that over antarctica, ozone declines sharply each spring _ by 50 percent last year
du pont plans ``to urge all nations to treat the new scientific information seriously, accelerate ratification of the montreal protocol, and then immediately initiate the protocol's assessment process to consider further global limitations,'' heckert's letter said
richard barnett, chairman of the trade group alliance for a responsible cfc policy, said in a statement president reagan should ``personally contact the heads of government'' of participating countries asking that they ratify the montreal agreement
this is a sterling example of corporate environmental leadership that ought to be emulated worldwide,'' and shows that ``technology can solve environmental problems,'' in this case by coming up with substitutes, said dan dudek, an economist with the environmental defense fund
about 2.3 billion pounds of cfc compounds are made worldwide each year, with more than 2,000 du pont employees producing about 25 percent from plants in canada, japan, brazil, argentina, mexico, the netherlands and the united states. the company says it gets $600 million annually from cfc sales, about 2 percent of total sales revenue
steed said that ``over the long term, it's our goal'' that jobs making replacement compounds should offset lost cfc jobs
the u.s. plants are in antioch, calif.; louisville, ky.; montague, mich.; corpus christi, texas; and deepwater, n.j. ships</head>
the united states belittled soviet technology for detecting nuclear missiles aboard ships and snubbed an invitation this week to see the process before the may 29-june 2 summit meeting in moscow, a senior u.s. official said thursday
during three days of pre-summit talks in washington this week, soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze offered to let the united states participate in an experiment to test the system in april
shevardnadze hailed the system as a technological milestone in missile detection that would help the superpowers achieve their goal of a summit agreement to cut long-range nuclear arsenals
the senior u.s. official said, however, ``we're not interested'' because the system doesn't detect nuclear sea-launched cruise missiles, as the soviets claim
the soviets could not explain how this experiment would tell us more than we already know,'' the official said. ``such technology would not be effective under realistic conditions.''
it could not, for example, tell the difference between nuclear warheads and atomic propulsion systems used on many surface ships, the official said
our people know a great deal about the ideas that the soviets have advanced, and we've looked into it carefully,'' the official said
when they agreed in principle last december to hold a springtime summit in moscow, president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said they wanted to sign an agreement to cut the numbers of long-range nuclear missiles and bombers by 30 percent to 50 percent
with little progress _ notably on the verification issues _ during shevardnadze's visit to washington for three days this week, neither side predicted the agreement would be ready in time
the senior u.s. official said, moreover, that until the negotiators prove they can verify elimination of the various types of weapons involved, they won't know which ones will be covered in a treaty
another official, noting that the two nations also disagree on such explosive issues as afghanistan, the middle east, central america and human rights warned against expecting ``easy solutions'' to u.s.-soviet problems
the official described the most recent talks as ``grueling,'' notably in the 11 hours of discussion on the regional hot spots
at the white house, spokesman marlin fitzwater sought to dispel suggestions that the summit meeting _ in the twilight of reagan's presidency _ would be a ceremonial and symbolic visit short on substantive accomplishments
during shevardnadze's talks in washington ``we made enough progress to keep going and presumably we will make more in the days ahead,'' the spokesman told reporters
during the talks this week both sides ``faced all the tough problems'' and left no confusion about where both sides stand, he said
the summit ``will be well prepared; there will be substance to discuss; there will be good prospects for success,'' fitzwater said
he added that ``there will be a number of important and substantive and meaningful issues to be resolved and all of those things will occur at the moscow summit. it meets all the criteria that needs to be met.''
i think this summit will be quite productive, well defined, well prepared,'' the spokesman said without citing any specific areas of agreement
six weeks after the precinct caucuses that put iowa in the national spotlight and provided the first test of democratic candidates' strength, democrats here are quietly proceeding with the next step in their delegate-selection process
the conventions in the 99 counties this weekend are the second step in the complex process of choosing 52 of iowa's 58 delegates to the democratic national convention
the field has shifted dramatically since feb. 8, when the much-publicized precinct caucuses were held. rep. richard gephardt, the missouri congressman who won the democratic contest, has gone on to weak showings elsewhere
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, jesse jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore have surged to the front of the democratic pack
supporters who put gephardt on top last month probably won't flee his sagging candidacy for other democratic candidates in county conventions this weekend, democratic leaders said wednesday
dukakis supporters are making a low-key effort to lure supporters from other camps, but working hard to keep their expectations low
it's informal,'' said harry baxter of burlington. ``i'm sure all of the campaigns are trying to lobby.''
at the precinct caucuses, party activists elected delegates to the county conventions, based on the proportion of support for the various presidential candidates
at the county conventions, delegates will be elected to congressional district conventions later in the spring
despite gephardt's slide, baxter said dukakis backers won't be making a major effort to convince his delegates to switch at the county conventions
other activists agreed, saying backers of gephardt and illinois sen. paul simon, who finished second in the precinct caucuses, will wait to see results in tests in michigan and wisconsin before making a decision
michigan is considered a last-ditch effort for gephardt, and that state's caucuses also are saturday
as long as those candidates remain in the race, it's unlikely their supporters will switch, and other campaigns are avoiding a strident pitch soas not to offend potential future supporters
our county chairs and the people we had in place for the campaign are working, contacting supporters from other camps,'' said dukakis backer tom jochum, a state representative from dubuque. ``if i were a gephardt supporter, i'd be waiting to see what the results are in michigan.''
since iowa's precinct caucuses, former arizona gov. bruce babbitt and gary hart have formally dropped from the race. few delegates are at stake there as hart got less than 1 percent while babbitt got 6 percent in the caucuses
people are going to wait to see what happens,'' said iowa democratic party spokesman phil roeder. ``the only people who are going to move are the babbitt people. the gephardt people are going to wait.''
caucus-goers selected 15,000 delegates to the county conventions and 30,000 alternates. they will elect 3,001 delegates to the six congressional district conventions may 14. those delegates will pick 52 of the state's 58 national delegates
the state has six ``super'' delegates, who are elected officials and party leaders. drive</head>
the kremlin laid out an 8-year plan thursday night to pacify a caucasus region shaken by ethnic strife. at the same time, army helicopters were reported circling over the armenian capital to prevent further unrest
the carrot-and-stick approach seemed aimed at cooling feelings inflamed by a noisy armenian campaign to annex the region of nagorno-karabakh from neighboring azerbaijan and to warn armenian activists to end their protests
activists have said specifically that government efforts to improve poor economic and social conditions of armenians in the caucasus mountain region near the soviet border with iran would not meet their demands
armenian newspaper editor regyen sarkisyan said yerevan, capital of armenia and scene of mass pro-annexation demonstrations in february, was being patrolled by red army helicopters and soldiers. he said no violence was reported
sarkisyan told the associated press in a telephone interview that most armenians were showing patience in awaiting resolution of the issue
on feb. 28, rioting broke out in sumgait, azerbaijan, and officials said 32 people were killed
nagorno-karabakh, which is smaller than delaware, has a population that is 75 percent armenian but has been a part of azerbaijan since 1923
the presidium of the supreme soviet, the nation's highest government body, rejected as ``intolerable'' wednesday the campaign for annexation of the region, indicating it would not bend to pressure from mass protests
the presidium, meanwhile, ordered ministries to solve ``pressing problems of the economic, social and cultural development'' of the region. the ruling communist party politburo made public details of their proposals thursday
the plan for 1988-95 calls for stepping up the pace of construction of schools, hospitals, apartments and roads in the region and for increasing the publication of armenian literature
work will also be completed to ensure a steady reception of the national television program, as well as ... telecasts of armenian and azerbaijani television,'' the officia tass news agency said in a report on the politburo meeting
the plan calls for increasing by 50 percent the industrial output of the region
the plan approved by the politburo was formulated by the central committee, the communist party's policy-making body, and the government council of ministers, tass said
it said the politburo deemed it ``essential to resolutely discourage the slightest manifestations of nationalism or disrespect for national sentiments of members of various ethnic groups.''
last week, a prominent soviet journalist writing in the moscow news weekly said residents of nagorno-karabakh suffer cultural and economic disadvantages
karen khachaturov said people there have difficulty getting books in their native language and officials have not made good on pledges to build a sports complex and children's institutions
moscow dissident valery senderov said thursday that a correspondent for an unofficial human rights journal called from yerevan to say soviet army helicopters were patrolling the city, but no widespread disorder was reported
sarkisyan, a senior editor of the armenian communist party newspaper kommunist, confirmed the helicopter report and added that soldiers were deployed around yerevan to ensure order
activists in yerevan had called for another show of support for the annexation drive with demonstrations and strikes beginning saturday, when a group of activists and officials plans to meet to discuss a future course of action
sarkisyan says it is his personal belief that nagorno-karabakh should be united with armenia. he said he does not expect a large turnout at the demonstrations or widespread participation in the strikes called for by activists
moscow-based dissidents say they've been told thousands plan to take to the streets
the presidium did not directly address the question of annexation. last month's mass protests in yerevan subsided after soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed on feb. 26 for calm and promised a party review of the annexation question
demonstrations were held again in yerevan this week after a report in the communist party daily pravda said the annexation drive had a ``clear anti-socialist spirit.'' activists said 7,000 people took part in a protest march monday
please disregard a0826, am-gore-dukakis, which was not intended for use this cycle
the ap
a former nuclear technician who claimed he revealed israel's atomic secrets for the good of humanity was convicted thursday of espionage and treason and could be sentenced to 20 years in prison
mordechai vanunu, 34, was found guilty by a three-judge panel after a trial that had been closed to the public since it began in september. his lawyer said the vanunu would appeal the verdict to israel's supreme court
mordechai is very disappointed,'' said defense attorney avigdor feldman. ``the court decided that he was a traitor, and he had hoped to be seen differently. but he is not broken. he is looking ahead to the appeal.''
the conviction carries a maximum sentence of death. however, prosecutor uzi chasson said he would ask the court for a sentence of life imprisonment, which in israel is limited to 20 years. sentencing is set for sunday
vanunu, who worked nine years at the nuclear facility in dimona, was charged for revealing details of israel's atomic capacity to the sunday times of london in october 1986
the newspaper said vanunu's information showed israel had stockpiled the world's sixth-largest nuclear arsenal
israel never has responded directly to allegations of its nuclear capacity, saying only it would not be the first country to introduce such weapons into the middle east
vanunu has insisted he made his revelations to alert the middle east and the world to the dangers of nuclear weapons. the state argued he intended to harm israel's security
he was kept under heavy security during the trial, which was closed to the public because authorities feared an open hearing would harm state security
vanunu has been held in near isolation for the last 18 months and has been permitted to see only his attorney and family
the precautions were taken after vanunu managed to flash a message to reporters at a pre-trial appearance by scribbling it on the palm of his hand. in the message he said he had been kidnapped in rome, presumably by israeli agents, and brought to israel for trial
vanunu was fired from the dimona nuclear center in 1985 and went to australia, where he became acquainted with a priest and converted to christianity
he later traveled to london, but disappeared in october 1986, just days before the sunday times published his revelations. israeli officials acknowledged several weeks later he was in custody in israel
details of vanunu's journey back to israel were revealed by his brother, meir vanunu, who said vanunu was lured from london to rome by an american woman named cindy, who promised him sex. in rome, he was abducted by israeli agents and spirited home, meir said
during the trial, feldman argued vanunu did not hurt israel's security because information about israel's nuclear capacity was available in the academic world. he said vanunu had in fact helped state security because allegations of israel's nuclear strength served as a deterrent to arab enemies
legislation pushed by archaeologists to save historic shipwrecks won house committee approval wednesday despite complaints from recreational divers that the bill could block their enjoyment of the undersea landmarks
the bill is designed to clear up the murky legal status of shipwreck jurisdiction by giving states authority over certain downed vessels in state waters, preventing salvage operators from destroying historic remains
the house merchant marine and fisheries committee put aside a house version of the measure and passed 29-10, largely along party lines, a bill sponsored by sen. bill bradley, d-n.j., that the senate passed in december
democrats led by rep. charles e. bennett, d-fla., who has advocated a shipwreck preservation law for a decade, said they agreed with an amendment proposed by rep. norman d. shumway, r-calif., mandating that states make shipwrecks accessible to divers
but bennett and others noted that an amended bill would need senate approval again, and they were afraid the measure would die there as it has in past years. this is the first time the senate has approved a shipwreck bill
don't kill this bill by making it perfect,'' bennett urged. ``i'm afraid it's going to be a better corpse.''
shumway, pointing to vocal opposition from sport diving groups, said the legislation should spell out guarantees for divers
i think this bill can be vastly improved,'' he said
bennett retorted that ``if you don't pass this bill, there won't be any shipwrecks to dive on.'' rep. claudine schneider, r-r.i., who said she is a recreational diver, agreed, joining democrats in defeating the shumway amendment 25-14
bennett said later that he expected easy passage on the house floor. the reagan administration supports the measure
the committee agreed to place in a report that accompanies the bill language stating that it is the intent of congress for states to make shipwrecks accessible to divers
under the legislation, states would have jurisdiction over historic shipwrecks within their three-mile state limits. they would be charged with establishing protective areas, allowing recreational exploration and overseeing public and private salvage efforts
under admiralty laws, discoverers of wrecks can salvage abandoned vessels. those laws are at odds with many state statutes
for 58 hours after a toddler tumbled into an abandoned well, hundreds of rescuers worked together to free her, but now an effort to bring their heroism to television has divided them
two groups _ one mostly volunteer rescuers and the other city officials _ are negotiating separately with different tv producers for a movie of the story that captured the nation's attention as it unfolded live on television
both groups are awaiting the endorsement of chip and cissy mcclure, whose 23-month-old daughter jessica became stuck in a 22-foot-deep well for 58 hours in october
one volunteer rescuer, bruce peeler, said he is remaining neutral in the dispute. but he said he wonders whether the story could be told properly in any case
i am wondering if a unified group got together ... if a really true, accurate picture of what took place could ever be put on the screen,'' said peeler, president of midland's airmaster equipment corp., which contributed drilling materials for the rescue
the effort brought praise and a spotlight to midland, an oil town of 97,400 people in western texas
it was a special event. there was so much effort, and everyone had their own story. maybe it should be kept special like that,'' he said thursday
the jessica mcclure rescuer's association, a group of about 30 volunteers, is committed to a movie deal with los angeles producer larry spivey, president of highland communications group inc. the group has asked all rescuers to join them
the association's president, kragg robinson, said 33 members have signed a contract that includes an initial $200,000, plus future payments, to be divided among the membership
the other group, the mcclure rescue association, has narrowed its selection to an unidentified producer but has not signed any commitments. the association, comprising 11 municipal officials including police chief richard czech, fire chief james roberts and paramedic robert o'donnell, wants nothing to do with spivey
we found that he was going around to individual members of our association offering each member side deals that the others didn't know about,'' said martin allday, a lawyer representing the group
spivey says everyone was offered the same deal _ a chance to consult in the production or to act in it
either group or neither group could end up actually making a film. spivey still needs a commitment from a network for his project
my advice to anyone is if they have not signed with the producer to not do so until the mcclures say who they want the movie to be made by,'' said allday
the mcclures have said they don't want to profit by their daughter's story, but do not want to stand in the way of the story being told
peeler said thursday he is concerned that the group of municipal workers will not allow others to help negotiate a movie deal
he said he and other neutral volunteers are working to bring the groups together ``so that the same type of unity and spirit as depicted last october can return.''
i'm sad about this problem,'' he said. ``my concern is that there were several hundred people out there and it is not right that maybe the lady that brought us hamburgers at three in the morning, or the guy who brought the sanitary privvies down _ how do you say they should not be in the movie, too?'' south of lebanon; makes it abu nidal throughout to conform to style; subs last two grafs, wednesday's attack ... updating casualty figures</note>
israeli jets bombed palestinian targets on the outskirts of sidon on thursday for the second straight day, hitting a base of the notorious abu nidal guerrilla faction
police said nine people were killed and five wounded in the raid, the third this week near the port city 25 miles south of beirut
police said most of the casualties were members of abu nidal's fatah-revolutionary council, and the group issued a statement pledging ``merciless retaliation.''
a police spokesman described the attack as ``very fierce.'' he said six israeli warplanes dropped 30 bombs in six sorties within 55 minutes
prime minister salim hoss instructed lebanon's u.n. ambassador, rashid fakhoury, to complain to the world body about the attacks, state radio said
but lebanon did not ask for a security council meeting on the issue, it said
the police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity in keeping with standing regulations, said the main target was abu nidal's guerrilla base, but the jets also hit a position of the marxist democratic front for the liberation of palestine
the israelis plowed the olive groves where the stricken bases are,'' he added
the bases were engulfed by smoke and dust as ambulances arrived to evacuate casualties
the police spokesman said abu nidal's guerrillas cordoned off the bases in the villages of bekasta, majdelyoun, salhiyeh and abra on the southern and eastern edges of sidon
the jets dropped scarlet balloons to deflect heat-seeking missiles. the guerrillas fired at the roaring jets with soviet-made anti-aircraft guns. no hits were reported
let the enemy wait for coming blows of our revolutionary fighters,'' said a statement issued by the fatah-revolutionary council. ``we shall strike doubly in merciless retaliation.''
abu nidal _ real name sabri al-banna _ broke from yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization in 1974. he has since claimed attacks against a series of civilian targets around the world
the elusive terrorist mastermind tops wanted lists in the united states and europe. his whereabouts are not known, altough recent reports said he has been shuttling between libya and algeria
his group also vowed revenge after wednesday's strike, saying in a statement it would ``severely strike back against the zionist enemy's arrogance and barbarism ... at the right time and place.''
wednesday's attack targeted bases of the abu nidal and the democratic front for the liberation of palestine, a plo faction headed by nayef hawatmeh. police said eight people were killed and 15 wounded in the attacks
in all, 48 people have been killed and 63 wounded in five israeli air raids this year, by lebanese police count
clutching a feline named pole cat, mellissa l. sanders climbed into the bucket of a hook-and-ladder fire truck and returned to earth thursday after a record 517 days sitting atop a 43-foot pole
my knees are wobbly but i feel great,'' said miss sanders, who was embraced by her mother, mauri rose sanders. ``without the cat, i would never have made it.''
miss sanders, 19, broke the world record feb. 25 when she overtook the 488-day mark set by mark sutton of victoria, british columbia. she now is in the guinness world book of records
her fiance, keith seal, 25, of monterey, calif., greeted her on the ground. they met after seal read an article about her effort to raise money for cancer research and telephoned her. they announced their engagement in august, before meeting
i've been waiting a year for this,'' he said
about 1,000 people gathered to watch miss sanders' descent from the shack she called home for 1{ years. some handed her bouquets, others made contributions for her cancer fund-raising efforts
all this doesn't seem real,'' said miss sanders' mother, who herself set a record of 211 days atop a pole in 1959. ``we want her back with us, but honestly it seems like only yesterday that she went up there.''
miss sanders said her first activity would be to ``drive around town, then take a good long walk.''
she had said she was proud to have raised $10,000 for cancer research but had hoped to climb down with $100,000. miss sanders' sister, rebecca, has cancer and has been in remission for four years
i'm sure she'll look back on this with fond memories,'' said miss sanders' aunt tanya bowls. ``maybe she saved a life by doing this. and that's about all you can ask for.''
firefighters were on hand to make sure miss sanders made it safely to the ground from the three-story shack
she's going to look up and be lonely when she passes by here next,'' said perry township fire chief david betzner. ``it's been her home and when you take someone out of their home _ no matter how much they want to go _ they're going to look back with longing.''
miss sanders' 6-by-7-by-9-foot shack was equipped with a plastic kiddie pool, television and a telephone that resulted in regular $300 phone bills. for company she had her cat, pole cat
before coming down, miss sanders admitted, ``there were some real sad times, times that were real hard.''
but i always knew i would make it, even when i was scared or going through hard times,'' said the tucson, ariz., native, who rode out 70 mph winds during a major snowstorm in february
seal first contacted miss sanders in november 1986. they communicated, but did not meet face-to-face until november 1987
now that she's getting down we have to start dating,'' said seal. ``i mean we're already engaged and we haven't even gone on a date.'' ruling</head>
supporters of soviet jews tested a new supreme court ruling wednesday that knocked down rules banning peaceful demonstrations within 500 feet of foreign embassies in washington
the dozen demonstrators, accompanied for a time by sens. frank lautenberg, d-n.j., and dennis deconcini, d-ariz., gave speeches on the sidewalk in front of the soviet embassy. then seven of them sat down on the sidewalk, prayed and sang. some taunted soviet officials as they moved freely in and out of the embassy gate
the police, whose numbers rivaled those of the demonstrators, did nothing to impede the protest. they quietly ensured that the driveway and embassy gate remained clear and they steered pedestrians through the maze of protesters and the accompanying phalanx of reporters and photographers. police made no move to arrest anyone
in fact, they stopped traffic on busy 16th street so the demonstrators could move back and forth to the embassy
they can't block the driveway,'' said sgt. gary nelson of the district of columbia police. ``they can't block free passage of the sidewalk.''
rabbi avi weiss of new york, the chairman of the student struggle for soviet jewry, was a leader of wednesday's demonstration. he has been arrested several times for violating the limits on protests near the soviet embassy
there are those who say the (supreme court) ruling takes away the dramatic tool of arrest,'' weiss said before the demonstration began. but he warned, ``if the necessity arises that we'll have to sit peacefully in front of the gates, then that's something i'd be willing to do.''
in tuesday's supreme court ruling, justice sandra day o'connor, writing for the court, said police may disperse groups of three or more congregating near embassies when they ``reasonably believe that a threat to the security or peace of the embassy is present.'' banning such gatherings ``does not prohibit peaceful congregations,'' she wrote, adding that the ban ``is limited to groups posing a security threat.''
weiss said the court's ruling ``allows a far greater voice for soviet jews specifically at a time when so many have been duped by `glasnost.''' glasnost is the russian word for ``openness.''
he condemned an upcoming trip by commerce secretary c. william verity and some 500 business executives to the soviet union
there cannot be an increase of trade, an increase of loans without a concession on human rights on the other side,'' weiss said
as the demonstration commenced in front of the embassy, a dozen soviet officials sat in the patio on the other side of the gates, enjoying the suddenly springlike weather, chatting amongst themselves and occasionally gazing at the demonstrators
as the protestors sang at one point, a soviet official walked into the front gate, barely suppressing a smile
motorola inc.'s electronics group has agreed to pay the government $16.7 million and to plead guilty to a criminal information accusing it of mischarging for labor and materials on navy satellite and missile contracts, the justice department announced thursday
in documents filed in u.s. district court in phoenix, motorola's government electronics group in scottsdale, ariz., was accused of inflating costs for a component of a navy satellite communications and mischarging $2.5 million in labor, materials and other costs. the money actually was spent on other work, the government said
the defense department, relying on the inflated amounts, paid some $5 million more than it should have on a second contract for the satellite communications system, said the government
motorola, one of the nation's top 50 defense contractors, agreed to plead guilty to three counts of making false statements
the firm said in a statement from motorola headquarters in schaumburg, ill., that ``it is now clear in retrospect'' that the electronics group's ``systems were not adequate to ensure total compliance with applicable laws and regulations.''
the conduct of the employees involved in these programs failed to conform to motorola's own internal standards,'' the statement added. the electronics group ``has greatly expanded its compliance efforts'' with reforms which ``are now an integral part of the way geg does business.''
under the agreement, which still must be approved by a court, the government has agreed not to prosecute the company further on the contracts, but reserves the right to prosecute individuals
the court documents also say the firm mischarged labor costs for work on 10 contracts involving production of target detecting devices for the navy's standard missile
the third count in the criminal information said motorola mischarged labor costs on a contract for the production of targeting detecting devices for the navy's phoenix missile
motorola will pay $16.7 million in criminal fines, restitution and civil penalties. the company already has paid $6.8 million to the defense department
the pleas result from an investigation into labor and materials charging and pricing practices by motorola from 1979 to 1984
parts of the northeast basked in record warmth tuesday, with temperatures in the 60s and 70s, while showers and thunderstorms dampened the north-central states
the showers reached from southern michigan across northern iowa, northeast nebraska, eastern south dakota and minnesota. rain also fell from the lower great lakes across east-central new york and along the northern pacific coast
advisories warned of snow and blowing snow across the northern mountains of colorado. winds gusted to 55 mph at pueblo, colo., and 58 mph at cheyenne, wyo
balmy weather held sway across sections of the northeast. record highs included 66 at bridgeport, conn., 72 at newark, n.j., 75 at new york, and 76 in philadelphia
by contrast, klamath falls, ore., had a record low temperature of 19 degrees
heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 0.77 inch at boothville, la., 0.60 inch at quillayute, wash., 0.55 inch at astoria, ore., and 0.47 inch at minot, n.d
temperatures at 2 p.m. est ranged from 26 degrees at yellowstone, wyo., to 90 degrees at palm springs, calif. the morning low was 4 degrees at yellowstone
friday's forecast called for rain along the northern pacific coast; snow scattered over northeast minnesota, becoming rain over the remainder of eastern minnesota, wisconsin and upper michigan as well as from new york across central and southern new england, and showers and occasional thunderstorms from northeast illinois across lower michigan, the ohio valley, the tennessee valley, and the central gulf coast
temperatures were expected to climb into the 30s and 40s in northern new england, upper michigan, northern wisconsin, the upper mississippi valley, the northern plains and the upper missouri valley; into the 70s from the central atlantic coast across georgia, alabama and the florida panhandle, the central gulf coast, much of texas, and northern california, into the 80s over the florida peninsula, and southern texas; into the 80s to low 90s across southern california and the desert southwest, and the 50s and 60s elsewhere. moreno ...'</note>
the guns were silent thursday, the first day of an agreement between the government and contra rebels that nicaraguans pray will bring peace for the first time since 1981. one man called it a miracle
during three days of negotiations that resulted in agreement wednesday night, both sides had said it was the last chance for peace in nicaragua. the formal, 60-day cease-fire is to begin april 1, but they agreed to extend a truce declared for the talks
virgilio godoy, president of the opposition independent liberal party, said thursday: ``i believe that the agreement is a hope. .. . it is not a question of saying now who won and who lost in the agreement, but that nicaragua and thousands of mothers who have sons in the war won.''
alonso moreno, who owns a shoe store and has three nephews in the army, said: ``this is the most important thing that has occcured since 1979 when the somoza dictatorship was overthrown.''
in a broadcast thursday, the rebel radio liberacion said, ``the (nicaraguan) resistance has taken an initial step to end the hostilities in nicaragua, a very significant step.''
el nuevo diario, a pro-government newspaper, asked a question in its banner headline: ``cease fire! peace explodes?''
enrique bolanos, president of the private enterprise council and staunch government critic, called the pact ``a miracle,'' and added: ``perhaps the sandinista front will finally comply with its word.''
during the negotiations at sapoa, on the costa rican border 90 miles south of managua, president daniel ortega made a suprise visit and said it was time ``to bury once and for all the military confrontation.''
rebel leader alfredo cesar told journalists at the meeting: ``it is not just a chance to achieve peace and harmony, but the only chance.''
leaders of the sandinistas and the u.s.-sponsored contras stood side-by-side on a makeshift dais wednesday night in sapoa, sang the national anthem together and signed the cease-fire
during the three days, both sides retreated from hard positions, especially the sandinistas, who stand to gain the most from an agreement that would virtually end the insurgency
the contras agreed not to accept military aid and to receive non-lethal supplies exclusively from neutral organizations. the reagan administration, which has financed the rebels since they began fighting in late 1981, has been seeking congressional approval of more funds
provisions of the agreement meet requirements of the regional peace plan signed aug. 7 by all five central american presidents _ ending the fighting, granting political amnesty and restoring democratic freedoms
opponents of the sandinistas say they promised democracy when overthrew rightist president anastasio somoza in july 1979, but instead established a marxist regime
although the cease-fire does not begin officially until april 1, both sides said they would continue the battlefield truce they declared on monday, the first day of negotiations
beginning monday, also in sapoa, negotiators will draw the lines of areas to which rebels will go during the first two weeks of the official cease-fire
nothing is said in the agreement about the contras laying down their weapons, so that may be another subject taken up in next week's meetings. in past negotiations, the rebels insisted on keeping their weapons until provisions of any accord were carried out
also not mentioned is a reduction of the 80,000-member regular armed forces, largest in central america. the government claims to have 300,000 people under arms, including army, reserves and civilian militia
gradual amnesty is provided for nicaragua's 3,300 political prisoners, beginning sunday. the deal also guarantees ``unrestricted freedom of expression,'' demanded by the rebels, and permits all exiles to return home
with verification that the contras have moved into the truce zones, they can send up to eight delegates to participate in national talks now under way in nicaragua as part of the regional peace plan, the agreement says
the sandinistas agreed that the ``issues related to military service will be dealt with.'' contra negotiators had insisted forced military service be ended
ortega's government granted a rebel request that compliance with the agreement be verified by a commission formed by cardinal miguel obando y bravo and the secretary-general of the organization of american states, joao baena soares
both were witnesses to the talks and it was baena soares who read the final document aloud. obando y bravo had mediated previous negotiations outside the coutnry
richard gephardt, pressing on with his hard-line trade stance, on thursday denied statements from aides that he would shut down his campaign for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination if he does not win saturday's michigan caucuses
amid turmoil over reports that michigan was a do-or-die state for him, gephardt delivered a speech here and denounced a ``dogmatic and outdated'' free trade theology that has cost the nation jobs
gephardt brushed aside questions about the future of his campaign, but aides spoke privately of a decision hinging on the michigan caucus outcome
plans are in motion for the missouri congressman to file for re-election to his house seat by the tuesday deadline, said the aides, if michigan does not give him his first victory since the south dakota primary on feb. 23
that's right. he will be out if doesn't win in michigan,'' said a campaign aide who would not be quoted by name
asked if that aide's comment was accurate, gephardt told reporters:
no. i'm running for president and i've doing very well here in michigan. ... i'm going to win in michigan. i'm going to continue and do well.''
my mother always told me to cross one bridge at a time. that's what i'm trying to do,'' he added. ``rather than trying to guess all the different hypotheticals of what might happen, i just think we have to be patient, wait to see the outcome and then decide what other steps should be taken.''
gephardt aides said publicly that nothing has changed in the past 48 hours, that it has been understood since super tuesday that gephardt would end his race if he does not win here. the candidate's wife put it this way on thursday:
i think dick has to come in first or a real strong second to remain in the race, because at some point if you don't do well here, it becomes difficult to raise money,''' said jane gephardt in an interview with wtvb radio. ``dick's message will be very popular in the industrial states, but if we don't do well here, we will not be able to continue.''
gephardt is running third in the polls in michigan, behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson. later thursday, gephardt mimicked dukakis' claim of turning around the massachusetts economy, adapting it to his campaign by saying ``this saturday we're going to have a miracle in michigan _ the michigan miracle.''
tuesday is the deadline for gephardt to file for re-election for his house seat. a meeting has been scheduled this weekend for the democrats who have filed for the seat
one reason for the withdrawal _ and the congressional race _ would be to take care of any debts left over from the presidential bid
only as rep. gephardt can he raise the money to pay off the debts'' from the presidential campaign, one aide said
but gephardt spokesman mark johnson denied the campaign had a big debt and said that is not a factor
one of gephardt's problems was inadvertantly emphasized by the presence of united auto workers president owen bieber at gephardt's news conference
the uaw has not endorsed any candidate, and bieber refused to say he would vote for gephardt in the caucuses. union backing would be a major boost to a candidate in the low-turnout caucus process, but particularly for gephardt, whose trade policies have had strong uaw backing
i come here today because i want to pay my respects to rep. gephardt and the respects of my union to a person who has fought very hard to bring about fair trade,'' bieber said
gephardt gave a lengthy speech to the detroit economic club, trying to explain again his trade positions and the reasons his ideas have encountered such resistance
we will not open markets abroad until we first open minds here at home,'' the missouri congressman said, adding ``the free market is not sacred.''
he mentioned only one opponent by name, chiding dukakis for now supporting trade legislation that he earlier opposed
i welcome converts,'' gephardt said. ``but we need more than a political tactic _ we need a real policy commitment.''
gephardt laid out in his speech why he thought his trade legislation has been denounced so strongly
the powerful voices ... are dogmatic and outdated,'' he said.``they see things, not as they are, but as they wish them to be.''
`many of our trading partners are using our outdated assumptions _ our theology _ to take advantage of us,'' he said
and gephardt rejected the allegation that his trade policies are somehow racist
those of us who are calling for more realistic trade polices are accused of japanese-bashing,'' he said. ``the issue here is not nationality, but the rationality of our trading arrangements.''
here are the yearly profits or losses for federally insured savings institutions from 1978 through 1987, according to the federal home loan bank board
1987 _ $6.8 billion loss
1986 _ $132 million profit
1985 _ $3.7 billion profit
1984 _ $1.0 billion profit
1983 _ $1.9 billion profit
1982 _ $4.1 billion loss
1981 _ $4.6 billion loss
1980 _ $781 million profit
1979 _ $3.6 billion profit
1978 _ $3.9 billion profit
angry unionized employees of eastern airlines and supporters from other labor organizations rallied outside the capitol on wednesday in an effort to bring attention to their disputes with the carrier
the demonstrators, estimated at 1,200 by their leaders, heard speeches from several union leaders and from sen. tom harkin, d-iowa
i want airline pilots who belong to strong unions, so if they know they have unsafe conditions or unsafe airplanes, they can park that airplane and know they still have their jobs,'' harkin told the crowd
some eastern pilots have complained that they have been pressured by company officials to fly aircraft that they believe need repairs. eastern officials have said they would never allow unsafe planes to fly
unions at eastern have been battling the airline on a number of issues in recent years, aiming much of their fire at frank lorenzo, the chief executive of the miami-based carrier. lorenzo has been trying to reduce costs at the financially ailing airline, but the unions say his goal is to reduce the power of labor
here are some comments thursday by candidates for the presidency:

richard gephardt, asked if he would drop out of the presidential race if he loses michigan: ``no. i'm running for president and i'm doing very well here in michigan. .... my mother always told me to cross one bridge at a time. that's what i'm trying to do.''

paul simon, speculating he will pick up supporters if gephardt withdraws: ``there's no question there are some union leaders who are now supporting dick gephardt who would find paul simon the most attractive of the alternatives.''

michael dukakis, calling for an increase in the minimum wage: ``i don't see how you can support a family on $3.35 an hour.''

jesse jackson, saying a top priority as president would be to stop drugs: ``as president, i will meet with the heads of state where drugs are grown ... and stop the flow of drugs. our borders are exposed to the no. 1 killer of our people.''

albert gore, saying he would have no problem in giving details of more than $1 million in loans taken out by his campaign: ``there's nothing that is in any violation of any laws or regulations and there's no cause for suggesting that there is.''
judge robert h. bork was a victim of ``political muscle and character assassination'' who would have fought excesses by the judiciary had he been seated on the supreme court, attorney general edwin meese iii said thursday
bork's supreme court nomination was turned down 58-42 in the senate on oct. 23 by ``those partisans who would impermissibly seek to reshape the constitution into a vehicle for their own limited political beliefs,'' meese said in remarks prepared for delivery thursday night to the joseph story society, a conservative lawyers' group
a copy of meese's remarks was released at the justice department
no one ... deserves a seat on the u.s. supreme court more than robert h. bork,'' meese said of the appeals court judge who drew strong opposition for his conservative views on the role of the judiciary and other constitutional issues
meese said the forces opposed to bork's nomination ``used political muscle and character assassination to thwart the appointment of a most deserving person.''
bork and legal scholar raoul berger, who were being honored at an awards banquet of the society, have fought unwarranted judicial activism which has been ``advocated by those forces who like to be called `progressive,''' meese said
but ... their version of modern progressivism has passed democracy by, leaving it to today's conservatives to do what yesterday's progressives did: defend democracy,'' the attorney general said
meese cited as an example of judicial activism a federal judge's ruling in kansas city ordering additions to the facilities of local schools, and ``a doubling of the property tax rate to pay for them.''
he also criticized the ruling of a judge in st. louis who decreed a busing scheme for schools and vowed to require higher property taxes to pay for it if the voters failed to do so
meese said judicial activism forecloses opportunities for local expression and leaves ``a drastically reduced scope for the institutions that are representative of citizen views.''
the pattern here is a subtle but dangerous transformation of the constitution, such that it becomes less a plan of government and more an instrument for the regulation of potentially every personal action or policy decision _ regulation that the people themselves become powerless to control,'' meese said
mensa, the nationwide organization of high iqs, is looking for a few good brains
in an attempt to boost enrollment, 43 mensa chapters around the country are using newspaper ads to invite people who think they are among the top 2 percent in intelligence to ``flex those mental muscles'' in a qualifying test
the ad reads: ``if you can score at or above the 98th percentile on a standard iq test, you may be able to join mensa, the society for the highly intelligent.'' the ad then lists how to register for the test, which costs $20
a lot of people haven't got the foggiest notion of what their iq is,'' said philip johnson of yakima, secretary of the central washington chapter
the chapter has about 50 members, and 10 people responded to its newspaper advertising, johnson said
statistically, if you are talking about 2 percent of the population, and assuming yakima is representative, we ought to have 1,000 people in yakima qualify,'' johnson said
don pendley, development officer for american mensa ltd. in new york city, said there are 56,000 members nationally from a pool of about 5 million potential qualifiers
we've been growing about 3 percent per year in the last three years,'' pendley said in a telephone interview. ``growth of 8 to 10 percent per year would make us happy.''
the national headquarters gave $10,000 in february to local chapters to buy advertising. the money was appropriated on a first-come, first-served basis to 43 of the 145 chapters
so far the ads have appeared in washington, d.c.; louisville, ky.; savannah, ga., and st. joseph, mo., she said
in the past, the group has placed ads in specialized magazines, primarily scientific or literary journals, pendley said
obviously people with high iqs read newspapers as much or more than the average joe,'' he said, adding it was too early to judge the response from the newspaper ads
the group was also surprised at the response it got after articles appeared in playboy and reader's digest, pendley said. ``i don't think anybody would qualify those magazines for the superintelligent,'' he said
scoring among the top 2 percent nationally in any standardized iq test is the only requirement for membership, which costs $33 per year, johnson said
it's not uncommon to find people in the top 2 percent in prison,'' he said. ``high iq people tend to frequently be high school dropouts
the only thing mensas have in common other than iq is their diversity,'' said johnson, whose jobs have included police dispatcher, accounting teacher, computer analyst and irrigation canal manager
for the last two years he has operated his own pressure-washer business, which cleans large items like trucks and buildings
in central washington, over half the mensa members work at the federal government's hanford nuclear reservation near richland, he said
with the phasing out of plutonium production there, the local chapter could soon be hurting unless it finds new members, johnson said
mensa, which was founded in england in 1946, is primarily a social organization, promising stimulating activities and conversation, pendley said
the tests measure logical and mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to distinguish relationships between words. ``studying wouldn't help very much,'' pendley said
vice president george bush and gov. michael dukakis run neck-and-neck as favorites for the presidency, while bush outpolls other potential democratic nominees, a cbs news-new york times poll said thursday
among democratic voters alone, dukakis was seen as the candidate with the best chance of beating bush in november, the survey said. bush has a commanding lead in his race for the republican presidential nomination
in a bush-dukakis matchup, 46 percent of all registered voters polled said they favored bush and 45 percent chose dukakis. the margin of error for the survey was plus or minus 3 percentage points
bush polled 51 percent support to 36 percent for sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and 56 percent to 32 percent for jesse jackson. the poll did not include a matchup of bush vs. rep. richard gephardt of missouri or sen. paul simon of illinois
in a similar poll reported wednesday by abc news and the washington post, dukakis had 50 percent support, bush 45. that survey had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 points, so the spread did not signify a lead
among likely democratic voters in the cbs-times poll, 53 percent said dukakis had the best chance of defeating bush in the general election. twelve percent said jackson, 9 percent gore, 8 percent gephardt and 6 percent simon
when the cbs-times poll asked the same question in a feb. 17-21 poll, far fewer democrats _ 38 percent _ said dukakis has the best chance to beat bush. gephardt was next with 20 percent and jackson had only 5 percent
on super tuesday, however, dukakis and jackson won five states apiece, while gephardt won only his native state. gore also won five states, but in the poll that did not translate into an expectation he was more likely to beat bush
in the democratic primary race, 29 percent of the democratic respondents favored dukakis for the nomination, 22 percent jackson, 14 percent gore, 8 percent gephardt and 6 percent simon. seventeen percent said they didn't know
the support from jackson was up from 13 percent in the february cbs-times poll, while the support for dukakis was up from 21 percent and gore's was up from 8 percent. gephardt previously had 12 percent, simon, 6
the cbs-times poll included telephone interviews of 1,271 randomly chosen registered voters nationwide from saturday through tuesday, of whom 528 were likely democratic primary voters
the sampling error for the democrats was 5 points. loans; no pickup.</note>
sen. albert gore jr.'s presidential campaign confirmed thursday it borrowed more than $1.4 million early this month, putting up collateral that included future federal matching funds and a personal guarantee by the candidate himself
gore, who was questioned about the loans earlier in the day, said he did not object to releasing the details
gore spokesman mark armour said the loans were secured by the campaign's federal matching funds, plus accounts receivable and a personal guarantee totaling $40,000 by gore himself
the campaign issued a statement saying it borrowed $750,000 from sovran-d.c. national bank on march 1, pledging future contributions, federal matching funds and other future income as collateral
the gore campaign also borrowed $400,000 on march 11 from union planters bank in memphis, tenn., secured by a guarantee from gore and future matching funds
the campaign said it borrowed $100,000 from each of three smaller banks in tennessee on march 1, also secured by the candidate's guarantee and future matching funds
armour denied that the banks showed any special favor in granting the loans, stating, ``they were all handled at arm's length through lawyers on both sides.''
there's nothing that is in any violation of any laws or regulations and there's no cause for suggesting that there is,'' gore said at a news conference
the gore campaign previously has acknowledged only that it had established a $1 million line of credit to be used as necessary for television advertising on super tuesday
on thursday, the tennessean newspaper in nashville reported that gore's campaign had put up the proceeds of future fund-raisers and federal matching funds as collateral for almost $1.5 million borrowed from banks about two weeks ago
i have no problem with telling you the amount of the loans and which banks they came from, be glad to,'' gore told reporters
gore said details of the loans would be contained in reports to be filed in the next two or three weeks with the federal election commission ``so if you can wait two or three weeks all of that will be available, but as for now i have no problem with giving you the amount of the loans, the banks et cetera.''
the next fec reporting date is april 20. the loans were taken out after feb. 29 so they did not have to be disclosed march 20
the due date for the gore loans is july 15, three days before the democratic national convention begins in atlanta
the latest gore fec disclosure, made public sunday, covers the period from feb. 1 to feb. 29
it shows that, to date, gore has spent $6 million on his presidential bid, and had $342,964 in cash on hand as of feb. 29
the capaign has taken in $1.5 million this month, armour said
the gore campaign also announced thursday that it has retained media consultant david garth to manage all of gore's media for the critical new york primary on april 19
a 23-year-old investment adviser accused of using $10 million in clients' money to buy himself an art collection, a beach house, fancy cars and other luxuries will probably plead guilty to fraud, his lawyer said thursday
david bloom briefly appeared before a federal magistrate thursday and waived his right to have the case heard by a grand jury. he is charged with mail fraud and securities fraud
although bloom entered an innocent plea at the proceeding, his lawyer, peter morrison, said bloom is expected to plead guilty march 31
prosecutors said bloom, who wasn't licensed as an investment adviser, told clients their funds were invested in the stock market when he actually was pouring the money into private purchases
they included artworks totaling $5.5 million; an $830,000 manhattan apartment; a $1.9 million beach house in east hampton, an aston-martin convertible and mercedes-benz worth a combined $200,000, and home furnishings that cost $800,000
bloom also bought expensive jewelry and deluxe trips to europe and the caribbean for himself, his family and friends, according to the government
he is also accused of falsely telling investors that he managed money for prominent individuals and investors, including the rockefeller family, the sultan of brunei and bill cosby
if found guilty, bloom faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison on each count and a maximum fine of twice the amount lost by investors
bloom was arrested jan. 14. he had begun investing money for friends while at duke university and had 130 clients at the time of his arrest. calderon's arrival, archbishop's meeting with noriega. picks up 9th graf pvs, eleven officers ... with minor editing to conform.</note>
a top opposition leader returned from exile to a hero's welcome thursday and said he will join his countrymen's struggle which he said has ``but one objective _ to get rid of gen. manuel antonio noriega.''
the return of ricardo arias calderon, president of the christian democratic party, came on the fourth day of a nationwide strike aimed at noriega's ouster. the strikers' solidarity seemed unbroken, with panama at a virtual standstill
panama's roman catholic archbishop, marcos g. mcgrath, acknowledged meeting with noriega thursday morning, but denied rumors he was trying to mediate the general's departure
mcgrath told an associated press reporter when stopped outside his home, ``we have met with the general a number of times in the past few months and we will meet with him again soon.''
asked if he was acting as go-between for noriega's exit, mcgrath said, ``no.''
the church's episcopal conference of bishops met wednesday, raising opposition hopes that the bishops would demand noriega's removal. but the closed-door session ended with no communique
there was speculation the bishops remained silent awaiting the outcome of the mcgrath-noriega meeting thursday
a cheering crowd of more than 300 people greeted arias calderon at the airport
arias calderon, who is considered a presidential aspirant in elections scheduled for may 1989, told the crowd: ``i am profoundly moved to be back in my own land. we have but one objective _ to get rid of noriega and build reconciliation and democracy in panama.''
he rejected any talks with the government, as suggested this week by noriega's new, hand-picked civilian chief executive, manuel solis palma
solis palma is simply a voice, the recent voice for noriega. he means absolutely nothing for this country,'' arias calderon said
his flight was delayed more than an hour because the panamanian airline, copa, at first refused to let him board at san jose, costa rica, citing government orders
guillermo cochez, the christian democratic party's vice president, called it an ``attempt to intimidate him, to get him to back down. but it was the government that backed down instead.''
with arias calderon were five christian democratic legislators from venezuela, costa rica and west germany to help ensure his safety. at least 100 journalists covered his arrival
despite virtually unanimous support for the general strike by business and industry, noriega _ head of the 15,000-member defense forces and the power behind the civilian government _ remained defiant
he said his foes at home and in the united states don't ``have the capacity'' to overthrow him
that feeling appeared to be shared by some strike leaders, who said it might take a revolt by fellow officers to remove noriega as military chief
there are growing pockets within the defense forces that are against noriega,'' said jose mulino, an attorney and opposition leader. ``what we don't know is if they will act.''
but in a wednesday night speech, noriega claimed the military was maintaining ``its high moral and patriotic beliefs'' despite a failed barracks coup last week
eleven officers were arrested in that foiled plot. noriega dismissed more than a dozen officers and shifted the assignments of other key personnel
still, the members of the defense forces are due to be paid friday, and opposition leaders said their loyalty to noriega could be tested anew if they don't get their paychecks
panama is out of cash because washington cut off the supply of u.s. dollars, the panamanian national currency, in a bid to drive noriega into exile. the general was indicted in the united states last month on federal cocaine trafficking charges
the government was unable to fully meet a $33 million payroll for 130,000 public employees earlier this month, touching off a series of strikes and massive demonstrations by workers once considered loyal to noriega
the next semi-monthly paychecks for most government employees are due next week, following the military payday, and they could be stirred to renewed fury if the army gets paid and they don't
arias calderon shared second place on a losing presidential ticket in 1984 and has made himself highly visible in the more than nine months of civic demonstrations and protests against noriega
in addition to his party leadership, he is a member of the national civic crusade, a coalition of about 200 business, professional, labor and political groups seeking noriega's removal
arias calderon was denied entry feb. 25 when he sought to return to panama from a business trip to miami. that was the day former president eric arturo delvalle tried to dismiss noriega, but was in turn deposed by the general
the united states still recognizes delvalle, who is in hiding in panama. emergency food relief to panama.</note>
president reagan said thursday the united states is not going to play ``big colossus of the north'' and use military force to get panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega out of power
in a question-and-answer session with high school students in this washington suburb, reagan was asked if he thought it would be necessary to resume u.s. military control in panama to protect the safety of the canal zone
no, we're going to abide by the canal treaty (relinquishing the canal to the panamanians by the turn of the century),'' he replied. ``and we're not going to be the big colossus of the north once again, coming in to ... our smaller neighbors' places of living and business and trying to guide and direct them.''
the president said the panamanians ``have a very difficult problem there. we think that they're moving toward solving it with the reaction of the people to the man that has caused so much of this problem.''
reagan said the united states wants ``to be of help in any way we can, and so we've helped them in that regard in the economic restraints that we've put down there so that there can be pressure focused on this particular individual.''
but there's no danger of us coming in with our power and muscle and saying, `this is the way it has to be.'''
meanwhile, the office of sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said that the federal agency for international development will provide emergency food to the people of panama, at least $25,000 worth of food per day to be distributed through caritas, a catholic relief agency
the money for the food would come from the federal disaster relief fund, said ed martin, a d'amato spokesman. he said he did not know how long the aid would continue
aid officials could not immediately be reached for comment. a man answering the phone there late thursday said no one was in the agency's latin bureau. the agency was known to be considering such a move
panama is out of cash because washington cut off the supply of u.s. dollars, the panamanian national currency, in a bid to drive gen. manuel antonio noriega into exile. the general was indicted in the united states last month on federal cocaine trafficking charges
the panamanian government was unable to fully meet a $33 million payroll for 130,000 public employees earlier this month, touching off a series of strikes and massive demonstrations by workers once considered loyal to noriega
democrats who had hoped to succeed rep. richard gephardt faced the prospect thursday of having to bow out amid reports gephardt would abandon his presidential bid and seek re-election to the house
i'm a little upset,'' said state rep. phil barry, a st. louis county democrat considered one of the leading contenders to replace gephardt, the 3rd congressional district representative for six terms
i'm saddened. i guess that's a nice way to put it,'' said barry, who has the endorsement of labor and other groups and has raised about $27,000
six democrats have filed for the seat, and at least two others are considering a bid
a gephardt campaign aide who insisted on anonymity said wednesday that if gephardt did not win the michigan caucuses saturday he probably would announce the end of his campaign monday and file for re-election
gephardt later denied that he was considering such a move
missouri democratic party chairman karen schafer said she thought that if gephardt decided to seek re-election the other candidates would not have much choice but to step aside
it's going to be a big blow to some of them but they all knew when they got in that gephardt could come back,'' mrs. schafer said. ``they're prepared for it.''
barry said he most likely would step aside if gephardt wanted to keep his congressional seat
john temporiti, the first democrat to file for the seat and an active campaigner, was out of his office thursday, his secretary said. temporiti is a lawyer and former chief of staff for st. louis mayor vincent c. schoemehl jr
to be a candidate for his congressional seat, gephardt would have to file with the missouri secretary of state's office by the close of business tuesday
he could file for the house seat and remain in the presidential race but would have to withdraw from the congressional race if he were to win the presidential nomination
other democrats to file are george kerry, gephardt's top st. louis aide; james whitt, a house painter; barbara vires, a retired high school teacher, and ed roche, who has run for congress five times
four republicans have filed, but none was expected to be a serious challenge in the heavily democratic district
here are the key points of the cease-fire agreement reached between nicaragua's sandinista government and the contra rebels and some of the issues that remain unsettled:
settled:
-a 60-day cease-fire begins april 1, with a temporary truce in effect until then
_rebels move into specified zones in nicaragua during the first 15 days of april
_creation of a truce verification commission headed cardinal miguel obando y bravo, nicaragua's roman catholic leader, and the secretary-general of the organization of american states, ambassador joao baena soares
_contras will stop taking military aid from the united states
_contras will be represented in sandinista talks with internal opposition known as the national dialogue and will take part in the electoral process
_amnesty for political prisoners, return of political exiles, release of 1,400 jailed contras and 1,800 former national guardsmen imprisoned since the 1979 sandinista revolution
_government guarantees freedom of expression without restrictions, in accordance with a regional peace plan signed last august by president daniel ortega and the presidents of four other central american countries
unsettled:
_details of a permanent truce. negotiations begin april 6 in managua
_location of the rebel zones. negotiations begin monday in sapoa
_laying down of contra arms
_military conscription. this will be discussed as part of the national dialogue between the sandinistas and the opposition, including the contras
_contra delegates to the national dialogue
_which neutral organizations will channel humanitarian aid to the contras
_precise dates for prisoner releases
the government agreed to free 100 contra prisoners on sunday. half of the remaining 1,300 will be freed after rebels are in specified zones. the other half and the former guardsmen will be freed after a permanent truce is in place. statement by howard's office.</note>
rep. james howard suffered a heart attack thursday and was hospitalized in very critical condition, officials said
howard, 60, chairman of the house public works and transportation committee, collapsed on a maryland golf course near washington at about 10 a.m., his office said
the new jersey democrat was taken to montgomery general hospital in olney, md., where doctors revived him after two hours, hospital spokeswoman linda janzik said
he had suffered a heart attack, which stopped his heart, and he was listed in very critical condition, ms. janzik said
he later was taken by helicopter to the cardiac unit of the washington hospital center, she said
he was breathing on his own,'' ms. janzik said
howard's office said wednesday night he was in ``critical condition'' and under intensive care. his wife, marlene, and daughter, marie, were with him
howard, the victim of two previous heart attacks, collapsed at the manor country club in rockville, md
coleman plecker, a golf pro at the club, told the montgomery (md.) journal that he saw howard collapse. the pro said he ran over and started administering cardiopulmonary resuscitation
two montgomery county firefighters who happened to be golfing at the time then took over resuscitation efforts until a rescue squad arrived, plecker said
if anything could be done for that guy, he was lucky to have those guys right there,'' plecker said
howard was hospitalized for several days in 1984 in an episode doctors attributed to fatigue. he is a heavy cigarette smoker
a former schoolteacher and principal, howard has been in congress since 1965
he gained his congressional seat on the coattails of president johnson's 1964 victory. during the reagan landslide of 1980, howard retained his seat by a margin of only about 2,000 votes over his gop challenger
in 1986, the democrat won re-election with 59 percent of the vote in a largely republican district
he has been chairman of the public works committee since 1981. the panel considers multibillion-dollar highway and water projects update with additional shultz, wright comments; picks up 5th graf pvs bgng, `but the'</note>
congress and the reagan administration warmly welcomed a nicaraguan cease-fire agreement thursday, and some officials said it could usher in a new era of bipartisan u.s. policymaking on central america
we consider this agreement to be an important step forward,'' said secretary of state george shultz, who added that the truce leaves ``no excuse'' for continued soviet-bloc weapons shipments to the leftist managua government
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said the nicaraguan agreement marks ``a new chapter in the unhappy history of that war-torn country'' and vowed to move ahead before easter on a package of humanitarian aid for the contra rebels
later, appearing on pbs' macneil-lehrer ``newshour,'' shultz indicated the administration might ask congress to include in any humanitarian aid package a provision guaranteeing a speedy vote on a military aid request if the peace process breaks down
i do think there is great merit ... to have in it a mechanism for a fast-track vote,'' shultz said
such a provision, he said, would help ``to have a little strength visible in the picture even though it isn't there.''
but wright, appearing on the same program, suggested he would oppose such a provision
he said the package should include food, clothing and medical assistance for the contras. asked whether the legislation should ensure an early vote on military aid if president reagan asks for it, wright said, ``i want to emphasize positive things, and not anticipate failure.''
sen. christopher dodd, d-conn, a leading contra opponent, said, ``this is a bad day for the cynics. a piece of paper has been signed by people who many thought would never be able to sit down face to face.''
but the white house and some in congress also said the accord, while a strong sign of new health for the regional peace process, rests heavily on promises of future moves by both sides that could prove difficult
reagan, getting into his limousine after speaking to high school students in suburban vienna, va., was asked whether he thought the cease-fire agreement would hold up
i don't know. we're looking carefully at it,'' he replied
there is a lot of room for encouragement here, yes, but there's also a lot of room for skepticism, and i'm trying to balance those two off,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater
we're beginning the process. we need to watch it. we've seen processes like this start before and fail,'' he said. ``this seems like a more concrete step, and there certainly reason to be hopeful. but i do not want to play down the skepticism side of it either because we are skeptical.''
congressional leaders and the administration began conferring on a new package of aid to the contras on wednesday, and more meetings were scheduled for monday. wright said a vote could come later next week and food, clothing and medicine could begin flowing to the rebels by easter
the cease-fire agreement reached wednesday night in sapoa, nicaragua, calls for ``exclusively humanitarian'' aid for the rebels to be channeled through a ``neutral'' organization, presumably the united nations, the red cross, the organization of american states or some similar group
wright said any aid package would have to conform to that language, and democratic leaders on the issue said that would rule out provisions for future military aid to the rebels
but some republicans insisted that any aid bill include provision for a quick vote in congress on new military aid if the sandinistas fail to live up to promises made in the cease-fire agreement, including amnesty and the release of prisoners
i think it is important to keep in there some speeded-up mechanism for the president and congress to get together in case the peace process fails,'' said sen. dan evans, r-wash., a sponsor of a contra aid package that includes such a guaranteed vote
it's a recognition that there is still lots of skepticism, maybe even suspicion, all the way around,'' evans said. ``people have been at each other's throats, and that's not going to dissipate easily.''
but of such suggestions, wright said: ``i think it would be counterproductive to talk about it ... we don't want to rekindle the war.''
house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif., said compromise on language about future contra aid was possible
we are willing to talk to the republicans about anything, but we are not willing to set up a process that the nicaraguans could interpret as allowing for more military aid,'' coelho said
house republican leader robert michel of illinois, in houston for a gop issues conference, said he had discussed with wright on wednesday a $48 million, one-year aid package that provided an expedited vote on further aid in june, although the rules for that vote remained to be worked out
added republican whip trent lott of mississippi: ``the contras are still in the field. they still have got to exist ... in case this thing collapses.''
wright aide wilson morris said terms discussed wednesday before the cease-fire agreement was concluded _ including the $48 million figure and any process for a quick later aid vote _ would have to be reviewed in light of the sandinista-contra accord. ``i think that can be worked out,'' morris said
it looks like there may be a pretty good possibility of congress getting together on something the administration could buy,'' evans said
we haven't had a strong voice for american policy in central america in five years'' because of partisan divisions over the administration's contra policy,'' he said. ``we would finally be sending a clear message.''
for heaven's sake, if the nicaraguans, who have been shooting at each other, can agree, surely republicans and democrats can agree,'' wright said
the promises of quick action on a new aid package for the rebels contrasted sharply with the inaction of recent weeks. the issue had been stalled since the house narrowly defeated a $30 million humanitarian aid package on march 3, and the rebels have been without u.s. assistance since feb. 29
coelho said lawmakers had been intentionally moving slowly on the issue since march 17, when contra leaders called wright's office and said they were optimistic about achieving a cease-fire in the talks that began monday and asked that congress hold back on voting for new aid
speeding through stiff winds and heavy seas early thursday, we closed in on an iranian landing craft that served as mother ship for speedboat attacks on neutral ships in the strait of hormuz
the decks were lashed by 15-foot waves and winds gusting to 50 knots but cmdr paul x. rinn, skipper of this 445-foot guided missile frigate, covered the the 45 miles to the hengham-class landing craft and halted his pursuit 4,600 yards from his quarry
while there was no actual confrontation, not even a radio exchange, the presence of the american warship appeared to distract the landing craft tomb from its mission. u.s. officers said that mission apparently was to serve as a floating base for speedboats that attack ships with machine-gun and rocket grenade fire
he now knows we know where he is. we can come back now and find him any time we want,'' rinn told reporters in a pentagon news pool aboard the roberts
increasingly, warships such as u.s. navy fast frigate no. 88 are closely monitoring the activities of iranian warships in the southern persian gulf
their purpose apparently is to discourage iranian attacks on neutral shipping in the waterway, where iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980
such missions may reflect a subtle but potentially significant shift in navy policy under rear adm. anthony a. less, who took command of the joint task force middle east and its gulf component last month
american officers say there is no change in the ``rules of engagement.'' those permit navy ships to offer ``humanitarian assistance'' to neutral ships in distress that request help but prohibit them from interceding to stop an attack on a ship not flying the stars and stripes
however, with the success of its primary mission to escort convoys of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers through these hazardous waters, the navy may be adopting a more visible role to deter iranian attacks
rinn, a 40-year new yorker who now lives in summerville, s.c., parried questions about any new mission. his instructions concerning iranian activity remain clear, he said: ``do not close (on) him; do not harass him; leave him alone.''
the first sign of a shift in approach comes at a time when iran and iraq have resumed attacks on gulf shipping
iraq uses warplanes to strike shuttle tankers carrying iranian oil through the gulf. tehran retaliates with raids by speedboats and larger vessels on neutral shipping
nearly 500 ships have been damaged since the war began and more than 300 sailors have been killed
after the dash to draw within close range of the iranian craft, rinn said it tried to turn the tables by approaching to within 1,200 yards of the roberts soon after dawn thursday. the american warship abruptly changed course, wheeling on the approaching iranian, and it altered course
the tomb kept to a parallel course as the roberts sailed into the strait of hormuz, the narrow southern gate to the persian gulf, and joined its sister ship jack williams and the frigate uss bagley
they sailed westward into the teeth of a continuing shamal, a gulf storm that blows from the northwest and typically lasts about 24 hours. winds exceeded 25 knots most of the day. seas ran more than 15 feet, rolling the ships on their beams
under clear skies, the roaring winds churned the relatively shallow persian gulf into a white-capped maelstrom. waves crashed over the bows of the warships and their hulls were exposed to view as they hobby-horsed up the hormuz
although routine for the 202 crew members, pursuit of the iranian vessel had considerable minute-by-minute drama. the roberts combat information center, its computer screens aglow like a video arcade, tracked a variety of unidentified air and sea ``contacts'' as the ship headed south
rinn ordered his second gas turbine engine fired up to help drive the ship at up to 26 knots, then varied speed as the tomb became a visible light in the distance
huge waves were illuminated by phosphorescent plankton and jellyfish, glowing like submerged flashlights of green, blue and white
the 4,200-ton roberts rolled as much as 35 degrees during the dash down the gulf, causing equipment not lashed down to clatter across the decks, tipping over chairs in the officers' wardroom and spilling some off-duty sailors from their berths
the seas became so rough that the lookout stationed in a chair on the ship's ``bullnose'' was pulled in for fear he might be washed overboard. confirmation from aid.</note>
president reagan said thursday the united states is not going to play ``big colossus of the north'' and use military force to get panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega out of power
in a question-and-answer session with high school students in this washington suburb, reagan was asked if he thought it would be necessary to resume u.s. military control in panama to protect the safety of the canal zone
no, we're going to abide by the canal treaty (relinquishing the canal to the panamanians by the turn of the century),'' he replied. ``and we're not going to be the big colossus of the north once again, coming in to ... our smaller neighbors' places of living and business and trying to guide and direct them.''
the president said the panamanians ``have a very difficult problem there. we think that they're moving toward solving it with the reaction of the people to the man that has caused so much of this problem.''
reagan said the united states wants ``to be of help in any way we can, and so we've helped them in that regard in the economic restraints that we've put down there so that there can be pressure focused on this particular individual.''
but there's no danger of us coming in with our power and muscle and saying, `this is the way it has to be.'''
meanwhile, the federal agency for international development has agreed to release $250,000 in emergency funds to buy food for the poor in panama
the food will be purchased in panama if it is available and distributed through caritas, a catholic relief agency said aid spokesman jim kunder
panama is out of cash because washington cut off the supply of u.s. dollars, the panamanian national currency, in a bid to drive gen. manuel antonio noriega into exile. the general was indicted in the united states last month on federal cocaine trafficking charges
the panamanian government was unable to fully meet a $33 million payroll for 130,000 public employees earlier this month, touching off a series of strikes and massive demonstrations by workers once considered loyal to noriega
one of two british soldiers killed by the irish republicn army at a funeral last week was buried thursday with full military honors
cpl. derek wood, 24, of the royal corps of signals was buried next to his mother's grave at st. peter's church, carshalton, near london, where he was christened
army comrades carried his casket, which was draped in the british flag and had wood's army cap resting on it. a lone bugler sounded taps and an army firing party shot off three volleys in the air toward his grave
wood and cpl. david howes, 23, also of the royal corps of signals, were attacked by members of the roman catholic procession when they drove up to the funeral cortege of ira guerrilla kevin brady in west belfast last saturday
an inscription on an unsigned card with a floral spray at wood's funeral read: ``corporals derek wood and david howes died heroes whilst amongst cowards. god bless and rest in peace.''
in scenes that shocked television audiences around the world, members of the enraged crowd were seen to drag the two soldiers from their car, strip them and beat them with iron bars. the two were then taken to a nearby gaelic football ground where ira gunmen shot them to death
fallen financier ivan f. boesky on thursday spent his first full day at a minimum-security prison nicknamed ``club fed,'' where he was sent to serve a three-year sentence for insider trading
boesky's arrival wednesday received more attention than anyone else's since white house aide h.r. haldeman reported to serve time for his part in the watergate scandal, said chuck laroe, the warden's executive assistant
boesky, 51, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to lie to the securities and exchange commission. the earliest he can be released from prison is march 22, 1989
the federal prison camp is situated 150 miles north of los angeles. it is on 44,000 acres of heavily forested land
it has earned a reputation as a country club among prisons because it offers cable television, tennis, weightlifting, boccie, billiards and other activities to inmates
jobs open to boesky include work in the prison's furniture factory, dairy farm or cattle ranch. the once high-flying wall street speculator could also take a clerical job, laroe said. pay ranges from 11 cents to $1.10 an hour
boesky has declined all contact with the news media and signed a statement requesting privacy, laroe said. he cannot conduct business while in prison but can receive visitors for up to 50 hours a month
boesky paid the sec a record $100 million fine in 1986 to settle civil charges of insider trading, the use of confidential information to profit in securities deals. he has cooperated extensively with federal investigators
the prison, designed to hold 450 inmates, houses 630. overcrowding has forced double-bunking, laroe said. trial</head> reorganizes throughout. no pickup.</note>
testimony from a former arizona attorney general that gov. evan mecham broke the law in borrowing $80,000 from a ``protocol fund'' for his auto dealership was likened to a ``nuclear explosion'' by a lawmaker thursday
the lawmaker, republican sen. tony west, said that according to former attorney general jack lasota's analysis, mecham's action constituted a felony punishable by up to five years in prison and a $150,000 fine
lasota testified wednesday that the $80,000 was public money and thus an illegal loan
the testimony from lasota came shortly before the prosecution rested thursday on the second impeachment charge against the first-term republican governor. lasota served under mecham's predecessor, democrat bruce babbitt
we have seen some hand grenades go off here. we have seen some bombshells,'' west told the witness. ``but i think your testimony, if accurate, is either a nuclear explosion or at least devastating.''
why do we not have the proper prosecutorial authorities investigating this?'' demanded west
impeachment charges against mecham include misusing or embezzling public funds through the loan in july from a fund intended to promote the image of arizona
senators, who are sitting as judge and jury, previously heard testimony on a charge that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by an aide. still to be heard is a charge that mecham concealed a $350,000 campaign loan
mecham is the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades. he also faces a may 17 recall election and an april 21 trial april 21 on felony charges that he concealed the $350,000 loan
the protocol fund was set up with $92,000 raised by mecham's inaugural ball. state law barred its intended use to pay off campaign debts, and an agreement was reached to place it in a fund for promoting the image of arizona
the prosecution has contended the fund was public money, while the defense has contended it was private
mecham's lawyer jerris leonard has said mecham will testify that his car dealership did not need the money and that his only motive was to increase the protocol fund by borrowing from it at higher interest than it was then receiving
as the defense opened its case on the loan thursday, the governor's banker testified he would have given mecham an $80,000 loan with no collateral because he was a trusted customer
roger hagadorn, a valley national bank vice president who said he has done business with mecham, his dealership and his brothers for 20 years, said the mechams had good credit and had never defaulted on a loan
hagadorn said that if he had been asked last summer, he would have given mecham an $80,000 loan without collateral and would have charged him interest of 9.5 or 10 percent. the governor borrowed from the protocol fund at 9 percent
later, during cross-examination hagadorn appeared stunned when prosecutor paul eckstein produced a letter showing that mecham in fact had defaulted on a loan from valley national for $101,905. hagadorn conceded he might have thought twice about granting another loan if he had known
the bank's letter demanding payment was written on the same day that mecham received the $80,000 loan from the protocol fund
earlier, prosecution witness jeffrey colville, who said he has never done business with the governor, said he would have refused the loan based on financial records of mecham pontiac. colville, a developer and mortgage banker, said the company was encumbered by liens for more than the business' appraised value
colville cited liens for $3.7 million and said the most recent appraisal of the business put its value at $3.35 million
leonard suggested that colville did not have the complete records, was misinterpreting the record he did have and didn't know the banking business well enough to give expert testimony. he also suggested the appraisal of mecham pontiac was too low
mecham's former chief of staff, jim colter, has testified he processed the $80,000 loan without checking the financial condition of mecham pontiac
later in the day, mecham's former special assistant, sam steiger, testified he thought the loan was ``stupid politically'' but not illegal. he said he had advised mecham's chief of staff that the funds could not be construed as public funds
the argument i used then was these are not taxes; these are not fees; these are not licenses,'' he said. ``by no stretch of the imagination would be it be possible to construe these were public funds.''
asked whether he thought mecham's loan broke the law, steiger said, ``i thought it was stupid politically, but i at no time considered it would be illegal.''
long-term use of birth-control pills, even by women who began taking them as teen-agers, does not increase the risk of breast cancer, a new study of more than 9,000 women concludes
the findings were reported in friday's journal of the american medical association
previous studies disagreed over whether the pill increases the risk of breast cancer for women through middle age. some researchers have suggested the conflicting conclusions might be the result of a long-term latent effect from early use
but we found no direct human evidence for such a latent effect,'' said dr. bruce stadel, one of the study's authors. stadel was at the national institutes of health when the study was conducted and now is with the food and drug administration in bethesda, md
this was a very, very large study ... and these data are immensely reassuring,'' he said. ``nonetheless, everyone in the field believes additional large studies should be conducted in the 1990s, when the women we interviewed will be in their mid-60s.''
early and prolonged use were defined as using oral contraceptives for at least six years before age 25, according to stadel and his colleagues, who were from the uniformed services university of the health sciences at bethesda, md
researchers collected case histories and interviewed 4,714 women through age 54 who had developed breast cancer, then matched them with a control group of 4,540
we looked at many different facets, and broke the subjects into many different groups to isolate other factors,'' said stadel
but the thing we consistently found is that women who used the pill for a long time, whether they were young when they began ... the relative risks were the same when compared to women who never used the pill when young.''
the study did not examine the effects of short-term use
for women in general, the risk of developing breast cancer during one's lifetime is about one in 10, stadel said. more than 50 million women worldwide are on the pill, he said. soldiers now out. picks up 10th graf pvs, foreign minister ...</note>
honduras filed an ``energetic protest'' with nicaragua over what it said were new incursions this week by 350 nicaraguan troops, the foreign minstry said thursday
ministry spokesman eugenio castro later said the nicaraguan troops had pulled out
nicaragua had denied that its soldiers penetrated honduran territory
castro said honduran air force reconnaissance flights on thursday found there were no longer sandinista troops on the honduran side of the border
the situation at the border apparently is calm,'' he told the associated press by telelphone
a ministry communique earlier thursday said 300 heavily armed sandinista soldiers crossed the border in the san andres de bocay region, scene of fighting last week when nicaraguan troops drove contra rebels back into honduras. the area is about 150 miles east of tegucigalpa
the latest incursion occurred about 8 p.m. tuesday, about the same time as 50 other sandinista soldiers entered honduras near pico espanol, a village in el paraiso province about two miles from the border, the communique said
it did not say if there was any combat
in managua, nicaragua's capital, a defense ministry spokesman was asked about the honduran report. ``that's negative,'' he said, speaking on condition of anonymity
honduran president jose azcona hoyo declined thursday to discuss the reported incursions.``we continue to act with prudence,'' he said
foreign minister carlos lopez contreras was in guatemala on thursday for a meeting with other central american foreign ministers
the government said last week there were up to 2,000 sandinista troops in honduras and later said all had retreated back to nicaragua
honduran jets raided nicaraguan targets in the bocay region twice last week and azcona said then that he would send more warplanes to attack nicaraguan troops if they did not leave
that incursion and a request for help by azcona hoyo resulted in the emergency deployment of 3,200 u.s. troops to honduras last week
the americans, who are conducting joint training exercises with honduran soldiers, are expected to leave this country early next week, the pentagon said
meanwhile, honduras has asked u.s. ambassador everett briggs for a clarification on reported comments by u.s. defense secretary frank carlucci about the reason american soldiers are in honduras
in a news release late wednesday, lopez contreras said he wanted to know why u.s. authorities were saying the americans were here to protect contra rebels in honduras
these (american) troops that came to honduras were requested by the government of president jose azcona hoyo regarding the threat of incursions from the sandinista army against the national territory ... and not for the principal objective of fortifying or protecting the nicaraguan insurgents who are struggling against the sandinista regime,'' lopez contreras said
he proposed the creation of a peacekeeping force along the border region
briggs refused to meet leaders of seven citizens organizations at the u.s. embassy in tegucigalpa thursday
the leaders, whose groups are united under the umbrella coordinating committee for popular organizations, later met at a plaza where about 200 people had gathered and read a letter protesting u.s. troops in honduras
the letter said the presence of u.s. troops in honduras meant ``that our country has been converted into a battle platform in the central american region.''
iran and iraq fired missiles into each other's capitals thursday and tehran threatened to use chemical bombs in the war unless the united nations punishes iraq for using poison gas
iran said its troops advanced farther into iraq's northeastern kurdistan province, killing or wounding 1,000 iraqi soldiers, in a week-old offensive. iraq denied the claim
shipping executives in the persian gulf said the captain of the 267,589-ton friendship l supertanker reported a fire in the engine room, raising speculation the vessel may have been raided
they said a later report from the ship, which is on charter to iran, reported the fire extinguished and denied there had been an attack
in amman, jordan, iran left an islamic conference after other delegates criticized it for not heeding calls to accept a cease-fire in the war, which began in september 1980, and accused it of instigating bloody riots last year in the holy city of mecca, saudi arabia
dispatches from iraq said 13 people were killed and 68 wounded in two missile explosions in downtown baghdad. iran said four missiles were fired at baghdad
one victim was a woman who was breast-feeding her newborn baby in a hospital bed. the infant survived, the official iraqi news agency reported
nine houses were demolished in the attacks and two other children were among the victims, it said
the iraqis said they launched six long-range missiles at tehran. iran reported 10 civilians killed and 100 wounded, and said the rockets hit two schools, two mosques and two hospitals
iraq has fired 42 missiles into tehran since march 15. iran says it has fired 16 missiles into baghdad and dozens of short-range rockets at other iraqi cities
hashemi rafsanjani, speaker of iran's parliament, said iran would use chemical weapons if no action was taken against iraq
we asked the u.n. to send experts to the halabja region (in northeast iraq) to inspect the effects of the chemical weapons,'' he said on tehran radio
if the international organizations refuse to take any step to punish iraq, we shall not remain idle. we have the technology to produce chemical weapons, and although we have not exploited this yet, we will not remain idle forever.''
he said iran has decided ``to punish the aggressor ourselves,'' renewing warnings that iranian troops along the 733-mile border would launch an all-out offensive
at present we have forces and operational plans all over the battlefront, and should the u.n. security council refuse to take any step towards condemning the aggressor, we shall begin our operation,'' rafsanjani declared
iran has said 5,000 people were killed and 5,000 wounded when iraqi warplanes dropped chemical bombs on halabja, khormal and dojaila, three kurdish towns captured by the iranians last week
most of iraq's 3.5 million kurds live in the northeast and iran supports them in a struggle for autonomy
western reporters flown to halabja by the iranians earlier this week reported seeing hundreds of dead civilians, unmarked by wounds. they said many had died of asphyxiation, apparently caught unaware in their homes
u.s. state department spokesman charled redman said wednesday in washington that iraq had used chemical weapons, banned under a 1925 geneva agreement, and urged the u.n. security council to protest. he called the iraqi action ``a particularly grave violation.''
turkey's semi-official anatolia news agency said iranian planes thursday inadvertently violated turkish airspace and dropped two bombs over southeastern turkey near the harbur border post, breaking windows but causing no casualties
foreign ministry spokesman inal batu confirmed the area was bombed but said the planes' nationality was not known yet
anatolia said the iranian jets were raiding northern iraq when they strayed over turkey
on tuesday, two iraqi jets violated turkish airspace when they bombed kurdish guerrilla bases in a joint security zone along the border. talks, reax from arias; edits to tighten; picks up 8th graf pvs, during the ...</note>
the guns were silent thursday, the first day of an agreement between the government and contra rebels that nicaraguans pray will bring peace for the first time since 1981. one man called it a miracle
in three days of negotiations that resulted in agreement wednesday night, both sides called it nicaragua's last chance for peace. the formal, 60-day cease-fire is to begin april 1, but they agreed to extend a truce declared for the talks
nicaragua's vice president sergio ramirez, in mexico city to brief mexican president miguel de la madrid on the agreement, told a news conference ``direct negotiation with the united states government is more necessary than ever'' to ensure a truce in nicaragua
the reagan administration rejected previous sandinista calls for direct talks, saying the nicaraguan government and the rebels must negotiate first
now that we have ... a signed document with the contras,'' ramirez said, ``we are disposed to begin direct negotiations with the united states.''
in nicaragua, dozens of women marched to juigalpa on thursday, gathered in the city's main catholic church and ``lighted candles to the virgin mary'' to mark the agreement, a defense ministry official said
he spoke on condition of anonymity
alonso moreno, who owns a shoe store and has three nephews in the army, said: ``this is the most important thing that has occcured since 1979 when the somoza dictatorship was overthrown.''
enrique bolanos, president of the private enterprise council and staunch critic of the government, called the pact ``a miracle.''
in costa rica, president oscar arias said the cease-fire offers ``a new and firm hope that all central americans can live in peace.''
arias won the 1987 nobel peace prize for devising the central american peace agreement that calls for cease-fires in the region's wars
during the negotiations at sapoa, on the costa rican border 90 miles south of managua, president daniel ortega made a suprise visit and said it was time ``to bury once and for all the military confrontation.''
rebel leader alfredo cesar told journalists at the meeting: ``it is not just a chance to achieve peace and harmony, but the only chance.''
leaders of the sandinistas and the u.s.-sponsored contras stood side-by-side on a makeshift dais wednesday night in sapoa, sang the national anthem together and signed the cease-fire
during the three days, both sides retreated from hard positions, especially the sandinistas, who stand to gain the most from an agreement that would virtually end the insurgency
the contras agreed not to accept military aid and to receive non-lethal supplies exclusively from neutral organizations. the reagan administration, which has financed the rebels since they began fighting in late 1981, has been seeking congressional approval of more funds
provisions of the agreement meet requirements of the regional peace plan signed aug. 7 by all five central american presidents _ ending the fighting, granting political amnesty and restoring democratic freedoms
opponents of the sandinistas say the sandinistas promised democracy when they overthrew rightist president anastasio somoza in july 1979, but instead established a marxist regime
although the cease-fire does not begin officially until april 1, both sides said they would continue the battlefield truce they declared on monday, the first day of negotiations
beginning next monday, also in sapoa, negotiators will draw the lines of areas to which rebels will go during the first two weeks of the official cease-fire
nothing is said in the agreement about the contras laying down their weapons, so that may be another subject taken up in next week's meetings. in past negotiations, the rebels insisted on keeping their weapons until provisions of any accord were carried out
also not mentioned is a reduction of the 80,000-member regular armed forces, largest in central america. the government claims to have 300,000 people under arms, including army, reserves and civilian militia
gradual amnesty is provided for nicaragua's 3,300 political prisoners, beginning sunday. the deal also guarantees ``unrestricted freedom of expression,'' demanded by the rebels, and permits all exiles to return home
with verification that the contras have moved into the truce zones, they can send up to eight delegates to participate in national talks now under way in nicaragua as part of the regional peace plan, the agreement says
the sandinistas agreed that the ``issues related to military service will be dealt with.'' contra negotiators had insisted forced military service be ended
ortega's government granted a rebel request that compliance with the agreement be verified by a commission formed by cardinal miguel obando y bravo and the secretary-general of the organization of american states, joao baena soares
both were witnesses to the talks and it was baena soares who read the final document aloud. obando y bravo had mediated previous negotiations outside the country. connecticut</head> being born in connecticut</note>
democrat richard gephardt, who has fallen on hard times since his iowa victory 45 days ago, will quit the presidential race unless he scores an upset victory in michigan this weekend, aides said thursday. george bush, meanwhile, headed for connecticut expecting to pad his huge lead on the gop side
gephardt said he'd made no decision to drop out, declaring, ``my mother always told me to cross one bridge at a time.'' but the scramble was already on to pick up supporters who would be freed if he withdrew
there's no question there are some union leaders who are now supporting dick gephardt who would find paul simon the most attractive of the alternatives,'' said illinois sen. simon at an appearance in kalamazoo
simon, who is in fourth place in the democratic delegate count, just ahead of gephardt, spoke of getting ``back in the ballgame.''
among the republicans, former transportation secretary elizabeth dole, wife of bush's main rival, sen. bob dole, said in oshkosh, wis., that her husband now has merely a ``long shot'' chance, but she added, ``he's got the grit and determination needed to keep him in the running.''
she said neither she nor her husband have discussed the possibility that one of them might be bush's running mate for the general election. ``i'm really not seeking to be on the ticket. i'm going 12 hours a day just trying to carry bob's message,'' she said
vice president bush, holding a commanding lead in the battle for republican convention delegates, was traveling to connecticut, saying he was taking nothing for granted in the primary there next tuesday
however, public opinion polls give him a big lead over dole in the state where bush grew up and where his father once served as a u.s. senator
bush said at a news conference that it would be premature to discuss pardons for any of the defendants in the iran-contra affair, and that he did not think fallout from the arms-for-hostages deal would hurt his campaign
if it was going to have an impact, i think it would have before now,'' he said
a cbs-new york times poll suggested thursday night that a general election matchup of bush and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis would be a close race. in the poll, with a 3 percentage-point margin of error, 46 percent picked bush and 45 percent chose dukakis, who did the best of any of the democrats against bush in the poll
dukakis was in los angeles, campaigning in english and spanish
he denounced u.s. support of nicaragua's contra rebels, said he favored a one-year extension in the deadline for illegal aliens to apply for amnesty and said when asked about the possibility of a hispanic running mate, ``tal vez. ... vamos a ver (perhaps. ... we'll see).''
democratic rival jesse jackson campaigned in madison, wis., telling the wisconsin legislature that if he wins the nomination and election, ``as president, i will meet with the heads of state where drugs are grown ... and stop the flow of drugs.''
albert gore jr.'s spokesman said david garth, a well-known media consultant who has previously worked for new york gov. mario cuomo, had been hired to handle the tennessee senator's advertising for the new york primary
gephardt, just a few weeks ago the victor in iowa's caucuses, now lags behind dukakis, jackson, gore and simon in delegates to the national convention. he trails dukakis and jackson in public opinion polls preceding saturday's michigan caucuses
he said thursday in detroit, ``rather than trying to guess all the different hypotheticals of what might happen, i just think we have to be patient, wait to see the outcome and then decide what other steps should be taken.''
still, gephardt's wife jane told a radio interviewer in michigan, ``i think dick has to come in first or a real strong second to remain in the race. ... if we don't do well here, we will not be able to continue.''
the missouri congressman has only until tuesday to file for re-election to his house seat, and one aide, commenting only on condition he not be named, suggested that it was important for the congressman to retain that office in order to raise money. his campaign has been strapped for cash for weeks
money was in the news for several other current and former candidates on thursday:
_gore's campaign confirmed thursday it borrowed more than $1.4 million early this month, putting up collateral that included future matching funds and a personal guarantee by the candidate himself
the move followed a report in the nashville tennessean newspaper about the details of gore's borrowing
_the federal election commission said that gary hart, now that he is no longer a presidential candidate, can use leftover 1988 campaign funds toward retiring his lingering debt of about $1 million from his 1984 race
_the fec agreed to grant federal matching funds to political extremist lyndon larouche's presidential campaign, even though he is standing trial on a charge relating to alleged financial irregularity in his 1984 campaign. larouche is running as a democrat, although the national party has disavowed his candidacy
the democrats, including gephardt, were concentrating on michigan and on wisconsin, which has its primary on april 5
dukakis, who spent the first part of the week trading charges with gephardt on foreign-trade policy, a major issue in a state heavily dependent on u.s. auto sales, was in california but planned to spend all day friday in michigan. the detroit free press endorsed him on thursday
dole's aides said he had no campaign events scheduled thursday
pat robertson, meanwhile, urged 700 supporters in falls church, va. to turn out in force at local republican precinct meetings to select delegates to the state and natonal gop conventions
noting that easter is ten days away, robertson said the press declared his candidacy dead after super tuesday. ``i don't think they are aware of the resurrection,'' he said
in the next few weeks, as these caucuses unfold, we are going to win the majority of delegates in the republican party in virginia,'' predicted robertson, who was beaten soundly by bush in his home state's non-binding primry on march 8. ships</head> regarding space-based weapons systems; picks up 4th graf pvs bgng: the senior ..., editing to tighten.</note>
the united states belittled soviet technology for detecting nuclear missiles aboard ships and snubbed an invitation this week to see the process before the may 29-june 2 summit meeting in moscow, a senior u.s. official said thursday
during three days of pre-summit talks in washington this week, soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze offered to let the united states participate in an experiment to test the system in april
meanwhile, the united states offered some new proposals of its own regarding space-based weapons systems
one was the exemption of spy satellites from treaty restrictions, an idea that the soviets apparently found interesting
we think they're useful to our security,'' a senior administration official said thursday. ``they think they're useful to theirs.''
the other idea was that u.s. and soviet negotiators make a special effort to define space-based testing and deployment
then we could also work on the idea of having confidence-building measures or what we call predictability measures which could reduce the difficulties between the two sides with respect to other types of systems that might be tested or other kinds of devices,'' the official said
details of that proposal have not been settled, but officials said the most likely approach would be to allow only a limited number of space weapons prototypes to be tested in a region of space where they would have little value in an actual missile defense
the two proposals were intended to resolve the contentious battle over the u.s. strategic defense initiative, known also as star wars, which is possibly the biggest obstacle to reaching agreement to cut long-range nuclear weapons
secretary of state george p. shultz said wednesday that the two issues would be negotiated separately but that agreements in the two areas should be ``completed more or less at the same time so the two things move in parallel.'' the united states has long said that the two issues should be handled separately
shevardnadze, meanwhile, said wednesday night that ``of course there is'' a linkage between resolving the defense in space issues and the treaty to reduce long-range strategic weapons
there will be no treaty on the 50 percent reduction in strategic offensive arms if there is no observance of the abm treaty, at least for an agreed period of time,'' shevardnadze said. the soviets, as well as some in congress, say sdi would violate the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
shevardnadze hailed the system to detect nuclear missiles on ships as a technological milestone in missile detection that would help the superpowers achieve their goal of a summit agreement to cut long-range nuclear arsenals
the senior u.s. official said, however, ``we're not interested'' because the system doesn't detect nuclear sea-launched cruise missiles, as the soviets claim
the soviets could not explain how this experiment would tell us more than we already know,'' the official said. ``such technology would not be effective under realistic conditions.''
it could not, for example, tell the difference between nuclear warheads and atomic propulsion systems used on many surface ships, the official said
our people know a great deal about the ideas that the soviets have advanced, and we've looked into it carefully,'' the official said
when they agreed in principle last december to hold a springtime summit in moscow, president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said they wanted to sign an agreement to cut the numbers of long-range nuclear missiles and bombers by 30 percent to 50 percent
with little progress _ notably on the verification issues _ during shevardnadze's visit to washington for three days this week, neither side predicted the agreement would be ready in time
the senior u.s. official said, moreover, that until the negotiators prove they can verify elimination of the various types of weapons involved, they won't know which ones will be covered in a treaty
another official, noting that the two nations also disagree on such explosive issues as afghanistan, the middle east, central america and human rights warned against expecting ``easy solutions'' to u.s.-soviet problems
the official described the most recent talks as ``grueling,'' notably in the 11 hours of discussion on the regional hot spots
at the white house, spokesman marlin fitzwater sought to dispel suggestions that the summit meeting _ in the twilight of reagan's presidency _ would be a ceremonial and symbolic visit short on substantive accomplishments
during shevardnadze's talks in washington ``we made enough progress to keep going and presumably we will make more in the days ahead,'' the spokesman told reporters
during the talks this week both sides ``faced all the tough problems'' and left no confusion about where both sides stand, he said
the summit ``will be well prepared; there will be substance to discuss; there will be good prospects for success,'' fitzwater said
u.s.-soviet talks on the middle east were extended thursday while arabs and israelis continued to delay a response to an american plan for negotiations
vladimir polyakov, a specialist in the soviet foreign ministry, met with assistant secretary of state richard w. murphy despite what u.s. officials described as a fundamental difference in the two superpowers' positions
the soviets are seeking an active role in any peace conference, while secretary of state george p. shultz said wednesday night he did not want any interference in arab-israeli negotiations
it's quite clear the soviet concept of how to go about this is really sharply different from ours,'' shultz told reporters after three days of talks with foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir also objects to an active soviet role, but king hussein of jordan is seeking soviet participation in the negotiations
shevardnadze left polyakov behind to continue the discussions with murphy and flew home to moscow. u.s. envoy philip c. habib, meanwhile, completed talks in amman with hussein and returned to washington to report to shultz
shultz said that despite having no direct reply from the israelis or arabs to his plan to open negotiations by may 1 he would not give up
we will continue to work with the parties directly involved, and we will continue to try, in every way we can, to find our way to the direct, face-to-face negotiations that we believe are the only way in which you can really resolve these issues,'' he said
now how to get there is difficult, and we will continue to push for and, at the same time, maintain the limitations on the kind of conference we've called for. and, we'll just have to see how that goes.''
shultz said ``nobody seems to be ready to climb on our bandwagon, including the soviet union. on the other hand, everybody wants to keep it rolling, so we'll keep it rolling.''
asked if he planned to return to the middle east, shultz said he had not made a decision. he said his lengthy talks with shevardnadze had made it difficult for him ``to come up for air'' and evaluate reports from the region
shultz presented his plan for negotiations to arab and israeli leaders three weeks ago and asked for a reply by mid-march
i am ready to go to the middle east anytime it seems as though there is even a remote chance of being constructive,'' shultz said. ``i don't have to have a high probability.''
the u.s. plan excludes the palestine liberation organization from proposed negotiations but provides for a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation
meantime thursday, murphy told the house appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations ``it's a tough question but i don't think it's insuperable'' to find a credible palestinian leader to participate without driving israel away from the bargaining table
murphy added that the plo ``remains for palestinians, by and large, the only leadership they accept.'' but he did not say a palestinian participant would necessarily have to be a plo representative
five demonstrators wearing t-shirts reading ``stop u.s. aid to israel'' stood silently against a hearing room wall throughout most of murphy's testimony and left without incident after about an hour
murphy said ``it would be the dangerous to the peace process'' for the united states to reduce its annual payment of $2.2 billion in military and economic aid to israel to protest its handling of palestinian unrest on the occupied west bank and the gaza strip
the state department official said any such aid reduction might be interpreted in arab capitals as a weakening of ties between the united states and israel and might invite a renewal of military assaults against the jewish state
under questioning, murphy said the united states had assurances from ``the highest levels'' in saudi arabia and china that the medium-range missiles that china recently agreed to provide to the saudis contain conventional and not nuclear warheads
the washington post reported in friday's editions that the israeli air force has been conducting unusually intensive low-level bombing practice runs at the same time saudi arabia is digging in its new missiles
the newspaper quoted u.s. intelligence officials as saying that the bombing could be in preparation for a pre-emptive strike against the missiles, as a senior israeli official warned sunday. however, the officials said they had no hard evidence that an israeli strike was imminent
satellite photography and other intelligence have revealed that israel has been flying f-15 fighter bombers in attack profiles and that saudi arabia has been building shelters for its missiles, the post reported
saudi arabia has sent a warning through the united states that it will retaliate with its surviving missiles with a range of up to 1,500 miles if israel tries to bomb its missiles, diplomatic sources told the newspaper. first reference to gardner and to delete extraneous material, picking up 9th graf `gardner declined ...' and inserts 1 graf after 24th graf `under the ...' to add background on pvs raises.</note>
nearly all of charleston's police officers and firefighters called in sick thursday to protest a 2 percent pay raise, then ignored back-to-work orders from a judge and the city council
less than an hour before an emergency council meeting thursday afternoon, kanawha county circuit judge patrick casey issued a temporary injunction ordering firefighters to work immediately and police to report at their next scheduled shift
the missing police officers did not report for the 3 p.m. shift, however, and firefighters also refused to report
we just want an honest living,'' said fire department lt. walt cavender, who was on duty at the city's station no. 1. ``we're going backward in pay.''
the ``blue flu'' in west virginia's capital and largest city began wednesday night when officers began refusing to show up for work
at the 6 a.m. shift change, 16 of 17 uniformed police officers and 42 of 44 firefighters scheduled to report failed to show up
firemen and police officers who were on duty overnight were retained on overtime, giving the fire department a full complement of men, and process servers took return-to-work orders to the absent personnel thursday afternoon, said mayor chuck gardner
gardner declared a state of civil emergency earlier in the day, saying the policemen and firefighters must return because ``the safety of the citizens of charleston is not a bargaining chip.''
police chief ed garnett told an emergency meeting of the city council that only 13 officers, covering all grades, showed up thursday morning, ``most of them supervisors.'' he said only three cars were on patrol thursday morning, with two officers in each car
garnett also told the council members that since wednesday night 68 officers and 42 firemen had called in sick as of 9 a.m
the city budget, approved monday night, includes appropriations for 165 policemen, 147 firefighters and 10 paramedics for the city of 63,000
garnett said the firefighters who were on the job had been there since 8 a.m. wednesday and were tiring quickly
i don't know how long they can stay there,'' he said
the council unanimously suspended the city's sick-leave policy, meaning that any more officers calling in sick would have to have a doctor's excuse to get paid for any additional days absent from work
gardner, facing his first crisis since taking over as mayor four months ago, said it wasn't illegal to call the council into emergency session on less than four hours' notice and suspend sections of the city code. the code requires two days' notice of emergency meetings
no police or firefighters picketed thursday, but about 20 police wives marched in front of city hall and carried signs. passing motorists honked their horns in support and some _ aware that patrols were down _ took the opportunity to run red lights
we have several police officers that qualify for welfare,'' said police wife val lockard
kanawha county sheriff danny jones said his department would provide assistance to the city only ``if there's a murder or something.''
we don't have the manpower to work the city,'' jones said
state police superintendent w.f. donohoe said gardner had asked the governor for state police help. ``we will answer calls on a priority basis to the very best of our ability,'' donohoe said
the police officers believe their 2 percent raise will be eaten up by a higher deductible on their health insurance and an increase in the city's incinerator fee from $30 to $85
it's not easy to raise the incinerator fee. but without a raise in the incinerator fee, we didn't have money to increase salaries,'' said councilwoman maggie mccoy
under the budget approved this week, salaries for uniformed police officers range from $27,673 for a captain with 20 years' experience to $18,589 for a patrol officer with three years' experience
mayoral aide ed esposito said that no raises had been given this year but that police and firefighters had received a 3 percent raise in the 1986-87 fiscal year and raises totaling 8 percent over the past five years
by comparison, at the kanawha county sheriff's department, where deputies have gotten raises totaling 25 percent over the past 3{ years, a deputy with three years' experience will make $21,720 as of july 1, jones said
city firefighters' pay ranges from $27,673 for an assistant fire chief with 20 years' experience to $18,409 for a first-year firefighter
neil kinnock, leader of britain's opposition labor party, will be challenged for the post by veteran leftist tony benn at the party conference in the fall, a labor coalition said wednesday
the campaign group, composed of about 40 leftist party lawmakers, said kinnock's deputy, moderate roy hattersley, will be challenged by leftist eric heffer
the announcement came after a meeting of the party's national executive committee
kinnock, 46, and hattersley are considered not as left wing as benn and heffer
benn, 62, a former cabinet minister, has accused kinnock of watering down socialism after the party's three defeats in nine years by the conservative party of prime minister margaret thatcher
kinnock and hattersley have worked for a united party and cracked down on militants in hopes of making a broader appeal to voters. they say a leadership contest will distract the party from opposing the government
kinnock and hattersley denounced the challenge in a joint statement as ``futile and selfish'' and predicted ``massive defeat'' for benn and heffer
benn told reporters: ``democracy is about choice.''
heffer said: ``the time has come for a crusade for socialism. the working people of this country are getting a worse and worse deal.''
a state appeals court wednesday rejected as too low a $3,500 damage award to a salesman left with a perpetual frown after an auto accident
such scars are of a greater consequence to a 24-year-old single man who has chosen a career in sales than that amount reflects,'' a two-judge panel ruled in ordering a new trial on the issue of damages for robert tronolone
tronolone was a passenger in a car that struck a utility pole in bridgewater township
a jury found the driver, peter palmer, negligent and awarded tronolone $750, but the judge at the trial found it inadequate and raised it to $3,500. tronolone appealed. justice ministry ...' to fix spelling of ochoa.</note>
gunmen ambushed and killed on wednesday the security chief for a newspaper that had urged the government not to back down in its war on drug traffickers, police said
jorge alberto stefan gomez was hit by five bullets fired by three men on motorcycles, police said in a news release. his 10-month-old daughter was grazed by a bullet and hospitalized in satisfactory condition, police said
colombia's council of state meanwhile ordered the temporary suspension of arrest orders for five members of the medellin cartel, a group said to dominate cocaine trafficking in colombia
the suspension of the arrest orders wednesday is almost certain to bring an angry reaction from u.s. authorities, who have begun to question the colombian government's position on rounding up drug traffickers
stefan and family were waiting for a taxi near their home when three men on motorcycles opened fire with pistols and a submachine gun, the police said. his wife was not hurt
police said they didn't know who was responsible for stefan's killing
stefan was chief of security for medellin's el colombiano newspaper, which has urged the government not to give in to drug traffickers. he also served as security chief for the newspaper's publisher, juan gomez martinez, who was elected mayor on march 13. gomez takes office june 1
on march 10, two bombs were thrown from a speeding car into the entryway of el colombiano. a guard threw the bombs back into the street and a passer-by was killed
in november, gunmen shot up gomez's home. the gunmen apparently were trying to kidnap gomez in an attempt to get the government to suspend extraditions of colombians to the united states to face drug trafficking charges
many drug traffickers live and process cocaine base in medellin
colombian drug traffickers have killed a justice minister, an attorney general, 21 judges, two newspaper editors and scores of policemen and soldiers in the last four years
the suspension of arrest orders for the medellin cartel was announced by supreme court justice samuel buitrago, a member of the council of state
the justice ministry in january ordered the arrest of alleged medellin cartel members pablo escobar, gonzalo rodriguez gacha and three brothers, jorge luis ochoa, juan david ochoa and fabio ochoa
buitrago, making the announcement during an interview by the bogota radio station caracol, said the arrest orders were being suspended while the government studies possible charges in colombia against the five men
buitrago said the suspension of the arrest orders is temporary until the council decides if it will permanently cancel the orders. it could be up to two months before the council makes its final decision
meanwhile, escobar's wife and 25 of his guards appeared before a judge in medellin after a shootout at escobar's home near that northwest colombian city
escobar apparently was at home when the shootout began but escaped. the u.s. drug enforcement administration says escobar is among the world's biggest cocaine traffickers. he is wanted for trial in the united states
army troops surrounded the escobar home tuesday, setting off a sophisticated alarm system of sirens and flashing lights, the army's 4th brigade headquarters in medellin said in a news release
a gunbattle ensued, and one escobar guard was wounded, the army said
the army found numerous guns, lots of ammunition and sophisticated communications equipment, the colombian radio chain rcn said
escobar's wife, maria victoria henao de escobar, was released by the medellin judge, rcn said, quoting a source with the attorney general's office
two new mexico state university history professors said wednesday that government documents indicate army intelligence officers attempted to kill mexican revolutionary pancho villa by poisoning in 1916
charles h. harris iii and louis sadler presented the findings in a paper submitted at a monthly meeting of the latin american studies forum at new mexico state
they said the attempt came during an american expedition into mexico in pursuit of villa and his men. the expedition followed a raid by villa on the new mexico community of columbus that left 17 american soldiers and civilians dead
the attempt was made in the town of jimenez, mexico, four months after the raid on columbus, according to sadler and harris
the plot called for two japanese men who were employed as secret agents for the american government to put poison in a cup of coffee intended for villa, the professors said
the two agents posed as peddlers and wanted villa to think they were sympathetic to his revolutionary cause. villa foiled the assassination attempt by pouring part of the coffee into another man's cup, the professors said
the fate of the man into whose cup villa poured the coffee was not known, the professors said. the poison was supposed to be odorless and tasteless and cause death three days after ingestion
historians consider the columbus raid a turning point in the mexican revolution because it rallied american public opinion against villa and his men. gen. john j. pershing led the retaliatory expedition
we can't prove it but there is no doubt in my mind that he knew'' of the plot, sadler said
the professors said that while there were official inquiries into the alleged plot, pershing denied any knowledge of it. the assassination attempt, according to the professors, was covered up
the telling and retelling of a story of rape and murder from various points of view makes for little suspense, but good acting and direction keep up interest in an off-broadway revival of the 1959 stage version of ``rashomon.''
the play by fay and michael kanin is based on the 1951 japanese movie of the same name and on stories by ryunosuke akutagawa published in 1915
it is the story of a samurai and his wife who encounter a bandit in the forest. the wife is raped and the samurai is found dead. but the circumstances vary depending on who does the telling
knowing the rape and death will be depicted several times, the audience can focus on how each person tells the story to paint himself or herself to best advantage
the husband's ghost, conjured up in a courtroom, tells of suicide, while the bandit and the wife both confess to murder. the bandit figures he'll be executed anyway; the wife thinks she'll be pardoned. it would shame them more to be publicly revealed as lacking in the personality they've presented to the world than to proclaim that they were driven to kill
the final version, told by a woodcutter who witnessed the encounter from a hiding place, is hilarious as husband and wife bicker and the honorable samurai and daring bandit are afraid to fight
the entire cast is asian in this first major revival of the play since it played on broadway in 1959 starring claire bloom, rod steiger, noel willman and oscar homolka
the cast includes james saito as the bandit who turns somersaults during swordfights; kiya ann joyce, who can take on many womanly aspects depending whose story she is acting; philip moon, who usually is bound and gagged as the husband; peter yoshida, the woodcutter, and thom sesma, a priest
david leong expertly directed fights and movement. mina albergo's setting is a forest clearing, alabaster with bamboo-leaf tracings, with the rashomon gate at one side. the set enhances the openness with which director robert kalfin places this ``rashomon'' before the audience. the play will run through may 8
president joaquin balaguer will leave for the united states thursday, where he will meet with president reagan and discuss this nation's $4 billion foreign debt, officials said
foreign minister donald reid cabral told a news conference balaguer also is expected to discuss the u.s. sugar quota with reagan friday
balaguer will meet with international monetary fund and world bank officials while in washington, the minister said wednesday night
he said the president will have his eyes checked in boston before returning home. the 80-year-old president suffers from glaucoma and is nearly blind
balaguer, elected to his fifth four-year term of office 19 months ago, is seeking to find ways to turn the dominican republic's economy around
he announced a 25 percent increase in the minimum wage this month following riots that left five people dead and 20 injured
last year, the government paid around $700 million to service its foreign debt
officials in santo domingo say part of the reason for this caribbean nation's economic slump is the cut in the u.s. quota for dominican sugar, this nation's most important export
the u.s. quota for dominican sugar now is 160,000 tons compared to 525,000 tons in 1983
u.s. aid to the dominican republic is $150 million. the republic also receives an additional $35 million annually in surplus food
traveling with balaguer will be the u.s. ambassador to the dominican republic, lowell kilday, and 10 government officials, according to reid cabral. balaquer will stay at the home of the dominican ambassador, jose leon asencio, while in washington
the government and contra rebels agreed to a 60-day cease-fire to negotiate an end to their six year war, signing an accord that promises the rebels a role in nicaragua's political process
the agreement signed late wednesday was the first concrete step toward ending the conflict that has killed more than 40,000 people
the cease-fire is to begin april 1, with negotiators meeting again april 6 in managua to work out a permanent truce
for the first time in 14 years an american president is going to the soviet union
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev will meet in moscow from may 29 to june 3, and if their negotiators can unravel disagreements over the next nine weeks, they will sign a sweeping pact to cut long-range nuclear weapons
i wouldn't want to lay you odds,'' secretary of state george p. shultz said on the chances of reaching agreement in time
the road to the summit is also littered with divisions on central america, the middle east, and above all, afghanistan, where plans by the soviets to end their 8-year intervention have hit a snag
although u.s. sanctions and a general strike have devastated panama's economy, opposition leaders said it may take another mutiny in the military to drive gen. manuel antonio noriega from power
as the strike entered its fourth day today, a prominent opposition leader was expected to return to join in the fight to oust noriega, the country's de facto leader and head of its 15,000-strong defense forces
almost all businesses were shut down across the country again wednesday. lacking food and money, thousands of people lined up at soup kitchens set up by churches throughout the country
also wednesday, the government ordered a u.s. diplomat expelled, but the state department said in washington that economics counselor david miller would not leave as demanded. the state department said it would ignore the order because it considers panamana's current government illegitimate
lawmakers are crediting the budget summit accord between congressional leaders and the white house for the bipartisan ease with which the house sent a $1.1 trillion budget for fiscal 1989 to the senate
the spending plan, which alters some of the domestic priorities president reagan had included in his own proposed package last month, was approved 319-102 on wednesday by the democratic-controlled house. in contrast to last year, when budget writers toiled several weeks longer amid staunch opposition by republicans, gop lawmakers this time voted 92-78 for the resolution
i think it would have been impossible without the summit,'' rep. delbert latta of ohio, ranking republican on the house budget committee, said afterward
she's $90,000 short of her fund-raising goal, but mellissa l. sanders was ready to descend from a record 516 days atop two telephone poles having gained a fiance and the pride of her pole-sitting mom
i'm going to miss the birds on my balcony and the crazy drivers going by down below,'' said miss sanders, who late this afternoon planned to climb down from the 43-foot-high makeshift shack she called home for more than 1{ years
on feb. 25, the 19-year-old woman who had hoped to raise $100,000 for cancer research broke the 488-day mark for pole-sitting set by mark sutton of victoria, british columbia, and listed in the guinness book of world records. news digest: managua, nicaragua _ nicaragua; washington _ us-nicaragua; washington _ nicaragua-future; panama city, panama _ panama; hebron, occupied west bank _ israel; arura, occupied west bank _ israel-guards; washington _ us-soviet; undated _ political rdp; detroit _ gephardt; charleston, w.va. _ blue flu; nicosia, cyprus _ chemical weapons; washington _ dukakis-advantage. ^by the associated press</note>
former national security aides oliver l. north and john m. poindexter and two businessmen pleaded innocent thursday to charges they ran the iran-contra affair as a vast criminal conspiracy and defrauded the government of $17 million
one by one, the defendants were called before u.s. district judge gerhard gesell at their arraignment, and asked by courtroom clerk barbara montgomery, ``how do you wish to plead?''
not guilty,'' replied poindexter, president reagan's former national security adviser; north, a top assistant to poindexter; retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord; and albert hakim, who controlled the money and procured the arms for the once-secret iran-contra operation
all four defendants were released on their personal recognizance and told to report weekly by telephone to a pre-trial agency. although criminal defendants are often asked to surrender their passports, gesell said he would not impose that condition
the kremlin laid out an 8-year plan thursday night to pacify a caucasus region shaken by ethnic strife. at the same time, army helicopters were reported circling over the armenian capital to prevent further unrest
the carrot-and-stick approach seemed aimed at cooling feelings inflamed by a noisy armenian campaign to annex the region of nagorno-karabakh from neighboring azerbaijan and to warn armenian activists to end their protests
activists have said specifically that government efforts to improve poor economic and social conditions of armenians in the caucasus mountain region near the soviet border with iran would not meet their demands
for 58 hours after a toddler tumbled into an abandoned well, hundreds of rescuers worked together to free her, but now an effort to bring their heroism to television has divided them
two groups _ one mostly volunteer rescuers and the other city officials _ are negotiating separately with different tv producers for a movie of the story that captured the nation's attention as it unfolded live on television
both groups are awaiting the endorsement of chip and cissy mcclure, whose 23-month-old daughter jessica became stuck in a 22-foot-deep well for 58 hours in october
city inspectors extorted hundreds of thousands of dollars from restaurants by threatening to cite them for health-code violations, turning the department of health into a ``department of wealth,'' authorities said thursday
about 300 of new york city's 15,000 restaurants were victimized, from fast-food establishments to little ethnic places to some tony manhattan spots, authorities said. the fbi said the restaurants were in all five boroughs
twenty-eight people, including health inspectors, supervisors and former health department employees acting as middlemen, shared the extortion money, the authorities said
time after time, the big jackrabbit avoids attacks by the five harris hawks that dive and feint with the precision of a military unit. but finally, the rabbit is exhausted and a powerful talon slashes quickly. the hunt ends and winged predators feed together
in a report to be published friday in science magazine, biologist james c. bednarz said he repeatedly witnessed such coordinated hunting by harris hawks. it is, he said, the first documented proof that hawks are able to organize and cooperate with almost human skill in such a complex series of manuevers
people have suggested it in the past, but this is the first documentation of it,'' said bednarz, who is director of higher education research at the hawk mountain sanctuary in kempton, pa., and an associate professor at the university of new mexico
communism suffered its first big mac attack thursday as mcdonald's opened a restaurant in yugoslavia, and police were called in to keep customers who lined up for hours from getting too unruly under the golden arches
i just wanted to taste genuine american hamburgers,'' said milica nikolic, a high school student who waited for three hours to taste her first big mac
people curiously examined the renovated restaurant's plush interior and the back-lit signs depicting the hamburgers, french fries, milk shakes and other fare more familiar in the west. it also featured amber-colored tables and floors, pastel-colored upholstery, modern art paintings and discreet illumination
clutching a feline named pole cat, mellissa l. sanders climbed into the bucket of a hook-and-ladder fire truck and returned to earth thursday after a record 517 days sitting atop a 43-foot pole
my knees are wobbly but i feel great,'' said miss sanders, who was embraced by her mother, mauri rose sanders. ``without the cat, i would never have made it.''
miss sanders, 19, broke the world record feb. 25 when she overtook the 488-day mark set by mark sutton of victoria, british columbia. she now is in the guinness world book of records
checks treated with a chemical that causes them to disintegrate into confetti shortly after being deposited have shown up in at least two states, costing banks nearly $70,000 since the beginning of the year, police said thursday
a check clearinghouse said it has warned 142 banks to be on the lookout for the dissolving checks, which may have an unusual odor and feel oily
the checks have turned up at five or six banks in the chicago area and at one in tennessee, said capt. james zurawski of the chicago police department's financial crimes division. authorities also are checking a report of a possible dissolving check in indiana, zurawski said
watching the opening credits on the season finale of cbs' ``designing women'' monday night will be something akin to witnessing the final out in a no-hitter
when the ``written by'' card goes up on the screen, it will say ``linda bloodworth-thomason'' _ just as it has on every one of the 22 episodes this season
bloodworth-thomason is the first person in television history to single-handedly write every episode of a show for a whole season, a feat for which she has been nominated for inclusion in the guinness book of world records
she said in a telephone interview that she wrote each script in a marathon session on the sunday before shooting began the following week
we've never been one script ahead, which is kind of harrowing,'' she said. ``it's kind of like walking a tightrope each week without a net. this is what would give the network a heart attack.''
not only did she write all the scripts, but all the scripts were unusually good _ not formula sitcom fare, but thoughtful essays on such diverse subjects as aids or the ordination of women
in monday's episode, ``reservations for eight,'' the women are stranded in a ski lodge with their boyfriends for what turns out to be a tour-de-force battle of the sexes
bloodworth-thomason says no matter what subject she takes on, the network has not interfered
they have never, ever told me anything that i cannot do. they have never disapproved of any subject i've wanted to do. i just decide what i want to write about and i write it. there has been zero censorship
it's 23 minutes of prime-time television every week to address any topic i want,'' she said. ``i've tried to be responsible and fair, but i'd be lying if i didn't say i put my personal opinions in. i do get my own propaganda in, but that's what i think makes it interesting. my big complaint about television is the characters are too homogenized. you don't know where they go to church or how they feel about issues. our women all are very, very opinionated.''
bloodworth-thomason grew up in poplar bluff, mo., in a ideologically rambunctious family, where, she recalled with a laugh, ``if you didn't have an opinion you got sent to your room.''
i like stirring things up. everyone in my family is an attorney. my grandfather, all my uncles, my brother, my father. even when i was little, he (her father) would come in and say, `you know, girls aren't all that smart.' i would cry and say, `they are, too!' he knew what he was doing. he would always make me defend my positions.''
bloodworth-thomason and her husband, harry thomason, a one-time high school football coach from arkansas, are co-executive producers of ``designing women,'' and thomason directs many of the episodes
bloodworth-thomason created the show specifically for annie potts, jean smart, dixie carter and delta burke, the latter two of whom starred in bloodworth-thomason's viciously funny but short-lived ``filthy rich.'' with ``designing women,'' bloodworth-thomason aimed to make a show about smart southern women
the show was a hit as soon as it premiered last season, though cbs almost killed it by repeatedly changing its time period, sparking an almost unprecedented outcry by fans. the show has finally settled into monday night
bloodworth-thomason, whose first script, for ``m-a-s-h,'' won an emmy, never doubted that a show about a bunch of wise-cracking southern belles would succeed
i'm one of these people that's always optimistic,'' she said. ``i always think everything's going to work out just like i want it to.''
she laughed, then added, ``that makes it all the more poignant when i'm flattened out like a cartoon character when the steamroller has run over me.''
bloodworth-thomason expects to hire a writing staff for next season, since she and her husband are producing a new series for mtm, and she is writing the script for bette midler's new movie about an all-woman band in the 1930s
she said midler had seen ``designing women,'' called her up and asked, ``can you make my mouth move like dixie carter's?''
elsewhere in television:
luca in `line' _ anthony denison, who plays villain ray luca on nbc's ``crime story,'' will hit the boards in new york next month in israel horovitz's long-running off-broadway play ``line,'' a five-character study of ambition. denison was an original cast member in the one-act play more than 10 years ago, and he has played several of the characters as well as directed it. this time, he will be joined by his wife, jennifer evans, whom he met during a production of ``line,'' and by ``crime story'' co-star john santucci
the nation's second-largest city, with its promised-land image of youth and opportunity, is starting to show its age. the effects of too many years of too much growth are increasingly evident in los angeles' streets and freeways, sewers and landfills
while in many u.s. cities the challenge is just to replace public works as they wear out, los angeles faces the added pressures of california-style growth
the stress has occasionally popped the city's overworked sewer system, causing raw sewage discharges into the pacific ocean and prompting mayor tom bradley last fall to propose restrictions on the number of new sewer hookups
on the region's streets and freeways, daily trips will increase 42 percent by the year 2010, according to a local planning agency. motorists' average speed of 31 mph systemwide today is expected to drop to 11 mph
and without more landfills, city and county officials say los angeles will produce thousands of tons more garbage daily than it can properly dispose
our infrastructure has reached the point that it requires massive infusions of resources to maintain, or to increase its capacity to deal with the population growth,'' said edward j. avila, president of the city's board of public works
i think los angeles has been lulled into a false sense of security,'' said delwin a. biagi, an engineer who joined the city's public works department 17 years ago and who now heads the bureau of sanitation
the city population is expected to swell 16 percent, to 3.6 million, by 2010, according to the southern california association of governments. in the surrounding six-county area, the predicted growth is 47 percent, to 18.3 million people in 22 years
over the next 25 years, we see a 50 percent increase in housing and jobs in the los angeles area,'' said roger riga, a scag transportation planner. ``that means it's going to cause some big problems with our transportation system. it's already overburdened. we know that. the question is what are we going to do about it?''
riga's agency, which predicted the growth in traffic, also prepared a study in february that sets out three alternatives, ranging in cost from $42 million to $110 million, to alleviate congestion: by locating jobs nearer to housing through growth management, or changing driving patterns by carpooling or re-scheduling office hours, or constructing new highways and other facilities
however, california department of transportation officials say the problems are so intractable that doubling the number of freeways would not appreciably reduce traffic
moreover, a statewide study done by the governor's infrastructure review task force indicates the pricetag would be billions _ not millions _ of dollars. the task force estimated the state's public works needs at $78 billion _ and projected a revenue shortfall of $50 billion to meet the demand
increasing traffic and other effects of growth have stoked the political fires of los angeles' anti-growth movement, said laura lake, an adjunct faculty member at ucla's school of public health, who heads a group called not yet new york
all the people who support slow-growth want to make sure that the infrastructure will still be there,'' ms. lake said. ``the system is hemorrhaging and they're coming up with very expensive band-aids.''
her group supported city council candidate ruth galanter last year, and the growth-control advocate was elected. ms. lake herself plans to run for a council seat in 1989
local concerns reflect a nationwide problem
last august, a study of public works funding done for the u.s. senate concluded: ``as the federal government shifted priorities away from infrastructure financing, new federal laws have mandated state and local compliance with new requirements for water pollution control, clean drinking water and the cleanup of hazardous wastes.''
another federal study concluded that as much as $90 billion a year is needed to pay for all types of public works repairs nationwide
the problems it identified _ neglected and dilapidated bridges, water systems, highways, mass transit systems and other facilities _ are consistent with what is happening in los angeles county, supervisor mike antonovich said recently
yet los angeles leaders postponed capital improvements to the sewer system for more than a decade while arguing over compliance with federal clean water standards
the city was running away from its responsibilities,'' said dorothy green, president of an environmental group called heal the bay
the dispute ended when the city agreed to stop dumping its treated sewage sludge offshore and to build a secondary wastewater treatment facility. the primary wastewater plant was built in 1950
the cost of compliance will be more than $2.3 billion over the next 10 years, officials said
los angeles also faces a looming crisis over its garbage, which is thrown away at the rate of 45,000 tons per day in the metropolitan area, said mike miller, manager of the city's solid waste task force
the city itself, which generates 18,000 tons per day of that total, already trucks 5,400 tons per day to outlying county landfills, miller said
we have to find additional landfill space and we have to start recycling efforts,'' miller said. ``that's all we've got.''
if no landfills are established, the excess garbage will amount to 6,400 tons per day by 1992, and 50,000 tons per day by the year 2000, miller said. by 1997, there will be no landfills remaining within the city
we haven't been able to site a new landfill since 1974,'' miller said, listing five ill-fated proposals, including trash-to-energy incineration plants
the city council is very aware of the situation. they just have no clear-cut plan as to what they're going to do.''
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
hot singles
1.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
2.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
3.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
4.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)
5.``i want her'' keith sweat (vintertainment)
6.``rocket 2 u'' the jets (mca)
7.``devil inside'' inxs (atlantic)
8.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
9.``girlfriend'' pebbles (mca)
10.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
11.``the dock of the bay'' michael bolton (columbia)
12.``wishing well'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)
13.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)
14.``some kind of lover'' jody watley (mca)
15.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
16.``angel'' aerosmith (geffen)
17.``i saw him standing there'' tiffany (mca)
18.``check it out'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)
19.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
20.``prove your love'' taylor dayne (arista)
top lp's
1.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)--platinum (more than 1 million units sold
2.``faith'' george michael (columbia)--platinum
3.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)--platinum (more than 1 million units sold
4.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)--platinum
5.``tiffany'' tiffany (mca)--platinum
6.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
7.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)--platinum
8.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)--platinum
9.``now and zen'' robert plant (esparanza)
10.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
11.``more `dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
12.``the lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)--platinum
13.``whenever you need somebody'' rick astley (rca)--gold (more than 500,000 units sold
14.``appetite for destruction'' guns &amp; roses (geffen)--gold
15.``blow up your video'' ac-dc (atlantic)
16.``whitney'' whitney houston (arista)--platinum
17.``hardline according to terence trent d'arby'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)--gold
18.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)--platinum
19.``make it last forever'' keith sweat (vintertainment) gold
20.``richard marx'' richard marx (emi)--platinum
more
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
country singles
1.``love will find its way to you'' reba mcentire (mca)
2.``famous last words of a fool'' george strait (mca)
3.``i wanna dance with you'' eddie rabbitt (rca)
4.``i'll always come back'' k.t. oslin (rca)
5.``santa fe'' the bellamy bros. (mca-curb)
6.``timeless and true love'' the mccarters (warner bros
7.``it's such a small world'' rodney crowell &amp; roseanne cash (columbia)
8.``it's only make believe'' ronnie mcdowell (curb)
9.``cry, cry, cry'' highway 101 (warner bros
10.``strangers again'' holly dunn (mtm)
11.``the last resort'' t. graham brown (capitol)
12.``turn it loose'' the judds (rca-curb)
13.``everybody's sweetheart'' vince gill (rca)
14.``i'm gonna get you'' eddy raven (rca)
15.``young country'' hank williams jr. (warner-curb)
16.``life turned her that way'' ricky van shelton (columbia)
17.``if ole hank could only see us now'' waylon jennings (mca)
18.``a little bit closer'' tom wopat (emi-manhattan)
19.``baby i'm yours'' steve wariner (mca)
20.``americana'' moe bandy (curb)
adult contemporary singles
1.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
2.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
3.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
4.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
5.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
6.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
7.``what a wonderful world'' louis armstrong (a&amp;m)
8.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
9.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
10.``anything for you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
11.``when we was fab'' george harrison (dark horse)
12.``one step up'' bruce springsteen (columbia)
13.``theme from `l.a. law''' mike post (polydor)
14.``talking back to the night'' steve winwood (island)
15.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
16.``dreams i dream'' dave mason (with phoebe snow) (mca)
17.``can't stay away from you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
18.``hungry eyes'' eric carmen (rca)
19.``without you'' peabo bryson &amp; regina belle (elektra)
20.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)
more
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
black singles
1.``wishing well'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)
2.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
3.``ooo la la la'' teena marie (epic)
4.``lovey dovey'' tony terry (epic)
5.``fishnet'' morris day (warner bros
6.``wasn't i good to ya?'' da'krash (capitol)
7.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
8.``da `butt'' e.u. (emi-manhattan)
9.``rocket 2 u'' the jets (mca)
10.``sweet sensation'' levert (atlantic)
11.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
12.``going back to cali'' l.l. cool j. (def jam)
13.``every drop of your love'' stacy lattisaw (motown)
14.``plaything'' rebbie jackson (columbia)
15.``lovin' on next to nothing'' gladys knight &amp; the pips (mca)
16.``you are who you love'' gavin christopher (emi-manhattan)
17.``all in my mind'' full force (columbia)
18.``take good care of me'' jonathan butler (jive)
19.``that's what love is'' miki howard (atlantic)
20.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
top pop compact disks
1.``now and zen'' robert plant (esp-atlantic)
2.``faith'' george michael (columbia)
3.``past masters, vol. ii'' the beatles (capitol)
4.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
5.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)
6.``past masters, vol. i'' the beatles (capitol)
7.``naked'' talking heads (sire-fly)
8.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)
9.``nothing like the sun'' sting (a&amp;m)
10.``intro. the hardline according to terence trent d'arby'' terrence trent d`arby (columbia)
11.``more `dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
12.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
13.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
14.``lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)
15.``the joshua tree'' u2 (island)
16.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
17.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)
18.``kingdom come'' kingdom come (polydor)
19.``phantom of the opera'' original london cast (polydor)
20.``whenever you need someone'' rick astley (rca)
end
the following are the most popular videocassettes as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
videocassette sales
1.``lady and the tramp'' (disney)
2.``callanetics'' (mca)
3.``jane fonda's low impact aerobic workout'' (lorimar)
4.``start up with jane fonda'' (lorimar)
5.``beverly hills cop ii'' (paramount)
6.``jane fonda's new workout'' (lorimar)
7.``an american tail'' (mca)
8.``the sound of music'' (cbs-fox)
9.``pink floyd the wall'' (mgm-ua)
10.``star trek iv: the voyage home'' (paramount)
11.``the godfather'' (paramount)
12.``dirty dancing'' (vestron)
13.``sleeping beauty'' (disney)
14.``kathy smith's body basics'' (jci)
15.``alice in wonderland'' (disney)
16.``scarface'' (mca)
17.``the wizard of oz'' (mgm-ua)
18.``robocop'' (orion)
19.``the cure in orange'' (elektra)
20.``pinocchio'' (disney)
videocassette rentals
1.``dirty dancing'' (vestron)
2.``robocop'' (orion)
3.``the lost boys'' (warner)
4.``platoon'' (hbo)
5.``beverly hills cop ii'' (paramount)
6.``no way out'' (hbo)
7.``the big easy'' (hbo)
8.``predator'' (cbs-fox)
9.``hamburger hill'' (rko)
10.``spaceballs'' (mgm@ua)
11.``la bamba'' (rca-columbia)
12.``dragnet'' (mca)
13.``revenge of the nerds ii: nerds in paradise'' (cbs-fox)
14.``nadine'' (cbs-fox)
15.``maid to order'' (ive)
16.``lethal weapon'' (warner)
17.``roxanne'' (rca-columbia)
18.``the squeeze'' (tri-star)
19.``the secret of my success'' (mca)
20.``a prayer for the dying'' (virgin)
end adv fri march 25
at age 15, mickey hays has appeared in a feature-length movie, has learned to hunt and to ride an off-road motorcycle, and has traveled and made a lot of friends
if i die today, i feel like i've had a good life,'' says the boy, who suffers from progeria, a rare condition that has caused his diminutive body to age far beyond his years
most children with progeria die before reaching their teens, usually of a stroke or heart-related cause
experts say the condition strikes one in 8 million children, and only about 70 cases have ever been reported. only 15 or so people are alive today who suffer from the disease, thought to be caused by a genetic pituitary disorder, according to baylor university medical center's dr. geoff sherwood
and yet, except for the fact that he doesn't go to school, mickey tries to be a typical teen-ager. his life is an ongoing defiance of the odds and medical convention about his condition
when they first told my parents about progeria, they said i wouldn't live more than a month,'' mickey says of the time at age 4 when doctors finally put a name on the condition that had hardened his skin and caused his hair to fall out
they keep pushing it back. when i was 5, they said 7. when i was 7, they said 10. when i was 10, they said 12. now i'm 15, and they say 18.''
it's gotten so that mickey doesn't listen anymore and visits a physician just once a year for a checkup
i feel fine. i feel great,'' he said in a recent interview in his rural longview home
two years ago, mickey suffered congestive heart failure brought on by progeria, but now his only disability seems to be that sunshine or other bright light hurts his eyes
still, he didn't let the sun keep him from going on a church-sponsored youth trip to a water park in dallas, 100 miles away, or from being outside with friends. he simply wears a cap
as he nears his 16th birthday on june 30, mickey looks forward to a rite of passage: obtaining a driver's license and a pickup truck _ ``a jet black nissan hardbody,'' he says
extenders attached to the controls of his mother's van helped mickey, who is only 3 feet tall, learn to drive. but like many of his friends, mickey drives his own four-wheel motorcycle through the piney woods that surround his home
just about everybody has motorcycles and four-wheelers,'' mickey explains. ``there's a hill everybody goes to called `the mountain.' it's the highest point in gregg county and from there you can look down on longview. it's real nice.''
over pizza, two of mickey's friends, holly santos and kim head, talked about rock concerts they've attended with him in shreveport, la., and dallas. they teased him about new cowboy boots and about not attending school
i'd stay in school just to be around everybody,'' holly said
but mickey, who would be in 10th grade, doesn't attend classes: ``i quit after seventh grade. i got in too much trouble. i didn't like being told to shut up.''
when his friends are in school, mickey spends his days working on his four-wheeler, hunting in season (he has bagged five deer and 16 raccoons), watching soap operas, listening to pop musicians tiffany and whitesnake, and playing with his toddler brother, jared
he mows yards for neighbors and occasionally works in his mother cindy wilkerson's income tax preparation office and his stepfather larry wilkerson's business machine outlet
there's always a way to make money,'' mickey said, adding that his favorite way would be to work in show business again
he played a gentle old visitor from space in ``the aurora encounter,'' a 1985 feature-length movie, and now envisions a part in a credit card commercial:
do you know me?'' he would ask. ``i'm not an alien who visited texas in the 19th century just to be killed by a frightened texas ranger. that's just a movie role i played.''
because of the movie part, mickey says he became ``somebody'' rather than ``somebody different.''
people before always used to notice me as somebody different,'' mickey said. ``now i go somewhere and people recognize me as mickey hays, someone who played in a movie.''
the role is one of two experiences in recent years that mickey said built his self-esteem. the second was meeting fransie geringer, the progeric son of a south african coal miner, in 1982. it was the first time either boy had met someone else with progeria
they met at disneyland and mickey later visited fransie in orkney, south africa. now, the two have linked with about 15 other progeric children and many of them started attending an annual reunion a few years ago
of the progeric children who attend, mickey said he is the oldest and possibly the healthiest. a canadian girl, six months older than mickey, died recently, according to his mother
mickey and i have had a nice life, but there are times when you start feeling sorry for yourself,'' mrs. wilkerson said. ``if someone says, `i know how you feel,' well, it's nice, but at the reunions, other parents really do know how i feel.''
mrs. wilkerson takes pictures of mickey as an infant, when he looked like any normal baby, to the reunions to show the other parents
they look at mickey and i and see what's ahead. they really can't imagine what their children will be like. mickey being so outgoing gives them hope.''
progeric children should consider themselves very lucky if they live to age 20, dr. sherwood said
still, when the conversation turns to mortality, mickey speaks without hesitation of his baptist upbringing
i think i'll live as long as god wants me to live. everybody's got to die sometime.''  by mid-may. this is also moving on the financial circuits.</note>
ask raymond a. van houtte what his childhood ambitions were and it's unlikely that running a couple of arms companies, practicing law, accounting, teaching or banking would have appeared on his list
yet van houtte, who set out to become an engineer and now heads a small bank in upstate new york and one of the nation's most powerful banking trade groups, has done all of them with varying degrees of success
i don't think of myself as ambitious. i'm just interested in many things,'' said van houtte, the son of a detroit grocer. ``if you ever get the idea you'd like to try something different, do it.''
even now the 63-year-old van houtte continues to try on different hats, so to speak
as current president of the new york state bankers association, which represents many of the nation's biggest commercial banks, he hobnobs with the likes of former federal reserve chairman paul a. volcker and other prominent bankers and has lobbied vigorously in washington, d.c. and albany for broader banking powers
van houtte is one of the most outspoken opponents of the glass-steagall act, a depression-era law that separates investment banking from commercial banking, and a similar ``mini glass-steagall'' in new york. he believes the laws eventually will be repealed and envisions banks offering a wider range of financial services in the next five years, like a one-stop shopping network
if it were up to van houtte, banks would be permitted to sell insurance or underwrite corporate securities but those involved in risky businesses wouldn't be eligible for deposit insurance
at tompkins county trust co., a community bank in a college town where van houtte started out as a director in the mid 1960s, the small-town granderfatherly image emerges. there, the bank president of 15 years meets with the local boy scouts of america and the chamber of commerce, two of the many community groups in which he's been involved
van houtte knows many of his customers on a first-name basis, and he's been known to accommodate depositers in need of emergency cash long after closing hours, something unheard of in a big city
van houtte, a well-dressed man with whitish hair and a pleasant smile, recalled his first loan at tompkins came out of his own pocket
i had a young woman who asked me if she could borrow $20 to buy a dress and get a job at cornell (university). i said, `a bank doesn't loan you $20,' so i gave her the $20 myself,'' he said in a recent interview. ``she bought the dress, came back and showed it to me.''
the woman got the job and repaid the loan $5 every two weeks _ ``with 6 percent interest,'' he said, betraying his stait-laced banker's streak
i never realized i would be a banker. these are things i'm able to do that make me feel so good,'' van houtte said. ``lawyers (for instance) don't make things happen. they sometimes prevent things from happening.''
his career as a lawyer spanned about 10 years and followed his stint as a certified public accountant, which overlapped his teaching and accounting job at the now-defunct eastern military academy in cold spring harbor, n.y., shortly after world war ii. running two arms companies, poly-choke co. in hartford, conn., and ithaca gun co. in ithaca, n.y., came somewhere in between
as a young lawyer he specialized in mergers and acquisitions, but he said he also arranged a few overseas adoptions of babies abandoned during world war ii
the pay back then for accounting or law wasn't great, van houtte said, and with a wife and three children to support, including an infant daughter struggling with a birth defect, he found himself living from paycheck to paycheck
his job at poly-choke, which specialized in customized gun barrels and whose customers included gen. dwight d. eisenhower, ``finally gave us enough money so we could afford a two-bedroom apartment instead of one.'' that job eventually led to ithaca gun, where he served as president from 1966 to 1968
these days, van houtte and his wife, margaret, live a comfortable life in ithaca, dividing their time between the bank and community activities. van houtte's biggest personal satisfaction, he says, is in helping families, businesses and community groups get off the ground financially
one of his successes, he said, was arranging for a new home to be built for the ladies union benevolent society, a century-old organization in ithaca that provides retirement housing for indigent women
i really have a wonderful life as a banker,'' he said. ``you feel good because you've helped people.''
next year, van houtte plans to retire and is looking forward to doing a lot more traveling, fishing, gardening and shell collecting. ``i have a lot of things i'd like to do.''
the american legend has turned luxurious. just look at the 1988 jeep cherokee limited 4-wheel-drive. while it carries the jeep name _ for years synonymous with ruggedness, versatility and a certain wilderness-military strength _ this compact model has many of the same features of expensive european cars
there are the leather, wingback, front bucket seats with six-way power adjustment _ standard equipment. there is the 18-ounce carpeting, tinted glass and three-spoke, leather-wrapped steering wheel _ all standard. and yes, there is the $22,000-plus price tag for the two-door model, $23,000-plus for four doors
designed with image-conscious buyers in mind, this is no ordinary jeep. but then, in a comforting sort of way, it is. once in four-wheel-drive, the jeep cherokee limited eagerly takes on snow, ice, mud, whatever, giving the driver that confidence and peace of mind that have given jeep its american legend reputation and left other vehicles in the ditch
the cherokee, which comes in many versions besides the limited, has won several awards since its debut in the 1984 model year. at that time, it was the first vehicle to be a simultaneous winner by three four-wheel-drive specialty magazines, four wheeler, 4wheel &amp; off road and off-road
for the 1988 model year, cherokee was picked four wheeler of the year in the sport utility segment by four wheeler magazine and 4x4 of the year by 4wheel &amp; off road magazine
it marks the first time a vehicle has repeated as a 4x4 award-winner. with a lineup ranging from a $12,538 four-wheel-drive version to the upscale limited, the cherokee has been a hit with buyers, too
sales of the four-wheel-drive cherokees plus four-wheel-drive wagoneers _ a larger, top-of-the-line jeep _ reached a third consecutive record in the 1987 model year with 110,962 sold. that's up from 109,929 in the 1986 model year and 97,802 in the 1985 model year
jeeps are built in the united states as well as china and south america and are heading for record sales in europe, according to chrysler corp., which last august bought jeep-maker american motors corp
american buyers of cherokees have median age of 37-41 with household income of $50,000-$55,000, said rita mckay, manager of jeep public relations. sixty percent are college educated
the top three reasons buyers give is the four-door availability, the off-road capability and its alternative to a family car, she said. jeep is the only u.s. nameplate to offer a four-door sport utility vehicle
increasingly, women are the owners and principle drivers of the vehicles, mckay said, noting a 1987 survey found females accounted for 40 percent of cherokee buyers-major drivers
women like the option of going from two-wheel to four-wheel-drive and not having to fear getting stranded, they like the interior and they appreciate the good visibility from the cherokee's tall profile, mckay explained
the test model was impressive in both two-wheel and four-wheel-drive. a shift lever on the trasnmission console allowed the driver to choose which was appropriate for road-off-road conditions
the standard, electronic fuel-injected, 4-liter six-cylinder engine was peppy, mated with the standard four-speed automatic transmission. the engine is rated at 177 horsepower at 4,500 rpm and is the most powerful engine of its size in the light-duty truck market, chrysler said
there was a trade-off in handling, however. while the vehicle performed superbly off road, the same design that permits such driving also made for a sometimes bouncy, jostling ride on pavement, especially at highway speeds on roads where expansion cracks were uneven
drivers should be aware that sport utility vehicles such as the cherokee handle differently from cars. there have been complaints of rollover accidents, and chrysler warns in the owner's manual that the vehicle's higher center of gravity and narrow track affect handling
drivers should not make sharp turns or abrupt maneuvers that could lead to loss of control
but being seated up high also is advantageous. i could see over and around most other vehicles and was able to spot traffic bottlenecks well before i came upon them
on the down side, i had to hike up straight skirts to climb into the cherokee and it was difficult to emerge gracefully. i wound up taking a flying leap from the driver seat
the rear liftgate was well-designed with washer-wiper that kept the rear view clear and a door that went up easily, leaving a flat opening so i didn't have to heave items up and over the back of the vehicle
the leather seats were comfortable and seating, front and back, was spacious. there were amenities such as front map reading lights, tilt steering and power antenna
but the front vent windows on the test model took a lot of effort to open. the key would not always come out of the ignition after i put the shifter in park and turned off the engine. often, i had to slam the shifter forward again to free the key
and the cruise control, on the turn signal stalk, sometimes wound up in the ``on'' position when it wasn't activated
another point: consumer reports' survey of owners shows cherokees in the 1984-6 model years ranked much worse than average than other cars and trucks in having problems and needing repair
ann job, executive business editor of the detroit news, writes biweekly automobile reviews for the associated press. she has covered the automobile industry for six years. continue into july. an accompanying item is bc-philippines-glance, b0669.</note>
opposition to u.s. military bases is growing as the united states and the philippines begin talks over the future of the last bastion of american defense in the far pacific
i think sooner or later the bases will have to go,'' said sen. leticia ramos-shahani, chairwoman of the philippines' senate foreign relations committee. ``the only question is when and how. we will have to cut the umbilical chord at some point.''
the united states views the naval and air bases as crucial to western defense, including that of the philippines, in the pacific and indian oceans as well as the persian gulf. at the same time, the installations provide the philippines with $180 million a year in rental income, guarantee u.s. military and economic aid and pump millions more dollars into the local economy
the talks, expected to begin in early april, are part of a periodic review of the 1947 military bases agreement, under which the united states maintains facilities at clark air base, subic bay naval base and four smaller installations
about 40,000 u.s. military personnel, defense department civilians and dependents are stationed at the bases, america's last major garrisons in southeast asia
philippine sources say president corazon aquino's government will demand a substantial increase in the $180 million annual rent, as well as an end to ``unhampered military operations'' allowed under the current agreement
some philippine legislators have suggested the rent be increased to more than $2 billion a year. foreign secretary raul manglapus, the chief philippines negotiator in the talks, says $1.2 billion a year would be ``realistic.''
the talks will also determine whether the philippines will allow the bases, which are officially under filipino command but effectively u.s.-run, to remain after the agreement expires in 1991. any extension must be approved by two-thirds of the philippines' 23-member senate
sen. ernesto maceda, chairman of the senate defense committee, said that unless the united states agrees to a substantial increase in financial compensation, ``it would be a waste of time'' to consider extending the agreement after 1991
the review will also profoundly effect the relationship between the united states and its former colony. it takes place amid a wave of nationalist sentiment unleashed by the 1986 uprising that toppled president ferdinand e. marcos and propelled mrs. aquino to power
that sentiment has sharpened the ``love-hate'' relationship of 58 million filipinos with the country that crushed their aspirations for freedom nearly a century ago and which, in the minds of many people here, still orchestrates events in its former colony
the review will show how far the aquino leadership can assert philippine sovereignty and protect the country's interest,'' said the manila chronicle
apart from compensation, the issue of nuclear weapons is also expected to complicate the talks. a provision in the new constitution states that the philippines ``consistent with the national interest, adopts and pursues a policy of freedom from nuclear weapons in its territory.''
three bills have been submitted in the senate to ban not only nuclear weapons but nuclear-powered warships. the united states refuses to confirm or deny that it stores such weapons here. but u.s. sources say 40 percent of the warships calling at subic are nuclear-powered. new zealand, a u.s. ally, and some island nations in the south pacific already have banned nuclear ships from their waters or ports
american officials maintain that the bases are a linchpin in the worldwide u.s. network of installations protecting u.s. interests in east and south asia
subic bay, a deep-water harbor protected by the zambales mountains about 50 miles west of manila, controls access to the south china sea, through which 90 percent of japan's oil imports pass. every day, u.s. p-3 orion aircraft take off from nearby cubi point to monitor soviet submarine traffic in the south china sea and the indian ocean, as well as soviet military activity in vietnam
each month, an average of 10 u.s. navy ships call at subic bay, many of them on their way to guard commercial shipping in the persian gulf. three floating drydocks provide repair service for ships of the u.s. navy's pacific fleet
clark air base, about 50 miles north of manila, is the largest single runway installation in the u.s. air force and services up to 3,500 flights a month
flights move troops and supplies across a broad network of bases from diego garcia in the indian ocean to guam, saipan, hawaii and the continental united states
the american military presence also contributes directly to the defense of the philippines by providing a formidable deterrent against any external threat to philippine security,'' says the u.s. information service in its pamphlet, background on the bases
but a growing number of filipino officials question whether their country faces a serious external threat as was perceived in the height of the cold war when the bases agreement was signed
in the eyes of filipino opponents, the bases provide the united states with considerable political and economic leverage over them
according to a widely held view, the united states supported marcos to protect the bases and then turned against him only when it appeared the country was headed for a bloody upheavel that would have threatened u.s. interests
if we get the americans out, they won't have as much opportunity to interfere,'' said sen. wigberto tanada, a leading bases opponent. he proposes closing the bases when the current agreement runs out in three years and conducting studies in the interim to find alternate uses for them
supporters of the bases maintain that the philippines, already languishing under a $29 billion foreign debt, can ill-afford to do without the money it receives from the bases
in addition to military and economic aid, the bases pay their 68,000 filipino employees and concessionaires more than $96 million a year. that makes the installations the country's second largest paymaster after the philippines government itself
we believe that if they (americans) would pull out, it would cause economic chaos in our city,'' said antonio abad santos, mayor of angeles city, the home of clark air base. ``it would become a ghost town. about 55 to 60 percent of our income comes from the base.''
despite the economic advantages, u.s. authorities acknowledge that public support for the bases has declined, although a majority still support the bases
a survey of about 2,000 manila residents, taken in december by the respected ateneo social weather station, indicated that 36 percent of the respondents believed the bases should be reduced or closed altogether
that represented an increase of 11 percent in anti-bases sentiment over the previous six months, the survey said
this past october, communist rebels killed three americans in a series of unprecedented attacks outside clark. the rebels have recently stepped up operations on the bataan peninsula, which borders the subic compound
i think anti-american sentiment has been part of the u.s.-philippine relationship from the very beginning,'' said u.s. ambassador nicholas platt. ``it's there, and i don't regard the current situation as anything particularly threatening. it's a function of the relationship.''
hostility toward the united states emerged in the spanish-american war in 1898, when adm. george dewey sailed into manila bay, defeated the spanish navy and accepted the surrender of spain's only asian colony
the americans forged an alliance with filipino rebels led by emilio aguinaldo, who had declared independence from spain two months earlier. but in the united states, pressure mounted on president william mckinley to annex the philippines as a colony and deny filipino independence
on feb. 6, 1899, the u.s. senate by a single vote ratified the treaty of paris, which formally ended the spanish-american war and ceded the philippines to the united states
that triggered the philippine insurrection, a vicious, three-year conflict in which, by philippine records, 250,000 u.s. troops slaughtered 1 million filipinos in a bloody guerrilla conflict
although a benign u.s. colonial administration overcame much of the bitterness, a residual feeling of distrust and hostility toward the united states remained
such feelings have also been coupled with a sense of identity and dependence on the united states, due largely to the fact that unlike the spanish, the u.s. colonial administration introduced mass education
that stamped american values, as well as the english language, on a southeast asian people whose culture was already a hybrid of malay, chinese, moslem and spanish influences
strong foreign influence has profoundly affected a people who, unlike the chinese, japanese and other asians, had never enjoyed freedom as an integral nation state until the united states granted independence july 4, 1946
this unique colonial legacy colors the philippine bases debate in a manner far different from u.s. discussions in spain, turkey, west germany, greece and other nations that host american forces
we have problems here of identity, of the continuation of the mentality of dependance which the germans, the italians and the greeks don't have in relation to the united states because they were never a colony,'' foreign secretary manglapus said. ^with bc-philippines-bases, b0667-b0668</head>
here are some facts and figures on u.s. military bases in the philippines:
clark air base _ headquarters of the u.s. 13th air force, about 50 miles north of manila. about 8,000 u.s. militaryt personnel, 1,528 u.s. defense department civilian employees and about 16,500 dependants work and live on trhe base. it is is officially under philippines command. the u.s. facility comprises about 9,200 of the garrison's 129,000 acres. clark is the largest single runway base in the u.s. air force and is a major supply and transit point for american forces in the pacific and indian oceans
subic bay naval base _ this base about 50 miles west of manila is the largest american naval installation outside the continental united states. the united states maintains nine major commands, including a naval air station, ship repair, communications and other services. the u.s. portion comprises 14,826 acres of the 37,065-acre garrison, which is shared with the philippine military. the naval supply depot supports u.s. naval operations in japan, the indian ocean and throughout the pacific. an average of 10 u.s. ships call at the port each month. about 6,000 u.s. military personnel, 674 u.s. civilian employees and 6,200 dependants are stationed there permanently
camp john hay _ situated in baguio city, 130 miles north of manila, this garrison is used as a rest and recreation station for u.s. military and civilian employees in the philippines
san miguel naval communications station _ this facility in zambales province is part of the u.s. navy's worldwide communications network. it serves as a major link in u.s. naval operations monitoring soviet satellite launches and naval activity
wallace air station _ in la union province of luzon island, the air station operates an air defense and radar surveillance network protecting the philippines and u.s. garrisons from attack. it also includes a voice of america transmitter that relays broadcasts in east asia
camp o`donnell _ the small post is in tarlac province near the site of a world war ii japanese prison camp for filipino and american soldiers taken prisoner on bataan and corregidor. it performs electronic warfare and communications missions in support of air and naval units here
as george bush amazed the pundits with a political resurrection, the democrats lost a front-runner off the good ship monkey business, staged what looked like candidate-a-week auditions for a replacement and now worry about a convention without a clear winner
at its midpoint, the 1988 presidential campaign can claim more than its share of unexpected twists and turns
without a front-runner, the lesser known democrats found it hard to get attention and gain stature
the race became ``a series of isolated judgments,'' said bill carrick, campaign manager for rep. richard gephardt. carrick referred to the phenomenon of no democratic being able to put together a series of victories
and as both parties looked ahead to november, they expressed pessimism
this looks to me like 1960 all over again,'' said donald devine, a conservative republican and adviser to kansas sen. bob dole's presidential campaign. that was a year the democrats recaptured the white house at the close of republican dwight eisenhower's second term
once again, said devine, ``you have an aging president, who's kind of loved and recognized as doing a decent job.''
this is the democrats' year,'' he lamented. ``the republicans are going to have to work real hard to change that and the democrats are going to have to help them a little in this nomination process, which i think they're going to do.''
some democrats agree that they could easily give the republican the help they need
gov. mario cuomo of new york predicted there'll be some brokering before the party's nominee can be selected, and he warned that if it takes place at the democratic national convention next summer in atlanta ``the whole united states will see you in the grubby business of cutting deals.''
two democrats _ gary hart and joseph biden _ were knocked out of contention long before any votes were cast. television evangelist pat robertson startled republicans with his organizational skill, and even more with his accounts of conversations with god
southern democrats tried to give their nominating process a conservative cast and created super tuesday which gave the biggest boost to a pair of liberals _ jesse jackson and michael dukakis
iowa's reputation took a beating and so did momentum
voters demonstrated repeatedly they don't always do what the pollsters predict they will
and once again, money proved the indispensable element of campaigns for everybody but jackson
after ronald reagan, who?
among republicans, the debate centered on who could legitimately claim his conservative legacy and retain some of his electoral magic. for the most conservative element in the party, it also was the year to determine whether they or gop moderates, represented by bush, would control the party in the post-reagan era
the democrats looked forward to a presidential campaign without reagan on the ballot, but also were aware they had lost four of the last five national elections, being virtually shut out in the south and west
they, too, talked of a fight for control of the party's future
both parties started out with bumper crops of candidates and near candidates
remember donald rumsfeld? a former illinois congressman, white house chief of staff and defense secretary, he had a resume that rivaled bush's and a speaking style that was a sure cure for insomnia. he appeared at republican events around the country trying to drum up support for a presidential bid before finally giving up on april 2, 1987
former sen. paul laxalt of nevada, best known as reagan's close friend, also dipped a toe into the presidential waters but pulled it out when he discovered how tough it could be to raise millions of dollars
conseratives were titillated by the prospect that pat buchanan, the former white house communications director, or jeane kirkpatrick, the former united nations ambassador would run. both eventually said no
the democrats had their share of reluctant dragons
sen. sam nunn of georgia considered running and then didn't; sen. bill bradley of new jersey said, no, no, a thousand times no. sen. dale bumpers of arkansas and his governor, bill clinton, decided against running. rep. pat schroeder of colorado wanted to run but found raising enough money too great a hurdle
and then, of course, there was the ubiquitous governor cuomo of new york
i will not be a candidate,'' cuomo declared in 1987, setting off still more speculation on whether or not he was running
why don't you want to be president?'' he was asked a year later
who said i don't want to be president?'' he retorted
do you want to be president?'' pressed the questioner
no,'' he replied
but there plenty of real candidates
bush, dole, robertson, rep. jack kemp of new york, former gov. pete du pont of delaware and former secretary of state alexander m. haig jr. on the republican side
hart, biden, dukakis, jackson, rep. richard gephardt of missouri, sen. paul simon of illinois, former gov. bruce babbitt of arizona and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee for the democrats
the race began early with democrats gephardt, biden and babbitt taking the traditional route throught the small towns of iowa, campaigning for legislative candidates in the 1986 elections. dole, kemp and du pont did much the same thing on the republican side
meanwhile, michigan republicans tried to grab some of the presidential campaign spotlight. in the summer of 1986, they elected thousands of precinct level party officials who eventually would decide the allocation of the state's 77-member delegation to the gop convention in new orleans in august 1988
the bush campaign liked the idea. the vice president beat reagan in michigan's 1980 primary
but robertson was already at work and his forces matched the vice president's at the crucial task of recruiting candidates for the michigan election. that was the first indication of robertson's potential
it was bad news for bush and even worse for kemp
then came iran-contra and the disclosures that the administration had been involved in covert arms sales to the ayatollah
it was a bleak moment for the administration and it looked like bush would be the principal political victim
dole's advisers were split on the likely impact, but the senator was among those who thought it would severely wound bush
i thought it was serious,'' said lee atwater, bush campaign manager. ``but i never thought it would deprive the vice president of the nomination.''
iowa's economy would prove an even greater hurdle for bush
throughout the reagan presidency, things had gone from bad to worse in the state and it was one of the few soft spots in reagan's generally strong approval from americans
dole campaigned there as a fellow midwesterner with a rural background and an understanding of the problems of farmers
i'm from russell, kansas, and proud of it,'' he told countless audiences
the campaign began to get nasty
he's sort of had a charmed life in politics, he's gotten quite a ways without ever doing much,'' dole said of the vice president
as dole continued to portray bush as a vice president who had no more than a passive role in administration affairs, the bush campaign accused the senator of being ``mean-spirited'' and practicing ``cronyism.''
dole later accused the bush campaign of deliberately trying to provoke him
i think that was the effort,'' he said. ``i was a bit testy a time or two. i was getting angry.''
at the start of the democratic campaign, hart was the overwhelming favorite in iowa, attracting more support in polls than all his opponents combined
but a week after he announced his candidacy, the miami herald published a story saying a team of its reporters had observed hart spending part of a weekend at his washington townhouse with miami model donna rice. then it was learned that hart and the women had traveled to bimini together on the yacht, monkey business
the publicity was devastating and a week after he entered the race, hart withdrew with a bitter denunciation of the news media
hart's abrupt departure scrambled the democratic field. but one of those given the best chance of capitalizing on the new dynamic was biden, the youthful chairman of the senate judiciary committee and one of the party's best stump speakers
but four months later, biden was forced out after disclosure that he had lifted campaign speech material from british politician neil kinnock, delivering a personal anecdote as if it were his own
dukakis caught some fallout from the biden incident when it was learned that two of his top advisers were involved in leaking material that pointed out the link between the biden and kinnock speeches
as gephardt began looking like the iowa front-runner, his rivals zeroed in on the congressman's populist message
where i come from, dick gephardt is the establishment,'' said babbitt
i'm leery of election-year conversions,'' said simon
gephardt ran television ads that attacked dukakis as ``one of the biggest tax raisers in massachusetts history.''
simon ran ads attacking gephardt for changing his positions on issues
but gephardt appeared to have the strongest message _ a tough attack on america's trading partners, those nations running huge trade surpluses that could be traced to unfair practices
because of trade barriers, a $10,000 chrysler k-car costs $48,000 in korea,'' said a gephardt ad, ignoring the fact that the chrysler cars were not sold in korea
gephardt said that if the korean didn't change their ways they'd be left ``asking themselves how many americans are going to pay $48,000 for one of their hyundais.''
iowa weighed in and the winners were dole and gephardt. bush finished a poor third behind robertson
next stop was new hampshire
it was dukakis' backyard and he won easily, with gephardt edging simon for second place
on the republican side, dole entered new hampshire on a roll. he steadily eroded bush's big lead in the state and it looked like the kansan would make it two in a row and probably knock bush out of the race
no one was sure what happened next
on the last weekend before the primary, bush ran ads accusing dole of straddling on such issues as taxes and arms control. the dole campaign never responded
bush won the primary by nine points. dole, interviewed on television, was asked if he had anything to say to bush
tell him to stop lying about my record,'' snapped the senator
robertson finished last in new hampshire, but looked ahead with relish to the next big round, super tuesday in the south, the region where he had his greatest following
two other candidates made an impression in the early contests
jackson showed a far greater ability to attract white votes than he had during his first run for the presidency four years earlier
and gore was conspicuous by his absence. he gambled everything on his native south, planning to become the first beneficiary of super tuesday
dole bounced back to win south dakota and minnesota. but the south lay ahead and the kansan had nothing going for him in the region
south carolina republicans held a primary the saturday before super tuesday. robertson thought the state was tailor-made for his bible belt appeal. dole got the endorsement of sen. strom thurmond, and decided it would be a good state to challenge bush
both proved very wrong. atwater, a south carolina native, had organized well for bush and the vice president swept the state, in a preview of super tuesday when he won 16 of 16 primaries. dole was second in most, robertson third
super tuesday effectively ended the republican race. a week later, bush swamped dole in illinois and the only question was when the senator would bow out
on the democratic side, it settled nothing
dukakis, jackson and gore split the spoils, gephardt was the big loser
simon didn't compete, but then won strongly in his home state of illinois which permitted him to go on for at least one more state _ wisconsin on april 5
the government has delivered two welcome pieces of economic news: consumer prices rose just 0.2 percent in february and the economy in late 1987 expanded at the liveliest pace in nearly two years
falling energy and food prices in february helped restrain the rise in the labor department's consumer price index after a 0.3 percent increase in january, the government said wednesday
in a separate report, the commerce department said the economy grew at a brisk 4.8 percent annual pace in the final three months of last year. it was the second upward revision in the fourth-quarter gnp
corporations' after-tax profits shot up 8.4 percent in 1987, the best performance in three years, as u.s. manufacturers benefited from the weaker dollar, the government says
the commerce department said wednesday that after-tax profits rose to $137.4 billion last year, the first increase since a 12 percent rise in 1984
u.s. companies have been enjoying an export boom this past year as declines in the dollar made american products competitive again on overseas markets
a chrysler corp. selling surge ran counter to a slight overall decline in mid-march domestic car sales, automakers have reported
analysts said wednesday that higher-than-expected sales due to incentives and a stock-crash rebound appeared to be tapering off
the eight companies that make autos in the united states sold 189,245 cars in the eight sales days from march 11-20, down from 217,939 in nine sales days in the comparable 1987 period
texaco inc. has won final bankruptcy court approval for a plan that would settle its multibillion-dollar dispute with pennzoil co. and bring it out of chapter 11 protection early next month
u.s. bankruptcy court judge howard schwartzberg on wednesday confirmed the reorganization plan, which features an agreement by texaco to pay pennzoil $3 billion to drop a $10.3 billion judgment held by pennzoil against texaco
when the plan goes into effect on april 7, texaco officially will be free from legal constraints that have limited its operations since its historic bankruptcy filing last april 12
northwest airlines says it will ban smoking on all its domestic flights except to and from hawaii and on some foreign routes
the ban announced wednesday makes minneapolis-based northwest the first major u.s. airline to mandate a smoke-free travel environment in the air. it goes beyond federal regulations, which will outlaw smoking on all domestic flights of two hours or less starting april 23
northwest's stringent non-smoking policy appears to be aimed at attracting new passengers but could backfire and cost the carrier some traffic, some analysts believe
the supreme court, in a decision three justices called anti-union, has ruled the government may limit a family's eligibility for food stamps when a family member is on strike
the court said wednesday that a 1981 federal law imposing such limits does not violate any constitutional rights
in another decision, the court ruled in an illinois case that short-term notes used to finance public housing projects are not exempt from federal estate taxes
investor marvin davis, snubbed in his $770 million takeover bid for lorimar telepictures corp., is trying to turn up the heat in his fight for the entertainment company
davis said wednesday he would consider other ``alternative courses of action'' if lorimar continues to hold merger talks only with warner communications inc
a lorimar spokesman said those options included filing suit against lorimar or making a hostile tender offer
in a case with implications for all north american automakers, a canadian trade panel has ruled that low-price imports from hyundai motor co. of south korea had not injured domestic manufacturers
the tribunal on wednesday found no evidence of material injury to the canadian subsidiaries of ford motor co. and general motors corp., which had accused hyundai of dumping its hatchbacks and small sedans at below-cost prices
the government panel ordered a refund of preliminary duties imposed last november
grolier inc. says its board of directors has rejected as inadequate a $415 million takeover bid from french publisher hachette sa, and said it has talked with others who may be interested in making a rival proposal
grolier said wednesday that if it is unable to negotiate an acquisition of the company on satisfactory terms, it will look at other alternatives such as a leveraged buyout or a financial restructuring
on the new york stock exchange, grolier's stock rose 12{ cents a share to close at $26.50, topping hachette's $21 a share bid
corporate leaders described the nightmares of doing business with federal agencies that refuse to pay their bills on time, and pleaded with congress to crack down on washington's bureaucratic deadbeats
small businesses cannot afford to carry any customer for an indefinite period of time, even if it is the u.s. government,'' joseph a. schaedel of the national federation of independent business told a house hearing wednesday
an august 1986 report by the general accounting office estimated that 24 percent of all federal agency bills were unpaid for more than 30 days
convicted stock speculator ivan f. boesky, who made millions trading on inside information, would earn a maximum of 44 cents an hour at tasks ranging from landscaping to milking cows if he's placed in the prison his sentencing judge has recommended
boesky likely will fulfill his three-year term at the lompoc, calif., prison camp, a 700-man minimum security facility about 150 miles northwest of los angeles near the pacific coast
a federal official said wednesday that boesky already had been placed in a u.s. marshal's custody
stocks were little changed wednesday in the busiest trading of the week. the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 1.49 points to 2,067.64
the dollar finished lower. gold prices rose
bond prices slipped back after receiving a modest lift from government reports on consumer prices and gnp
wheat futures prices closed mostly higher, while soybean and corn futures slipped. oil futures prices jumped higher in hectic trading. income for february scheduled for 10 a.m. est release.</note>
financial markets showed scant reaction to government reports of low inflation in february and strong economic growth at the end of 1987
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 1.49 points wednesday to 2,067.64 as gainers outnumbered losers about 3-to-2 on the new york stock exchange
the dollar finished lower and interest rates on the key 30-year treasury bond rose to 8.73 percent from 8.70 percent
falling energy and food prices in february helped restrain the rise in the consumer price index to 0.2 percent after a 0.3 percent increase in january, the labor department said wednesday
for the first two months of the year, prices increased at an annual rate of 3.2 percent _ lower than the moderate 4.4 percent inflation for all 1987
in a separate report, the commerce department said the u.s. economy grew at a brisk 4.8 percent annual pace in the final three months of last year. it was the second upward revision in the fourth-quarter gnp, estimated a month ago at 4.5 percent and in january at 4.2 percent
the department said better-than-expected performance in exports, consumer spending and business investment led to the latest revision, which pushed growth for the year to a rate of 4 percent from 2.2 percent in 1986. it was the biggest annual increase since a 5.1 percent rise in 1984
the 4.8 percent fourth-quarter growth followed 4.3 percent growth in the july-september quarter and was the fastest quarterly growth rate since an increase of 5.4 percent in the first three months of 1986
recent economic reports have shown an economy that rebounded quickly from last october's stock market collapse. analysts see little likelihood of an election-year recession
one of the best kept secrets in economic circles these days is that the reagan administration is going to end with a bang, not a whimper, as the economy makes a successful transition to an export-led economy,'' president reagan said in a speech to the american business conference
there is at this point no indication of any major widespread acceleration of inflation,'' said lawrence chimerine, chairman of the wefa group, a philadelphia-area economic forecasting service
still, there remained pockets of inflation, particularly in service industries. medical care services were up 0.7 percent in february
in two other economic reports:
_the commerce department said after-tax corporate profits shot up 8.4 percent in 1987 to $137.4 billion after declining the year before. analysts credited the turnaround in profits to the weaker dollar, which has boosted u.s. sales overseas, and to subdued labor wage demands
_the labor department said americans' average weekly earnings, after discounting for inflation, edged up 0.2 percent in february. it was the second monthly advance, matching an identical 0.2 percent january increase, but it still left americans' inflation-adjusted earnings 0.7 percent below where they were a year ago
hostile takeover target moore mccormack inc. has unveiled a $400 million recapitalization plan and says it is holding talks with unidentified parties over a possible alternative buyout
the company, target of a hostile $35 a share, or $441 million, buyout offer from houston-based southdown inc., said wednesday its proposed recapitalization would pay shareholders a special dividend valued at more than $33 per share in cash and securities
but moore mccormack acknowledged that it would abandon the dividend payout if it received a buyout offer that ``produces higher values'' for shareholders, said paul r. tregurtha, chairman and chief executive
in trading wednesday on new york stock exchange, moore mccormack rose $1.62{ to close at $38.75 a share
under terms of a plan approved by the company's board of directors, shareholders would receive a cash dividend of $26.60 per common share and a newly created, 15-year subordinated debenture with a face value of $6.62
in addition, the board instructed management ``to begin immediately implementing a program that will maximize cash flow, ... reduce costs, and raise cash through the sale'' of the company's oil and gas operations and certain other assets, tregurtha stated
moore mccormack last month rejected the initial bid of $31-a-share, or $391 million, from southdown, a cement and energy company
southdown sweetened its offer to $35 per share, but moore mccormack's board last week called the offer inadequate and recommended the company's shareholders reject it
tregurtha said in a statement that ``the board believes that the recapitalization is superior to the revised southdown tender offer.''
he said the special dividend provided shareholders with immediate value and allowed them to retain a long-term equity investment in moore mccormack
the company said it will proceed with the dividend payout even if southdown terminates its offer, unless it is acquired
chemical bank has agreed to provide up to $420 million in loans to fund the dividends and related costs
with the recapitalization plan, moore mccormack has projected its income before interest and taxes will range from $46.2 million in 1988 to $66.4 million in 1992
the company posted a profit of $21.6 million on revenue of $357.8 million in 1987
moore mccormack makes cement, concrete products and aggregates, primarily in the southeastern united states, and is engaged in oil and gas exploration and production. closer</head>
scientists at gte corp. say a new laser that can switch on and off a record 22 billion times per second marks a big step in the development of better televisions, computers and video telephones
the tiny semiconductor laser developed at gte laboratories in waltham, mass., theoretically would be capable of sending 200 to 400 video signals over an optical fiber simultaneously, the company said wednesday
gte officials said the breakthrough increased the potential for use of fiber optics _ now used mainly for carrying voice or data _ for carrying video signals as well
your telephone is going to be a television, a computer telephone and a voice (transmitter) rolled into one,'' said leslie riseberg, director of electronics and photronics, the gte labs division that developed the device
gte said it increased the laser's speed by decreasing the width of the light-emitting region. it said the record topped its own world record of 18 billion cycles per second set in 1986
the fibers, which are made of a flexible glass that transmits light signals, gradually are replacing metal wires in telecommunications. stronger and longer-lasting than metals, optical fibers also have the virtue of being able to carry far more signals. but lasers needed to be created so the fibers could achieve their potential
the higher the laser speed, the more signals can be sent over the optical fibers. for example, instead of getting 20 stations on cable television, a tv set could receive perhaps 400 channels at a time
riseberg said that in five to 10 years the faster laser dramatically could expand the nightly viewing menu
instead of there being a scheduled program on cable, we're looking at technical improvements where you can pick out a video and have it shown on your fiber,'' riseberg said. ``like a video jukebox.''
optical fibers already connect the central offices of telephone exchanges. in the future, the hair-thin strands may be be installed house-to-house and business-to-business, facilitating video telephones and computers that converse with each other more rapidly than they can over current conventional telephone lines with a modem
after four years of tortuous litigation, texaco inc. has gotten permission to lower the curtain on its multibillion-dollar legal battle with pennzoil co. and the historic bankruptcy case stemming from it
but while that particular act may be ending, the broader drama continues
the nation's third-largest oil company widely is seen as vulnerable to a takeover attempt by investors who believe they can realize big profits by winning control of the company and then selling its assets
such raiders may have allies among the legions of shareholders that analysts say were disenchanted with texaco management even before it became entangled in the legal morass that prompted its bankruptcy filing last april 12
texaco management has vowed to resist any attempt to dismember the company but many industry experts expect at least one full-scale takeover attempt, which could leave a much different texaco standing once the battle is over
u.s. bankruptcy court judge howard schwartzberg on wednesday confirmed texaco's plan to emerge from bankruptcy protection, the keystone of which was an out-of-court settlement with pennzoil
having agreed to pay pennzoil $3 billion in cash to drop its $10.3 billion judgment against texaco, the nation's third-largest oil company is gearing up for a reorganization involving sales of $3 billion worth of assets
the white plains, n.y.-based oil giant's troubles began in november 1985, when a houston jury made the unprecedented $10.3 billion damage award to pennzoil after deciding texaco improperly had interfered with pennzoil's acquisition of part of getty oil co. so that texaco itself could buy getty
texaco filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection to avoid posting what it said would be a ruinous $11 billion bond while appealing that verdict. it was the largest bankruptcy filing in u.s. history
by last december, after a string of losses in the texas state courts, texaco chose to settle rather than risking everything on the chance that the u.s. supreme court would overrule the judgment
the reorganization package approved by schwartzberg was negotiated laboriously by committees representing texaco's creditors, its shareholders, and pennzoil. the plan takes effect _ and pennzoil will be paid _ on april 7
but a lot of bitterness remains, as well as some sticky issues raised during the bankruptcy negotiations
all factions of interested parties favored endorsement of the reorganization plan, including 96 percent of the shares that were voted on the measure. however, there still are objections to the plan's provisions to grant immunity to all parties involved in the original texaco-getty-pennzoil matter
on tuesday, a small group of dissident shareholders settled 16 suits against texaco, saying they would support the reorganization plan in the belief that company would be in far worse condition if it were not approved
the dissidents _ along with texaco's largest shareholder, takeover strategist carl c. icahn _ had contended the liability releases eliminated a chance for texaco to recoup some of its losses by suing the parties responsible for the court judgment
icahn, who owns 14.8 percent of texaco's stock, also protested that the releases entrenched management and diminished its accountability to shareholders
while voting for plan, icahn urged the court to strike the releases. schwartzberg refused, agreeing with arguments by pennzoil and texaco that the releases were, on balance, ``in the best interest of texaco.''
icahn consistently has been harshly critical of texaco's management, pointing out the company's record in replacing its reserves was among the worst of the major oil companies
several analysts, who would not speak on the record because their companies do business with texaco, recently expressed sympathy with icahn's criticism of texaco's management
noting that it was texaco's desperation for new oil that led it into the getty deal in 1984, one industry watcher said he expects texaco to resume ``business as usual'' despite statements by president james w. kinnear and other top managers that the company would boost earnings and cash flow
icahn is not the only well-known takeover specialist to involve himself with texaco. t. boone pickens last month told the company that his mesa limited partnership, an oil and gas concern, was seeking regulatory clearance to buy more than $15 million of texaco's stock
absent objections by the federal trade commission or justice department, pickens would be free to acquire up to 15 percent of texaco's stock
getty petroleum co., an independent marketer of petroleum products born of texaco's getty oil co. acquisition, has made a similar filing
icahn also has announced he will field a slate of five candidates, including himself, when five of texaco's 14 board seats _ including kinnear's _ come up for election at texaco's next annual meeting. the meeting tentatively is set for may, if the company does not put itself up for sale
several analysts said kinnear may have a hard time keeping his seat, given widespread shareholder resentment over texaco's business troubles in recent years
there also may be a lingering groundswell of resentment among the thousands of shareholders who rely on investment dividend income and have been deprived of texaco dividends since the company filed for chapter 11, the analysts said
here are the important dates in the battle between texaco inc. and pennzoil co. over getty oil co
dec. 28 _ pennzoil co. launches a bid of $100 a share for about 20 percent of the stock of getty, a company viewed as vulnerable because of feuding among principal shareholders
jan. 1 _ pennzoil chairman j. hugh liedtke and gordon p. getty, sole trustee for the holders of about 40 percent of getty stock, discuss a plan under which pennzoil would acquire three-sevenths of getty oil
jan. 2 _ representatives of getty oil contact texaco and other large oil companies to invite competing bids
jan. 3 _ getty's board, faced with a threat of removal by gordon getty, approves merger negotiations with pennzoil at a minimum price of $112 a share
jan. 4 _ getty oil and pennzoil issue identical press releases announcing an agreement in principle ``subject to a definitive merger agreement.'' getty oil's investment bankers advise texaco that anyone is still free to bid
jan. 6 _ texaco reaches agreement to acquire getty for $125 a share. the bid later is raised to $128, for a total of about $10.1 billion
feb. 8 _ pennzoil sues texaco in houston, alleging texaco wrongfully interfered in its deal with getty. it asks for $7.53 billion in actual damages and $7.53 billion in punitive damages
july 9 _ the trial of pennzoil's suit begins in houston, with judge anthony farris presiding
oct. 22 _ farris steps down because of illness, and judge solomon casseb jr. takes over the trial
nov. 19 _ the jury returns a verdict in favor of pennzoil, awarding it $7.53 billion in compensatory damages and $3 billion in punitive damages
dec. 10 _ casseb enters the judgment for the full amount of the verdict, plus $600 million in interest, for a total of $11.1 billion. under texas law, texaco faces putting up a bond equal to the judgment while it appeals the case
dec. 17 _ texaco obtains a temporary order from u.s. district judge charles brieant in white plains, n.y., barring pennzoil from enforcing the texas court order while texaco appeals
dec. 20 _ brieant suspends proceedings while the two companies try to negotiate a settlement
jan. 7 _ pennzoil stock shoots up 30 percent on rumors it is near a settlement with texaco, but pennzoil announces at the end of the day its board of directors has rejected a merger offer from texaco
jan. 9 _ brieant resumes proceedings on texaco's request for an injunction. in houston, texaco asks for a new trial and seeks the removal of casseb from the case
jan. 10 _ brieant grants an injunction against pennzoil and rules texaco has to put up only $1 billion for a bond while it appeals the case in the texas courts
feb. 20 _ a federal appeals court in new york upholds brieant's ruling
march 7 _ texaco posts the bond with the district court clerk in houston to initiate its appeal, pledging $1 billion of stock in its canadian subsidiary
june 23 _ the u.s. supreme court agrees to review the appeals court decision
july 31 _ the texas court of appeals hears arguments in texaco's appeal of the damage judgment
jan. 12 _ the u.s. supreme court hears arguments on pennzoil's request to overturn the new york appellate decision
feb. 12 _ the texas court of appeals upholds the $7.53 billion award in actual damages, but throws out two-thirds of the $3 billion in punitive damages awarded by the houston jury
april 6 _ the u.s. supreme court rules unanimously that brieant should not have gotten involved in the issue of texaco's bond before the texas courts reviewed the matter. texaco says it will appeal the bond issue to the texas courts immediately, but warns an unfavorable ruling will force it into bankruptcy court reorganization
april 7 _ the texas court of appeals puts the bond requirement on hold pending a hearing scheduled for april 13
april 12 _ texaco announces it has filed a petition seeking protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code
april 23 _ bankruptcy judge howard schwartzberg of white plains, n.y., permits texaco to resume its appeal of the case, which had been on hold since the chapter 11 petition
nov. 2 _ the texas supreme court refuses to hear texaco's appeal, letting stand the judgment against texaco, now worth $10.3 billion. texaco says it will take its case to the u.s. supreme court
dec. 2 _ the bankruptcy court gives texaco 40 more days in which it will have the exclusive right to file its own financial reorganization plan. but schwartzberg says he will vacate the order if pennzoil and texaco's creditors agree on a settlement plan to be voted on by shareholders
dec. 7 _ the judge clarifies his ruling, saying the texaco shareholders committee must approve any settlement proposal before it goes to all the shareholders for a vote
dec. 11 _ pennzoil announces it has agreed with the shareholders committee on a reorganization plan that would pay pennzoil $3 billion to settle the damage claim
dec. 19 _ texaco announces an agreement with the shareholder and creditor committees and pennzoil on a reorganization plan. the plan calls for a $3 billion payment to pennzoil, the settlement of all litigation between the two companies, and the reinstatement of texaco's outstanding indebtedness, with full payment of principal and interest to creditors
jan. 15 _ texaco agrees with the shareholders committee to ease its anti-takeover defenses but not to drop them completely as sought by financier carl icahn, who controls the largest block of texaco stock
jan. 22 _ the bankruptcy judge rules that only texaco's reorganization propoal will be submitted to shareholders for a vote
march 22 _ dissident shareholders drop their opposition to the plan, despite their criticism of its provision for freeing officers and advisers of texaco, pennzoil, getty oil, the sarah getty trust and the j. paul getty museum from any liability arising from the texaco-pennzoil battle. the company announces that 96 percent of the shares voted by texaco stockholders supported the plan, far above the two-thirds margin required by federal law
march 23 _ after a day-and-a-half hearing, the bankruptcy judge approves the plan, clearing the way for texaco to emerge from his protection by mid-april
a recent wave of japanese purchases of everything from farmland to memberships at prestigious country clubs has sparked a backlash from residents peeved at a resulting rise in property taxes and longer lines at the golf course
the japanese have been investing in the hawaiian islands since statehood, but have drawn criticism because of recent high-profile acquisitions made at premium prices
many economists and local officials oppose the latest round of ``japan bashing,'' calling the foreign-based investment a boon to the state and a sign of japanese confidence in the u.s. economy
but others, including honolulu mayor frank fasi, want to limit japanese investment here
they just about own downtown,'' fasi said wednesday
fasi has proposed state legislation to prohibit the sale of residential, agricultural or preservation property to anyone who is not a u.s. citizen, has no plans to become a citizen or would not live on the land at least half the year
the proposal, based on similar statutes in nebraska, wisconsin and mississippi, would not affect the sale of commercial, resort and industrial land. it has little chance of being considered by the state legislature because it was submitted late in the session
fasi blames the japanese for skyrocketing property taxes resulting from rising home prices as well as longer waits for tee-off times at the honolulu country club, where japanese nationals pay $150,000 for memberships. but he denies his proposal is racist
all i'm trying to do is stop the speculators from doing here what they've already done in japan,'' which is price out the average buyer, fasi said
earlier this week it was announced that a japanese real estate firm paid a record $280 a square foot _ about $14 million total _ for a parcel of land in honolulu's kapiolani business district
japanese investors have paid a total of $99 million for property along kapiolani boulevard since 1986
another japanese investor sparked protests last month over his plans to evict an elderly couple from the agricultural land they had leased for 10 years so he could build a golf course
a japanese real estate firm recently paid $21 million for ``casa blanca del mar,'' the highest price ever paid for a private home in the exclusive southern oahu beachfront area of waialae-kahala. the average value of homes in the neighborhood has risen between 30 percent and 100 percent under the latest city property assessments, mostly because foreign investors have been snapping up houses at high prices
area residents say they have received unsolicited offers in their mailboxes and been offered millions of dollars in cash for their homes
wali osman, associate economist of the bank of hawaii, said the strength of the japanese yen and the ability to borrow against high-priced tokyo properties allows the japanese to pay more than u.s. buyers
what the japanese are doing is perfectly logical,'' osman said. ``they would be foolish not to take advantage of the strength of their yen.''
the japanese have invested heavily in hawaii since the 1960s. osman said the latest surge _ about $3 billion invested since 1986 _ attracted attention only because so many properties were purchased in a short time
maybe they put in a little too much money a little too fast,'' osman said. ``but $3 billion is a small portion of the total assets in the state.''
osman said fasi's proposal ignores the rights of the seller and discriminates against the japanese
people have been selling their houses to the japanese for twice as much as they could get elsewhere,'' osman said. ``they've been getting rich. what about their right to sell to whoever offers the highest price?''
hawaii lt. gov. ben cayetano dismisses fasi's plan as political rhetoric
the man's running for re-election,'' cayetano said. ``but he's a hypocrite. on the one hand he's telling the japanese to pour in their money for business development and then he's saying they can't invest in houses here.''
fasi has proposed that japanese firms be allowed to build a convention center here and that they help finance a light rail rapid transit system
cayetano said fasi was fueling an anti-japanese attitude that could cause a backlash against japanese-americans _ who make up about 25 percent of hawaii's population _ and japanese visitors, who have invigorated the state's tourist industry
according to the hawaii vistors bureau, about 20 percent of the 5.7 million people who vacationed in the islands last year were from japan. they accounted for 33 percent of vistor expenditures, more than triple the share of their counterparts from the mainland and canada
he (fasi) is doing what is politically popular at the moment,'' cayetano said. ``but here, where the japanese are so important, it's especially insulting.''
osman said that if fasi's proposal was rejected, the current wave of anti-japanese sentiment should blow over, as it had in the past
this isn't the first time politicians have used this tactic,'' osman said. ``but we aren't about to become a colony of japan, and people who think so are just overreacting.'' case</head>
ford motor co. and general motors corp. warned of future job losses and free-trade problems after a canadian tribunal dismissed their claims of damages from the sale of inexpensive hyundai motor co. cars from south korea
the canadian import tribunal ruled wednesday that it found no evidence of material injury to ford or gm subsidiaries because of the cut-price compact cars that hyundai has sold in canada since 1984
the three-member government panel ordered a halt to anti-dumping proceedings against hyundai and a refund of some $8 million in bonds the company had posted
wednesday's ruling has implications for all north american car makers: the canadian auto industry is linked with u.s. operations under a 1965 trade agreement treating the continent as a single market
hyundai was forced to post the bonds when revenue canada, the government tax collector, upheld the dumping complaint last november and imposed preliminary import duties averaging 26 percent
dumping is the practice of exporting goods at a price below what they cost in the domestic market
ford and gm accused hyundai of introducing its pony, stellar and excel models in canada at below-cost prices to get a foothold in north america. they complained they lost profits when they had to slash prices and offer rebates to remain competitive
at hearings that ended march 10, hyundai acknowledged its aim was to gain a path to the lucrative u.s. market. but the company denied harming ford, gm or the canadian auto industry
hyundai said the u.s. car giants did not make subcompacts in canada and contended ford was making handsome profits here. furthermore, both companies have business links to other south korean carmakers, hyundai noted
the canadian government's bureau of competition policy intervened on behalf of hyundai to say the company had fostered competition in the small-car market and kept prices down
within a year of introducing its $4,500 pony hatchback, hyundai cornered 7 percent of the canadian car market. it then expanded to the united states where it sold 264,000 excels last year
but recent canadian sales were depressed because of the dumping case. if upheld, the duties would have added $800 to the price of a new hyundai
the canadian importers association called the decision a ``triumph'' for consumers, while hyundai issued a statement from seoul welcoming the decision
whatever the outcome of the case, the south korean conglomerate had pledged to proceed with plans for a $259 million manufacturing plant in bromont, quebec, and a parts factory in newmarket, ontario
ford and gm have 10 days to appeal to the federal court of canada. they said they would decide after receiving the tribunal's detailed explanations next month
both companies warned that unfair foreign competition could lead to job losses in the canadian industry, which employs 140,000 workers directly and another 400,000 indirectly, mostly in southern ontario and quebec province
it has been and remains our contention that continued unrestrained dumping by hyundai will result in lost jobs and investment in the canadian auto industry,'' stated george peapples, president of gm canada
ford spokesman jim hartford complained of flaws in canadian trade law and said the case set a bad precedent for the canada-u.s. free trade agreement due for ratification by the canadian parliament and by congress later this year
hartford said the law forced the tribunal to look at ford production and sales only in canada, where small-car output has been phased out, instead of examining ford's integrated operations throughout the continent
we're alarmed by the implications today's decision has for other industries which may become rationalized under the free-trade agreement,'' hartford said
he said the shortcoming must be fixed in the first years of the free-trade treaty or more industries will come in for ``predatory dumping.''
declining mid-march sales of u.s.-made cars are not a sign of trouble but a return to balance in the market, industry analysts say
combined domestic car and light truck sales totaled 298,754 during the march 11-20 sales period, down from 333,623 for mid-march 1987 but up 0.7 percent on a daily basis, the automakers reported wednesday
i don't see this weakness in mid-march as a prediction of greater weakness throughout the year,'' said auto analyst chris cedergren
the eight companies making autos in the united states sold 189,245 cars in the period's eight sales days, down from 217,939 in nine sales days in the comparable 1987 period. the daily sales rate slid 2.3 percent
sales of domestic-made light trucks totaled 109,509, a decrease from 115,684 in the year-ago period but still a 6.5 percent increase in daily sales
percentage changes in sales are based on average daily sales during each period rather than comparisons of straight totals
domestic sales reached a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.4 million for the mid-march period. that would indicate a decline from 1987's 7.1 million in domestic sales, although in the 30 days before the march period sales ran at an 8.1 million annual pace
it looks like sales are beginning to drop back down to a more expected level,'' said cedergren, of j.d. power &amp; associates in westlake village, calif
jeannette garretty, an analyst at bank of america in san francisco, said sales surged earlier as some people responded to buying incentives offered by the automakers and as some went ahead with purchases put off after the october stock market crash
now it is going to start to settle down,'' she said
sales of u.s.-made cars and trucks for the year to date totaled 2.4 million, up 16.4 percent on a daily basis from 2.1 million sold through the mid-march period in 1987
industry leader general motors corp. sold 92,173 domestic-made cars in the march 11-20 period, down from 105,438 in the 1987 period. gm's daily sales rate fell by 1.7 percent
ford motor co. auto sales of 54,186 fell from 67,672 in the year-earlier period, and were down 9.9 percent on a daily basis
chrysler car sales jumped to 30,801 in this year's eight-day selling period from 31,699 in the nine-day period in 1987, up 9.3 percent daily. chrysler light truck sales jumped even more, to 24,691 from 20,987 in the year-earlier period, a 32.4 percent leap in daily sales
gm truck sales totaled 45,376 in the eight-day period compared with 43,515 a year earlier, with the daily sales rate rising by 17.3 percent
ford light truck sales sagged to 36,812, from 49,164 in the year-earlier period. the daily sales rate fell 15.8 percent
market shares of the big three automakers changed slightly from a year earlier, with gm capturing 48.7 percent, compared with 48.4 percent; ford dropping to 28.6 percent from 31.1 percent, and chrysler rising to 16.3 percent from 14.5 percent
aggressive incentives paid off for some japanese companies making cars in the united states. honda's sales of 7,270 represented a 9.8 percent increase in daily sales rate
volkswagen of america sold 1,034 u.s.-made cars, down from 1,330 a year earlier, and down 12.5 percent on a daily basis
here are sales results for the eight major u.s. automakers for march 11-20
percentage changes in sales are based on average daily sales during each period rather than comparisons of straight totals. there were eight selling days in the period this year and nine last year
cars and trucks made in the united states by volkswagen, honda, nissan, toyota and mazda are counted as domestic and appear in this table
cars and trucks imported for sales under the gm, ford and crysler names are counted as foreign. sales of imported cars and trucks are reported at the end of each month
march 11-20: 189,245 vs. 217,939, down 2.3 percent
month: 401,017 vs. 399,759, up 0.3 percent
year: 1,581,301 vs. 1,384,390, up 14.2 percent
march 11-20: 109,509 vs. 115,684, up 6.5 percent
month: 223,358 vs. 206,804, up 8.0 percent
year: 860,929 vs. 713,002, up 20.7 percent
march 11-20: 298,754 vs. 333,623, up 0.7 percent
month: 624,375 vs. 606,563, up 2.9 percent
year: 2,442,230 vs. 2,097,392, up 16.4 percent
march 11-20: 92,173 vs. 105,438, down 1.7 percent
month: 187,545 vs. 202.925, down 7.6 percent
year: 783,102 vs. 713,388, up 9.8 percent
march 11-20: 54,186 vs. 67,672, down 9.9 percent
month: 123,045 vs. 118,079, up 4.2 percent
year: 459,955 vs. 383,380, up 20.0 percent
march 11-20: 30,801 vs. 31,699, up 9.3 percent
month: 65,468 vs. 57,745, up 13.4 percent
year: 235,366 vs. 194,628, up 20.9 percent
march 11-20: 7,270 vs. 7,447, up 9.8 percent
month: 15,766 vs. 11,841, up 33.1 percent
year: 65,741 vs. 59,590, up 10.3 percent
march 11-20: 1,034 vs. 1,330, down 12.5 percent
month: 1,811 vs. 2,179, down 16.9 percent
year: 8,974 vs. 8,806, up 1.9 percent
march 11-20: 1,869 vs. 3,358, down 37.4 percent
month: 3,800 vs. 5,495, down 30.8 percent
year: 13,637 vs. 19,264, down 29.2 percent
march 11-20: 1,169 vs. 995, up 32.2 percent
month: 2,279 vs. 1,495, up 52.4 percent
year: 10,055 vs. 5,334, up 88.5 percent
march 11-20: 743 vs. 0
month: 1,303 vs. 0
year: 4,471 vs. 0
march 11-20: 45,376 vs. 43,515, up 17.3 percent
month: 87,865 vs. 81,842, up 7.4 percent
year: 346,008 vs. 279,263, up 23.9 percent
march 11-20: 36,812 vs. 49,164, down 15.8 percent
month: 82,885 vs. 83,849, down 1.1 percent
year: 305,018 vs. 272,604, up 11.9 percent
march 11-20: 24,691 vs. 20,987, up 32.4 percent
month: 49,978 vs. 39,095, up 27.8 percent
year: 189,888 vs. 144,304, up 31.6 percent
march 11-20: 2,630 vs. 2,018, up 46.6 percent
month: 2,630 vs. 2,018, up 30.3 percent
year: 20,015 vs. 16,831, up 18.9 percent
the investment group pursuing koppers co. has proposed a negotiated buyout at $60 a share, topping its current hostile offer of $56 a share, while hundreds of koppers employees demonstrated against the ongoing takeover attempt
the new proposal has an indicated value of about $1.68 billion, compared with $1.57 billion for the alternative hostile bid. it was made in a letter sent late wednesday to koppers chairman charles r. pullin from british investor brian c. beazer
beazer has teamed with shearson lehman hutton inc., the new york investment banker, in its attempt to acquire the pittsburgh building materials, paving services and chemical company. the hostile tender offer remains in effect, said beazer spokeswoman lissa perlman
koppers spokesman robert j. o'gara said the company had no immediate comment on the latest proposal
kopper's board of directors has rejected beazer's $56 a share offer as inadequate, and reiterated it was exploring a possible defensive recapitalization that would include a one-time payment to shareholders
we believe we are able to offer greater value to your stockholders than any plan you are presently considering,'' beazer stated in his letter to pullin. ``if you have a recapitalization plan that provides your stockholders and employees with more benefits than we are prepared to provide, we, and your other stockholders, are anxious to see it.''
separately, about 250 of the company's employees cut up an estimated 175 charge cards from american express co., which owns 60 percent of shearson, during a downtown protest
we're damn mad,'' said koppers vice president j. roger beidler. ``we want american express to know that this gathering is just the tip of the iceberg.''
management also has canceled its american express account, through which the company had been buying about $1.5 million per year in goods and services, said o'gara
koppers has accused shearson lehman of offering to defend the company from hostile takeovers at the same time that it was plotting its attack with beazer
that's quite a deal, and we're saying no,'' beidler said. ``we're going to send our cards back to american express in pieces.''
american express and shearson also have come under fire from state officials for their role in the hostile bid
lotus development corp.'s stock could remain depressed for some time following the company's announcement of a six-month delay in the release of a new version of its high-selling 1-2-3 software, industry watchers say
wall street analysts this week scaled back their earnings estimates for the company after it delayed the new release 3 software. in addition, lotus executives sold off large blocks of stock and a top executive resigned
i think the stock is going to underperform until we get closer to the release date on shipment of the 1-2-3 release 3,'' david j. readerman, an analyst with smith barney &amp; co., said wednesday
lotus fell $3.50 a share to $25.25 a share in over-the-counter trading wednesday, a 12 percent drop in market value
last month, lotus president jim p. manzi sold 250,000 shares of company stock, and several vice presidents sold between 12,800 shares and 95,800 shares. charles j. digate, senior vice president in charge of software development, left the company last week
lotus said some of the stock sales occurred because executives exercised stock options last august and had to wait six months before selling to meet tax payments
but readerman said: ``the timing of the sales just raises a credibility issue. that is as much a reason why the stock is down. if it was just the product slip date, i don't think you'd see the stock where it is.''
analysts said lotus is trailing its competitors in developing new spreadsheet programs and said they expected some of the 3.5 million lotus 1-2-3 users to defect to other brands
for some reason lotus just hasn't kept pace with the industry in bringing out new products,'' said rick sherlund of goldman, sachs &amp; co. ``they've been long on promise in announcing new products but short on delivery.''
analysts cut lotus' 1988 earnings per share estimates to between $1.55 and $1.65 from about $1.95. they also trimmed revenue forecasts for the year to about $400 million from $465 million
lotus last year reported net income of $72 million, or $1.58 per share, on revenue of $395.6 million
the upgraded 1-2-3 software originally was expected in june. the company said the new program, which promises to print better graphs, work faster and combine many spreadsheets, will be available in the fourth quarter
analysts said the delay would give borland international corp. of scotts valley, calif., and microsoft corp. of redmond, wash., a chance to gain market share with new software products designed to compete with 1-2-3
last november, borland released its quattro spreadsheet, which has been praised as better than 1-2-3, and microsoft, the leading personal computer software maker, released its windows excel software
martin fahey, lotus' investor relations director, said the company needs more time to make the new 1-2-3 programs small enough to work with personal computers
we obviously are concerned about the delay,'' fahey said. ``any time a product slips it's not good. (but) we think it's going to be worth waiting for.''
the new 1-2-3 will cost $495, same as the old one. people who have an authorized copy of the current 1-2-3 can upgrade for $150. analysts project $100 million to $150 million in sales in the first 12 to 18 months of its release
lotus on wednesday named w. frank king iii, a former vice president of development for international business machines corp.'s personal computer division, to replace digate. network</head>
cable news network will produce spanish-language news programming for broadcast exclusively on the television network operated by telemundo group inc., company officials have announced
the programming, slated to begin by may 31, will include a 30-minute national and international newscast, an hourlong week-in-review program, and news briefs to appear five times daily, monday through friday
the newscasts' correspondents will be based in new york, washington d.c., miami, los angeles and key cities in latin america, the network said wednesday
telemundo group, based in new york, owns and operates stations in four of the five largest hispanic markets in the united states _ los angeles, new york, miami and san francisco-san jose _ and reaches about 60 percent of u.s. hispanic households
telemundo also has affiliates in eleven other hispanic markets
the wine in the $3,200 bottle was an acclaimed 1984 merlot, but there was something even rarer about the cuvaison magnum that texan steven schwartz bought at a recent dallas charity auction
the grape art label on the napa valley wine was believed to be the first work designed for wine by the pop art pioneer andy warhol, who died last year in new york at age 58
warhol donated the art to the cuvaison winery in the late 1970s. it is a striking, bias-cut piece based on a stylized vision of what warhol thought nature should have made grapes look like: the six grapes are in hues of red and deep green
the overall label, which was placed on just 84 bottles, has warhol's name cut in above the art. it was designed and completed last year by california graphic artist channing rudd under commission by cuvaison president manfred esser
said rudd, ``the label was at first considered to be very strange,'' but, like the wine, the work improved with age and came into increasing favor. esser finally ordered the art made into a finished label, and rudd readied it for reproduction in a week
warhol did many commercial things, but basically warhol was a fine artist,'' said rudd. ``he was a painter who experimented with silk-screening and avant-garde techniques. i tried to do the same thing, only convert it into something marketable.''
still under wraps are warhol's creations for two other labels, one for white wine, the other for rose. no plans for them have been announced
as a memorial to warhol's talent, switzerland's industrialist schmidheiny family, which owns cuvaison, ordered the current labeling limited to 84 bottles
alexander and christina schmidheiny were friends of warhol's, and thought to use his work to evoke a fine-arts theme for special wines
we intended this label to be one of a series of artist's labels for cuvaison's special bottlings,'' mrs. schmidheiny said. ``when the 1984 cuvaison merlot was released, we decided to use his label only on 84 magnum bottles on the occasion of the 15th anniversary of the winery.''
as it turned out, the wine itself was very well received...hopefully a small memorial to mr. warhol's great talent.''
the dollar steadied at lower levels early in europe today after a sell-off during asian trading
gold prices rose
traders said the dollar was driven downward in asia by trading benefitting the yen and british pound
u.s. economic indicators due later today, including personal income for february, were not likely to move the market since an upward revision of the u.s. gross national product for the fourth quarter was disregarded wednesday, dealers said
the growth rate was revised to an annual rate of 4.8 percent, up from the previously reported 4.5 percent
there is still room for the yen and the pound to strengthen,'' said a trader in frankfurt. that means the dollar could fall a little lower during the course of the day, he said
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 126.30 yen, down 0.85 yen
later, in london, it was quoted at 126.00 yen
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late wednesday's rates, included: 1.6858 west german marks, down from 1.6915; 1.3940 swiss francs, down from 1.3990; 5.7305 french francs, down from 5.7450; 1.8943 dutch guilders, down from 1.9005; 1,248.95 italian lire, down from 1,253.25; 1.2440 canadian dollars, up from 1.2434
in london, the british pound was quoted at $1.8425, compared with $1.8358 wednesday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $452.40 a troy ounce, compared with late wednesday's $453.00. at mid-morning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $453.90
in zurich, the bid price was $453.25, up from $450.40 late wednesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $3.34 to close at $455.40 an ounce
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.67 a troy ounce, up from wednesday's $6.63
the dollar slid further against the japanese yen in tokyo today, while stock prices also lost moderately
after opening at 126.75, the dollar edged down and closed at 126.30 yen, down 0.85 yen from its close of 127.15 yen on wednesday. it ranged between 126.15 and 126.81 yen
today's fall followed a 1.28-yen plunge on tuesday, although the dollar edged up 0.08 yen on wednesday
the prevalent view is that the dollar will go down further,'' said taeko kobayashi of the bank of tokyo
the decline in tokyo today followed the dollar's drop in new york the previous day, attributed to a prediction by martin feldstein, a former economic adviser to president reagan, that the dollar could fall to 120 yen or lower over the next six months
there was no news to affect the dollar during tokyo's trading today, however, ms. kobayashi said
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei average of 225 selected issues, a 52.48-point gainer wednesday, today lost 113.95 points, or 0.44 percent, closing at 25,781.28
profit-taking buy orders for large-capital issues, such as steels and heavy electricals, brought the stock average down,'' said yoshio shimoyama of nikko securities
the market, which had been driven by these major issues since the beginning of march, seemed to have taken a rest, with the trade volume declining to an estimated 800 million shares, he said
shimoyama said investors retreated to the sidelines to watch the market's movements
major losers today were steels and shipbuilding issues. some electrical, real estate and shipping issues also lost ground. arrival, picks up 7th graf pvs, ``our people ...</note>
convicted stock speculator ivan f. boesky, who made millions trading on inside information, would earn a maximum of 44 cents an hour at tasks ranging from landscaping to milking cows as an inmate in the prison recommended by his sentencing judge
boesky, 51, arrived wednesday afternoon at the lompoc, calif., prison camp, to begin serving his three-year term, the prison said
u.s. district judge morris lasker, who sentenced boesky on dec. 18, had given him until today to surrender
the lompoc facility, a 700-inmate minimum security facility about 150 miles northwest of los angeles near the pacific coast, is located on about 44,000 acres of heavily forested countryside and contains a dairy, slaughterhouse and furniture factory. inmates sleep in a former army barracks
lompoc warden richard rison said in a telephone interview last week that if boesky would have no special privileges or cushy prison jobs
our people are assigned based on where our needs are,'' said rison. ``he could be in the slaughterhouse, he could be in the landscape crew, he could be working in the dairy operation. he will be required to work a fulltime assignment.''
rison said the pay scale ranged from 11 cents to 44 cents an hour for a 40-hour week. as in other federal prison facilities, the money is credited to an account at the prison commissary, where inmates can buy toiletries, cigarettes and candy
during off hours, rison said, inmates can play tennis on a single concrete court, lift weights, roll boccie ball, shoot billiards or watch cable television at a half-dozen sets placed around the facility. inmates have access to eight telephones but rison said there's a 15-minute limit on calls
lompoc has been home to some other famous convicts, including former nixon administration aide h.r. haldeman and fireworks magnate w. patrick moriarty, who was convicted in a major government-bribery and influence-peddling scandal. convicted spy christopher boyce was incarcerated in lompoc's maximum-security section but escaped and led authorities on a chase for several months before he was seized in the northwest
boesky, formerly one of wall street's best known speculators, stunned the financial world in november 1986 when he paid the securities and exchange commission a record $100 million fine to settle civil charges of insider trading, the misuse of confidential information to profit in securities deals
since then he has cooperated extensively with federal investigators. in exchange, he was allowed to plead guilty to a single criminal count of conspiracy to lie to the sec
boesky's revelations reportedly have led to death threats against him, and there was speculation he had sought federal custody early because he feared for his life
last month, john mulheren, a former boesky friend and fellow speculator, was arrested on charges he threatened to kill boesky and boesky's former head trader, michael davidoff, who also has pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is cooperating with investigators
stock prices were sharply lower at midday thursday as the market's budget-related rally finally ran out of steam
the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 stocks was off 27.8 points, or 1.5 percent, at 1,804.4
volume was 297.3 million shares at midday, up from 211.2 million shares at the same time a day earlier
dealers said the market was marked down heavily soon after trading started
the 100-stock index had moved well above the 1,800-point level prior to chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson's march 15 budget statement. investors predicted the budget would include major tax cutting measures and bullish forecasts on the british economy
the announcement of the budget met those expectations, but since then, the market has been unable to push much higher
having seen not much follow-through since the budget in terms of buying, the question was whether there would be selling,'' said chris chaitow, an analyst at morgan grenfell securities. ``today has shown that there is selling.''
dealers said the market's nervousness was exacerbated by rumors of a major selling program by county natwest securities. but dealers at the brokerage firm denied there had been such a program thursday. terms</head>
the future chairman of first city bancorporation of texas inc. says the banking concern's restructuring plans, and the economic well-being of texas, are being jeopardized by a group of dissident debtholders
it's not in their best interest to hang onto the bonds if they're going to crater the deal in the process,'' a. robert abboud said wednesday before the french-american chamber of commerce
abboud, a chicago investor who would become of first city under a federal bailout plan, is seeking to complete a $1.5 billion restructuring of the houston company
the restructuring deal requires 90 percent participation by the close of business next tuesday. but as of late tuesday only about 51 percent of the holders of first city notes totaling $225.9 million had tendered their securities
senior debt holders have been offered 45 cents on the dollar for their debt, while subordinated debt holders have been offered 35 cents
on a liquidation basis, their investment is worth zero,'' abboud said, referring to the $100 million in subordinated debt. ``once the preconditions are established, we have to stick to them.''
abboud is trying to restructure first city using $970 million in assistance from the federal deposit insurance corporation, and another $500 in privately raised capital
abboud said he was optimistic a deal could be closed. first city shareholders already have voted to support the abboud plan
the stock market declined broadly today as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 31.17 to 2,036.47 in the first half hour of trading
losers outnumbered gainers by more than 6 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues
volume on the big board came to 32.18 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
with the dollar losing ground, prices of long-term government bonds dropped about $5 for each $1,000 in face value this morning, putting their yields in the 8.75 to 8.8 percent range
at their best recent levels, yields on treasury bonds were as low as 8.3 percent
analysts said pressure on the dollar prompted concern in markets around the world. prices fell in both the london and tokyo stock markets
against that background, brokers said, wall street investors moved quickly to cash on the u.s. market's gains since late last year
among actively traded blue chips, general electric dropped 1[ to 41{; international business machines 1{ to 110[; american express | to 25], and american telephone &amp; telegraph ] to 27~
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 1.97 to 149.85. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 1.34 at 299.07
on wednesday, the dow jones industrial average rose 1.49 to 2,067.64
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 3 to 2 in nyse composite trading, with 917 up, 611 down and 457 unchanged. big board volume totaled 167.37 million shares, against 142.0 million in the previous session
japan seeks an agreement with the united states by the end of march on opening the japanese market wider to american beef and citrus fruit, but there still are conflicting opinions in japan on the issue, a government official said thursday
the current agreement on japan's quotas on those items expires march 31
separately, a senior aide to prime minister noboru takeshita left for washington thursday for talks aimed at a political solution to a dispute over u.s. access to japan's construction market
on the agricultural issue, u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said this week the united states wants all quotas dropped by april 1, or it will take the issue to the general agreement on tariffs and trade, an international forum for settling trade disputes
yoshifumi matsuda, spokesman for the foreign ministry, said thursday, ``our interest is to have a coordinated result, an agreement between the two governments by the end of the month.''
asked how far japan was willing to go to compromise short of total liberalization, he said there were conflicting opinions and the government was not ready to make a statement
the united states refuses to negotiate unless japan sets a clear timetable for liberalization, something japan has been unwilling to do. members of japan's ruling liberal-democratic party have expressed strong opposition to liberalization
gatt is a good place to fight this out,'' said tsutomu hata, head of the ldp's agriculture committee, after arguing in a meeting wednesday that producing beef and oranges is essential to domestic farmers, and these must be protected
a country should be able to produce basic food items on its own,'' said mitsuru yoshida of the livestock industry promotion corp. ``the united states is a very big country and so can produce a lot. but japan is very small and thus needs to protect itself.''
while farmers and many consumers fear liberalization will destroy the domestic beef and citrus industry, leading to unemployment and a dangerous dependence on foreign sources of food, yeutter commented: ``if it did mean some structural adjustment, that's the price we pay for a free and open trading system. we've had some adjustment, too.''
last month, a senior economic planning agency official predicted that imports of beef would be liberalized within two years, with a lifting of restrictions on citrus fruit even sooner
tentative moves to appease foreign critics include proposals announced thursday by an advisory council to the ministry of agriculture, forestry and fisheries for a revision of the upper and lower ceilings on domestic beef and pork price supports, said a ministry official who requested anonymity
deputy chief cabinet secretary ichiro ozawa, who is traveling to the united states to discuss agricultural issues, is scheduled to meet with u.s. commerce secretary william verity and other u.s. officials
an aide to ozawa declined to specify what new offers, if any, ozawa would make to u.s. officials in an attempt to settle the dispute
following the failure of working-level negotiations earlier this month, u.s. officials gave japan two weeks to come up with a satisfactory proposal to end the dispute. otherwise, they said the united states may invoke a law calling for compensation from japan
here are portions of income that four-member families at three income levels paid for state sales and excise taxes in 1987
the first column of figures is for the poorest 20 percent of families; the second is for the middle 20 percent, and the third is for the richest 0.7 percent. the states are arranged in order according to the size of the tax burden on the poor, with the heaviest burden first
alaska, delaware, montana, new hampshire and oregon have little or no sales tax
 

 mississippi   9.6   5.2   1.4 tennessee     9.3   5.4   1.6 louisiana     8.6   4.8   1.5 alabama       7.8   4.2   1.1 s.dakota      7.7   4.5   1.3  oklahoma      7.6   4.5   1.3 utah          7.3   4.6   1.4 arkansas      7.1   4.2   1.1 texas         7.1   4.2   1.5 washington    6.9   4.3   1.6  illinois      6.4   3.7   1.2 d.c.          6.2   3.4   1.2 arizona       6.1   3.7   1.3 s.carolina    6.0   3.6   1.0 wisconsin     5.9   3.6   1.2  n.dakota      5.9   3.5   1.1 missouri      5.9   3.6   1.1 minnesota     5.9   3.5   1.1 new york      5.8   3.5   1.4 w.virginia    5.8   3.4   1.1  n.carolina    5.6   3.4   0.9 hawaii        5.5   3.3   1.0 indiana       5.5   3.3   1.0 idaho         5.4   3.6   1.1 maine         5.4   3.3   1.0  nebraska      5.4   3.2   1.0 nevada        5.3   3.4   1.1 ohio          5.3   3.2   1.1 kentucky      5.3   3.0   1.0 georgia       5.3   3.0   0.9  connecticut   5.2   3.3   1.3 iowa          5.1   3.1   0.9 virginia      5.0   3.0   0.9 florida       5.0   3.1   1.1 new mexico    5.0   4.7   1.4  michigan      5.0   2.8   0.8 colorado      4.9   3.1   1.1 rhode island  4.7   2.9   1.0 pennsylvania  4.5   2.8   1.0 california    4.5   2.8   1.0  maryland      4.4   2.7   1.0 wyoming       4.2   2.7   0.9 kansas        4.1   3.2   1.0 new jersey    4.0   2.5   1.0 vermont       3.8   2.7   0.9  montana       3.5   1.7   0.2 massachusetts 3.3   2.0   0.8 alaska        2.5   1.2   0.3 n.hampshire   2.5   1.4   0.4 delaware      2.5   1.1   0.2  oregon        2.4   1.1   0.1 
the environmental protection agency has ordered general motors corp. to recall almost half a million 1985 cars and light trucks sold under the chevrolet, pontiac and gmc nameplates, epa said today
the cars exceed federal standards for carbon monoxide exhaust emissions and for evaporated gasoline, epa said
such orders are rare and are generally a sign the agency and the manufacturer could not agree on something, such as the cause of the problem, its scope, the necessary repair or terms of the recall. most recalls are made voluntarily
gm's washington office said the company would have a statement later
the company has 45 days either to request a public hearing to contest the order, or to submit a repair plan for epa's approval before notices are mailed to owners
epa said the affected vehicles are equipped with 5.0-liter (305 cubic inches) and 5.7-liter (350 cubic inches) engines and were sold as the chevrolet impala, caprice classic, camaro, monte carlo and el camino; the pontiac firebird, bonneville, grand prix and parisienne; and the gmc caballero. models sold in california, which are built to stricter standards, are included
the excessive emissions are in part the result of defects in a thermal vacuum switch in the evaporation control system, epa said. but the agency said simple replacement of the switch may not completely remedy the problem and further repairs, which it did not specify, may be necessary
last year, gm recalled more than a million vehicles from the 1982 and 1983 model years for similar problems
gm also is recalling about 4,900 1988 chevrolet corvettes to fix defective wheel welds that could cause the wheel center to separate from the rim during braking or cornering
the automaker said wednesday it is also recalling about 460 1987 gmc and chevrolet full-size vans to correct fuel tank filler pipes that could cause fuel to leak during refueling or turning
no accidents or injuries have been linked to either problem, gm said. vehicle owners are being notified of the recall by dealers, who will correct the problems at no charge, the company said
the corvettes, all equipped with 17-inch wheels, may be missing a weld on some wheels, gm said. the condition could result in partial loss of steering control and a sudden changed in vehicle direction, the automaker said. passenger and flight attendants' reaction; pick up 16th pvs, `the new ...'</note>
major u.s. airlines have no immediate plans to match northwest airlines' bold new move to ban smoking on most of its flights, and some industry analysts say the carriers are unlikely to do so
northwest, the nation's fifth-largest airline, announced wednesday it will prohibit smoking on all its domestic flights except those to and from hawaii and on some foreign routes
the ban makes minneapolis-based northwest the first major u.s. airline to mandate a smoke-free environment in the air. it goes beyond federal regulations that will outlaw smoking on all domestic flights of two hours or less beginning april 23
northwest said its prohibition was a response to passenger and employee requests. a.b. ``sky'' magary, northwest's executive vice president for marketing, told a news conference in new york that while the policy is not without risk, ``we believe more nonsmokers will switch to northwest than smokers will leave.''
wall street seemed unimpressed by northwest's smoke-free innovation. the airline's stock closed on the new york stock exchange at $45.75 a share, down 12{ cents from tuesday
some analysts believe northwest risks chasing away potential passengers, and other big airlines appear reluctant to follow the carrier's lead
we have no plans to follow that move,'' said mary o'neill, a spokeswoman for no. 2 american airlines. recent surveys conducted by american indicated a significant segment of people who want to smoke on planes, despite a growing demand for smoke-free areas, she said
american and several other big airlines contacted wednesday stressed that they planned to establish no-smoking policies in line with the new federal law
under those rules, passengers who insist on lighting up will face civil fines of as much as $1,000, and fliers who tamper with smoke alarms in airplane lavatories face up to $2,000 in penalties
we are ready to implement our no-smoking policy ... in line with the federal law,'' said united airlines spokesman dan sheehy. united, the nation's largest airline, has had a smoking ban in place since jan. 1 on all its flights within california, in accordance with a state law
fourth-ranked delta air lines has garnered a lot of support for its own california smoking ban, spokesman jim lundy said
he said delta's reaction to northwest's move was ``really tough to call,'' but did not rule out further action by his airline
we will of course take a look at what northwest is doing and see if we want to make an adjustment to our program,'' lundy said
anthony hatch, an airline analyst for argus research corp., said he did not expect the other carriers to match northwest's policy
it's a gutsy move and most airlines don't make gutsy moves,'' hatch said. ``it could alienate some people.''
three smokers, who were waiting to depart on northwest flights wednesday from minneapolis-st. paul international airport, said they don't object to the carrier's new smoking ban
it's probably a good idea,'' janice davis, a boston real estate broker, told the st. paul pioneer press dispatch. ``i can get by without smoking.''
even some northwest flight attendants, who are smokers, told the newspaper the new policy might help them quit smoking
the new policy, called ``northwest clears the air,'' will take effect april 23, the same day as the new federal regulations. it will apply to flights within the contiguous 48 states and flights to and from alaska, mexico, canada, jamaica and the cayman islands
the longest flights covered by the smoking ban are four or five hours, according to the airline. about 30 percent of northwest's domestic flights and about 20 percent of all domestic flights last more than the two-hour duration covered by the new federal smoking regulations
northwest flights to and from hawaii and overseas will continue offering smoking sections because those flights ``carry a greater proportion of foreign passengers who feel differently about the issue,'' the airline stated
we still have (foreign) competitors that are handing out cigars to passengers on board,'' magary said
but even that could be changing. air u.k. ltd., a small british airline that flies to destinations in britain and western europe, is banning smoking on all its flights effective next sunday
and a spokesman in london for british airways plc, one of the world's largest airlines, said the carrier was looking ``quite seriously'' at the possibility of banning smoking on both short and long flights
the trend also has appeared in southwest asia. government-controlled singapore airlines unveiled plans wednesday to introduce the first no-smoking commercial flights in the region next month
smoking will be barred on four of the 14 daily shuttle flights between singapore and kuala lumpur, the capital of neighboring malaysia, starting april 4. the trip takes about 45 minutes
the stock market suffered a broad setback today as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 29.18 to 2,038.46 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by more than 6 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 192 up, 1,200 down and 353 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 69.22 million shares at midmorning
with the dollar losing ground, prices of long-term government bonds dropped about $5 for each $1,000 in face value this morning, putting their yields in the 8.75 to 8.8 percent range
at their best recent levels, yields on treasury bonds were as low as 8.3 percent
analysts said pressure on the dollar prompted concern in markets around the world. prices fell in both the london and tokyo stock markets
against that background, brokers said, wall street investors moved quickly to cash on the u.s. market's gains since late last year
among actively traded blue chips, general electric dropped 1 to 41|; international business machines 1{ to 110[; american express { to 25{, and american telephone &amp; telegraph \ to 28
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 1.90 to 149.92. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 1.83 at 298.58
a british labor union delegation left thursday for detroit in hopes of persuading ford motor co. to change its mind and locate an electronic components plant in scotland
we have a monumental task ahead of us,'' gavin laird, head of the amalgamated engineering union, said before the five-member delegation left london's heathrow airport
the delegation left a day after the trades union congress, britain's national labor federation, agreed to ford demands for a single-union deal at the proposed plant in dundee, scotland
the group included tuc general secretary norman willis
after five months of squabbling among british unions about the deal, ford announced this week it would not locate the $73 million plant in britain
prodded by this, the trades union congress' general council on wednesday voted 23-15 for the single-union deal. the transport and general workers' union, britain's largest union, remained opposed
the tgwu represents two-thirds of ford's more than 32,000 british workers and was insisting on being allowed into the dundee plant
the plant was expected to employ 450 workers
grain and soybean futures prices opened narrowly mixed today in quiet trading on the chicago board of trade
wheat futures were slightly lower. the market is caught in a tug-of-war between traders expecting seasonal price weakness to develop and those looking for new export business to push prices higher, said walter spilka, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
the corn and soybean markets were quiet and likely will stay that way through next thursday, when the agriculture department releases its first estimates of this year's planted acreage, spilka said
recent volatility in the precious metals and currency futures markets has had surprisingly little impact on grain futures prices, probably because grain traders are beginning to look more at supply-and-demand fundamentals and paying less attention to the prices of other commodities, he said
in early trading, wheat was } cent to 1{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $3.06{ a bushel; corn was unchanged to } cent higher with may at $2.06{ a bushel; oats were \ cent higher across the board with may at $1.68 a bushel; soybeans were } cent to 1} cents higher with may at $6.40{ a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mixed in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .05 cent lower to .20 cent higher with april at 74.50 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .05 cent to .30 cent lower with march at 82.37 cents a pound; hogs were .20 cent lower to .50 cent higher with april at 45.95 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .05 cent lower to .30 cent higher with march at 55.40 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures settled mostly lower on wednesday. 6th graf pvs bg'ng, guinness has ...</note>
guinness plc, the british brewing company, said thursday its earnings more than quadrupled in 1987 due to extraordinary items
guinness said it earned 474 million pounds, or $867 million, up from 113 million pounds in 1986
the company attributed the increase to one-time gains of 217 million pounds, including 29 million pounds of unauthorized payments relating to the april 1986 takeover of distillers co
sales fell 9 percent to 2.82 billion pounds from 3.1 billion pounds
police have charged six people, including former guinness chairman ernest saunders, for alleged offenses related to the distillers takeover
on thursday, police arrested british stockbroker anthony parnes in connection with the guinness scandal when he voluntarily returned to london after being held in a los angeles jail for six months for extradition proceedings
parnes, 42, who was arrested at heathrow airport, faces 19 charges including aiding and abetting the theft of money from the brewing company. he is accused of setting up and operating an illegal share support operation during the guinness takeover bid for distillers in 1986
guinness has admitted it paid outsiders millions of pounds to buy guinness stock to make the brewer's cash and stock offer for distillers, a gin and whisky maker, more attractive than a rival bid
the company did not break down its quarterly or six-month results. corporations are not required to do so under british law. spelling of gutfreund.</note>
former white house budget director david a. stockman is quitting the wall street giant salomon brothers inc. to join the blackstone group, the smaller rival announced today
stockman, a managing director at salomon since leaving the white house in 1985, will handle all merchant banking activities and merger transactions for the blackstone group, the company said
his departure from salomon comes against a background of turmoil within the venerable investment firm, a partial result of the uncertain outlook for wall street in the aftermath of the stock market crash five months ago
several other high-ranking executives also have quit salomon recently, although stockman was quoted by the new york times today as saying his departure was unrelated to the company's problems
my experience at salomon was absolutely agreeable and i have a high regard for (salomon chairman) john gutfreund,'' stockman was quoted as saying. ``...there's one thing i couldn't do there _ which is have my own shop.''
former commerce secretary peter g. peterson, chairman of blackstone, said in a press statement that stockman will take charge of a jointly owned firm called ``stockman &amp; co. _ a blackstone group affiliate.''
peterson said he wanted stockman to bolster blackstone's emerging merchant banking business in japan
dave stockman will be an immensely valuable asset in meeting that goal,'' he said. ``he brings a global perspective on business and financial issues as well as intimate familiarity with both u.s. and japanese government policies.''
blackstone recently represented sony in a $2 billion acquisition of cbs records late last year and represented firestone tire &amp; rubber co. in its $2.6 billion acquisition by japan's bridgestone corp
stockman, 41, was white house budget director from 1981 to 1985
the for sale sign on chrysler motors corp.'s acustar subsidiary has been taken down, but chrysler is pushing the parts-making company farther from the corporate nest
the objective is to have it be much more independent, especially in the administration, so you don't have a lot of people in acustar filing reports to chrysler about what they will be doing,'' said baron bates, vice president of public relations
the idea came up when chrysler was reviewing whether to sell the $3 billion subsidiary, bates said. the company backed away from selling acustar after the united auto workers union revolted and threatened strikes at acustar plants where local contracts were unresolved
the 10-month-old subsidiary has continued as a part of the company's structure and functioned almost as a chrysler motors department
one of the things we're contemplating in-house is ... why don't we pretend we sold acustar and really treat them as a completely self-contained business responsible for their own bottom-line results and let them do whatever they have to do to get there?'' acustar chairman robert lutz said
acustar financial results would be reported with chrysler's, and chrysler still would handle the company's labor relations, but acustar no longer would report to chrysler administratively, bates said
one reason chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca said chrysler considered selling acustar was the expense of research and development necessary for competitive parts technology
lutz said part of acustar's strategy would involve buying new technology and forming partnerships with parts companies rather than developing new technology on its own
the idea has been endorsed by chrysler's executive committee and lutz has been urged to complete the change quickly, he said. he declined to be more specific about a timetable
of the big three automakers, chrysler purchases more of its parts from outside suppliers than industry leader general motors corp. or ford motor co
chevron corp. plans to add more than 1,500 workers by the end of the year, the largest annual increase in staff since the oil company bought gulf in 1984
the addition would include more than 300 workers in the san francisco bay area, according to an article in an employee magazine
the company, the fourth-largest oil company in the nation, has 13,400 workers in the san francisco area, including 2,748 at its headquarters in san francisco
nearly half of the new employees will work in exploration. the company will hire 400 workers to help find and produce oil in the united states alone. in addition, 100 people will be involved in exploration work in canada and 160 will be hired for other nations
the stock market took a sharp drop today as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 40.78 points to 2,026.86 by noontime on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by nearly 7 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 193 up, 1,327 down and 330 unchanged
with the dollar losing ground, prices of long-term government bonds dropped about $5 for each $1,000 in face value this morning, putting their yields in the 8.75 to 8.8 percent range
at their best recent levels, yields on treasury bonds were as low as 8.3 percent
analysts said pressure on the dollar prompted concern in markets around the world. prices fell in both the london and tokyo stock markets
against that background, brokers said, wall street investors moved quickly to cash on the u.s. market's gains since late last year
among actively traded blue chips, general electric dropped 1] to 41\; international business machines 2 to 109|; american express | to 25]; exxon 1[ to 43, and american telephone &amp; telegraph ] to 27~
in the securities industry group, merrill lynch fell 1 to 23\; salomon 1[ to 21\; first boston ~ to 25\; morgan stanley { to 59{, and charles schwab [ to 8{
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 2.72 to 149.10. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 2.81 at 297.60
volume on the big board came to 101.69 million shares at noontime, against 81.58 million at the same point wednesday
treasury secretary james a. baker iii told congress on thursday that disclosing names of foreign investors would damage the united states
proposals for some disclosure are in trade bills now before congress
if enacted, the ... provision would have a chilling effect on foreign investment in the united states _ thereby costing jobs, raising interest rates, lowering productivity, closing off opportunities for technological and managerial improvements, and undermining our efforts to liberalize investments abroad,'' baker said
his opposition was in a written statement sent to the senate commerce committee. sponsors of the proposal, sen. tom harkin and rep. john bryant, came to a committee hearing and said they were sorry baker did not appear in person
not one of the g-7 countries (united states, japan, west germany, britain, france, canada, italy) has a publicly available national register of foreign investments of the type prescribed by bryant,'' baker wrote
not one discloses to the public ongoing information about the status of specific private investors and their investments; not one requires systematic reporting by foreign investors or domestic firms for this purpose.''
baker's views were challenged by harkin, though he did not refer to baker. harkin said most countries require more information than his bill is seeking, and in addition require their governments to clear investments in advance. his proposal does not seek that kind of clearance
even switzerland keeps a public registry of swiss companies with foreign ownership,'' he said
japan's preclearance process seems one of the most stringent, in part because it is the most explicit ... japan flatly prohibits foreign ownership of more than 25 percent in any of its high-tech companies.''
domestic automakers were scheduled to produce 233,594 cars and trucks this week, up from last week's 230,813, ward's automotive reports said thursday
automakers produced 241,104 cars and trucks during the same week a year ago. they were were scheduled to make 147,063 cars this week, compared with 147,039 a week ago and 164,212 in the same week in 1987
truck production for the week was scheduled at 86,531, compared with last week's 83,774 and last year's 76,892
canadian automakers were to build 26,445 cars this week, compared with 18,884 last week and 17,709 in the same week last year. canadian truck production was scheduled at 19,864, compared with 20,262 last week and 18,734 in the same week last year. australia; uppicks 2nd graf: brierly made...</note>
new zealand investor ronald brierly is offering $988 million to take over calmat co., a major construction materials and real estate concern with operations in southern california and arizona
brierly made his unsolicited $40-per-share offer for the 81 percent of calmat he does not already own through a subsidiary of australia-based industrial equity (pacific) inc., calmat said wednesday
calmat has 30.5 million shares outstanding
los angeles-based calmat was created in 1984 by the merger of two construction industry giants _ california portland cement co. and conrock co. the merged companies' core businesses are in cement, ready-mixed concrete, aggregate, hot-mixed asphalt and real estate holdings
brierly's offer sent calmat's stock soaring by $13.50 per share to $45.37{ in heavy trading wednesday on the new york stock exchange. the stock was up $1.87| on tuesday amid speculation the company might become a takeover target
in a brief statement, calmat chief executive a.f. gerstell said that in the past three years the company ``has taken significant steps...to enhance shareholder value through the disposition of assets and the reallocation of proceeds to the company's higher-margin core businesses.''
in addition, gerstell said, the company and its investment adviser, j.p. morgan &amp; co., have for some time been looking at ``additional, more aggressive steps which the company can take to continue this ongoing process.''
calmat intends to convene a special board meeting to compare brierly's offer with its own restructuring options, gerstell said
in 1987, the company earned $78.1 million on revenue of $658.9 million. the profit included a $24 million gain on the sale of assets. in 1986, calmat earned $44.1 million on revenue of $619 million
gerstell has been calmat's chief executive, president and chief operating officer since the company was created. for the previous three years, he was presdient of california portland cement
calmat's chairman, william jenkins, was president of conrock before the merger
brierly, whose holdings range from real estate to oil and gas to financial services, characterizes himself as a long-term investor but not necessarily a passive one
in 1986, he made an unsuccessful bid to acquire control of beverly hills-based wrather corp., best known as the operator of the disneyland hotel in anaheim and the spruce goose and queen mary tourist attractions in long beach
subsequently, a joint venture of brierly and burbank-based walt disney co. bought wrather for $152 million. disney has become manager of the disneyland hotel, which sits on its property, but no agreement has been reached on how the assets will be split
the justice department today charged a former texas savings and loan executive with providing sexual payoffs to the institution's officers and board members in a conspiracy to violate the federal bank and bribery statute
john hill, former vice president of vernon savings and loan association, arranged for paid female companionship for officers and directors at a three-day june 1985 board meeting in solana beach, calif., said a one-count felony information
hill, who the justice department said has agreed to plead guilty, intended that sexual favors would be available to the executives in connection with their service to the institution, said court papers filed in u.s. district court in dallas
according to a justice department statement, hill and others created false board minutes on the renewal and extension of some commercial real estate loans. the bogus minutes indicated the renewals and extensions had been approved by the board when no such approval had occurred
hill falsified documentation justifying $100,000 in payments to a consultant in connection with a loan from an s&amp;l, according to papers filed in federal court in dallas
in addition, according to the felony information, hill conspired with a vernon official to make $5,400 in illegal state and federal campaign contributions to specific candidates, based on the understanding that he would be reimbursed through false expense vouchers submitted to vernon
the contributions allegedly included $1,000 to former texas congressman thomas loeffler in february 1986, $2,000 to the loeffler for government campaign in april 1986, $400 to the campaign of u.s. rep. martin frost, d-texas, in september 1985, and $2,000 to citizens for jack kemp in june 1986
there were no allegations that any of the campaign organizations or candidates knew the contributions were actually coming from the s&amp;l
disguising payments to the consultant and concealing reimbursements for the illegal campaign contributions impeded the internal revenue service in determining the amount of income taxes due by the consultant, by hill, by vernon and by the association's holding company, dondi financial corp
hill, who has agreed to cooperate in an ongoing probe of vernon, could be sentenced to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine on the conspiracy charge
the stock market lapsed into a sharp decline today as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 41.28 points to 2,026.36 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 6 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 230 up, 1,367 down and 333 unchanged
with the dollar losing ground, prices of long-term government bonds dropped about $5 for each $1,000 in face value today, putting their yields in the 8.75 to 8.8 percent range
at their best recent levels, yields on treasury bonds were as low as 8.3 percent
analysts said pressure on the dollar prompted concern in markets around the world. prices fell in both the london and tokyo stock markets
against that background, brokers said, wall street investors moved quickly to cash on the u.s. market's gains since late last year
among actively traded blue chip and technology issues, general electric dropped 1[ to 41{; international business machines 1~ to 109}; digital equipment 3{ to 107~; and american telephone &amp; telegraph { to 27}
in the securities industry group, merrill lynch fell 1 to 23\; salomon 1 to 21]; first boston ~ to 25\; morgan stanley | to 59], and charles schwab ] to 8\
international clinical laboratories jumped 8 to 33} in over-the-counter trading. smithkline beckman made a $32-a-share bid for the company, which had agreed to an acquisition by corning glass works for $26 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 2.77 to 149.05. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 3.13 at 297.28
volume on the big board came to 133.31 million shares with two hours to go
rolls-royce plc, the airplane engine maker privatized by the government last year, on thursday reported a 12 percent increase in its net profit for 1987
strong gains in the group's civil aviation division more than offset a sharp rise in research and development costs, the company said
rolls-royce, which is a separate company from the luxury car maker, reported 1987 net profit of 134 million pounds, or $247 million, up from 120 million pounds, or $221 million a year earlier
per share earnings came to 20.1 pence, or 37 cents, compared with 18.9 pence, or 35 cents, a year earlier
sales increased 14 percent to 2.06 billion pounds, or $3.8 billion, from 1.8 billion pounds, or $3.3 billion in 1986
rolls-royce chairman sir francis tombs said: ``our order book is strong and our wide stable of competitive engines gives us an excellent opportunity to consolidate our existing customer base and secure some of the attractive new sales opportunities which are appearing around the world.''
the company did not break out quarterly or six-month results. it isn't required to under british law
world ouptut of wheat is projected to rise in 1988, but could still fall short of demand for the second consecutive year, the international wheat council said thursday
in its first forecast of 1988 prospects, the council tentatively put 1988 world output at 525 million metric tons _ 17 million above last year's estimated total and 10 million below the 1986 record
production of 525 million metric tons would fail to satisfy projected demand for 1988, but current stocks could be used to make up the shortfall, the council said
in the short- to medium-term, there should be no need for great anxiety,'' it added
soybean futures prices closed sharply higher thursday on the chicago board of trade due to a late surge of speculative buying. grain futures closed mixed
the soybean runup in the last 1{ hours of trading coincided with a rally in silver futures prices that may have sparked buying interest in soybeans, said walter spilka, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
there was no new fundamental news during the session but sometimes the soybeans will trade with the precious metals markets,'' he said
the grain markets had looked strong before today and the rise in silver prices may have led to inflationary ideas,'' spilka said
the dollar also weakened thursday, making u.s. goods cheaper overseas. expectations that the dollar will remain weak against other currencies may also have supported the soybean market, he said
at the close, wheat was \ cent to 2 cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $3.07 a bushel; corn was { cent to 1{ cents lower with may at $2.06} a bushel; oats were { cent to 1\ cents higher with may at $1.68\ a bushel; soybeans were 7{ cents to 10\ cents higher with may at $6.50 a bushel
stock prices tumbled today as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 44.10 points to 2,023.54 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by more than 6 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 230 up, 1,394 down and 337 unchanged
as the dollar lost ground, prices of long-term government bonds dropped about $5 for each $1,000 in face value today, putting their yields in the 8.75 to 8.8 percent range
at their best recent levels, yields on treasury bonds were as low as 8.3 percent
analysts said pressure on the dollar prompted concern in markets around the world. prices fell in both the london and tokyo stock markets
against that background, brokers said, investors moved quickly to cash on the u.s. market's gains since late last year
among actively traded blue chip and technology issues, general electric dropped ~ to 41}; international business machines 1| to 110; digital equipment 3] to 108, and american telephone &amp; telegraph { to 27}
in the securities industry group, merrill lynch fell ~ to 23]; salomon 1[ to 21\; first boston 1 to 25[; morgan stanley { to 59{, and charles schwab { to 8[
international clinical laboratories jumped 8 to 33} in over-the-counter trading. smithkline beckman made a $32-a-share bid for the company, which had agreed to an acquisition by corning glass works for $26 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 2.99 to 148.83. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 3.49 at 296.92
volume on the big board came to 154.77 million shares with an hour to go
delaware management co., a philadelphia-based money management firm that oversees $18 billion in assets, said thursday it was being acquired in a leveraged buyout valued in excess of $200 million
delaware's management joined with legend capital l.p. in acquiring the company for ``a price in excess of $200 million in equity and debt,'' said charles storer, a spokesman for the companies. further details were not available
legend capital is a private investment firm formed last year by john castle, the former chief executive of donaldson lufkin &amp; jenrette, and partner leonard harlan, who heads a real estate investment firm
delaware management handles $15 billion in pension money for 225 corporate and public pension funds, including those of international business machines corp. and amoco corp. the firm also manages $5 billion in assets in 16 mutual funds
legend had $125 million in investments from pension funds, endowments and indviduals as of last november
stock prices fell sharply today as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher
as the dollar lost ground, prices of long-term government bonds dropped about $5 for each $1,000 in face value today, putting their yields in the 8.75 to 8.8 percent range
at their best recent levels, yields on treasury bonds were as low as 8.3 percent
analysts said pressure on the dollar prompted concern in markets around the world. prices fell in both the london and tokyo stock markets
against that background, brokers said, investors moved quickly to cash on the u.s. market's gains since late last year
business phone costs held steady in the first three months of 1987, the first quarter since 1984 in which they have have not fallen, according to a report thursday
a 10 percent rise in rates for interstate private lines offset declines of 7 percent in rates for both wats and toll calls, said ccmi-mcgraw-hill, which conducts the quarterly survey
the firm's telecommunications price index remained level at 77.3, down from a base of 100 in 1984
the big three long-distance companies seem to be adjusting their rates to make it attractive for business customers to switch from private lines to wats and toll service, said george christie, chief economist for mcgraw-hill information systems co
american telephone &amp; telegraph co. dominates the interstate long-distance market, with mci communications corp. and us sprint communications co. trailing
the cost of local business calling remained stable during the period
christie said any changes in phone rates in the final days of the month would have an insignificant effect on the first-quarter index
a court challenge to a florida tax on insurance premiums and annuities will decide whether the department of revenue owes out-of-state insurance companies $140 million in refunds
the companies don't like the way the state currently assesses taxes on money that consumers pay to insurers _ a 2 percent tax on premiums and 1 percent tax on annuities
the tax is paid only by out-of-state companies, not by florida-based insurers. the out-of-state companies say that isn't fair, and many of them have asked for refunds
the law was changed last year to require all insurance companies, including those based in florida, to pay the premium insurance tax, but that change won't take effect until july 1
the state targeted one case _ continental insurance co. _ to be a test case in circuit court
if (the case) comes down in our favor, we'll be all right financially,'' said walter wood, an attorney in the department of banking and finance, one of three state agencies in the case. ``if not, there's a lot of money involved.''
new york-based continental sought a refund of $1.5 million that it paid in taxes in 1983, 1984 and 1985. it is one of 210 companies that have filed for a total of $140 million in refunds _ an amount roughly equal to the entire budget for the department of banking and finance
it's substantial,'' said daniel brown of the department of legal affairs, which is handling the case
in its refund claim, continental argued that the u.s. supreme court ruled in 1985 that such disriminatory taxing policies were unconstitutional
according to the state comptroller's office, out-of-state insurance companies have filed claims to recover taxes paid as long ago as the mid-1970s
brown argued on the state's behalf that the florida tax law should be considered legal until courts rule on its constitutionality
brown also claimed that the out-of-state insurance companies passed along the tax to consumers through its premiums and refunding the money would unjustly enrich the companies
the department of banking and finance is involved because the comptroller rules on requests for tax refunds. the department of revenue both collects the tax and makes the refunds, while the department of insurance regulates the insurance industry
stock prices took a sharp drop thursday as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 43.77 points to 2,023.87
declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 5 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 269 up, 1,379 down and 347 unchanged
big board volume totaled 184.91 million shares, against 167.37 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index dropped 2.82 to 149.00
as the dollar lost ground, prices of long-term government bonds fell about $5 for each $1,000 in face value during the morning, putting their yields in the 8.75 to 8.8 percent range. at their best recent levels, yields on treasury bonds were as low as 8.3 percent
bonds later recovered a good part of their early losses, but stocks did not follow suit
analysts said pressure on the dollar prompted concern in markets around the world. prices fell in both the london and tokyo stock markets
against that background, brokers said, investors moved quickly to cash on the u.s. market's gains since late last year
thursday's session marked the fourth time the dow jones industrial average came close to, but did not quite reach, the 50-point plus or minus limit set by the nyse feb. 4 at which restrictions go into effect on the use of its computer trading facilities for so-called index arbitrage trading
though this ``collar,'' as exchange officials call it, has never been activated, many wall streeters say it appears to have become a sort of de facto limit on daily price swings, and possibly a target for traders as well
among actively traded blue chip and technology issues, general electric dropped } to 41~; international business machines 1~ to 109}; digital equipment 3} to 107|, and american telephone &amp; telegraph { to 27}
digital equipment, which has a wide following among investing institutions as a leading technology company, dropped below its lowest point in the october crash
in the securities industry group, merrill lynch fell } to 23{; salomon 1[ to 21\; first boston 1[ to 25; morgan stanley } to 59\, and charles schwab ] to 8\
some stocks involved in takeover developments bucked the downtrend. irving bank, which jumped 6| to 66\, said that it was negotiating with unnamed ``third parties'' about a possible merger, restructuring or sale of assets as an alternative to a hostile bid by bank of new york
international clinical laboratories climbed 8 to 33} in over-the-counter trading. smithkline beckman made a $32-a-share bid for the company, which had agreed to an acquisition by corning glass works for $26 a share
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market lost $46.65 billion, or 1.75 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 215.22 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 6.72 to 305.31, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down 5.56 at 263.35
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market dropped 4.49 to 375.60. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 297.30, down 3.11
the dollar continued to slide thursday, reaching levels against the japanese yen and west german mark not seen for two months as a bearish sentiment pervaded currency markets
gold prices firmed. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $453.15 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from wednesday's late bid of $451.15 an ounce
traders said the dollar continued to suffer from comments made wednesday by martin feldstein, former chief economic advisor to the president, who said the currency should fall to 120 yen in the near term
in an address at new york university, feldstein also predicted the dollar would decline against other currencies over the next several years
those comments are not new, but they triggered losses'' in the dollar, said earl johnson, a vice president at irving trust co
the dollar, which closed at 125.575 yen in new york, last traded at that level in mid-january. traders said the yen continues to strengthen ahead of the close of the japanese fiscal year on march 31 and on the expectation that the japanese economy will forge ahead
the dollar also weakened somewhat on government reports that personal income grew 0.9 percent in february and that personal consumption expenditures grew 0.7 percent during the month
the figures indicated that consumer spending is picking up again, which likely will result in wider trade deficits, said nigel green, a trader at ebc-amro bank in london
johnson echoed that sentiment, saying that the ``mildly bearish sentiment'' toward the dollar is being spurred by ``the realization that there will be larger trade deficits later in the year.''
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 126.30 yen, down 0.85 yen. later in london, it was quoted at a lower rate of 125.75 yen
in london, the british pound rose to $1.8435 from wednesday's $1.8358. in new york, it cost $1.8420 to buy one pound, more expensive than wednesday's $1.83725
other late dollar rates in new york, compared to late wednesday, included: 1.67725 west german marks, down from 1.6916; 1.38625 swiss francs, down from 1.3985; 5.7045 french francs, down from 5.7470; 1,242.50 italian lire, down from 1,251.875, and 1.2421 canadian dollars, down from 1.2430
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late wednesday, included: 1.6800 west german marks, down from 1.6915; 1.3885 swiss francs, down from 1.3990; 5.7120 french francs, down from 5.7450; 1.8980 dutch guilders, down from 1.9005; 1,246.95 italian lire, down from 1,253.25, and 1.2426 canadian dollars, down from 1.2434
gold prices moved mostly higher. on the new york commodity exchange, gold closed at $454.10, up from $451.10 an ounce wednesday
in london gold fell to a late bid price of $452 a troy ounce, compared with late wednesday's $453. in zurich, gold rose to close at a bid $452, compared with $450.50 late wednesday. earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $3.34 to close at $455.40 an ounce
silver closed at $6.735 an ounce on new york's comex, up from $6.610 on wednesday. in london, the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.61 a troy ounce, compared with wednesday's $6.63
the two broadest measures of the nation's money supply jumped in mid-march, the federal reserve board reported thursday
the report had no impact on interest rates in the credit markets, however
the fed said the measure known as m2 rose $11.2 billion to a seasonally adjusted $2,965.5 billion in the week ended march 14 from $2,954.3 billion the previous week
an even broader measure, m3, increased $14.8 billion to a seasonally adjusted $3,740.3 billion from $3,725.5 billion
the narrowest measure of the money supply, m1, rose $4.7 billion to a seasonally adjusted $760.5 billion from $755.8 billion. for the latest 13 weeks, m1 rose 2.6 percent to an average of $755.7 billion
m1 includes cash in circulation, deposits in checking accounts and non-bank travelers checks. m2 is m1 plus accounts like savings deposits and money-market mutual funds. m3 is m2 plus less-liquid accounts, such as certificates of deposit in minimum denominations of $100,000
in setting its monetary policy, the fed has indicated it is monitoring the value of the dollar, commodity prices and the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. it also has shifted its attention from m1 to the two broader money supply measures
the fed said in early 1988 that it would like annual growth for m2 and m3 to be between 4 percent and 8 percent, which is slightly lower than the 1987 target of 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent. the fed has not set a specific target range for m1 since early 1987
in other reports:
_the federal reserve bank of new york reported commercial and industrial loans at major new york city banks fell $48 million in the week ended march 16 compared with a decline of $1.24 billion a week earlier
_the federal reserve said bank borrowings from the federal reserve system averaged $325 million a day in the week ended wednesday, up from $153 million in the previous week
_the federal reserve bank of st. louis reported that the monetary base, the seasonally adjusted total of member bank reserves held at federal reserve banks and cash in bank vaults and in circulation, was $274.2 billion in the two-week period ended wednesday, up from $272.1 billion two weeks earlier
prices for future delivery of silver and copper posted steep gains thursday on expections of increasing demand among industrial users of the metals
gold futures prices also advanced on perceptions of rising inflation
on other markets, soybean futures surged while grain futures were mixed; stock-index futures fell; energy futures and livestock and meat futures were mixed
wednesday's government figures showing the economy grew at a higher-than-expected 4.8 percent rate in the fourth quarter of 1987 had a delayed impact on silver and copper futures on new york's commodity exchange, said bernard savakl, a metals analyst for painewebber
silver and copper are industrial metals that have to play catch-up on the upside now following the gnp report,'' savakl said. ``what the government is saying is contrary to the majority of expectations: the economy did not slow to a grinding halt but gathered upward momentum, and that's very positive for industrial metals.''
silver, which is also a precious metal and thus perceived as an investment hedge against inflation, also gained in reaction to generally higher futures prices for other commodities, savakl said
the commodities research bureau's index of 21 commodity markets gained 1.25 points thursday, a moderate advance
analyst stephen w. platt of dean witter reynolds inc., attributed the silver rally to far eastern buying of the metal and to the dollar's decline in value against foreign currencies
platt also noted that copper is in short supply. tight supplies of copper have been cited to explain the metal's steady increase in value since late february
copper settled .50 cent to 6.25 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $1.1395 a pound
gold settled $2.20 to $3 higher with april at $454.30 a troy ounce; silver was 12.5 cents to 13.4 cents higher with march at $6.735 a troy ounce
the silver rally may have sparked buying interest in soybean futures, which gained as much as 9{ cents a bushel on the chicago board of trade. grains were mixed
there was no new fundamental news during the session but sometimes the soybeans will trade with the precious metals markets,'' said walter spilka, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
the grain markets had looked strong before today and the rise in silver prices may have led to inflationary ideas,'' he said
expectations that the dollar will remain weak, making u.s. goods cheaper overseas, may also have supported the soybean market, he said
wheat settled unchanged to 2 cents lower with may at $3.06} a bushel; corn was } cent to 1\ cents higher with may at $2.07 a bushel; oats were } cent to 1\ cents higher with may at $1.68{ a bushel; soybeans were 7 cents to 9{ cents higher with may at $6.49\ a bushel
stock-index futures tumbled on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 6.30 points lower at 264.10
stock and stock-index futures prices opened sharply lower in reaction to the dollar's weakness and continued to fall throughout the session, said john mitchell, an analyst for elders futures inc
oil prices finished mixed in moderate trading on the new york mercantile exchange, reflecting uncertainty over the opec pricing committee's ability to calm the turbulent market, analysts said
the group meets next month to discuss stabilizing sagging prices
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 2 cents to 10 cents higher with may at $16.96 a barrel; heating oil was .16 cent to .41 cent lower with april at 47.40 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .20 cent lower to .08 cent higher with april at 47.33 cents a gallon
cattle futures finished mostly lower and pork futures were mostly higher in a day of choppy trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
traders were wary of the sharp drop in stock prices, fearing a repeat of the cattle market collapse that followed the stock market's historic plunge in october, said charlie richardson, an analyst in denver with lind-waldock &amp; co
everbody was keeping an eye on the indexes and what the stock market was doing,'' he said
live cattle settled .53 cent lower to .05 cent higher with april at 74.40 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .25 cent to .65 cent lower with march at 82.20 cents a pound; hogs were .20 cent lower to .40 cent higher with april at 46.07 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .35 cent to .60 cent higher with march at 55.45 cents a pound
the losing side vowed to fight on thursday after a federal bankruptcy judge approved an $11 million settlement in a case involving three zeros accidentally dropped from some financial documents
we have not given up the ship, so to speak,'' said sandra mayerson, a lawyer representing a major creditor in the chapter 11 proceedings of united states lines, a moribund shipping company, and its parent mclean industries inc
prudential insurance co. of america agreed this week to pay about $11 million to united states lines to settle legal claims stemming from a clerical error in which a mortgage lien prudential held on eight ships, worth $92,885,000, was recorded as worth $92,885
prudential agreed to pay the money to keep united states lines and other creditors from challenging the full amount of the lien
ms. mayerson said her client, general electric capital corp., which shared a second mortgage on the ships, would press its challenge in admiralty court and might even appeal the ruling thursday by u.s. bankruptcy judge howard buschman iii
if general electric capital can convince a judge that prudential's lien is really worth only $92,885, it will get a bigger portion of the more than $60 million in net proceeds raised by the sale of the eight ships
the oddity of a clerical error costing prudential more than $11 million attracted widespread attention to the case. but it was not a major case in the legal annals, said sheldon hirshon, a lawyer for another creditor, sea-going benefit plans, which went along with the settlement
this is not brown vs. board of education,'' hirshon said, referring to the landmark 1954 school desegregation case
pharmaceutical giant smithkline beckman corp. on thursday launched a $32-a-share tender offer for international clinical laboratories inc., which already has accepted a bid from corning glass works
smithkline valued its offer for the clinical testing firm at $340 million, which includes the assumption of debt. smithkline owns about 1 percent of icl's 7.6 million outstanding shares
in over-the-counter trading, icl jumped $8 to close at $33.75 a share
icl, based in nashville, tenn., announced earlier this month that it reached a definitive agreement to be acquired by corning's metpath inc. subsidiary for $26 a share, or about $260 million
a spokesman at corning headquarters in corning, n.y., had no comment on whether the company might increase its bid
analysts said, however, that corning, which earned $162.2 million last year, is financially capable of challenging smithkline
corning can go considerably higher if they found it worthwhile,'' said charles k. ryan, an analyst with merrill lynch &amp; co. in new york
under terms of its merger agreement, corning has an option to buy 3 million unissued icl shares as well as ``all the shares owned by certain directors and officers'' for $26 each
ryan said the directors and officers hold 800,000 shares, which would value the options at about $99 million. companies sometimes grant such ``lock-up'' options to keep others at bay by making a subsequent bids more expensive
henry wendt, chairman and chief executive officer of philadelphia-based smithkline, said in a statement that the offer is ``consistent with our corporate strategy to invest in our key businesses and will build on the success of our clinical laboratories network.''
smithkline bio-science laboratories, the company's clinical laboratory segment headquartered in king of prussia, pa., operates 22 regional laboratories. it reported sales of $431 million last year
smithkline is ``no. 1, and they want to get even bigger'' by acquiring icl, said david lippman, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc
corning's metpath subsidiary, which is headquartered in teterboro, n.j., operates a testing laboratory there as well as 12 others nationwide
icl's 13 clinical testing laboratories are located in the south and west. the company has a substantial contract to conduct aids tests on 27,000 federal prisoners in 47 prisons and recently announced the opening of a new division in nashville to market its laboratory testing service to the insurance industry nationwide
for the fiscal year ended last aug. 31, icl reported profits of $4.8 million on sales of $205.5 million
as a condition of its offer, which expires at midnight april 20, smithkline said that two tennessee laws governing takeovers must be found invalid or inapplicable
corning's offer expires april 5
lufthansa german airlines has ordered 20 boeing 737 airliners and taken options on 20 more of the twin-engined jets, boeing commercial airplanes said wednesday
under terms of the order, worth approximately $535 million, lufthansa will begin receiving the new aircraft in october 1990, with deliveries continuing through may 1991, said boeing spokesman tom cole
cole said the jets will be a mix of 141-passenger 737-300s and 98-passenger 737-500s, but the number of each type of plane has not yet been decided
the 737-500 is the smallest commercial jet boeing sells. it is now under development and is scheduled to be introduced in february 1990
the 737-500 is nearly identical to the 737-300, except that at 97 feet, 9 inches it is 7 feet, 10 inches shorter. crews rated for one model can also fly the other
lufthansa plans to use the new aircraft to replace older aircraft in its fleet, cole said. the new planes will be powered by cfm56-3b1 engines made by general electric of the united states and snecma of france
lufthansa, which bought the first 737 from boeing in 1965, now has ordered 90 of the planes
boeing has now received 2,028 orders for all 737 models, the most-popular commercial jetliner ever made
investor marvin davis, snubbed in his $770 million takeover bid for lorimar telepictures corp., sought wednesday to turn up the heat in his fight for the entertainment concern
davis said he would consider other ``alternative courses of action'' if lorimar continues to hold merger talks only with warner communications inc., the new york-based entertainment conglomerate
a lorimar spokesman said those options included filing suit against lorimar or making a hostile tender offer
noting that the price of lorimar stock has risen more than 50 percent since lorimar disclosed on march 3 that it was talking with warner, davis said, ``i believe you have passed the point of no return ... it is time to quickly and efficiently provide equal access (to non-public information) to all serious bidders.''
he added, ``it is upsetting to me, as it must be to all shareholders, that only one of the parties interested in acquiring lt has had the opportunity to inspect its books and records.''
davis is offering $17 per share for lorimar's 45.3 million shares. no details of the price being discussed by warner has been disclosed, but analysts have estimated could fetch a price in the high teens
the company's stock closed unchanged at $15 a share wednesday on the american stock exchange
davis also indicated that he owned a ``substantial block'' of lorimar stock. a spokesman said it was less than the 5 percent which an investor must disclose and most, if not all, of the stock was acquired before davis made his takeover proposal on march 7
lorimar spokeswoman sue binford said wednesday that the company had no comment on davis' announcement and declined to comment on the status of talks with warner
lorimar dismissed davis' proposal in rather summary fashion just hours after it was disclosed two weeks ago, saying only that it ``would bear davis' letter in mind.''
lorimar, based in suburban culver city, is a leading producer of original television programming, but in recent years has been troubled as its ambitious plans to expand into other areas have disintegrated and sometimes caused hevy losses for the company
in the first nine months of its current fiscal year, lorimar lost $82.6 million on revenues of $616.8 million. the deficit included $45 million in writedowns on five movies and $22 million in reserves for possible future losses in its home-video unit
motorola inc.'s electronics group has agreed to pay the government $16.7 million and to plead guilty to a criminal information accusing it of mischarging for labor and materials on navy satellite and missile contracts, the justice department announced thursday
in documents filed in u.s. district court in phoenix, motorola's government electronics group in scottsdale, ariz., was accused of inflating costs for a component of a navy satellite communications and mischarging $2.5 million in labor, materials and other costs. the money actually was spent on other work, the government said
the defense department, relying on the inflated amounts, paid some $5 million more than it should have on a second contract for the satellite communications system, said the government
motorola, one of the nation's top 50 defense contractors, agreed to plead guilty to three counts of making false statements
the firm said in a statement from motorola headquarters in schaumburg, ill., that ``it is now clear in retrospect'' that the electronics group's ``systems were not adequate to ensure total compliance with applicable laws and regulations.''
the conduct of the employees involved in these programs failed to conform to motorola's own internal standards,'' the statement added. the electronics group ``has greatly expanded its compliance efforts'' with reforms which ``are now an integral part of the way geg does business.''
under the agreement, which still must be approved by a court, the government has agreed not to prosecute the company further on the contracts, but reserves the right to prosecute individuals
the court documents also say the firm mischarged labor costs for work on 10 contracts involving production of target detecting devices for the navy's standard missile
the third count in the criminal information said motorola mischarged labor costs on a contract for the production of targeting detecting devices for the navy's phoenix missile
motorola will pay $16.7 million in criminal fines, restitution and civil penalties. the company already has paid $6.8 million to the defense department
the pleas result from an investigation into labor and materials charging and pricing practices by motorola from 1979 to 1984
here are the yearly profits or losses for federally insured savings institutions from 1978 through 1987, according to the federal home loan bank board
1987 _ $6.8 billion loss
1986 _ $132 million profit
1985 _ $3.7 billion profit
1984 _ $1.0 billion profit
1983 _ $1.9 billion profit
1982 _ $4.1 billion loss
1981 _ $4.6 billion loss
1980 _ $781 million profit
1979 _ $3.6 billion profit
1978 _ $3.9 billion profit
a federal bankruptcy court judge rejected on thursday a financial reorganization plan for elsinore corp.'s atlantis casino hotel, but attorneys for the gaming hall say they are confident they can amend the proposal to the judge's satisfaction
judge rosemary gambardella, in a 90-page decision, objected to a proposal that elsinore would be free from future claims if any were filed
the present release and discharge provisions of the plan stand as an obstacle to confirmation of the plan as presently constituted,'' she wrote
she said, however, she would consider amendments to the plan if the company wanted to submit changes
marvin e. jacob, attorney for the atlantis, said he will move to eliminate the offending provision of the reorganization plan, perhaps as early as friday
the atlantis, a casino hotel in atlantic city, has been operating under chapter 11 bankruptcy protection since november 1985
after the court ruling, atlantis president jeanne hood told the state casino control commission he was confident the reorganization plan is still viable. the commission is in the midst of relicensing hearings for the atlantis
the atlantis has more than 15,000 creditors, but the pay-back plan concentrates on about 700 main creditors
under the reorganization plan, elsinore will raise $70 million by refinancing its two nevada casinos and will receive about $20 million from the sale of a note
a new york television station said thursday it was dropping wpp group plc's lord, geller, federico, einstein unit as its advertising agency, and another lord geller client said it would review its ad assignment
meanwhile, a new york state court judge set a hearing for monday on the agency's request for an injunction against a half-dozen former top lord geller executives who left the agency abruptly last week to start their own ad firm
the executives have indicated they felt constrained under the management of wpp group, the british firm that acquired lord geller in july 1987
since the executives quit, about 20 other lord geller employees have followed their former bosses to the new agency, lord, einstein, o'neill &amp; partners
lord geller has filed suit in new york state supreme court to try to prevent the former executives from signing its clients and hiring its workers for their new agency
lord geller employs more than 300 people and handles billings of about $245 million. billings are what companies spend on advertising; agencies usually get a percentage of billings for their work
wnbc-tv, a new york television station that has been a client of lord geller for four years, said it had notified wpp group's chief executive, martin sorrell, that it was assigning its ad business to the new agency
linda lipman, director of advertising and promotions for the station, said station executives felt they had built up a special relationship with richard lord, the former chairman and chief executive of lord geller who resigned to start the new firm, and would be ``better serviced'' at the new agency
separately, fuji photo film usa inc., based in elmsford, n.y., said it was planning to review its advertising accounts now being handled by lord geller
lord geller is the agency for fuji divisions that market audio and video tape and floppy disks
gene kern, advertising manager for fuji's magnetic products division, said the decision was made ``after studying recent changes at the agency.''
he said fuji planned to invite specific agencies to participate in the review but declined to say if lord geller or lord einstein would be invited
neither wnbc-tv nor fuji would say how much they billed through lord geller. a third lord geller client, new yorker magazine, has already indicated that it plans to drop the agency and sign on with the new firm
lord geller's biggest account is international business machines corp., based in armonk, n.y. ibm reportedly accounts for about half of lord geller's total billings, and has said it is ``concerned'' about recent events at the agency and has told the agency so
the u.s. dollar slid further against the japanese yen in early trading friday in tokyo following an overnight decline in new york, and stock prices fell sharply
the dollar opened at 125.68 yen, down from thursday's close of 126.30 yen
ken iiya of the bank of tokyo, said buyers were supporting the dollar somewhat, keeping the currency above its overnight close of 125.575 yen in new york, its lowest level there since mid-january
he said trading was quiet due to the absence of market-affecting news on the week's final day of currency dealings
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, down 113.95 points on thursday, fell another 252.84 points, or 0.98 percent, to 25,528.44 in the first 25 minutes of trading
share prices in the first section were lower across the board as almost all issues posted losses, dealers said
southdown inc. has increased its offer to take over moore mccormack resources inc. to $40 in cash and securities per share, the company said thursday
southdown, which previously had offered $35 cash a share to acquire the connecticut-based cement and energy company, made the sweetened offer in a letter to paul r. tregurtha, chairman and chief executive officer of stanford, conn.-based moore mccormack
southdown offered to pay $35 cash plus debt securities valued at $5 for each of moore mccormack's 12.8 million common shares outstanding, an indicated total value of $512 million. southdown also has offered to acquire moore mccormack preferred stock and subordinated debt
the proposal came one day after moore mccormack unveiled a defensive recapitalization plan under which it would borrow up to $420 million and sell assets to finance a special dividend to shareholders of $24.60 per share in cash and debt securities with a face value of $6.62 per share
in the letter to moore mccormack, southdown president and chief executive clarence c. comer said the securities contained in its sweetened offer would carry the same financial terms as those offered under moore mccormack's recapitalization plan
moore mccormack's board has rejected southdown's $35 a share cash offer and an earlier $31 a share bid that began the takeover battle on feb. 23
officials from moore mccormack could not be reached for comment thursday afternoon
both firms are in the cement and concrete businesses, with minor holdings in oil and gas
also thursday, a southdown subsidiary, sdw inc., amended its pending tender offer to increase the price to be paid for share of common stock of moore mccormack to $40 per share. sdw offered to decrease the maximum number of common shares that it would purchase in the tender offer to about 11.4 million shares, on a fully diluted basis
southdown's offer expires at midnight on wednesday, april 6, unless extended
