ks up 4th graf pvs, `investigators were ...'</note>
police warned wednesday that jail sentences may await opportunists who made off with more than $700,000 after an armored car accidentally dumped a crateful of cash in the street, sparking a mad scramble for the loot
three to five people who were driving or walking by when the truck dropped a reported $771,000 in an industrial area tuesday scooped up clear plastic bags full of cash and sped off. only $40,100 was recovered, police said
we've only had one honest man so far,'' said lt. barry johnson. a tv repairman picked up two bags containing $20,050 each and took them straight to the nearby offices of loomis armored inc
late wednesday, a woman identified only as a 30-year-old postal worker turned gave police two clear plastic bags containing a total of $28,000
she said she picked up the money and then got kind of scared, so she decided to turn it in,'' said sgt. william herndon
investigators were tracing license plate numbers and vehicle descriptions reported by witnesses and trying to compile a list of the lost bills' serial numbers
if they turn it in, the company is considering a reward,'' said johnson. ``the alternative is we trace them down and they go to jail. it's their choice.''
the opportunistic motorists or pedestrians could face felony charges of grand theft if they took $500 or more, police said
a spokesman for oakland-based loomis declined to comment on the accident, which occurred at 3:40 p.m. on a busy thoroughfare in the potrero district, adjacent to the low-income hunter's point neighborhood that has been plagued by rock-throwing and violence against city buses this year
the armored truck, filled with more than $1.7 million collected from 20 banks in the san francisco bay area, was headed for loomis' offices from downtown
johnson said the driver claimed the rear door had been locked, but the dolly containing a crate of bills slammed against it and somehow forced it open
the driver, whose name was not disclosed, did not learn of the mishap until a honking motorist pointed it out 2{ blocks away
before the driver could return, a crowd gathered around the fallen bags. some people put the money back into the crate and others hung onto it, including one man who tossed numerous bags into his pickup truck and drove off despite the urgings of bystanders
it was a free-for-all,'' police officer harry soulette, who was at the scene, told the san francisco examiner. ``people were throwing bags of bills into their cars and taking off. it was wild.''
police declined to be specific wednesday about the amount involved, saying only that it was more than $500,000. the examiner reported that $771,000 in $10, $20 and $50 bills fell out of the truck while close to $1 million remained inside
the money is ``potentially traceable,'' johnson said
police said the driver was not a suspect
we're looking at every possibility, but there doesn't appear to have been any collusion at this point,'' johnson said
repairman luis lopez who had spent the day working on tv monitors at loomis' offices, told police he tried to recover more money for the company but was was told by the loot-grabbers to mind his own business
the 29-year-old lopez, who lives in daly city, does not have a listed telephone number and could not be reached for comment wednesday
soulette was impressed with his honesty
he was one of a few people who tried to do what was right,'' the officer said. ``while everyone else was busy grabbing what they could get, he was thinking of getting the money back to its rightful owner.'' contempt</head>
a judicial conduct board said it will seek a contempt citation against a former judge for refusing to answer questions wednesday at a hearing on misconduct charges against a former state supreme court justice
jane wheel, a former chittenden county assistant judge, cited her fifth amendment right against self-incrimination in refusing to answer questions during the judicial conduct board hearing on former justice william hill
hill was one of three supreme court members charged with misconduct in january 1987. one of the three died; the case against the third was dropped
hill, who has since retired from the high court, is accused of improperly using his judicial clout to assist wheel, 55
wheel's refusal to answer questions prompted the hearing panel to direct its lawyer to petition the supreme court to find wheel in contempt. she could face jail
i don't think we're risking contempt,'' said wheel's lawyer richard davis. ``if asserting one's right to refuse to testify under the fifth amendment presents a risk in this country then we better start with a new system.''
wheel was found guilty in state court last month on charges of lying under oath during an inquiry into allegations she submitted false pay vouchers. the case is under appeal
the board had ruled that wheel may invoke the fifth amendment on questions relating directly to the criminal charges. but panel chairman harvey otterman said that protection does not extend to questions that are merely embarrassing
wheel gave her name, address and length of service but balked when prosecutor william donahue asked about her relationship with hill
prosecutors allege hill allowed his friendship with wheel to interfere with his judicial duties. assistant judges are commonly lay people; they handle civil cases. hill was a teacher before she was elected
hill has said his relationship with wheel was a proper professional one. but margaret maskell, a courthouse employee, testified tuesday that she once found wheel with her arms around hill's neck in his chambers
the hearing panel is composed of three of seven members of the judicial conduct board; the three hearing the case will make recommendations to the full board. canceled talks. picks up 6th graf: three days ...</note>
president daniel ortega canceled truce talks with rebels tuesday after the insurgents said they would not attend a planned meeting in southern nicaragua
ortega accused both president reagan and the rebels, known as contras, of sabotaging the talks
this signifies the killing of the possibility of a meeting,'' he said on voice of nicaragua radio, but suggested new talks no later than the third week in march
contra leader adolfo calero said earlier tuesday the u.s.-supported rebels would not attend the meeting scheduled by the leftist sandinistas
the sandinista government spoke with the nicaraguan resistance at the last minute (monday), informing us that they were ready for the meeting in sapoa,'' calero said in a telephone interview from miami. ``we are not willing to take part in a unilateral meeting mounted by the sandinistas.''
ortega said reagan ``made a virulent speech against nicaragua yesterday. he said `no' to the meeting
so if there is anyone responsible for the meeting not being held tomorrow and for the the blood that continues being shed ... it is the president of the united states.''
reagan said in washington monday that congressional opponents of further aid to the contras lacked the courage to fight communism and the defeat of the rebels would be a ``grave strategic defeat for the united states.''
three days of talks had been scheduled at sapoa, 90 miles south of managua on the border with costa rica
they would have been the first talks held on nicaraguan territory and without a mediator. roman catholic cardinal miguel obando y bravo mediated previous talks
a contra statement issued in miami said the rebels wanted preliminary discussions in san jose, costa rica
we accept to go to sapoa but we are asking a previous meeting to clear up the details,'' said aristides sanchez, one of five contra directors. ``we have to discuss dates, an agenda, security. it must all be established beforehand, since there is no longer a mediator.''
he said it would be impossible for contra negotiators to get together in time to reach sapoa by wednesday
ortega publicly called for the talks last week and said obando y bravo no longer would be needed because negotiators would meet face-to-face
the contras insisted on the presence of obando y bravo, a frequent critic of the government who leads the catholic church in nicaragua, as ``witness, moderator, and guarantor of the talks.''
on monday, ortega asked the cardinal and joao baena soares, secretary-general of the organization of american states, to witness the talks
baena soares arrived in managua on tuesday, and ortega announced cancellation of the talks after meeting with him
contra spokesmen also insisted ortega's government agree to discuss political points outlined by obando y bravo during the last round feb. 18 in guatemala
his plan would require the sandinistas to grant amnesty to political prisoners, restore full press freedom, reopen talks with internal political opposition parties and review the military draft law
sandinista and opposition sources said obando y bravo's proposals caused his ouster as mediator
the sandinistas have refused to discuss internal political issues with the contras. they say the only purpose of talks is to work out a cease-fire in accordance with the regional peace plan signed aug. 7 by the five central american presidents. tax-exempt status</head>
a federal judge has cleared the way for the internal revenue service to revoke ptl's tax exemption, which could affect income for the fort mill television ministry
u.s. district judge karen henderson on monday overturned a preliminary injunction against the irs that bankruptcy judge rufus reynolds issued in december
this puts the ball back in our court,'' irs spokesman les witmer of atlanta said tuesday. the irs may revoke ptl's tax exemption soon, he said
the irs informed ptl trustee david clark in december that it would revoke the exemption, retroactive to may 31, 1981. but clark got the injunction, and reynolds ordered the irs not to revoke before may 1, 1988
the order of the bankruptcy court enjoining revocation of ptl's tax exempt status was issued outside its jurisdiction and is therefore reversed,'' henderson ruled
clark and ptl attorney bradford leggett of winston-salem, n.c., could not be reached for comment tuesday
the irs granted ptl its tax exemption in 1973
although the irs can't collect back taxes while ptl is protected by chapter 11 bankruptcy laws, the impending revocation may affect ptl contributors. the irs calculates the back taxes at between $62 million and $82 million, while ptl's current leaders calculate the amount owed at about $5 million
the ministry is engaged in a march telethon to raise $4 million
henderson ruled that revoking the tax exempt status would cause taxes to be assessed only against taxpayers who contribute to ptl _ contributors who are not debtors in bankruptcy
the irs said that ptl's former leader, jim bakker, his wife, tammy, and top aides received excessive compensation that was not consistent with the ministry's tax-exempt status. the irs said the couple received $11 million during their last seven years with the ministry
bakker resigned a year ago, admitting he had had a tryst with a church secretary
the sheriff's office ended its witch hunt, dropping efforts to obtain a list of library patrons who check out books on the occult
assistant district attorney dexter ryland said tuesday he had advised the library against releasing the list, and the sheriff's office withdrew its subpoena for the information
the rapides parish sheriff's office wanted the list to get information on serious followers of satanic cults because such beliefs often are connected with narcotics trafficking, said chief deputy tommy hollingsworth
library director stephen rogge said about 20 of the 150,000 books at the library deal with the occult
most of it is pretty silly stuff actually, but they are entertaining and people are curious,'' rogge said
i've read some myself,'' he said. ``but i haven't sacrificed any animals.''
a 70-year-old kept a shotgun under his pillow because of repeated break-ins, but the latest burglar got the weapon without waking the man and shot the sleeper's cousin with it, authorities said
wally newton woke up when he heard the blast and simpson brown yelling after being shot in the leg early monday
brown, 70, and newton share a home in mead valley, an unincorporated area about 65 miles southeast of los angeles
brown told deputies he was sleeping when he saw a shadow pass his bedroom
he called out, thinking it was newton, but got no answer, said riverside county sheriff's sgt. john horton. brown got up, and found the burglar holding newton's shotgun, according to horton
he (brown) grabbed the barrel,'' horton said. the gun went off. brown yelled. newton woke up
brown was hospitalized in good condition. the burglar escaped with the gun, horton said
police took a bite out of crime by tracking down a robbery suspect through dentures left behind after he allegedly tried to bite his victim
he denies it, but we've got the teeth, and he doesn't,'' sgt. ray hudson said
joseph bennett, 62, was charged with strong-arm robbery, hudson said
bennett's dentures fell out saturday when he tried to bite bobbie mccloud, 76, police said
he was choking me, and then he tried to bite me on the arm, but it was just gums,'' ms. mccloud said monday
although her eyesight and hearing are failing, ms. mccloud said she had no trouble identifying bennett as the robber
when police brought bennett back to her house, ms. mccloud said, they had him try on the teeth left at her house
they fit right in his mouth,'' she said
a south african diplomat has apologized for a traffic accident in which his car struck an anti-apartheid protester and a police officer
vice consul duke kent brown, charged with simple assault in monday's accident and released on his own recognizance, was ordered to appear in court in april
brown said he had not expected protesters to block his exit after he took part in a talk show at wjoy-wqcr
in an interview tuesday with the radio stations, he said he did not see police officer todd shepard, who suffered bruises on his leg
i was very surprised to hear that a policeman had been injured and i did apologize to him when i saw him,'' brown said
brown said he was glad to hear that protester laurie larson of richmond, who suffered minor bruises, was not badly injured
hearing-impaired theatergoers are calling for a boycott of a stage production of ``children of a lesser god'' because only actors who can hear were cast, says an interpreter for the deaf
a hearing person who pretends to be deaf is not going to look right, and it's not going to be presented properly,'' kellie perkins, who also has a hearing problem, said tuesday
director mark bacus disagreed, and said he tried unsuccessfully to cast hearing-impaired actors for the piasaw players' amateur production
the play, about the relationship between a deaf woman and a man who can hear, won tony awards in 1980. marlee matlin, who is deaf, won an oscar for her portrayal of the woman in the 1986 film version
the drama was written specifically for deaf people, to show their concerns to society, said ms. perkins, an interpreter at impact inc., a center that helps the handicapped in this southern illinois community
what bothers me is that a hearing person cannot understand what a deaf person feels,'' she said
the lead actress will be unable to learn all the required sign language by showtime, ms. perkins said
bacus said the actors will learn enough signing to handle their parts well
all theater has to exaggerate to provide illusion,'' he said. ``if i do a show that has a french character, must i find somebody that knows all french and the french culture?
i don't want to fight. i'd rather carry on with the play,'' bacus said
he said he tried to cast deaf or hearing-impaired actors, but auditions last month, announced in the local newspaper and through the theater group, drew just one hearing-impaired player
rita campbell of alton, who is deaf, was unsuited for the lead, bacus said
ms. campbell, speaking through ms. perkins, said she'd received up to 100 telephone calls from people with hearing problems urging her to stop the play
suppose someone pretended to be like you,'' she said. ``and you saw it and said, `that's not how i act.' you'd be insulted.when you use hearing people to portray deaf people, it makes us look awkward and dumb.''
ms. perkins said ms. campbell would meet this week with groups of deaf and hearing-impaired people to make plans for a boycott if there are no casting changes
it's sad and it's ridiculous,'' said bacus, who received a few letters protesting the casting
the play is going to go on,'' he said. ``it must. if i decide to fold, then what's next? what other theater group will knuckle under to special interest groups?''
national park service officials are pursuing a plan to buy and remove a 370-foot-high observation tower that has overlooked the civil war battlefield here for 15 years
my opinion is that the tower dominates the skyline at gettysburg and it's totally out of keeping with what we're trying to accomplish here in preserving the battlefield,'' john earnst, gettysburg national military park superintendent, said tuesday
the preliminary proposal is part of a study ordered by congress to determine permanent boundaries for the park, site of the 1863 union victory and president abraham lincoln's legendary address
the proposal, outlined at a meeting monday night, has yet to be reviewed by park service officials in washington and would require congressional approval, earnst said
the steel tower, built in 1973 on private land separating parts of the park, was the focus of controversy over preserving the park area's historical integrity
when the tower was built, then-gov. milton shapp brought an unsuccessful lawsuit against attorney thomas ottenstein of bethesda, md., who came up with the idea for the tower and is a co-owner
ottenstein, reached in delray beach, fla., said he could not comment about monday's meeting because he was unaware of it. the tower's manager, gertrude paris, also declined to comment
i didn't know a thing until i read the paper,'' she said
congress ordered the study last year while passing legislation to allow a group's donation of 30 acres to the park
the study has identified about 1,800 acres that should be added to the 3,874-acre park, said planner jonathan doherty of the park service's regional office in philadelphia
vice president george bush humbled bob dole with a republican primary win in the kansas senator's backyard, while tennessee sen. albert gore triumphed convincingly in oklahoma's democratic contest tuesday
with 2,272 of 2,439 precincts or 93 percent reporting, bush edged dole from with 69,813 votes or 37 percent to dole's 66,147 votes or 35 percent. pat robertson was next with 40,039 votes or 21 percent and new york rep. jack kemp was a distant fourth with 10,170 votes or 5 percent
in the democratic race, with 2,317 of 2,439 precincts or 95 percent reporting, gore had 154,217 votes or 41 percent, gephardt had 78,834 votes or 21 percent and dukakis had 62,958 votes or 17 percent
jesse jackson was next with 48,556 votes or 13 percent; former colorado sen. gary hart had 13,897 votes or 4 percent; and illinois sen. paul simon had 6,460 votes or 2 percent
the democrats were competing for 46 delegates; the republicans for 36
a poll broadcast by two television stations last week showed gephardt, gore and dukakis each getting 18 percent of the democratic vote. but 27 percent of those surveyed between feb. 26 and march 1 were still undecided
dole crisscrossed the state in the closing days and stepped up his advertising campaign in an effort to overtake bush, the perceived front-runner who was endorsed by gov. henry bellmon and most prominent state political leaders
ads for dole touted his positions on agriculture and reducing the federal deficit. dole was supported by u.s. sen. don nickles
matt seward, bush campaign director in oklahoma, said oklahoma was ``a special prize'' since it was listed by dole operatives as one of the states dole was counting on to win
if he can't win in oklahoma, where can he win?'' seward asked. 03-09 0821</first> alexander re-elected in arkansas and updating returns, picks up after dash, ``roemer</note>
mississippi democrats picked a young congressman as their candidate to replace john c. stennis in the u.s. senate, while democratic sens. paul sarbanes of maryland and lloyd bentsen of texas easily overcame little-known primary opponents tuesday
as the first state primaries coincided with super tuesday, rep. wayne dowdy defeated secretary of state dick molpus for the democratic senate nomination in mississippi. he is expected to face a hard fight from rep. trent lott, the house minority whip who was unopposed in the republican primary
with 90 percent of the vote counted, dowdy had 167,640 votes or 54 percent to molpus' 133,547 votes or 43 percent. a third candidate, pipefitter gilbert fountain, had 11,454 or 4 percent
molpus saluted the winner as ``a decent and likable man. he has conveyed those characteristics to the people of this state and we pay him tribute.''
texas republicans will need a runoff to choose bentsen's opponent, while republican jim mccrery advanced to a runoff against democratic state sen. foster campbell to fill the u.s. house seat being vacated by governor-elect buddy roemer
sarbanes easily won renomination for a third term and will face thomas blair, a millionaire political newcomer who beat eight other candidates for the republican nomination. with 78 percent of the vote counted, blair had 54,408 votes or 47 percent while none of his eight opponents had more than 13 percent
in arkansas, rep. william alexander swamped political consultant darrell glascock in the democratic primary, and won re-election because there is no republican opposition. with 56 percent of the vote counted, alexander had 54,079 or 66 percent to glascock's 27,570 or 34 percent
rep. jamie whitten, seeking his 25th term, and rep. mike espy, mississippi's first black congressman since reconstruction, were overwhelming winners in democratic primaries. there were tight, crowded races in both parties for the nominations to succeed dowdy and lott.
in a rematch of the 1982 primary, bentsen defeated professor joe sullivan of san antonio by better than 5-1. with 48 percent of the vote counted, bentsen had 587,121 votes or 84 percent to 114,946 or 16 percent for sullivan
houston millionaire wes gilbreath and u.s. rep. beau boulter of amarillo were headed for a runoff for the gop nomination to oppose bentsen
with 39 percent of the vote counted, gilbreath had 101,292 or 35 percent and boulter had 96,212 or 33 percent. former state rep. milton fox of austin had 53,481 or 18 percent and businessman ned snead of georgetown had 41,564 or 14 percent
with returns 91 percent complete in louisiana's 4th district, mccrery had 30,859 or 30 percent while campbell nailed down the other spot in the april 16 runoff with 21,278 or 21 percent
stan tiner, the former editor of the shreveport journal who had roemer's support, was third with 15,600 or 15 percent, followed by june phillips, the only black in the race, with 13,479 or 13 percent and state rep. claude ``buddy'' leach with 12,254 or 12 percent
roemer will resign on monday to become governor
roemer said he would vote for tiner, and even gave his campaign a check, but insisted he had not formally endorsed anyone
dowdy, 44, stressed his seven years experience as a member of congress, while the 38-year-old molpus pointed to his record as director of federal-state programs under former gov. william winter and as secretary of state since 1984
mississippi is one of the states where the gop hopes to reduce or even reverse the democrats' 54-46 advantage in the senate. eighteen of the 33 seats at stake this year are held by democrats
stennis, 86, retiring after 41 years in the senate, did not choose sides in the democratic primary
bentsen, who is seeking a fourth term has said he is prepared to spend $10 million in november, and didn't care who the republican nominee was
gilbreath was the big spender in the texas gop race, investing about $500,000 of his own money
in addition to the mississippi race, republican hopes in the senate this year were spurred by the retirement of democratic sen. william proxmire of wisconsin and sen. lawton chiles of florida
however, the gop is losing sens. paul trible of virginia, daniel evans of washington and robert t. stafford of vermont
in new jersey, republican businessmen pete dawkins _ a west point football star, rhodes scholar, decorated combat veteran and former army general _ is challenging sen. frank lautenberg, d-n.j., who is seeking a second term
in new york, republicans had hoped to mount a strong challenge to incumbent sen. daniel patrick moynihan, but were disappointed when high-profile federal prosecutor rudolph giuliani ruled himself out. orders</head>
a taiwanese gangster accused of fatally shooting a chinese-american journalist was acting on orders from the head of taiwan's intelligence agency, a prosecutor charged tuesday
in his opening statements, assistant district attorney bob bishop told the jury that taiwanese adm. wang hsi-ling hired tung kuei-sen to assassinate henry liu, whose writings were highly critical of the taiwanese government
liu's wife, helen, also testified before the jury in san mateo county superior court. tung, an acknowledged member of the taiwanese crime syndicate known as the bamboo gang and one of two alleged triggermen in the slaying, entered a plea of innocent last june
tung, 35, is serving a 20-year prison sentence for herion smuggling
the 52-year-old liu was gunned down at his daly city home on oct. 15, 1984. he was a columnist for chinese-language newspapers in san francisco and had just published an unflattering biography of taiwan president chiang chung-kuo when he was slain
bishop said that liu was making it known that he was about to publish memoirs of a former high-ranking taiwanese official, something that hsi-ling feared would be embarrassing and damaging to president chiang. chiang died in january
wang, the admiral, wanted liu killed before the memoirs were published, bishop said. wang hired bamboo gang leader chen chi-li, who surrounded himself with a group of men, including defendant tung, to help carry out the assassination plot, the prosecutor said
the memoirs contained nothing that would shock u.s. citizens, bishop said. but in taiwan, anything dealing with the personal lives of the president or his father, chiang kai-shek, were considered treasonous, he said
mrs. liu testified tuesday afternoon, tearfully describing her husband's murder
she said that the day before the slaying, she noticed two people on bicycles surveying their neighborhood. however, their faces were covered with hooded sweatshirts and she did not think anything of it until following day, when she noticed they had returned on the bikes
less than an hour later, she said she sent her husband down into the garage to load boxes into their car and heard a loud noise. she went downstairs and found her husband dying on the garage floor
she also said that before her husband's slaying, the taiwan government had started sending over former friends of her husband's to try and persuade him to quit his critical writings
the suspects in the slaying fled and eventually resurfaced in taiwan, believing they had acted on the orders of the taiwanese government, bishop said. the suspects thought they were immune from prosecution, he said
however, the slaying had strained u.s.-taiwan relations, and the united states began putting so much pressure on chiang's regime that ``something had to be done,'' bishop said
chen and another bamboo gang member were convicted of the murder in taiwan in 1985 and given life sentences, and three top taiwanese intelligence officers were also separately convicted by a military court in the alleged murder plot
but tung fled taiwan and eventually became the only one of liu's suspected killers to be brought to trial in the united states. race</head> succeed roemer in congress; no pickup.</note>
jesse jackson repeated his 1984 democratic primary victory here tuesday, staving off sen. albert gore jr.'s bid for an upset, while george bush swamped the gop field
in a special election, a republican former aide to democratic gov.-elect buddy roemer led the 10-candidate field to succeed roemer in congress, but was forced into an april 16 runoff with a state senator
in the democratic race, with 2,903 of 3,272 precincts or 89 percent reporting, jackson had 194,118 or 34 percent; tennessee's gore had 168,500 votes or 30 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 83,117 votes or 15 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 61,375 votes or 11 percent
in republican voting, bush left sen. bob dole battling for second place with pat robertson. with 2,857 of 3,272 precincts or 87 percent reporting, bush had 76,155 votes or 58 percent; robertson had 24,052 votes or 18 percent; dole had 23,354 votes or 18 percent; new york rep. jack kemp had 6,665 votes or 5 percent
the democrats were deciding 63 convention delegates; the republicans 41
in the closing days of the democratic presidential primary, roemer endorsed gore, who said he felt his campaign was gaining steam in the state, but the same claim was made by kitty dukakis, the wife of the massachusetts governor
backers of former television evangelist robertson claimed their work was responsible for most of the 19,000 voters who switched their registrations from democratic to republican. the rev. billy mccormack, robertson's state campaign director, predicted the former tv evangelist would carry louisiana
in the 4th congressional district, roemer's former congressional aide jim mccrery, the sole republican in the race, was forced into a runoff with state sen. foster campbell to succeed roemer in the u.s. house
with 91 percent of the vote in, mccrery had 30,859 votes, or 30 percent, to 21,278 or 21 percent for campbell; former shreveport newsman stan tiner was third with 15,600 votes, or 15 percent. june phillips, the only black in the race, gather 13,479 votes, or 13 percent and state rep. claude ``buddy'' leach, who held the seat for one term until he was defeated by roemer in 1980, had 12,254 votes, or 12 percent
roemer resigns on monday to become governor. couldn't sue</head>
the u.s. government contributed 40 percent to settlements for two challenger astronauts who worked for the government even though federal law protects the government against claims like theirs
a key legal reason: the government was concerned that morton thiokol would end up passing claims against it along to the federal government. thiokol made the defective rockets that were blamed for the challenger explosion, but government officials had also spurned warnings by thiokol engineers that a launch on jan. 28, 1986, might be unsafe because of cold temperatures at cape canaveral
relatives of all seven astronauts were free to sue morton thiokol for damages, but only the families of the two non-government employees _ high school teacher christa mcauliffe and hughes aircraft employee gregory jarvis _ were allowed to sue the federal government
documents released by the government this week to settle a lawsuit filed under the freedom of information act by the associated press and six other news organizations show that the government and morton thiokol paid $7,735,000 in cash and annuities to settle with the four spouses and six children of dick scobee, ellison onizuka, jarvis and mcauliffe
scobee was a civilian astronaut with the national aeronautics and space administration. onizuka was an air force lieutenant colonel
the government has refused to contribute to settlements reached by morton thiokol with the survivors of civilian nasa astronauts ronald mcnair and judith resnik
and last month, government lawyers opposing a lawsuit filed by the family of the other military officer aboard, navy cmdr. michael smith, got the government dropped as a defendant because he was a military officer
the government documents showed that morton thiokol paid 60 percent and the government 40 percent of the settlement with the four families
in a letter to the news organizations that sued, justice department lawyer joanne s. marchetta stipulated that the ``single percentage split ... is applicable to all four settlements in the aggregate.''
the government did not require morton thiokol to bear a larger share of the settlement with the scobee and onizuka relatives, even though those families could sue only the company
in a brief filed in the foi case, the government suggested why it contributed at all to the scobee and onizuka settlements
it was entirely possible under the facts presented by the challenger accident that the government would be brought in as a third party to any claims by the families brought against government contractors like mti,'' the brief said
that reference was to the objections by morton thiokol engineers to launching the shuttle in extreme cold _ objections that were withdrawn under government pressure
ronald krist, a houston lawyer who represented the mcnairs, jarvis' father and resnik's mother, noted that a 1983 supreme court decision allows a contractor who pays damages to a federal employee's survivors to try to recover part of those damages from the government if federal employees shared the blame. so far, however, morton thiokol has made no move to do this
that law is on the books and that would give the government the theoretical incentive to settle'' with the families of government workers, krist said
thus, by entering into joint settlements with thiokol and the families, the government extinguished the potential third-party claim of thiokol against the government in these four cases and avoided trials that would have replayed the painful government errors that led to the fateful decision to launch in cold weather
michael j. sniffen has covered the challenger disaster and its aftermath for the associated press
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis parlayed a strong statewide organization into a decisive victory in idaho's democratic presidential caucuses on tuesday
with 34 of 45 precincts or 76 percent reporting, dukakis had 727 votes or 43 percent; uncommitted received 470 votes or 28 percent; jesse jackson had 269 votes or 16 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 107 votes or 6 percent; illinois sen. paul simon had 65 votes or 4 percent; and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 41 votes or 2 percent
state party chairman mel morgan and gov. cecil andrus led a campaign to have as many of tuesday's caucus participants as possible remain uncommitted. idaho has only 18 delegates at stake
this thing is looking more and more like a brokered convention,'' morgan said, ``so we might as well get some power while we can.''
the internal revenue service is preparing to report that americans are cheating less on their federal tax returns even though the government is still losing as much as $90 billion a year to scofflaws
that figure for the 1987 ``tax gap'' doesn't even include untold billions that are lost because illegal income is never reported to the irs
nevertheless, says irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs, ``the amount of the tax gap has diminished since the last time we did a study.'' that was in 1983, when the irs estimated an $81.5-billion tax gap that would rise to more than $100 billion by 1987
gibbs, defending the irs's proposed budget before a house appropriations subcommittee on tuesday, said the new tax-gap study could be released within a week. the new figure will be between $80 billion and $90 billion, he said
he attributed the decline in cheating to several actions by congress and the irs to force better compliance with the tax laws, including enhanced ability to match virtually every tax return with supporting income statements filed by employers, banks and other payers. gibbs also suggested the massive tax revision enacted in 1986 contributed to better compliance
in other developments:
_gibbs said the irs is temporarily suspending efforts to collect back taxes from many students whose colleges paid them stipends for research or teaching assignments in 1984, 1985 or 1986. the colleges reported those stipends to the irs as income but many students failed to report them on their tax returns
we've put the word out (to irs offices) to hold up on any'' such cases until the agency can develop a uniform policy on how to treat stipends paid in those years, he said. the 1986 tax revision cleared up any ambiguity for subsequent years; all stipends are taxable
some irs field offices are following a 1975 irs ruling that set guidelines for taxing some stipends; others follow different court interpretations
several colleges have reported numerous graduate students receiving tax-due notices from the irs because of their stipends. the washington post cited one unofficial estimate that up to 17,000 students might be involved and that several have already filed suit in tax court to contest the assessments
gibbs said the irs has no campaign to crack down on these students, but blamed their problems on the fact their tax returns did not square with their w-2 earnings statements. he said he hopes the agency can have a clear-cut policy within a month
_more than one-third of taxpayers have filed their 1987 returns, and, despite the sweeping nature of the 1986 tax overhaul, the irs is finding only about 2{ percent more errors this year than last, gibbs said. ``i'm delighted,'' he said
_the irs issued a reminder that a new tax on certain vaccines is now in effect. although it is imposed on producers, it is likely to be passed on to patients. the tax, which was enacted last december, will finance compensation for patients who die or are injured because of vaccinations
the tax is $4.56 for a dose of dpt (diphtheria, whopping cough and tetanus) vaccine; 6 cents for diphtheria and tetanus; $4.44 for measles, mumps and rubella, and 28 cents for polio
the last irs study of the tax gap, published in 1983, estimated that individuals and corporations dodged $81.5 billion in taxes on legal income in 1981 by understating income and overstating deductions
the agency estimated that another $9 billion in taxes was lost on three types of illegal income: drugs, prostitution and gambling. the new report will not even attempt to estimate the tax loss from illegal income that is never reported
since the last tax gap study was published, irs researchers have found evidence that taxpayers may be cheating less. in may 1986, the agency released a preliminary report indicating that a 20-year trend of declining compliance with the tax laws might have been reversed
that study estimated that voluntary compliance rose to 91.8 percent in 1982, from 91.0 percent in 1979. compliance had declined steadily from 94.3 percent in 1965
an episode of nbc's new series ``day by day'' placed second to perennial favorite ``the cosby show'' and helped the network climb back to the top of the ratings after abc's two weeks as no. 1
nbc won the ratings for the week that ended sunday with an average prime-time a.c. nielsen co. rating of 16.3. cbs had a 15.0 rating and abc, whose 16 days of winter olympics coverage catapulted it to the top the previous two weeks, fell back to third, with a 12.8
for the season, nbc continues in the lead with a 16.3 overall rating to abc's 14.1 and cbs's 13.6
a rating is a percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions
the episode of ``day by day'' that ranked second was shown at 8:30 p.m. thursday, after no. 1-rated ``the cosby show.''
day by day,'' a comedy about a young couple operating a home daycare center, also was shown by nbc on sunday night after ``family ties'' and on monday night after ``alf.''
the sunday night show placed 20th in the nielsen ratings and the monday night show 14th. the show's regular slot will be sunday night, where it received its lowest rating
the three-hour grammy awards show on cbs, which featured a rare television performance by michael jackson, finished eighth
the cosby show'' on nbc was rated no. 1 for the week with a 31.4 rating
nbc's ``cheers'' was no. 3 with a 25.9, followed by nbc's ``night court'' with a 24.5
abc's ``growing pains'' was no. 5 with a 24.5 rating, and its ``who's the boss?'' was next with a 22.0
cbs' ``the golden girls'' held seventh place with a 21.5 rating, followed by a tie between the grammys and cbs' ``60 minutes,'' at 21.0
no. 10 was nbc's ``alf,'' with a 20.5 rating
in the news category, ``the cbs evening news'' was no. 1, with an 11.3 rating. abc's ``world news tonight'' had a 11.2 rating, and the ``nbc nightly news'' 9.6
here are the prime-time television ratings as compiled by the a.c. nielsen co. for the week of feb. 29-march 6. top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes
an ``x'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. shows from 21 on include only the weekly ranking. a rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million tv homes
1. (1) ``the cosby show,'' nbc, 31.4 rating, 27.8 million homes
2. (x) ``day by day special,'' nbc, 28.1, 24.9 million homes
3. (3) ``cheers,'' nbc, 25.9, 22.9 million homes
4. (4) ``night court,'' nbc, 24.5, 21.7 million homes
5. (5) ``growing pains,'' abc, 23.7, 21.0 million homes
6. (7) ``who's the boss?'', abc, 22.0, 19.5 million homes
7. (6) ``golden girls,'' nbc, 21.5, 19.0 million homes
8. (x) ``grammy awards,'' cbs, 21.1, 18.7 million homes
9. (8) ``60 minutes,'' cbs, 21.0, 18.6 million homes
10. (11) ``alf,'' nbc, 20.5, 18.2 million homes
11. (11) ``l.a. law,'' nbc, 20.4, 18.1 million homes
12. (5) ``growing pains,'' abc, 20.0, 17.7 million homes
13. (23) ``in the heat of the night'' _ ``nbc sunday night movie,'' 18.7, 16.6 million homes
14. (x) ``day by day special,'' nbc, 18.6, 16.5 million homes
15. (x) ``bluegrass,'' part 2, _ ``cbs special movie presentation,'' 18.4, 16.3 million homes
16. (9) ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs, 18.3, 16.2 million homes
17. (13) ``family ties,'' nbc, 18.0, 15.9 million homes
18. (14) ``amen,'' nbc, 17.8, 15.8 million homes
19. (10) ``moonlighting,'' abc, 17.4, 15.4 million homes
20. (18) ``day by day,'' nbc, 17.3, 15.3 million homes
21. (24) ``head of the class,'' abc, 16.9
22. (29) ``knots landing,'' cbs, 16.7
22. (19) ``police academy 2: their first assignment'' _ ``nbc monday night movies,'' 16.7
24. (19) ``dallas,'' cbs, 16.3
25. (x) ``miss usa beauty contest,'' cbs, 16.2
26. (14) ``matlock,'' nbc, 16.1
27. (24) ``227,'' nbc, 15.9
28. (27) ``hunter,'' nbc, 15.4
29. (34) ``supercarrier,'' abc, 15.0
30. (42) ``miami vice,'' nbc, 14.5
31. (39) ``falcon crest,'' cbs, 14.3
31. (36) ``facts of life,'' nbc, 14.3
33. (68) ``full house,'' abc, 14.2
33. (28) ``perfect strangers,'' abc, 14.2
35. (51) ``macgyver,'' abc, 14.0
36. (64) ``spenser: for hire,'' abc, 13.7
36. (32) ``hooperman,'' abc, 13.7
38. (60) ``mr. belvedere,'' abc, 13.5
39. (33) ``perfect people'' _ ``abc monday night movie,'' 13.3
40. (49) ``highwayman,'' nbc, 13.1
41. (44) ``beauty and the beast,'' cbs, 12.8
41. (38) ``highway to heaven,'' nbc, 12.8
43. (43) ``thirtysomething,'' abc, 12.7
44. (16) ``side by side'' _ ``cbs sunday movie,'' 12.4
45. (x) ``america tribute to bob hope,'' 12.3
45. (60) ``sonny spoon,'' nbc, 12.3
45. (37) ``longarm'' _ ``abc sunday night movie,'' 12.3
48. (64) ``tour of duty,'' cbs, 12.2
49. (52) ``simon &amp; simon,'' cbs, 12.1
50. (52) ``20-20,'' abc, 11.8
51. (x) ``places in the heart'' _ ``movie of the week,'' nbc, 11.6
52. (58) ``crime story,'' nbc, 11.4
53. (40) ``dynasty,'' abc, 11.1
54. (50) ``the slap maxwell story,'' abc, 11.0
54. (x) ``superman's 50th anniversary,'' cbs, 11.0
54. (x) ``candid camera: 40th anniversary,'' cbs, 11.0
57. (80) ``ohara,'' abc, 10.8
58. (44) ``dolly!'' abc, 10.3
58. (59) ``high mountain rangers,'' cbs, 10.3
58. (62) ``our house,'' nbc, 10.3
61. (76) ``blue thunder'' _ ``abc thursday night movie,'' 9.5
62. (76) ``thorns,'' abc, 9.4
63. (64) ``14 going on 30,'' part 1, _ ``disney sunday movie,'' abc, 9.3
64. (x) ``willie nelson special,'' cbs, 8.5
65. (84) ``west 57th,'' cbs, 8.2
66. (na) ``21 jump street,'' fox, 6.3
67. (x) ``sledge hammer special,'' abc, 5.5
68. (na) ``garry shandling show,'' fox, 5.2
69. (na) ``married...with children,'' fox, 4.6
70. (na) ``duet,'' fox, 4.4
71. (na) ``werewolf,'' fox, 4.2
72. (x) ``larouche campaign,'' abc, 3.5
73. (na) ``tracey ullman show,'' fox, 3.3
74. (na) ``boys will be boys,'' fox, 3.2
75. (x) ``garry shandling show special,'' fox, 2.9
76. (na) ``women in prison,'' fox, 2.6
77. (na) ``the new adventures of beans baxter,'' fox, 2.0
78. (na) ``mr. president,'' fox, 1.8
panama's military regime could find itself subject to ``a whole panoply'' of economic sanctions by the end of this week, including the withholding of $6.5 million this month for use of the panama canal, u.s. officials say
final decisions on the sanctions are expected at an inter-agency meeting scheduled thursday, said the officials, who insisted on anonymity. a formal announcement is likely either thursday or friday, they added
the economic punishment is intended to aggravate an already acute cash shortage in that country and pressure military strongman manuel antonio noriega out of office
the officials spoke late tuesday, the same day that the house foreign affairs committee urged president reagan to consider economic sanctions against panama's military regime
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said in response to the house committee vote that the administration would not take such action lightly
the threat's still out there,'' fitzwater said. ``the situation is changing rapidly and we're still monitoring it. but we don't want to act precipitously.''
the administration has called for noriega's ouster since he was indicted on federal drug trafficking charges in florida last month and for a return to civilian rule under president eric arturo delvalle
another sanction being considered is the withdrawal of panamanian participation in a system of trade preferences accorded to most third world countries, the officials said. this would make panamanian products more expensive in u.s. markets
another possibility, they said, is panama's exclusion from the caribbean basin initiative under which some panamanian products can be exported to the united states without duties
also being considered is suspension of alaskan oil shipments through a trans-panamanian pipeline, from which oil is delivered to u.s. markets on the east coast
on march 15, the united states is due to pay the $6.5 million monthly installment to the panama canal commission on the $75 million to $80 million paid out each year under the canal treaties
the sanctions are not something that we want to do, but something that we feel would be responsive and would be helpful, but it's not an action we take lightly,'' fitzwater said
delvalle has been in hiding for more than a week after attempting to fire noriega and being, in turn, dismissed by him
in statement issued at both the white house and state department on tuesday, the administration said it recognizes delvalle ``as he who now exercises the office of president.''
the statement welcomed declarations by delvalle and panamanian opposition parties on monday that called for the establishment of a ``government of national reconciliation.''
this is a blueprint for progress for democracy in panama,'' the u.s. statement said. ``we support their goal of restoring democratic government and civilian constitutional order. once this goal has been achieved, we will work cooperatively with the government of panama toward the recovery of panama's financial and economic health.''
fitzwater said the decision on possible sanctions depends upon ``a very complicated set of criteria.''
among them, he said, are the status of the noriega government and the impact that sanctions might have on u.s. interests in panama. he mentioned the canal and u.s. investments
in its unanimous vote, the foreign affairs committee endorsed reagan's course of action against the military regime as well as urging him to consider sanctions
the resolution will be voted on by the house this week. it reaffirms congressional support for the full implementation of the panama canal treaties, which require the united states to hand the canal over to panama at the end of the century
the senate foreign relations committee has adopted a resolution calling for a total trade embargo against panama, but several members of the house panel said they thought that approach was premature
in the networks' race to call super tuesday contests, nbc news incorrectly predicted that jesse jackson would win the north carolina democratic primary, then switched its pick to sen. albert gore jr. about an hour later
nbc declared jackson the winner shortly after the state's polls closed at 7:30 p.m. est, said spokeswoman mary lou o'callaghan. ``we made a mistake,'' she said. ``we retracted the projection and shortly afterward, we called gore.''
gore won with 35 percent, to jackson's 33 percent
o'callaghan said the projections are based on totals from the news election service, sample precincts and exit polling. ``we used the same criteria we use in making all our calls, and this one was just wrong,'' she said
mary fishbyrne, a 101-year-old politicial activist who hasn't missed voting since women were given that right, fumed because she couldn't vote for the man of her choice
why can't i vote for bush?'' a snippish voice said from behind the voting machine curtain on super tuesday
because you're registered as a democrat, miss mary,'' precinct commissioner betty shelton said apologetically. ``crossover voting isn't allowed in presidential primaries.''
i'm just miserable,'' came back the curtained voice. ``i'll vote for bush in november.''
she's kind of independent,'' shelton explained
if anything, mary fishbyrne is independent, brought up that way by her father on a south dakota farm before that state was admitted to the union
he raised us that way,'' she said. ``he had six daughters and was mad because we couldn't vote. he named my youngest sister after susan b. anthony _ you know she gave us the vote.''
miss fishbyrne's first vote came in 1921 near the virginia farm her father purchased when she was 12
i remember i didn't vote for hoover. he was the worst. he told us to mix our corn meal with flour to make it last. i never did know what he wanted to last the longest _ the corn meal or the flour. i'd rather have just a little of both.''
her favorite president was franklin roosevelt. ``he must have been, he had the most terms.''
miss fishbyrne, who was born aug. 18, 1886, was a seamstress and tailor for most of her adult life. since reaching age 65, she has been living with various relatives throughout the united states
she moved to shreveport in 1961 to live with a niece and they mostly vote republican, she said
we voted for reagan. i think bush will be pretty good.''
she said she can't understand why people don't get out and vote
i was 35 before i was allowed to vote and i know what it's like when you can't. it's a privilege some people don't appreciate.''
she never married because her fiance died shortly after her father was killed in a fall from a wagon
dad was so proud when my sisters and i went to vote. i'm the only one left. i'll vote as long as i have legs to walk.''
well, you've never missed an election here and we're going to have another one in april before the november election,'' shelton told her favorite voter
i'll be here,'' miss mary promised
lofti mansouri, head of the canadian opera in toronto, has been offered the job of general director of the san francisco opera
mansouri has been a leading candidate for the position since terence a. mcewen announced on feb. 9 that he would retire
they have offered it and i am considering it very seriously,'' mansouri said tuesday in a telephone interview from toronto. he said he would make a decision by friday
the san francisco opera association's board of directors on tuesday accepted the recomendation of a subcommittee and authorized that the job be offered to mansouri
mansouri, 58, a native of iran, has directed 31 productions for the san francisco opera on a visiting basis since 1963
wall street investor jitters eased enough to allow the closely watched dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks to rise to its highest level since the october market crash
the dow on tuesday finished up 24.70, to 2,081.07, the best post-crash close since 2,071.62 on feb. 29
analysts said the rally partly reflected a desire by managers of institutional investment funds to put unused money to work before they present their portfolios when the first quarter ends in three weeks
we're coming into show-and-tell time, the window-dressing period,'' said lawrence wachtel, an analyst at prudential bache securities inc. ``these guys can't sit there with piles of cash in a boiling market and not get called down by the people who pay them to manage money.''
takeover speculation and increased demand for high-yield and blue chip stocks also powered the rally
two stocks advanced for every one that fell on the new york stock exchange, where volume totaled 237.68 million shares, compared with 152.98 million in the previous session. victory</head> totals first 3 grafs; percentages unchanged.</note>
vice president george bush rocked bob dole's presidential hopes with a narrow primary victory in the gop senator's back yard, steamrolling to a super tuesday sweep
and democratic rep. richard gephardt, an overwhelming winner in his home state's first presidential primary, found it was his only victory of the night
in republican voting, with 3,851 of 3,954 precincts or 97 percent reporting, bush had 169,427 votes or 42 percent; kansas' dole had 164,646 votes or 41 percent; pat robertson had 44,379 votes or 11 percent; new york rep. jack kemp had 14,178 votes or 4 percent
in the democratic race, with 3,900 of 3,954 precincts or 99 percent reporting, gephardt had 290,289 votes or 60 percent; jesse jackson had 83,749 votes or 17 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 59,132 votes or 12 percent; illinois sen. paul simon had 20,095 votes or 4 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 14,284 votes or 3 percent
this has been absolutely wild,'' bush's missouri campaign director, randy enwright, said of the gop race. ``no matter what, we don't lose here.''
enwright and missouri bush supporter bill macon said dole needed to win big in missouri rather than just edge bush slightly in his neighbor state
sure, if it's close, that's good, but i really wanted to break dole's political back here,'' macon said
dole accused bush of trying to deliver a ``knockout punch'' in missouri by canceling stops in other states while bush said dole probably thought he ``could dust me off'' in missouri since it was next to dole's homestate of kansas
lee atwater, bush's national campaign manager, said dole would be in trouble if he lost missouri
bob dole has repeatedly said missouri is his most important state. he's been here more than anyone else and spent more money. he's practically campaigned as a favorite son candidate. he's sure going to be rocking and reeling if he loses here,'' atwater said
while bush and dole fought for the lion's share of the 47 gop delegates at stake, gephardt, a congressman from the st. louis area, overwhelmed the 11 other democrats listed on the ballot, competing for 77 convention delegates
it's been a one-man show from the beginning,'' said missouri democratic party chairman betty hearnes. ``we just haven't seen anybody else.'' whites</head>
an overwhelming black vote carried jesse jackson to victory over tennessee sen. albert gore in georgia's democratic presidential primary, while vice president george bush crushed kansas sen. bob dole
with 2,461 of 2,571 precincts or 96 percent reporting early today, jackson had 235,088 votes or 39 percent; gore had 194,824 votes or 33 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 93,442 votes or 16 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 40,658 votes or 7 percent, and former colorado sen. gary hart had 15,384 votes or 3 percent
in the republican race, with 2,398 of 2,571 precincts or 93 percent reporting, bush had 188,512 votes or 53 percent; dole had 81,647 votes or 23 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 57,901 votes or 16 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 21,662 votes or 6 percent
gore had won the backing of sen. sam nunn, gov. joe frank harris and state house speaker tom murphy
but jackson scored big in georgia's 5th congressional district, composed largely of atlanta, where he beat both gore and dukakis by better than 8-to-1
according to abc news exit polls, jackson won 95 percent of georgia's black democratic vote, and added 10 percent of the state's white democratic votes. he even picked up 117 votes in forsyth county, the virtually all-white site of racial violence and civil rights marches in 1987
atlanta mayor andrew young, like jackson a veteran of the civil rights movement, said the strong showings by jackson and gore ``are probably good for the south. both jesse and al gore represent where the south is.''
the republicans had 48 delegates up for grabs. the democrats offered 77 delegates to their convention in atlanta in july
robertson, who watched the returns in atlanta, vowed that he is still a contender
this is not the end,'' he told supporters. ``this is just the beginning. we're going to new orleans. ... i'm in all the way. i'm in to see a republican conservative congress in 1990, and we're in for the presidential race in 1992.''
attorney general edwin meese iii is rejecting a request by 11 democrats on the house judiciary committee that he temporarily step down until pending federal investigations into his conduct have been completed
this is an old idea, a politically partisan idea and a thoroughly bad idea,'' meese's chief spokesman, terry eastland, said tuesday after being informed of the request. ``no one should be urged to step down from a government position simply because that person is under investigation.''
the democrats said in their letter, ``we strongly believe that your increasing inability to spend time on the day-to-day demands of your job, the deteriorating morale at the department of justice, and the continuing cloud over your office are undermining your ability to act effectively as the nation's chief law enforcement officer.''
meese has been under criminal investigation by independent counsel james mckay since last may 11. mckay has been examining meese's involvement with scandal-plagued wedtech corp., and with a $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline project. mckay also has been examining the attorney general's involvement with the regional bell telephone companies at a time when he owned $14,000 in phone stock
in addition, independent counsel lawrence walsh, investigating the iran-contra affair, has called meese before a grand jury numerous times
eastland said meese ``has every intention of serving to the end of this term.''
he has spent some time with his lawyers on the investigation, but there has been no serious subtraction of his time or effort from leadership of the department of justice,'' eastland said
the letter said the pending investigations ``detract from the time required to properly administer the department of justice.''
the pervasive perception that you have allowed personal considerations to encroach on your constitutional responsibilities threatens to breed contempt for your office, your administration and the rule of law itself,'' the lawmakers said
the letter was signed by reps. dan glickman, kan.; edward feighan, ohio; howard berman, calif.; barney frank, mass.; bruce morrison, conn.; lawrence smith, fla.; harley staggers jr., w. va.; john conyers, mich.; george crockett jr., mich.; mike synar, okla.; and patricia schroeder, colo
thousands of mourners attended the funerals of three israelis killed in a palestinian terrorist attack, many sobbing uncontrollably as relatives threw themselves on the coffins of their beloved
such killings ... only strengthen our lust for and link to this land, to this country,'' prime minister yitzhak shamir told the 5,000 israelis who attended the services tuesday
services were held for the three residents of this southern negev desert town who were killed monday, when three palestinian guerrillas hijacked a commuter bus. nine israelis were wounded
anti-terrorist police stormed the bus three hours after the hijacking and 15 minutes after the guerrilla leader shot to death victor ran, 39, a widower and father of three children
the guerrillas, from yasser arafat's mainstream fatah branch of the palestine liberation organization, were killed during the 30-second rescue operation
two israelis, rina shiratzky, 31, a mother of two, and miriam ben yair, 46, mother of four, were fatally wounded in the rescue
the guerrillas were demanding freedom for hundreds of palestinians held in israeli jails on rioting charges
we have to hold responsible all the countries in the region, the arab states from where the murderers came and where you read and hear today in the media praises for this murder,'' shamir said
the war of the jewish people for their land, the land of israel, is not over .... despite our tremendous longing for peace, there are still people _ if they might be called human beings _ who are after our blood,'' he said
family members of the dead threw themselves on the coffins, screaming in grief and clutching the lids. many in the crowd sobbed as they gazed at the coffins, which had been placed on a sunlit podium
maj. gen yitzhak mordechai, chief of the army's central command who headed the rescue operation, also spoke at the funerals
we promise today near their coffins not to rest in continuing the holy enterprise of mantaining security along the borders of israel and within the country,'' mordechai said
the murderers have found their death yesterday. some day we will reach those who sent them.'' memorial</head>
a measure that would let a memorial to the black veterans of the revolutionary war be built in the most-traveled tourist area of washington has won subcommittee approval, but the house has just four weeks to act
a vote by the house interior and insular affairs subcommittee on national parks and public lands followed pleas tuesday by historians, black activists and the reagan administration
the patriots memorial is not a war memorial; it is not an ethnic memorial,'' said maurice a. barboza, a virginia lawyer who has been the driving force behind the project. ``as a memorial to the struggle for freedom, it will stand as a universal symbol to define for generations to come our american nationality, which is based on principles rather than on pigmentation.''
the subcommittee also approved, without discussion, locating a planned korean war memorial in the city's prime tourist area
last year, president reagan signed into law a measure pushed by barboza that authorizes a black patriots memorial in washington
but barboza, formerly of plainville, conn., and rep. nancy l. johnson, r-conn., whom he enlisted to carry on the fight in congress, want the memorial in a prominent place, a move that requires another layer of administrative and legislative approvals
last november, interior secretary donald p. hodel declared that barboza's proposal had ``pre-eminent historical and lasting significance to the nation.'' that finding is needed to place a memorial in the city's monument-filled area i, which includes the mall, the ellipse, lafayette park and west potomac park
the senate has approved the siting resolution, but the house only has until april 7 to take action. without congressional approval, the memorial cannot be placed in area i
robert k. wright, an army historian, said most history books ignored the role of the estimated 5,000 blacks who served in the continental army
even if the area i legislation is accepted, proponents still would have to go back to the interior department, commission of fine arts and the national capital planning commission to get specific siting and design approval
barboza, who quit his job as a lobbyist for the american bar association to work on the memorial project full time, envisions a ``modest'' memorial nestled in constitution gardens, a grassy area near both the lincoln memorial and washington monument
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,605.39 points, up 139.66 points, on the tokyo stock exchange wednesday
the nation's firefighters are incensed by a federal law that could require them to obtain commercial licenses if they want to continue to drive their equipment
the commercial vehicle safety act of 1986, which is being phased in starting this year, will require commercial licenses of anyone who operates a vehicle that weighs 26,000 pounds or more, carries 15 or more people or transports hazardous materials
but associations representing many of the nation's 225,000 paid and 900,000 volunteer firefighters say the law was meant to foster safety in the commercial trucking business, not impose costly new rules on their members
tim butters, a spokesman for the international association of fire chiefs, said tuesday, ``the burden on the fire service is going to be very significant when this law goes through because of the road test that they're going to have to go through, the (written) examination, and i think there's going to be a lot of cost factors.''
stanley hamilton of the federal highway administration said the licensing regulations won't be ready until july 15, and they will be phased in through 1992. the law also will affect farmers who drive heavy equipment, and hamilton said his agency has been inundated with protest mail from farm communities
under the law, the secretary of transportation may issue waivers ``with respect to class of persons or class of vehicles,'' but hamilton said requests for exemptions would not be considered until the regulations are written
rep. sherwood boehlert, r-n.y., wrote to transportation secretary james burnley last week to ask that firefighters be exempted from the commercial license requirement
let's solve the problem with truckers, not create new ones for firefighters,'' boehlert said tuesday. ``volunteer fire companies are people who are farmers, lawyers, they work in the factory and they volunteer their time and services to the fire department. now this regulation, if it's enforced, would require these people to spend about $400 to get a commercial license ... when there's no evidence whatsoever that firefighters are creating any safety problems on our nation's highways.''
federal legislation introduced last week in the house by rep. jim slattery, d-kan., and the senate by sen. david karnes, r-neb., would exempt the drivers of fire trucks and farm vehicles that are driven less than 15,000 miles a year
francis a. mcgarry, new york state fire administrator, estimated that it would cost $58 million to commercially license 95,000 of the state's 165,000 firefighters
he put test fees at $350, a physical exam at about $150, ``and that's without even including the time a volunteer has to take off from work to go and do this.'' 
a 40-year-old bomb exploded and killed a boy and two other people in central henan province when the boy tried to open it, thinking the explosives inside had medicinal value, the official china daily said today
it said wei shuangxi, a farmer living near sanmenxia city, found the bomb while digging for medicinal herbs last year
on feb. 19, a boy playing at wei's home tried to chop the end off the bomb, thinking the explosives inside could cure diseases, and the bomb went off, killing the boy, wei and one other person, the newspaper said
the report gave no details of the bomb. forty years ago, the communist red army and the nationalists were waging a civil war that ended in 1949 with the communist forces gaining control of the mainland
jesse jackson, buoyed by a big turnout in the heavily black delta, sailed to a decisive victory in mississippi's presidential primary, while vice president george bush blew away other gop challengers like a gulf hurricane
voters on tuesday also set up a november matchup of two popular congressmen for the seat of retiring sen. john c. stennis
with 2,268 of 2,340 precincts or 97 percent reporting, jackson had 162,431 or 45 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 120,708 or 33 percent. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 31,188 or 9 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 19,811 votes or 5 percent; and former colorado sen. gary hart had 12,748 votes or 4 percent
in the republican race, with 2,249 of 2,340 precincts or 96 percent reporting, bush had 103,094 votes or 66 percent to kansas sen. bob dole's 26,287 or 17 percent. former tv evangelist pat robertson had 21,017 or 13 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 5,782 or 4 percent
based on those returns, jackson would get 23 delegates to 16 for gore and one for dukakis. bush would secure 27 gop delegates, with two each for dole and robertson
we knew we were going to do well ... but we didn't think we'd do this well overall, or in mississippi,'' said eric kimbrough, executive director of the state's bush campaign. ``we believe this is a resounding victory for us.''
u.s. rep. wayne dowdy, a democrat who jumped in the u.s. senate race the day after stennis, 86, retired in october, defeated secretary of state dick molpus, 38, by a comfortable margin. stennis is retiring after 41 years in the senate
polls rate a contest between liberal dowdy and conservative republican trent lott a toss-up
it will take a united democratic party to beat him,'' dowdy said. ``it can be won, and things are ripe for the democrats to win in november. mississippi should have at least one democrat in the u.s. senate.''
early polls had shown dowdy, 44, trailing molpus, who recently won re-election to a new four-year statehouse term. the two tussled over dowdy's voting record, which molpus said was among the five poorest based on attendance in the house
i think that hurt me a little, and it hurt him a little, too, but going into the final days we felt very confident,'' dowdy said. ``we said we would get about 55 percent, and that's the way it turned out.''
in lightly contested democratic primaries, 24-term rep. jamie whitten and mike espy, the state's first black congressman since reconstruction, were overwhelming winners
runoffs appeared certain in both parties for the 4th and 5th district seats given up by dowdy and lott, respectively. they will be held march 29
five self-proclaimed lesbians were arrested for chaining themselves to buckingham palace's gates to protest the government's plan to stop giving public funds to homosexual groups
police cut the women free from the gates after a half-hour and took them into custody
the demonstrators said their action tuesday coincided with the 70th anniversary of suffragettes doing the same in the campaign to win votes for women. twelve female supporters, some in victorian clothing, paraded on the sidewalk
the demonstration was against a government bill that would make local councils stop funding homosexual groups or promoting homosexuality as a legitimate lifestyle
we chose the palace because the bill will have to gain royal assent next month before it becomes law,'' said one of the women, who refused to give her name
vice president george bush's lopsided victory in kentucky's gop primary surprised even his staunchest supporters, while tennessee sen. albert gore jr. also won big in his neighbor state
bush captured 71,912 votes, or 59 percent of the gop total tuesday, according to unofficial returns with 3,235 of 3,237 precincts, or 99 percent, reporting. the vote apparently won 27 of the 38 delegates up for grabs
i think bush is unstoppable after this. i think he clinched the presidency today,'' said u.s. rep. harold rogers, bush's state campaign chairman, who said he had predicted bush would win 48 percent of the vote
kansas sen. robert dole finished second with 27,844 votes, 23 percent of the total. he apparently won 11 delegates
no other republican crossed the 15 percent threshold to win any delegates
with 3,241 of 3,243 democratic precincts reporting, gore received 150,286 votes, or 46 percent. because of the way delegates are apportioned, though, he apparently won 37 of the 55 available democratic delegates, or 67 percent
al gore is right for kentucky; he's right for america. we're just now starting the momentum in this campaign,'' said gov. wallace wilkinson, gore's leading supporter in the state
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis ran second in kentucky with 59,457 votes, or 18 percent, and was slated for 12 delegates
only the jesse jackson among other democrats was able to make the threshold and win delegates. jackson received 49,655 votes, or 15 percent, to earn six delegates
among other republicans, former tv evangelist pat robertson received 13,538 votes, or 11 percent. no other republican broke 2 percent
missouri congressman richard gephardt received 29,048 votes, or 9 percent. no other democrat received more than 4 percent
jesse jackson built his triumphs in the south's super tuesday primaries by piling a 10 percent share of the white vote on top of a near sweep of black votes
it was jackson's finest hour in two runs for the presidency and he said it gave him ``a sense of joy ... and a sense of victory.''
we're now in a dead-heat contest running for the nomination of our party,'' he told abc news from houston tuesday night. ``it shows that america is getting stronger and better, but also that in the south, my message began to break through: stop drugs, save jobs and invest in our children.''
jackson demonstrated anew what he had shown earlier in such states as iowa, maine and vermont, where only a tiny share of the population is black: he is now able to attract a significant share of white votes
he has also benefited from changes in the party delegate selection rules he complained so bitterly about in 1984, when he won 18 percent of the popular vote but wound up with only 12 percent of the delegates
and this time out, jackson didn't have to share the black vote with walter mondale
blacks made up nearly 25 percent of the electorate in the south, and exit polls by abc news indicated jackson got 95 percent or more of their votes
abc polls said jackson had about 10 percent of the white vote in the south, while the cbs news-new york times poll said he had 8 percent. nbc figures ranged from 4 percent in tennessee to 15 percent in virginia and 19 percent in massachusetts
at a virtually all-black precinct in mobile county, ala., jackson got 1,837 votes to second-place albert gore jr.'s 31. in macon county, about 90 percent black, jackson led with 2,540 to gore's 43
overall, according to abc's polls, jackson got 6 percent of the white alabama vote and 96 percent of the black vote. by comparison, four years earlier, jackson got 1 percent of the white vote and 55 percent of the black vote in alabama
likewise, in florida, where jackson managed 1 percent of the white vote and 58 percent of the black vote in 1984, he pulled in 7 percent of the white vote and 82 percent of the black vote tuesday, said abc. its exit polls had a 5-point margin of error in either direction
frank dexter brown, associate director of communications for the joint center for political studies, a black-oriented think tank based in washington, said tuesday jackson has been defying expectations all along this year with his showings in new england, minnesota and iowa
jackson got 28 percent of the vote in maine compared to 1 percent four years earlier. he also got 28 percent in vermont, 20 percent in a second-place finish in minnesota, 11 percent in the iowa caucuses and 8 percent in new hampshire
most national polls have given jackson 4 percent to 5 percent of the white vote
a survey last august by the joint center for political studies found 80 percent of blacks and 10 percent of whites supported jackson
blacks comprise about 11 percent of all americans of voting age
since delegates are awarded by congressional district, not statewide, it is still possible for a candidate to wind up with a smaller share of delegates in some states than his popular vote
but jackson stood to profit from the lower threshold of votes needed in each congressional district to gain delegates. it was 20 percent in 1984; now it is 15 percent
voters polled by abc gave jackson high marks for his ability to handle foreign affairs, protect the poor and elderly and hold down unemployment
among those who voted in democratic primaries, 29 percent said they definitely would not vote for jackson for president; 45 percent nixed republican pat robertson; 37 percent ruled out george bush and 36 percent said no to democrat gary hart. his three main democratic rivals, michael dukakis, gore and richard gephardt, were ruled out by 12 percent to 14 percent. 10th graf pvs, ``it isn't. should stand for ams</note>
vice president george bush declared tuesday, ``i'm going to be the next president of the united states,'' as he overwhelmed sen. bob dole in lopsided republican voting. dole sought to deflect the shock while the presidential aspirations of jack kemp and pat robertson were dealt shattering blows
robertson kept bush from a super tuesday shutout, winning the washington caucuses
but it was a small loss for bush, who was triumphant in the 16 remaining states that held gop primaries tuesday
bush was leading for 571 of the 712 delegates up for grabs
this is a unique political happening,'' an elated bush told cheering campaign workers in houston. ``it exceeded my fondest expectations.''
a more subdued dole told his supporters in chicago: ``tomorrow we will be on the road to recovery.''
dole, shutout in the south, turned his sights north, to the illinois primary next tuesday, where he hoped to stage a comeback. ``i want to congratulate the vice president ... he'll probably sleep better tonight than i will,'' he said. ``we'll take turns.''
dole's campaign chairman, william brock, acknowledged that the campaign had suffered a serious defeat. ``the psychological hit is very heavy,'' he said
tuesday's voting appeared to put the other two gop candidates, kemp and robertson, well out of contention for the party nomination
robertson continued to show strength in state caucuses with his win in washington. he vowed to fight on
it isn't too bad for an amateur, but it's not near what i expected,'' robertson said. he suggested he might win the illinois primary and asserted, ``i do have resources left. we have the largest donor base of any candidate and i can carry all the way to new orleans.''
robertson offered his congratulations to bush and said, ``he ran a superb campaign.''
bush won decisive victories all over, capturing more than 50 percent of the vote in many states, including delegate-rich florida and texas
the vice president also scored big wins in tennessee, kentucky, georgia, alabama, virginia, mississippi, louisiana, arkansas, north carolina, maryland, massachusetts and rhode island. in oklahoma and missouri, the margin was much closer, but bush hung on to win.
dole had pinned his southern hopes on north carolina, the home state of his wife, elizabeth
at stake tuesday were 712 delegates to the republican national convention. virginia was alone among the 17 gop contests holding a ``beauty contest'' that awards no delegates. it takes 1,139 votes for the nomination
bush led for 571, giving him 698 when combined with the delegates he won in earlier contests. dole led for 100, a total of 165. robertson was getting 10 for a total 18. kemp led for 4 for a total 39
bush's national campaign chairman, lee atwater, predicted that bush would pick up more than 600 delegates _ a gain that would give him a near-unassailable lead toward winning the gop presidential nomination
i would certainly hate to be in sen. dole's shoes after tonight and especially if he loses in illinois,'' atwater said
the dole campaign had sought to keep bush from picking up more than 500 delegates
dole hoped to wage a come-from-behind effort in midwestern and western states. he said earlier in springfield, ill., ``if we take a little bath today, i am going to start my road to recovery in illinois just like i did 40 years ago.''
he was referring to his recuperation in an illinois hospital from wounds suffered during world war ii
kemp and robertson were far outdistanced by bush and dole. kemp trailed robertson in most southern states, and was expected to drop out by week's end. for robertson, the voting throughout the south was a replay of his third place finish in saturday's south carolina primary, when he could muster no more than about 20 percent of the vote
bush voted in houston, and then told reporters, ``if we exceed our expectations or live up to them, i think we'll be in good shape.''
it's going to be a little tougher as we go along, but i've been in tough fights before,'' dole acknowledged at a morning news conference in kansas city, mo
he then traveled to illinois and immediately challenged bush to a series of debates _ ``one-on-one, without moderator'' _ in that state, which holds its primary next tuesday
if bob dole was so serious about debating, he would have shown up for the (feb. 19) dallas morning news debate,'' bush spokesman pete teeley said. ``we have a strategy which has been highly successful and we plan to pursue it, and that doesn't include having one-on-one debates with bob dole.''
the senate minority leader, a 1980 presidential contender and gop vice presidential candidate in 1976, was reportedly spending $500,000 on television advertising in illinois
a defeat there could all but end dole's presidential efforts and a strong showing for the kanasan was by no means assured. bush is backed by illinois gov. james thompson and 93 of the state's 102 republican county chairmen
kemp, dead last in the south carolina primary last weekend, had not been expected to see that flagging effort revived in tuesday's voting. aides said the new york lawmaker and former pro-football star would reassess his race later in the week. he was expected to pull out
robertson's chances as a serious contender seemed likely to be all but ended if his losses in super tuesday states were as decisive as his third-place finish in south carolina, where he won only 19 percent of the vote
robertson's candidacy came to life with his strong second-place finish the iowa caucuses on feb. 8. but in the primaries that followed, his strength ebbed
riot police fired birdshot and tear gas to disperse demonstrators who blocked streets with hundreds of trash fires to protest the country's military rule and its tottering economy
the demonstrations tuesday were the largest since president eric arturo delvalle was deposed feb. 26, just hours after he tried to fire gen. manuel antonio noriega
noriega, chief of panama's 15,000-member defense forces, is considered the real power behind the country's civilian government
reporters saw at least eight protesters captured, beaten with rubber truncheons and fists and driven away in military vehicles
a photographer for the mexico city newspaper excelsior was slightly injured by birdshot fired by police
the national civic crusade, which has organized demonstrations calling for noriega's ouster since last june, said at least 23 people were detained. by late tuesday, all but two had been released
it was another black day for panama,'' said aurelio barria, president of the panama chamber of commerce, industry and agriculture. ``when the people of panama go into the streets, they get repressed,'' he told reporters tuesday night
we are in the hands of armed terrorists,'' barria added, referring to the noriega regime
barria is a director of the crusade, a broad coalition of business, professional, labor, student and political organizations opposed to noriega
small groups of protesters erected barricades across hundreds of streets in the central and eastern parts of the city tuesday afternoon, snarling traffic and forcing many businesses to shut down early
riot police were out in force, but they could not keep up with the hundreds of demonstrators, many of whom stepped out of their homes and shops to hurl plastic bags of garbage into the streets then quickly ran back inside
other protesters, mostly roving bands of youths, set fire to piles of debris and built barricades of burning tires, dry palm fronds, wooden signs, boulders and anything else they could lug into the streets
some tried to throw rocks at police but could not reach their targets. when police appeared, groups ran a few blocks then set up another barricade
the stench of burning garbage and the acrid smell of tear gas wafted over large parts of the city as the demonstrations, and the government's attempts to halt them, continued into the evening
smouldering rubbish still littered the streets of this tropical capital late tuesday night, but demonstrators had dispersed
the protests came on the seventh day of a bank shutdown that has crippled commerce. most businesses were not accepting checks or credit cards, only cash
depositors began a run on panamanian-owned and -operated banks the day delvalle was dismissed
the 12 locally owned banks closed march 1 during a nationwide general strike called by noriega's opponents. the banks opened briefly but the government ordered them shut again last thursday because of a lack of cash
in miami, a u.s. district judge froze panamanian assets in banks there after a suit was filed tuesday to prevent noriega's government from withdrawing official monies. a similar order was issued last week in new york city and another suit was filed tuesday in boston
the united states continues to recognize delvalle as panama's president. it has been calling for noriega's removal since his indictment in florida in february on federal drug trafficking charges
delvalle has been in hiding in panama since noriega orchestrated his ouster by the legislative assembly
jorge abadia, panama's foreign minister, on tuesday accused the united states of conducting ``the prelude of an armed invasion'' by staging military exercises along the panama canal
but the u.s. southern command said the exercises, involving nearly 700 soldiers from u.s. military installations in panama and u.s. national guard troops from florida and puerto rico, were scheduled a year ago. the command said the exercises, which began last weekend, are ``routine training.''
dennis mcauliffe, administrator of the panama canal commission, said on tuesday that the waterway was operating normally despite the strain that the tension between the united states and panama has created for canal workers
support from key democratic figures pushed tennessee sen. albert gore jr. past jesse jackson in north carolina's presidential primary, while victorious vice president george bush stressed his ties to president reagan
gore's victory tuesday showed voters ``trusted him on defense, believed he was committed to jobs and economic growth, and they trusted him to be fiscally responsible,'' said former gov. jim hunt, who with sen. terry sanford endorsed gore in january
with 2,373 of 2,387 precincts or 99 percent reporting, gore had 234,595 votes or 35 percent; jackson had 222,494 votes or 33 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 136,459 votes or 20 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 37,854 votes or 6 percent, and former colorado sen. gary hart had 16,506 votes or 2 percent
in the republican race, with 2,374 of 2,387 precincts or 99 percent reporting: bush had 123,781 votes or 45 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 109,678 votes or 40 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 26,583 votes or 10 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 11,348 votes or 4 percent
gore was expected to take 34 of the state's 82 democratic delegates, with jackson getting 31 and dukakis 17. bush was expected to take 29 of the state's 54 delegates and dole 25
bush held off a late surge by dole, who targeted north carolina in his effort to avoid a southern shutout. during an all-day swing across the state saturday, bush said he was worried because polls had indicated the contest was neck-and-neck
the popularity of dole's wife, former transportation secretary elizabeth dole, in her native state helped but not enough, observers said. ``you have to remember that mrs. dole is not on the ticket,'' said joan shaffer, co-chairman of bush's wake county organization
a republican candidate has to carry the south,'' said jack hawke, the state gop chairman. ``what george bush has shown is that he is strong in the south. ... people are associating him with the president.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and vice president george bush built vigorous campaigns on already strong personal ties to score resounding victories in rhode island's presidential primaries
our mission has been accomplished,'' said gov. edward d. diprete, who repaid bush's campaign journeys to the state with strong backing. ``there is really a bush blastout tonight all over the country.''
bush, a new england native, swept his chief rival, kansas sen. bob dole, in 16 states around the country in the super tuesday primaries
in the democratic race, with 100 percent of 320 precincts reporting, dukakis amassed 34,159 votes or 70 percent, making his victory even bigger than that of another bay stater, sen. edward kennedy, in the 1980 primary
jesse jackson was a distant second with 7,369 votes or 15 percent, followed by missouri rep. richard gephardt with 2,013 votes or 4 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. with 1,932 votes or 4 percent; illinois sen. paul simon with 1,392 votes or 3 percent and gary hart with 738 votes or 2 percent
among republicans, with 319 of 320 precincts or 99 percent reporting, bush won 10,403 votes or 65 percent, trailed by dole with 3,637 votes or 23 percent; pat robertson with 921 votes or 6 percent and rep. jack kemp, 783 votes or 5 percent
based on those results, bush would likely capture 15 gop delegates and dole would win six, while dukakis would gain 19 democratic delegates and jackson three
dukakis, as the governor of a neighboring state, was a familiar face to rhode islanders long before he began running for president. he campaigned here several times and quickly picked up support from most of rhode island's democratic hierarchy
providence mayor joseph r. paolino jr., state chairman of the dukakis campaign, said the governor's win was even more impressive than kennedy's victory over president carter in the 1980 democratic primary
kennedy ``had about 65 to 67 percent of the vote in a two-man race,'' paolino said. ``this is a five-man race.''
jackson supporters broke out champagne to celebrate their candidate's strong showing in a state that is only 2 percent black
amnesty international today accused philippines forces under president corazon aquino's government of unlawfully killing left-wing foes and people suspected of supporting that nation's 19-year communist insurgency
the london-based human rights organization called on the aquino government to end the killings by military and paramilitary forces, saying the slayings represented the philippines' most serious human rights problem since mid-1987
there was no immediate response from the aquino government
last month the president accused the communists of using charges of human rights abuses as a smokescreen to discredit the military and draw attention away from rebel actions
in manila today, task force-detainees _ a private, social activist group supported by the roman catholic church _ said the number of illegal arrests in the philippines had increased since the february 1986 collapse of president ferdinand marcos' authoritarian regime
spokesman noel salazar said his group's investigations showed that 7,444 people were illegally detained or arrested in 1987, and of that number 602 were tortured. he said that in 1985, the last full year of the marcos administration, 5,967 people were illegally detained
mrs. aquino promised to restore human rights when she succeeded marcos on feb. 25, 1986, after a military-civilian uprising drove marcos into exile
the amnesty report said most victims were singled out because they either belonged to legal, left-wing organizations or were suspected of backing the new people's army, the armed wing of the communist party of the philippines
it said their killers belonged to the regular military and police forces, paramilitary civil defense forces and community-based vigilante groups acting with government support
the aquino government has sanctioned formation of more than 200 civilian anti-communist vigilante groups, some of which have forged alliances with armed religious fanatics, or tadtads. many of the vigilante groups have been armed by the military. church and human rights organizations have accused the vigilantes of murder, intimidation and other abuses
amnesty said it did not know of one military or police officer who was convicted and sentenced for such political killings or for any other serious human rights offense since mrs. aquino assumed office
it praised the aquino government for ``some very real progress'' in human rights, particularly in restoring legal safeguards and in greatly reducing the use of torture. but it called on the government to reaffirm publicly its commitment to protect human rights
many killings reported to amnesty followed acts of violence by communist rebels in which civilians and military personnel were killed, the report said
it argued that crimes by opposition groups ``can never be used to justify unlawful retaliatory killings by agents of the government'' supposed to uphold the law
amnesty cited scores of cases of filipino men, women and children shot to death since mid-1987
among the cases cited were:
_17 villagers, including six children, killed by soldiers in february 1987 in apparent reprisal after troops were ambushed in lupao, nueva ecija province
_a 29-year-old peasant activist, his wife and two small children, hacked to death after masked members of a civil defense unit were seen entering their home in magpet, north cotobato, in may 1987
_a 28-year-old farm worker, mutilated and beheaded in front of a neighbor by members of a vigilante group in kabankalan in southern negros occidental in june 1987
the report said the aquino government responded swiftly to many highly publicized killings by setting up task forces to conduct official inquiries. it said many less well-known cases were handled by the commission on human rights or its predecessor
but amnesty said official investigations of such killings rarely led to prosecutions for reasons that included fear on the part of witnesses, lack of cooperation from the military and apparent lack of impartiality by military courts, which have jurisdiction over cases involving soldiers and police
amnesty expressed concern about occasional reports of torture and about the fate of campaigners for left-wing political parties who disappeared after allegedly being abducted by military personnel following may 1986 congressional elections
the super tuesday primaries produced a blizzard of numbers. here are some figures from exit polls conducted by abc news in a dozen southern states that help provide a snapshot of who voted how:
_ white voters were narrowly split between michael dukakis and albert gore jr., 34 percent to 33 percent. but jesse jackson's 10 percent share of the white vote helped him roll to victory in several deep south states
_ black voters favored jackson by margins of 95 percent or higher
_ hispanics gave 42 percent of their votes to dukakis, 23 percent to jackson
_ protestants favored gore over jackson, 31 percent to 27 percent
_ catholics went with dukakis by 45 percent to jackson's 16 percent
_ jewish voters picked dukakis by 78 percent to gore's 11 percent. jackson had three percent of the jewish vote, as did richard gephardt
_ born-again christians picked jackson by 40 percent to gore's 29 percent. but among only white born-again christians, gore got 46 percent to dukakis's 22 percent and jackson's eight percent. jackson got 96 percent of the black born-again vote. evangelicals sided with dukakis, 27 percent, over gore, 22 percent, and jackson, 21 percent
_ about a third of democratic primary voters in the south had pulled the lever for ronald reagan in 1984. they favored gore (35 percent) over dukakis (25 percent), gephardt (15 percent) and jackson (12 percent)
_ pat robertson was the candidate with the highest negatives among democratic voters. forty-five percent said they definitely would not vote for him. thirty-seven percent expressed the same sentiment about george bush, 36 percent about gary hart and 29 percent about jackson
_ eighty-two percent of democratic voters said the next president should change the course set by reagan; among them, 33 percent were for jackson, 29 percent dukakis and 22 percent gore. among the 18 percent who want the next president to follow reagan's course, 38 percent were for gore, 21 percent for dukakis and 16 percent for jackson
_ dukakis commanded 75 percent of the greek-american vote, and 70 percent of the italian-americans
_ forty-seven percent of farmers went for dukakis; so did 39 percent of the feminists
_ five percent of the voters were from union households. thirty-seven percent of them went for jackson, 31 percent for dukakis and 22 percent for gore
_ nearly a quarter said the national economy was the overriding issue, and they went with dukakis by 35 percent to 24 percent for jackson and 20 percent for gore
_ the youngest voters and those in their 50s were george bush's biggest supporters. those age 18-24 favored bush over dole by 73 percent to 11 percent, while those in their 50s picked him by 65 percent to 14 percent
_ dole's worst showing was among high school graduates and dropouts, where he trailed bush by 60-17; his best was among those with more than four years of college, where he narrowed the gap to 50-33
_ among protestants, bush beat dole 58-21, with robertson claiming 17 percent and kemp 3 percent. among catholics, bush trounced dole, 72-21, with kemp getting 6 percent
_ among born-again christians, bush beat robertson, 46-33, with dole third at 14 percent and kemp at 5 percent. among white born-agains, bush was the choice, 44-34, over robertson. among evangelicals, bush was the choice by 48-28 over dole, with robertson third at 18 percent and kemp last at 5 percent
_ among the five percent of republican voters who owned up to voting for walter mondale in 1984, dole was the choice by 33-30 over bush, with robertson at 17 percent and kemp at 13 percent
_ among reagan voters, bush walloped dole, 62-19, with robertson getting 14 percent and kemp 4 percent
_ robertson got eight percent of the votes of those who called themselves liberals or moderates, but 16 percent of the conservatives. his conservative votes came at dole's expense
_ robertson was near the top of the republican voters' list of candidates they definitely would not vote for. forty-two percent mentioned hart; 41 percent said robertson and jackson; 23 percent simon and 21 percent dukakis
_ seventy-nine percent wanted to stay the reagan course; they favored bush 64-17 over dole, with 13 percent for robertson and 5 percent for dole. among the 21 percent who want a change, bush led dole 47-38, with 10 percent for robertson and 3 percent for kemp
_ republican voters from union households picked dole with 56 percent over bush and robertson, both 22 percent
_ among those who considered the candidates' stands on abortion crucial, robertson tied bush with 40 percent
_ eighty percent of jews went for bush, 20 percent for dole
the abc exit polls had a standard margin of error of five points in either direction. abc interviewed voters as they exited 690 precincts around the super tuesday states. it questioned at least 1,000 voters in each republican primary state and 700 in the democratic primaries
many of these results were based on an extended questionnaire given to voters at 50 precincts across the south
pat robertson, supported by troops of energetic fundamentalists, marched to his sole super tuesday victory by pushing past kansas sen. bob dole and vice president george bush in washington state's republican caucuses
with 3,683 of 6,594 precincts reporting, the former tv evangelist picked up 4,659 votes or 38 percent. dole had 3,245 or 27 percent, and bush came in third _ his only loss of the night _ with 2,958 or 24 percent
new york rep. jack kemp was a weak fourth with 906 or 7 percent
we'll take it!'' robertson's state organizer, bruce hawkins, cried as the results rolled in
to claim their share of the state's 41 gop delegates, the candidates will have to fare as well in this spring's county or legislative district caucuses, which precede the july 15 state convention where delegates will be allocated
state republican chairwoman jennifer dunn said the proportions set caucus night traditionally hold up throughout the delegate selection process
in early results for the democrats, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, endorsed by gov. booth gardner, had 45 percent and jesse jackson 32 percent. tennessee sen. albert gore jr. received the votes of 7 percent of those democrats represented in the party's sample of statewide precinct voting. ten percent were undecided
at stake were 73 democratic delegates. however, final democratic results were not expected for a week
as many as 220,000 registered voters, or 10 percent of those eligible, were expected to take part in caucuses that represented the first step toward electing the west's second largest bloc of national convention delegates
super tuesday rocked the presidential aspirations of bob dole and richard gephardt, who just a month ago were basking in their first-place victories in the iowa caucuses
it also appeared to claim at least one immediate casualty, republican jack kemp, whose expected withdrawal from the race could come as early as today. the future of democrat gary hart's campaign also seemed dim
republican dole and democrat gephardt vowed to press on. but both were clearly shaken by poor showings in the largest-ever round of primary contests
i never told you it was going to be easy,'' gephardt said after winning only his home state of missouri
i don't give up very easily,'' said dole, who came away from super tuesday with no wins and few delegates
republican pat robertson and democrat paul simon also said they would stay in the race, at least for now, despite disappointing showings in their respective primary races on tuesday
robertson _ who consistently beat only kemp throughout the native south that he claimed as his base of support _ said he ``didn't frankly have the concentration i should have had in key states.'' he didn't come close in any of the 16 gop primaries, but did win washington's caucuses
but the former television evangelist, who three weeks ago told a new hampshire audience ``i assure you that i am going to be the next president,'' said his super tuesday showing ``isn't too bad for an amateur.''
he said, ``i do have resources left. we have the largest donor base of any candidate and i can carry all the way to new orleans'' to the republican convention this summer
democrat simon was expected to hold on, at least until the primary next week in his home state of illinois. he largely stayed away from super tuesday races and declared the outcome a ``gridlock'' with ``no clear winner.''
no candidate is going to win on the first ballot at the (democratic) convention,'' simon suggested. ``it's going to be a brokered convention.''
hart was on the ballot but out of the presidential picture in all primary states. he failed to get more than single-digit percentages anywhere
but hart, who declared ``let the people decide'' when he re-entered the race last december, made no public comment on his future plans
he had said last week that ``so long as i can be treated seriously, i will continue.'' hart listened to the returns on television at his home outside of denver
dole, who was crushed by bush in a sweep across the south that netted the vice president close to 700 new delegates, hoped to make a comeback effort in the midwestern and western primaries that follow _ beginning with next tuesday's contest in illinois
tomorrow we will be on the road to recovery,'' dole told a group of supporters in chicago
i want to congratulate the vice president. ... he'll probably sleep better tonight than i will,'' dole added. ``we'll take turns.''
a dole defeat in illinois could give bush a nearly unassailable lead and could all but end dole's chances for the gop presidential nomination
gephardt also sought to look beyond the losses
now we go on, to illinois, to michigan ... '' he said. gephardt claimed, ``i'm far from chucking it in because this is a long race.''
kemp spent the evening with his family in suburban washington rather than with supporters
the 52-year old former pro quarterback, who had earlier sought to portray himself as a ``consensus conservative'' who could carry on the reagan revolution, had failed to see his candidacy take off
his withdrawal from the race appeared inevitable after his fourth-place finish in south carolina last weekend
out of cash, kemp decided to make one last stand in the super tuesday contests. but in only a single primary, massachusetts, did he finish any better than fourth. there he edged out robertson for third place
the dollar rose slightly in tokyo on wednesday, while stock prices gained substantially following an overnight advance on wall street
the dollar closed at 128.08 yen, up 0.28 yen from tuesday's close. it opened at 127.80 yen and ranged between 127.73 yen and 128.27 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the 225-share nikkei stock average, which lost 150.85 points tuesday, gained back 139.66 points, or 0.55 percent, closing at 25,605.39. trading was relatively heavy at 1.3 billion shares
michio katsumata of nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage house, said tokyo stock prices were supported by tuesday's rally on the new york stock exchange and by stabilization of the foreign exchange market
investors also appeared to be buying shares deemed to be at bargain prices after the tokyo market's decline on tuesday, dealers said
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis used a strong local organization to smash democratic rivals in maryland's presidential primary, while vice president george bush won without even campaigning in person
we were well organized today. we were the only candidate really to have extensive poll coverage,'' said baltimore county executive dennis rasmussen, one of the organization democrats involved in the dukakis campaign
with 1,459 of 1,574 precincts or 93 percent reporting today, dukakis had 193,258 votes or 43 percent; jesse jackson had 140,025 votes or 31 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 40,061 votes or 9 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 34,170 votes or 8 percent, and illinois sen. paul simon had 13,628 votes or 3 percent
in the republican race, with 1,548 of 1,574 precincts or 98 percent reporting, bush had 103,899 votes or 53 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 62,721 votes or 32 percent; pat robertson had 12,328 votes or 6 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 11,579 votes or 6 percent
dukakis was expected to take 27 delegates and jackson 20. bush grabbed the state's 41 republican delegates
also on the ballot, incumbent democratic sen. paul sarbanes easily won nomination for a third term. he will be opposed in the general election by millionaire businessman thomas blair, a newcomer to politics
bush carried all eight congressional districts even though he didn't campaign personally in maryland. dole spent less than one day in the state
dukakis benefitted from strong democratic organizational support, especially in the populous suburbs around baltimore and washington, d.c
u.s. rep. kweisi mfume, jackson's state chairman, said dukakis ``ran a good campaign, had a good organization, had a good message, and people latched onto it.''
but he said he felt good about jackson's showing, which was boosted by strong support in the state's two predominantly black congressional districts
the campaign strategy was really to hold onto what we had in 1984 and to slightly increase it, and so we've done better than that,'' mfume said. ``jesse jackson and dukakis both were organized in maryland. they spent time here, and the voters responded accordingly.'' defeat</head>
republican presidential candidate bob dole, reeling from super tuesday losses, says he is ``on the road to recovery'' in illinois and that the industrial midwest will revive his struggling campaign
this is going to be bob dole's recovery state,'' the kansas senator told a crowd of cheering supporters tuesday night
it's going to be the turnaround state. it's going to get us back on the winning track.''
after dole's losses in tuesday's primaries and caucuses, the march 15 illinois primary is a make-or-break event for the senator's candidacy, his aides concede
we've got to make it happen in illinois,'' said thomas d. rath, a senior strategist in the campaign
although polls indicate that vice president george bush leads dole in illinois, rath said, the campaign hopes to surge ahead by focusing on what has become a dominant theme _ dole's leadership in the senate and contrasting that to bush's record
if you're looking for somebody who understands the issues, somebody who deals with the issues every day and somebody who has made a difference, you can pretty well judge a candidate by what they've done in the past,'' dole told supporters in oak brook, a chicago suburb where he watched the super tuesday results on television
the dole campaign is counting on strong support in downstate farming areas and in republican counties near the illinois-missouri border. in addition, the campaign is targeting white-collar suburban areas around chicago
william brock, dole's campaign chairman, acknowledged that tuesday's losses dealt a serious blow to the dole campaign
the psychological hit is very heavy,'' said brock
brock attributed bush's victories to president reagan's popularity in the south, and expressed frustration that the dole campaign had not been able to make gains by attacking bush and focusing the campaign on issues such as the deficit and drug use in america
you do the best you can. we did not have time to develop the one-on-one message that we did in the earlier states,'' brock said. ``now we've got a little more time. we'll see if we can do a better job.''
on arriving in illinois on tuesday, dole immediately took aim at bush when he spoke at a rally at the state capitol in springfield, challenging the vice president to a series of debates
later tuesday, when it became clear he had suffered a big defeat, dole rallied his supporters by recalling that he had come to chicago 40 years ago for treatment by a surgeon for crippling wounds suffered in world war ii
i've been coming to illinois for a long, long time,'' dole said. ``i don't give up very easily. we're going to be on the road to recovery in the state of illinois.''
the owner of the albany knickerbocker news, an afternoon daily with declining circulation, announced plans to combine it with the larger morning times union as a single all-day newspaper
the knickerbocker news will be discontinued on april 16, executives of capital newspapers, which operates both papers, said tuesday. the company is a division of the hearst newspapers group
william clemens, general manager of capital newspapers, said demand for the knickerbocker news was slumping and demand for the times union growing in an area that has five daily newspapers
we see our resources devoted in two different directions. we think the best way is to concentrate our resources in one paper,'' he said
clemens said company officials are still working on plans to combine the workforces of the newspapers, and don't know yet how many employees may be affected
the company declined to release current figures on its circulation and number of employees
audit bureau of circulations figures cited in editor and publisher international yearbook show that the daily paid circulation of the knickerbocker news was 30,699 on sept. 29, 1986, compared with 89,049 for the times union
two years earlier, the abc reported audited circulations of about 35,000 for the knickerbocker news and 87,000 for the times union
company officials said there will be personnel reductions, but said they hope to minimize layoffs by depending on attrition and voluntary measures
by day, st. agnes boys catholic high school is where nearly 300 teen-agers are educated. hours later, it's a nocturnal haven for hundreds of homeless in an unusual time-share concept
many of the boys at st. agnes, run by the marist brothers, come from some of the city's tougher areas _ harlem, hell's kitchen, the lower east side
they gulp down their lunches in the school cafeteria, taking advantage of the time allotted afterward to play a quick game of basketball in the gym
worn knapsacks stuffed with books and paper are thrown on the floor, the mandatory ties are tucked inside the dress shirts, and the boys are shooting free-throws and trampling the lines painted on the floor the day before
_
a half-day later, noon has turned to midnight and the gym is still occupied. the boys are gone; replaced by 350 of the city's estimated 60,000 homeless
st. agnes is transformed into the grand central drop-in center
folding chairs that had been neatly stacked against the wall in the day are spread out across the floor. homeless men are sleeping, stretching over two or three chairs. the only noise comes from snoring. a guard is posted outside the door
in contrast to the neatly dressed boys here earlier, many of the men are unkempt, unshaven and unwashed. a few appear to be in poor health, either physically or mentally
downstairs, in the cafeteria, men and a few women are sitting at tables talking
they will all be out by 5:30 a.m. two hours and a cleaning crew later, school will start
_
to hear school officials and the students tell it, no one would ever know they had overnight company
brother thomas schady and brother thomas potenza, principal and vice-principal, respectively, say there are no remnants of the shelter program once school begins. and, they say, the cafeteria, gym and the showers _ all used by night guests _ are clean by morning
the nighttime inhabitants stand in line outside the school, then go through a security checkpoint that includes a metal detector. any items that can be construed as weapons _ icepicks, hammers, knives, scissors _ are dropped off in a box near the door
the guests can eat, courtesy of the salvation army, and can shower and sleep on the folding chairs. there is access to social workers and medical care. there are no beds
the drop-in center idea is the city's alternative to the usual shelters. william j. grinker, commissioner of the city's human resources administration, has said that for a variety of reasons, some of the homeless don't use the established shelters
the grand central drop-in center, along with others that will follow, will provide an option between shelters on the one hand and bus depots and train stations on the other, grinker said
at the center, one man who declined to give his name said he was grateful to be inside, away from ``the weather.''
and 22-year-old stephanie frazier said she was relieved to be away from her usual haunt _ grand central station _ where she has had to beg for food
you don't have to beg nobody,'' she said. ``they just walk past. they don't give you nothin.'''
the 2-month-old program is welcomed by students
i think it's kind of cool that the school is helping other people,'' said 17-year-old carlos pinto
similarly, 16-year-old charles huller jr. said: ``we're doing something good for the homeless. it's part of our duty.''
and, as schady pointed out, it is easy to talk to students in a classroom about reaching out to others _ ``but it's rare to get the opportunity to experience it.''
the international civil aviation organization, a united nations body that oversees the safety and efficiency of world airlines, chose a new secretary-general in a close election, one of its officials said
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said sivinder singh sidhu, former head of india's civil aviation administration, defeated frenchman yves lambert, who had held the post for 12 years and was seeking his fifth three-year term. the election was held tuesday
two other candidates were bidding to head the organization, which has 157 members. sidhu was elected by the organization's 33-member council after three rounds of balloting in a closed vote
the official said most western members of the council supported lambert on the first ballot, while latin american nations backed brazil's adyr da silva and third world members backed sidhu
jesse jackson squeaked out a democratic primary win over tennessee sen. albert gore in the cradle of the confederacy early wednesday, while vice president george bush drubbed kansas sen. bob dole in alabama's republican race
jackson rallied a phalanx of black voters behind him to defeat gore, a white son of the neighboring state. with 3,448 of 4,304 precincts or 80 percent reporting, jackson had 157,887 votes or 44 percent to gore's 133,153 votes or 37 percent
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis was next with 27,846 votes or 8 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 25,825 votes or 7 percent; former colorado sen. gary hart tallied 6,586 votes or 2 percent and illinois sen. paul simon had 2,644 votes or 1 percent
in the republican contest, with 3,366 of 4,304 precincts or 78 percent reporting, bush amassed 123,285 votes or 64 percent; dole had 31,279 votes or 16 percent; pat robertson had 27,192 votes or 14 percent; and new york rep. jack kemp had 9,458 votes or 5 percent
for the democrats, 56 delegates were at stake, while republicans picked 38 delegates
jackson banked on a strong turnout of black voters, but gore hoped his appeal as a southern neighbor and his endorsement by sen. howell heflin would lift him into the no. 1 spot, despite early predictions that jackson would win
jackson made the largest investment of his campaign in tv ads in the birmingham area in hopes of nailing down a victory
bush had the endorsement of alabama republican party chairman emory folmar. but republican gov. guy hunt remained publicly neutral, and other party officials joined up with dole and kemp, saying they wanted a tougher, more conservative candidate
robertson, drawing strength from religious fundamentalists, was given a chance of capturing the no. 2 spot
jackson ran fourth in alabama in the 1984 primary when walter mondale drew blacks from his camp. but this time black voters avoided any major split
gore billed himself as the conservative democrat _ but in 1984 more than 75 percent of the votes went to the liberal democrats mondale, jackson and gary hart
the days prior to the election were marked by a new series of skirmishes over the democrats' rule against crossover voting, a rule that ended up bloodying the party in 1986 and leading to the election of a republican governor for the first time this century
democratic party chairman john baker said voters who cast ballots in the republican primary tuesday could not come back and vote in democratic primaries in june when nominees for hundreds of local, state and congressional posts are chosen. critics said alabama has no practical way to enforce the rule
a decision by three mushers to take a mandatory 24-hour layover early in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race paid off as they sailed into the lead on a trail packed smooth by other mushers
joe redington, who helped organize the first iditarod 16 years ago but has never won it, found himself in an unfamiliar place tuesday _ the lead
the wasilla resident, trailed closely by herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref and joe garnie of teller, left tuesday morning from the rohn roadhouse checkpoint, 271 miles into the race
the three took their layovers sunday in skwentna, just 150 miles from the start in anchorage. the race leaders passed them, only to get bogged down in new snow. they took their mandatory layovers at rohn and watched helplessly as redington, nayokpuk and garnie raced through. they had to wait until tuesday afternoon to leave
i kind of have this feeling in the back of my mind that we're going to see two eskimos _ garnie and nayokpuk _ blazing across this state,'' said jerry austin of st. michael, one of the mushers taking his layover at rohn
joe runyan of nenana was the first musher to leave rohn, and at 4:39 p.m. tuesday became the first musher to arrive at nikolai, the next checkpoint 93 miles down the trail. but he had not yet taken his 24-hour layover, and so will have to sit in nikolai for a day while the caravan of mushers passes
redington left rohn at 7:20 a.m. tuesday. nayokpuk followed two minutes later, and garnie left at 9 a.m
by tuesday evening, 49 of the 52 teams racing had reached the rohn roadhouse
u.s. mushers from outside alaska, and their positions at last report: frank teasley of jackson, wyo., 23rd; dan maceachen of snowmass village, colo., 25th; terry adkins of mikado, mich., 26th; john patten of grand marais, minn., 27th; stan ferguson of philadelphia, 35th; and robin jacobson of minnetonka, minn., 40th
jesse jackson repeated his 1984 louisiana democratic primary triumph, his only victory four years ago, and won four more southern states on super tuesday as vice president george bush overwhelmed gop rivals
jackson won in georgia, mississippi, virginia and alabama, fighting off a strong challenge here by tennessee sen. albert gore, whose state campaign leader said jackson should be disappointed by his showing in louisiana and worried about gore's challenge
we feel that a turnaround has come, and again looking further down the road we feel that sen. gore can pull the democratic party back together,'' said bud courson, gore's state campaign coordinator
with 3,180 of 3,272 precincts, or 97 percent, reporting, jackson had 214,426 votes, or 34 percent; gore had 177,279, or 29 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 95,309, or 15 percent; and missouri rep. richard gephardt tallied 66,357, or 11 percent
with reports in from 3,166 of the 3,272 precincts, or 97 percent, bush had 85,837 votes, or 59 percent; kansas sen. bob dole tallied 25,710, or 18 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 25,601, or 18 percent; and new york rep. jack kemp had 7,614, or 5 percent
the results apparently translate into 31 delegates for jackson, 23 for gore and seven for dukakis and two for gephardt. on the republican side, bush nabbed 34 delegates with seven uncommitted
greg beuerman, dole's louisiana campaign boss, said he was not surprised by the vote and the pendulum would shift to dole in the midwest primaries. ``the south is to george bush what the midwest has been to bob dole,'' he said
in the 4th congressional district race to replace democratic gov.-elect buddy roemer in the u.s. house, roemer's former aide jim mccrery, a republican, and democratic state sen. foster campbell claimed spots in an april 16 runoff
mccrery, the sole republican in the race, led the 10-candidate field. roemer voiced support for former shreveport journal editor stan tiner during the campaign
however, tiner ran third as mccrery and campbell, a state senator since 1976, claimed runoff spots. mccrery tallied 31 percent of the vote to 19 percent for campbell
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., three weeks from his 40th birthday, received an early gift of victory from adoring constituents in the democratic presidential primary, while vice president george bush handily defeated gop rivals
in 1960, we replaced the oldest president then to serve with the youngest to be elected,'' gore said on tuesday night, comparing himself with the late john f. kennedy. ``today, history is going to repeat itself.''
with 2,369 of 2,391 precincts or 99 percent reporting, gore had 410,202 or 72 percent. jesse jackson had 117,152 or 21 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 18,982 or 3 percent; and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 8,503 or 2 percent
among republicans, with 2,298 of 2,391 precincts or 96 percent reporting, bush had 141,743 or 60 percent and dole had 51,239 or 22 percent. former tv evangelist pat robertson had 29,326 or 12 percent and new york rep. jack kemp had 11,490 or 5 percent
that should give bush 28 of the 45 delegates, with 11 for dole, one to robertson and five uncommitted
gore would take 56 of his party's delegates with 14 for jackson
this is a fight for the future of the democratic party,'' gore told 1,000 supporters crowded into a hotel ballroom on tuesday night. ``it's a fight for whether we are going to have a viable democratic party and win in november.''
gore, who staked his hopes on a campaign concentrated in the 14 southern states that conducted super tuesday primaries, plans to fly to chicago today to begin his campaign for the illinois primary next tuesday. the michigan primary is march 26, five days before gore's birthday
jackson supporters said they had expected a better showing in the volunteer state
we were hoping we'd do a little better,'' said state rep. roscoe dixon, d-memphis. ``the rain in the west tennessee area kept our turnout down, but we feel good about it.''
u.s. rep. james quillen, a tennessee republican and a leader of bush's tennessee campaign, said bush's victory didn't surprise him
the victory ``demonstrates that the people realize that he is fully dedicated and qualified to be next president of the united states,'' quillen said
voter turnout across tennessee was light to moderate, election officials said
president daniel ortega accused the white house of being behind the contras' pullout from cease-fire talks that had been set for today, saying the rebels and their sponsors ``fear negotiations.''
he said president reagan should be held responsible for continued bloodshed caused by the contras, whom he branded as u.s. ``mercenaries,'' and called for rescheduling the talks, which were to have been the first in nicaragua and without a mediator
ortega's comments came after the contras on tuesday pulled out of the talks that were to be held at a post bordering costa rica. the rebels said preliminary meetings should first work out details
this shows again the lack of political will of the united states government and the counterrevolutionary leaders, as their instrument, to end the war of aggression and terrorist acts against the nicaraguan people and accept a peaceful solution to the conflict,'' ortega said, reading from a prepared statement
he suggested the talks be held during the third week of march and have an open agenda. his leftist sandinista government had made preparations for the talks to be held at sapoa, 90 miles south of managua
the secretary-general of the organization of american states, joao baena soares, arrived in nicaragua tuesday, a day after ortega invited him to a witness the talks
the rebels, supplied and trained by the united states, said monday that they would not accept the talks without cardinal miguel obando y bravo serving as ``witness, moderator and guarantor of the talks.''
ortega responded by calling on the nicaraguan roman catholic prelate, who has often criticized the sandinistas, along with baena soares, to attend the talks but only as a witness
in a communique, the contras said details of the talks needed to be worked out. it also appeared the rebels would press for more involvement in the meetings by the cardinal, whom ortega removed as mediator last week
ortega said obando y bravo's efforts no longer were needed because the talks would be face to face. but sandinista and opposition sources said the cardinal was removed for trying to take the initiative with a proposal of his own at the last contra-sandinista meeting to end the 6{-year-old civil war
in a speech tuesday night at the revolution plaza in honor of international women's day, ortega said his government was ready to resume talks ``without conditions.''
he added, however, ``it is clear we will not discuss the revolution. we will not discuss the right of the nicaraguan people and the legitimate government of nicaragua to arm itself. this we won't negotiate.''
the sandinistas, who came to power in a 1979 revolution that ousted dictator anastasio somoza, maintain the talks should deal only with the mechanics of the contras' disarmament and amnesty
ortega cemented that position last week when he named his brother, gen. humberto ortega, the defense minister, to head the government delegation to the talks
the rebels named adolfo calero, the top political leader of the nicaraguan resistance, the contra umbrella organization, to lead their side
obando y bravo on feb. 18 called on the sandinistas to grant total amnesty, restore full press freedoms, reopen talks with the internal political opposition and revise the military draft law. he also called for a 30-day truce to allow the contras to move into enclaves to later lay down their arms
the contras accepted obando y bravo's proposal. the sandinistas hesitated and the cardinal broke off talks, saying the two sides were at an impasse
in his speech tuesday night, ortega said reagan was responsible for the suspension of cease-fire talks
reagan and his mercenaries have not accepted our proposal to talk tomorrow,'' he said. ``they fear negotiations.'' course</head>
the practice of flooding city council members with free passes to municipal golf courses has driven the city's portion of the profits slicing into the rough
a move to end the practice was opposed this week by only two of the 16 council members present and has landed in the same place
we have funny rules,'' said councilman robb pitts
two years ago, the city leased its four courses to american golfing co. for $80,000 a year. the lease gives each of the 19 council members 10 passes good for unlimited play
but the price of each ``free'' round is deducted from the lease fee, and instead of the $80,000 the city might have received this year, it will take in only about $14,000 based on projected free use through may 1
the lease fee increases to $120,000 next year
with a city budget of some $250 million, that's a not a lot of money, but for months council members passed it around like a grenade with the pin pulled
we lease the golf courses out not only to improve the courses but to make a profit. i don't think we ought to erode that profit by giving free passes to people who are able to pay,'' councilwoman myrtle davis said before the vote
councilman dozier smith defended the passes, saying they allowed elderly constituents on fixed incomes to play
councilman hosea williams, who voted to retain the passes and abstained on a companion proposal to abolish them, said he favored perquisites such as the passes, claiming council members are not well paid
most council members, including williams, who owns a chemical company, have substantial income outside their $18,400-a-year council salaries and say they don't use the passes themselves
most of them apparently give them to their constituents. the people who get them the most are those that can afford to pay,'' said pitts, who led the drive to eliminate the passes
you would be surprised at the names of the people i have heard mentioned who have them. it is more of a prestige thing than a need, to say you have one. it got out of hand.''
he cited park and recreation department figures projecting a city loss of more than $670,000 during the first 10 years of the lease based on current free uses
he said he is dropping the fight and knows of nobody eager to pick it up. ``the results would be the same,'' he said
this week's attempt to eliminate the passes was killed through abstentions, which, under council rules, have the effect of a ``no'' vote. more than half of the members present must vote ``yes'' on an issue to pass it. while only two of the 16 members present voted against abolishing the passes, nine abstained. update with vote total for top three democrats. inserts one graf after numbers 19th graf pvs bgng: he added ... to update with nevada, hawaii and american samoa. new delegate totals</note>
michael dukakis circled dixie and claimed a national candidacy on super tuesday, while albert gore jr. looked ahead to a ``long, hard-fought contest'' after passing his do-or-die southern test. jesse jackson hailed his ``new southern message'' that produced victories in a fractured democratic field
super tuesday's loser was richard gephardt, who won his home state of missouri but fared badly elsewhere. he failed to meet the 15 percent threshold required to win delegates in many states
with a splintered outcome, three of the democratic candidates could _ and did _ argue they did well on the busiest day of presidential primaries in history
for jackson it was victories in five states and an impressive improvement over his campaign four years ago. for dukakis it was a display of support outside his native new england and claim to a national candidacy. and for gore it was the right to claim wide support across the south and a spot among the contenders for the nomination
gore immediately took aim at dukakis as his chief rival and compared him to walter mondale and the democrats' 1984 debacle
i think mike dukakis is going to represent for many voters the same old formula that led to the loss of 49 out of 50 states twice in the last five elections,'' gore said
he said the race ``is going to be a long, hard-fought contest. it's also going to be a long, hard-fought contest in the fall. we need to select the candidate with the best chance of winning.''
dukakis, the massachusetts governor, countered: ``remember, this was a place where the guy from massachusetts wasn't supposed to do well at all.''
if we can come out of super tuesday with the largest cumulative total of delegates, i think we're going to be on our way,'' dukakis said
jackson won alabama, georgia, mississippi, louisiana and virginia; gore won arkansas, north carolina, oklahoma, kentucky and his home state of tennessee
jackson, the black civil rights leader, savored his alabama showing and recalled the violent struggle for equality in selma, ala. 23 years ago
the same state that wouldn't let us walk across the bridge _ we won that state today,'' jackson said
dukakis won in his home state of massachusetts as well as in neighboring rhode island, in maryland, idaho caucuses and in the two mega-states of florida and texas
this has been a great night for us,'' said dukakis. ``to be able to take texas and florida, the two big ones, and to do well across the board demonstrates that this is a national candidacy, a national campaign.''
demonstrating the mixed verdict, jackson, gore and dukakis each collected roughly the same number of votes: 2.4 million votes
jackson's big win in virginia with nearly half of the vote and strong showing elsewhere assured he would fare better than his 1984 campaign, when he won only louisiana
i've won southern states today, either number one or number two, with a new southern message,'' jackson said
and that message is fundamentally, we the people must stop drugs from threatening our national security and our streets, we must fight to end economic violence. that message is getting through
we've gone from a narrow mainstream to a broad-based river,'' jackson said
he added: ``we're the underdog with the biggest bite.''
gore led in the nevada caucuses, while jackson led dukakis in early returns from hawaii's caucuses. american samoa gave one delegate to dukakis, one to gephardt and one to the ranks of the uncommitted
all were vying for a share of the 1,307 democratic presidential nominating delegates at stake in 20 states
in the crucial delegate battle, dukakis won 372 delegates out of super tuesday. gore won 316, jackson won 353 and gephardt won 94
gore said he would be among the three candidates going to the convention _ suggesting gephardt wouldn't be able to
i think that three of us are going to go all the way to the convention,'' gore said. ``it will be a choice between the politics of the past and the politics of the future.''
gephardt, who was caught in a withering crossfire of negative television advertisements by gore and dukakis, offered congratulations to all three. he blamed his failure on a lack of money and vowed to go on to the next round of primaries
i'm far from chucking it in because this is a long race,'' gephardt said. ``when we've been able to get my message across, as i did in iowa and new hampshire and south dakota ... we do well.''
democratic party elder statesman robert strauss said the news of super tuesday was grim for gephardt, 
he said jackson, dukakis and gore ``are going north now, and we'll see how it comes out. ... i expect one of those three fellows will probably be the nominee.''
i think dick gephardt's in trouble,'' strauss said. ``certainly dukakis and gore each have a great deal to be happy about tonight.''
gephardt criticized the super tuesday process with 20 states voting on a single day _ an arrangement that left his money-strapped campaign hard pressed to keep up
i think maybe it was a disservice to the voters to put 20 states on one day,'' he said
jackson, a black man born and educated in the south, relied on his wide support among that region's large black population and figured to be among the delegate leaders in the super tuesday voting
exit polling said jackson won nearly all the black vote and 10 percent of the white vote
two other candidates, sen. paul simon of illinois and gary hart, the former senator from colorado, weren't factors
simon, looking forward to the illinois primary, said the outcome was delegate ``gridlock.''
it's going to be a brokered convention,'' he ssaid
opposition leaders today accused the government of arresting and harassing poll workers who refused to work during last week's violence-marred parliamentary elections
sheik hasina and khaleda zia, the two opposition leaders who led the boycott of the march 3 balloting, said ``many'' people had been arrested, but neither woman gave any numbers
if they are not released, the people will set them free,'' mrs. zia said in a statement published by dhaka newspapers today
ms. hasina, in a separate statement carried by the press, said president hussain muhammad ershad's government had once again displayed its ``autocratic nature.''
on tuesday, newspapers in the capital said five people had been arrested in the southern town of barisal and 19 teachers in dhaka had gone into hiding to avoid arrest
school teachers and government employees normally staff polling places during elections, but many who were slated for duty last week did not show up, apparently out of fear for their safety
at least 13 people were killed and more than 300 injured in election day clashes between supporters of rival parties. on feb. 10, more than 100 people were killed during non-partisan elections for local councils
hasina's awami league and mrs. zia's bangladesh nationalist party led a score of other political parties in boycotting the parliamentary election. that left the field clear for ershad's jatiya party, which faced only token opposition
according to incomplete returns, the jatiya party has won 238 of parliament's 300 seats. small parties and independents took 41 seats
voting was postponed until saturday in 20 constituencies because of violence. in another constituency, voting was delayed indefinitely after a candidate was killed in pre-election violence
hasina, daughter of president mujibur rahman who was assassinated in 1975, and mrs. zia, widow of president ziaur rahman who was assassinated in 1981, have led a 4-month-old campaign to topple ershad
ershad, a former army general, seized power in a 1982 coup and subsequently won a presidential election the opposition says was rigged
meanwhile, the state-operated news agency bangladesh sangbad sangstha said the government had ``initiated action'' against those responsible for preventing a prominent opposition official from leaving the country
the news agency did not say what this action was
former foreign minister kamal hossain, a member of the awami league's presidium, was taken off an airplane tuesday when he tried to leave for sydney, australia
it was never the intention of the government to stop his going abroad,'' the news agency said
with their sights set on the white house, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and vice president george bush stalked and bagged a prize apiece in florida, one of the biggest catches in the presidential primaries
you can't win with smoke and mirrors,'' mike abrams, a political strategist for dukakis in florida, said on tuesday. ``you need people. we knew the organization had to be here. from the way we put together our phone banks to our wooing of constituent leaders, it was relentless.''
with 4,143 of 4,459 precincts or 93 percent reporting, dukakis had 466,831 votes or 40 percent; jesse jackson had 238,142 or 20 percent. missouri rep. richard gephardt had 171,131 or 15 percent, followed closely by tennessee sen. albert gore jr. with 152,120 or 13 percent
in the gop race, with 4,143 of 4,459 precincts or 93 percent reporting, bush had 497,993 votes or 63 percent; dole had 162,057 or 20 percent; former tv evangelist pat robertson had 86,656 or 11 percent; and new york rep. jack kemp had 36,810 votes or 5 percent
bush took advantage of president reagan's popularity, a gubernatorial endorsement and family ties in florida to trounce dole and claim the lion's share of 82 gop delegates
i'm pretty confident now that he will win the nomination,'' said bush's son jeb, florida's secretary of commerce. ``he got knocked down in iowa, changed strategy a little bit and came back.''
dukakis, who organized here early, visited frequently and courted the retirees and condo dwellers who have fled from colder regions, built an impressive late lead based on polls in the state that boasted the second-biggest prize of super tuesday after texas: 136 democratic delegates
when we first came down here we were told not to expend much effort, this was a media state,'' said steve rosenfeld, dukakis state campaign manager. ``tonight we proved that (to be) obsolete wisdom. we won with people, we won with organization and we won with the best candidate.''
robertson looked for support in conservative north florida and played heavily to cubans with his assertions about missiles in cuba. dole, who keeps a winter home in bal harbour, admitted he was out-organized by bush
among democrats, the state was seen by some as a litmus test of national appeal, with liberal democrats in south florida, traditional southern democrats in north florida, arch-conservative cubans in miami and midwestern retirees on the southwest gulf coast
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis captured the top delegate state in the super tuesday presidential primaries, while vice president george bush shut out republican rivals to grab all 111 texas gop delegates
it has exceeded my fondest expectations,'' bush told several hundred supporters crowding a ballroom at at houston hotel soon after polls closed on super tuesday
with 6,079 of 6,933 precincts or 88 percent reporting, dukakis had 497,592 votes or 33 percent; jesse jackson had 364,242 votes or 24 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 313,026 votes or 20 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 212,972 votes or 14 percent; former colorado sen. gary hart had 77,184 votes or 5 percent, and illinois sen. paul simon had 29,038 votes or 2 percent
in the republican race, with 4,687 of 5,616 precincts or 83 percent reporting, bush had 542,206 votes or 65 percent; pat robertson had 125,164 votes or 15 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 115,119 votes or 14 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 40,468 votes or 5 percent
dukakis was expected to get 45 of the state's 183 delegates up for grabs, jackson 40, gore 23 and gephart 10. fourteen other democratic seats go to party officials
meanwhile, democratic u.s. sen. lloyd bentsen easily won renomination in his bid for a fourth term. top republican challengers beau boulter, who gave up his congressional seat for the senate race, and wes gilbreath, a houston investor making his first race for a political office, will meet in a runoff. the winner squares off against bentsen in november
dukakis, in a televised interview tuesday from chicago, said, ``i feel very good about the south. i feel good about tonight, obviously.''
bush, who built an oil business in texas, rents a motel in houston so he can vote in the state. he led in polls throughout the campaign
at the victory party tuesday night, tom loeffler, the former texas congressman who is co-chairman of bush's texas campaign, gave the vice president a t-shirt emblazoned with ``bush in '88 _ texas victory _ super tuesday,'' while the crowd cheered and waved u.s. flags
it's a wonderful evening, i'll tell you,'' bush said
vice president george bush won by a little and gained nearly all the state's gop delegates, while tennessee sen. albert gore won big in a 12-candidate field and settled for half of the democratic prize
bush beat kansas sen. bob dole by 2 percent, but won in five of the six congressional districts, apparently gaining 33 of 36 delegates available, while dole won three delegates and pat robertson finished third and got none
if dole can't win in oklahoma, where can he win?'' said matt seward, bush's campaign director in oklahoma. he said oklahoma was one of three states dole had targeted to win in the 20-state super tuesday elections
gore captured 41 percent of the vote among 12 candidates, almost twice that of his nearest rival, missouri rep. richard gephardt, but claimed only 23 of the state's 46 delegates up for grabs
gephardt, the early frontrunner in oklahoma, finished second in five districts and claimed 13 delegates. dukakis got seven delegates and jackson received three
in republican voting with 2,422 of 2,439 precincts reporting, or 99 percent, bush had 77,938 votes, or 37 percent; dole had 72,683 or 35 percent. robertson had 44,197, or 21 percent and new york congressman jack kemp had 11,018, or 5 percent
with 2,434 of 2,439 precincts reporting, or 99 percent of democratic returns, gore had 162,187 votes, or 41 percent; gephardt had 82,267, or 21 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 66,150, or 17 percent, and jackson had 52,460, or 13 percent
bush supporters were hoping today that tuesday's victory in dole's backyard will prove decisive in derailing the vice president's main opponent in the republican presidential sweepstakes
supporters of gore said the senator's surprisingly strong victory in the sooner state will help the southerner stake a claim as the ``mainstream'' candidate who can return the white house to the democratic fold in november
super tuesday has proven that al gore is the candidate for mainstream democrats,'' said state sen. stratton taylor, co-chairman of the gore drive in oklahoma.   - here is the current breakdown of the outcomes of primaries and caucuses held on march 8. for each candidate, the number of states the candidate has won or is leading in is given
                       won   leading    total
dukakis                  6          1   
   7 gephardt                 1          0     
 1 gore                     5          1     
 6 jackson                  5          0     
 5

total states with events - 19
                       won   leading    total
bush                    16          0    
 16 robertson                1          0     
 1

total states with events - 17
two native sons, gov. michael dukakis and vice president george bush, scored convincing wins in the massachusetts primary. jesse jackson in the democratic race and sen. bob dole in the gop contest finished far behind
the win at home and victories in florida and texas gave dukakis the three biggest super tuesday prizes. the bush victory in massachusetts, where he was born, was part of a super tuesday landslide
with 1,925 of 2,140 precincts, or 90 percent, reporting, dukakis led with 367,637 votes, or 59 percent, followed by jackson with 117,408 votes, or 19 percent
with 1,924 of the 2,140 precincts, or 90 percent, reporting, bush had 127,918 votes, or 59 percent. dole had 57,426 or 26 percent
dukakis, the popular governor of this liberal state, was a prohibitive favorite in the democratic primary, where 98 delegates were at stake, the party's third-biggest prize of the day. it appeared dukakis would get 79 of the delegates and jackson the remaining 19
this augurs very well for the future,'' said dukakis in a television interview from chicago
but he denied the super tuesday results would secure the democratic nomination for him
dukakis had not campaigned in massachusetts until last week, when he took to the streets of cambridge for about an hour of stumping. none of his rivals bothered to spend time or money here
in the republican primary, 52 delegates were at stake, the fourth-biggest batch on super tuesday
bush established a wide early lead in the tiny massachusetts republican party and held off dole, who did not campaign here. bush won the 1980 gop primary here, defeating ronald reagan
well behind bush and dole were rep. jack kemp, who had 15,134 votes, or 7 percent, and pat robertson, who received 9,963 votes, or 5 percent
analyzing bush's victory, gordon nelson, state co-chair for kemp's campaign, said the vice president convinced voters he was president reagan's logical successor: ``george bush won because he is reagan ii.''
in third place among the democrats was missouri rep. richard gephardt with 63,865 votes, or 10 percent, followed by tennessee sen. albert gore jr. with 28,135 votes, or 4 percent, and illinois sen. paul simon with 22,692 votes, or 4 percent
gary hart, who won the 1984 massachusetts democratic primary, trailed the field of active candidates with 9,955 votes, or 2 percent
emigres from soviet armenia are flocking to southern california, and local officials are scrambling to meet their needs
since october, about 2,000 soviet armenians have arrived in the los angeles area, and 8,000 to 10,000 more are expected by the end of the year, along with as many as 3,000 armenians from iran, according to the state department
the whole city's not ready for this,'' said arick gevorkian of the glendale office of the armenian national committee
right now, we're organizing with the school district, with the churches, trying to facilitate these newcomers,'' gevorkian said. ``but we are racing against time and we are not very ready.''
the influx began when soviet leader mikhail gorbachev launched his campaign of ``glasnost,'' or openness, and officials were instructed to approve exit visas for armenians wanting to join relatives in america
officials say the influx is not related to recent turmoil in soviet armenia and neighboring azerbaijan
`going to hollywood, going to hollywood.' you hear it all the time on the streets of yerevan,'' armenia's capital, said harry diramarian, a local armenian leader
southern california's armenian-american population numbers in the tens of thousands. prominent armenian-americans include gov. george deukmejian and the late author william saroyan of fresno
worried officials said absorbing the newcomers probably will be hampered by the nearly 50 percent cutback in federal refugee assistance funding since 1984
however, with the increasing numbers of emigres entering public schools and applying for public assistance, welfare offices in hollywood and glendale have added nearly a dozen armenian-speaking employees
glendale schools hired five additional armenian-speaking teachers or aides to complement the eight already on staff. more are planned
officials said it's essential to provide such services early on or risk the refugees becoming permanently dependent on the government
every public and private agency is understaffed, and it means that the armenians are confronting delays in getting their most basic services,'' said bruce whipple, director of the local office of the international rescue committee, a private agency that assists refugees during their first 30 days of resettlement
right now, we have no job training or esl (english as a second language) slots to put armenian refugees in,'' said joan pinchuk, los angeles county's coordinator for refugee affairs
last year, 3,250 soviet armenians emigrated to the united states, more than 13 times the number who came in 1986
armenian community leaders said these numbers reflect only a fraction of the potential emigres who would like to move to southern california
terry rusch of the state department's bureau for immigrant programs said the relaxation of emigration restrictions has been extended to soviet jews, but not to the same degree as for armenians
some armenian-americans are dismayed by the influx, arguing that a mass exodus from the soviet union weakens the only homeland the armenians know, as well as their claim to armenian lands in turkey
every armenian who leaves armenia not only diminishes our collective power there, but is also risking the eventual loss of his or her national heritage and identity,'' said harut sassounian, editor of the california courier, an armenian-american weekly published in glendale
unlike soviet jews, soviet armenians are not emigrating to their homeland. instead, they are leaving it.''
when the space shuttles begin flying again, they will have a new emergency landing site at an abandoned strategic air command base near ben guerir, morrocco
the national aeronautics and space administration tuesday announced construction of the new site has begun at the base, 40 miles north of marrakech. it will be the fourth emergency landing site
the former sac base has a 14,000 foot runway, but its surface must be rejuvenated to make it usable by shuttles that for some reason they fail to reach the speeds necessary to get into orbit
nasa announced earlier in the week that another airport site in northwest africa, in the tiny country of the gambia, will be upgraded to accommodate shuttles. the space agency intends to continue using runways at zaragoza air base and moron air base in spain
foundations for shuttle approach and landing aids are being laid at the new sites and other equipment, including 10 personnel vehicles, will be shipped
a group of jewish advisers to president reagan says the 30 senators who wrote a letter supporting the administration's position that it is time for israel to exchange land for peace is acting too quickly and meddling in israeli internal affairs
the group, known as the national jewish coalition, said the senators ``operated in haste'' and were ``inserting themselves into the internal politics of israel.''
the coalition, formed after the 1984 election to advise reagan on jewish matters, issued its statement after a meeting in the oval office with reagan. however, richard fox, the chairman of the organization, said the president did not discuss the peace process or the violence in the israeli-occupied territories
he said the meeting with reagan lasted only 12 or 13 minutes and the president's comments were ``really more of a ceremonial statement. there was no forum for discussion of the issue.''
on monday, the white house had said it welcomed the senators' statement, in which they criticized israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and his likud party, suggesting they may be blocking efforts to reach a peace settlement in the middle east
the eligibility for legalization of hundreds of illegal aliens may rest on a federal court's interpretation of four words in the u.s. immigration and naturalization service rules for implementation of the government's amnesty program
a class action suit was filed tuesday in u.s. district court on behalf of five illegal aliens to block ins rules defining which illegal aliens were ``known to the government'' and are eligible for amnesty
ins rules under the immigration reform and control act of 1986 provide amnesty to aliens who lived illegally in the united states before jan. 1, 1982 as well as to agricultural workers who can prove they lived in this country for at least 90 days in the year ended may 1, 1986
a problem has arisen over individuals who arrived legally _ with a visa _ but who remained in the country illegally after the jan. 1, 1982 cutoff date, according to debbi sanders of the washington lawyers committee for civil rights, one of the attorneys for the plantiffs
in cases like these, the statute grants amnesty to those whose illegal status was ``known to the government'' and advocates for illegal aliens have sought to use social security and internal revenue service forms to prove that aliens in this category were known
the ins, however, maintains that ``known to the government'' meant known to the ins, sanders said, noting that this difference of interpretation disqualified hundreds of illegals
a week of talks between u.s. and japanese officials over participation by u.s. firms in billions of dollars worth of japanese building projects has ended in failure
and, a u.s. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, tuesday said that president reagan under the law could retaliate against japan for what are considered unfair trade practices
that is one of the options,'' the official said, adding that the reagan administration will decide probably by the end of next week what its next step will be
the official said the u.s. side had exhausted its capacity to resolve the issues and was not ready to go on talking, given the differences between the two sides
the official said the u.s. delegation to the talks also had wanted the arrangements on participation by u.s. construction firms written into a formal agreement, while the japanese did not want to be bound and sought only a joint statement that unspecified arrangements were satisfactory
the dollar rose slightly in tokyo today, while stock prices gained substantially following an overnight advance on wall street
the dollar closed at 128.08 yen, up 0.28 yen from tuesday's close. it opened at 127.80 yen and ranged between 127.73 yen and 128.27 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the 225-share nikkei stock average, which lost 150.85 points tuesday, gained back 139.66 points, or 0.55 percent, closing at 25,605.39
share prices in new york rose yesterday, and the foreign exchange market has stabilized,'' said michio katsumata of nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage house
today's heavy volume of 1.3 billion shares was concentrated in steel and heavy industry stocks, which made strong advances, said richard bixon, a trader at vickers da costa
the market had been apprehensive about the outcome of presidential primary elections in the united states on tuesday, bixon said
the main worry there ... was always going to be (democratic candidate richard) gephardt, because he was widely interpreted as a protectionist,'' he said. gephardt fared poorly in the elections
trading was slow on the foreign exchange market as dealers waited out the final days of the japanese fiscal year, which ends march 31, said shigeki kawano, a dealer at mitsubishi bank
dealers also were awaiting the release of key economic indicators. japan's february trade data are to be released thursday, and figures for u.s. january trade are scheduled for release next week in washington
it's still a very sleepy market,'' kawano said
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis coasted to victory in idaho's democratic presidential caucuses, but jesse jackson surprised party leaders with a strong showing
with all 45 precincts reporting early today, dukakis had 1,516 votes or 38 percent; jackson had 882 votes or 22 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 333 votes or 8 percent; illinois sen. paul simon had 280 votes or 7 percent, and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 44 votes or 1 percent
dukakis captured 8 of idaho's 18 delegates, with jackson winning four. six delegates will go to the national convention uncommitted
michael dukakis is foreseen as the frontrunner _ a winner,'' said former governor john evans, who headed the dukakis campaign. ``he is perceived as the candidate of the people.''
the turnout was higher than the number of democrats who attended the 1984 caucuses. ``the real message tonight is that we are getting a lot of people out,'' said gov. cecil andrus, who says he will go to the convention uncommitted
jackson's strong finish, in a state with a minority population of less than 5 percent, surprised most campaign leaders
i didn't recognize where his strength was coming from,'' evans said. ``but he (jackson) is doing better than four years ago. obviously he has matured, but it still surprises me.''
the republican presidential primary will be held may 24
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., a fresh face in the democratic crowd, waltzed to victory in arkansas while another neighbor, missouri rep. richard gephardt, was battered into defeat by his rivals, the state's governor said
i was a little surprised by how far gephardt fell,'' gov. bill clinton said after gore scored a decisive win over massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the super tuesday democratic primary, leaving gephardt a distant fourth
that's really the story of this election. what happened was dukakis and gore were attacking gephardt. gore and gephardt were attacking dukakis. nobody was attacking gore on television. he got off with a free ride in this fight.''
gephardt, an early front-runner in the 1988 campaign with his iowa win, suffered a similar fate elsewhere on super tuesday, winning only his home state of missouri. gore, who stayed out of the national spotlight by focusing on the south, triumphed in five of the day's 20 state primaries
on the republican side, vice president george bush trounced sen. bob dole on his way to a 16-state sweep of his kansas rival
rep. bill alexander had little trouble defeating political consultant darrell glascock for the democratic nomination for the 1st congressional district of eastern arkansas. there was no republican candidate in this heavily democratic state
with 2,541 of 2,762 precincts or 92 percent reporting, gore tallied 178,502 votes or 37 percent to dukakis' 93,543, or 19 percent, and jesse jackson's 85,064, or 17 percent. gephardt trailed with 57,783 votes, or 12 percent
far behind were gary hart with 18,520 votes or 4 percent and paul simon with 8,981 votes or 2 percent
democratic candidates must attract at least 15 percent to share in the 38 delegates up for grabs. gore will likely get 19 delegates, dukakis 10 and jackson nine
with 3,366 of 4,304 precincts or 78 percent reporting, bush tallied 123,285 votes or 64 percent to dole's 31,279 or 16 percent. former tv evangelist pat robertson had 27,192 or 14 percent and new york rep. jack kemp was far back with 9,458 or 5 percent
republican candidates must get at least 3 percent of the vote to qualify for delegates. with half the precincts reporting, bush garnered 14 delegates to dole's seven, robertson's five and kemp's one
gov. bill clinton, who all but endorsed dukakis, said gore benefited from the undecided voters
dukakis and jackson should be very pleased,'' the democratic governor said. ``gore should be relieved. he did better than he was expected to do for the last couple of weeks, (although) probably not quite as well as he hoped he'd do when he started.''
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ the government has warned the media it will not tolerate ``cynical insinuations,'' ``false accusations'' and ``public insults,'' presumably in reaction to news reports of high-level corruption
the communique issued tuesday night did not mention specific cases
however, local newspapers and radio stations have relayed u.s. media reports of charges of drug trafficking made against col. jean-claude paul, the target of a u.s. federal grand jury probe
the haitian military said the charges were unfounded
also, the protestant station radio lumiere recently broadcast an interview in which opposition leader sylvio claude accused president leslie manigat of accepting bribes from philadelphia authorities for allowing toxic ash from that city to be dumped in haiti
claude presented no proof to substantiate his charges
the information ministry has noticed a tendency of the haitian media to not control its language when releasing news or interviews,'' says the communique signed by information minister roger savain and broadcast by radio stations
there is also a tendency to emit erroneous information under the pretext of citing the foreign news media as a source,'' it says
though the constitution guarantees the freedom of speech ... its authors also made clear what were the limits beyond which freedom of speech becomes an abuse,'' the statement continues. ``cynical insinuations, false or libelous accusations and serious public insults are intolerable cases of abuse of the freedom of speech
the ministry of information ... invites the haitian and foreign press to respect in the strictest manner the constitution and law.''
the constitution says a journalist cannot be censored, but has the ``duty to verify the authenticity and accuracy of his information.''
during anti-government strikes and demonstrations in july and august, radio stations were firebombed and riddled with bullets. at least four haitian reporters were shot and wounded by soldiers during the period, and soldiers shot at foreign reporters in at least 10 cases
on the eve of the the aborted nov. 29 national elections, in which gunmen and soldiers killed 34 people at polling stations, witnesses saw uniformed soldiers blow up the transmittor tower of the catholic church's radio soleil
gunmen shot and killed at point blank range a dominican photographer, carlos grullon, during the election day violence
no gunman or soldier has been brought to trial for the shootings
paul's unit, the widely feared dessalines barracks, is responsible for virtually all army repression and killings of demonstrators last year. soldiers from the 700-man batallion were also seen in the streets during the aborted nov. 29 elections
manigat was elected president jan. 17 in balloting boycotted by the opposition and marred by widespread irregularities
albert gore jr.'s do-or-die southern strategy succeeded at the expense of democratic rival richard gephardt, while republican george bush's association with the reagan administration carried him to his super tuesday sweep, pollsters say
michael dukakis maintained his democratic front-runner status on the strength of victories in texas and florida, but jesse jackson bolstered his nearly monolithic black support with additional backing from whites, the analysts said
gore's campaign did what it had to do in the south. the tennessee senator, who eschewed early contests in iowa and new hampshire in favor of the 14 southern and border states up for grabs tuesday, won five of them
it worked. he cleaned up in the south,'' said warren mitofsky, chief pollster for cbs news. ``but he's got to prove it in the next couple of weeks in illinois and wisconsin. he's got to show support beyond the south.''
gore did well mainly at the expense of gephardt, the missouri congressman, who won only his home state. gore and dukakis had accused gephardt of waffling on the issues, and exit polls indicated the charges stuck
gore won among conservative democrats, with 35 percent, abc news exit polls said. he also found help in his tennessee roots: of the 52 percent of southern voters born in the south, gore was backed by nearly a third, while dukakis got 20 percent
if gore's going to be the only conservative who goes on, then he's got a shot,'' said sheldon gawiser, poll analyst for nbc news. ``the real question is, can he take his show on the road? the jury is out on that.''
one problem for gore is the relative dearth of conservative democratic primary voters outside the south. abc said conservatives made up 27 percent of the southern democrats, considerably more than is likely elsewhere
but jackson demonstrated an ability to drain liberal and moderate votes from dukakis, possibly leaving gore an opening to siphon off a plurality in some states, gawiser said
if jackson continues to cut up the liberal vote with dukakis,'' he said, ``gore can score.''
jackson won about 95 percent of the black vote in the south, but also improved his showing among white voters compared with his support in the 1984 campaign. abc said he won 8 percent of white votes in the region; the cbs news-new york times poll put it at 9 percent
nbc, which gave state-by-state results, said jackson's white support ranged from 4 percent in tennessee to 15 percent in virginia and 19 percent in massachusetts, dukakis' home state
dukakis stitched together support from older voters, hispanics, jews and moderates for his southern victories. in florida, 47 percent of democratic voters were 60 and over and 52 percent of them backed dukakis, the cbs-times poll said
the massachusetts governor also did well with older voters across the south. he split the moderates with jackson, and jackson won more liberal democrats, but abc said dukakis won 78 percent of the jewish vote across the region, compared with 3 percent for jackson
nbc said dukakis was backed by 52 percent of hispanic voters in texas, who made up 18 percent of the democratic turnout. dukakis speaks fluent spanish and had courted the hispanic vote
moreover, dukakis had the best image among the democratic candidates, showing a 60 percent favorable rating compared with 31 percent unfavorable, the cbs-times poll said
he's demonstrated appeal across the country. he's a very strong candidate and he's got to be the leading contender at the moment,'' gawiser said
the hardest hit of the democrats was gephardt, whose get-tough-on-trade message failed to strike a chord. only 12 percent of southern democrats rated the issue as important, the cbs-times poll said, and even those went mainly for gore, 35 percent to gephardt's 21 percent
on the republican side, bush benefited from his credentials in the reagan administration. in some states as many as 80 percent of the republican voters approved of president reagan, and 60 percent of them backed bush, the cbs-times poll said
bush also maintained favor among conservative republicans and among the one-third of gop voters who rated experience as important; nearly 80 percent of them went for the vice president, polls said
dole fared better with independents who voted republican, a relatively small group in the conservative-dominated south, mitofsky said
the rev. pat robertson failed to break out of his core support of evangelical christians, and rep. jack kemp of new york fared poorly in all categories, polls said
with the depth of his support, ``it's going to be very, very, very difficult for bush to be defeated at this stage of the game,'' gawiser said. ``unless he makes some horrendous mistake, he's not going to lose.''
results of the state exit polls had error margins of about 5 percentage points either way; the cbs-times poll results for the region as a whole had a smaller margin of sampling error, about 2 percentage points. pickup.</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis held a narrow lead over jesse jackson in hawaii's democratic presidential caucuses tuesday
with 152 of 284 precincts or 54 percent reporting, dukakis had 1,152 votes or 48 percent; jackson had 1,045 votes or 43 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 55 votes or 2 percent, and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 26 votes or 1 percent
about 30,000 democrats were eligible to participate, but fewer than 5,000 were expected to attend the precinct meetings. and most of the 2,000 new members signed up by jackson's campaign were expected to show up
gov. john waihee, who earlier had urged that the state's delegation remain uncommitted, endorsed dukakis last week, as did sens. daniel inouye and spark matsunaga
twenty delegates were at stake in the caucus voting
jackson was the only candidate to visit hawaii
vice president george bush stung bob dole with a narrow victory in the missouri gop presidential primary, crushing the kansas senator's last hope to win a key super tuesday state
democratic rep. richard gephardt easily won his home state with 57 percent of the vote, but it was his only victory of the night. his closest rival, jesse jackson, took 21 percent of the vote
the bush victory in dole's back yard went down to the wire, with bush pulling ahead only when final returns were reported from st. louis county, a republican stronghold
being in missouri, right next to kansas, i can't tell you how sweet this victory is,'' said bush campaigner sissy chamberlain. ``i'm not being vindictive, but we wanted to win it for the vice president and we were able to squeak it out.''
with 3,878 of 3,954 precincts, or 98 percent, reporting, bush had 167,991 votes, or 42 percent, and dole had 163,394 or 41 percent; pat robertson had 44,334, or 11 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 14,125, or 4 percent
in the democratic race, with 3,919 of 3,954 precincts, or 99 percent, reporting, gephardt had 307,877 votes or 58 percent and jackson had 106,619 votes or 20 percent. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 61,645 votes or 12 percent, illinois sen. paul simon had 21,622 votes or 4 percent; and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 14,686 votes or 3 percent
the news election service said bush received 22 delegates, dole received 18 and seven were uncommitted, but state gop officials predicted a final tabulation would show bush with 20 delegates, dole with 18 and nine uncommitted
nes said the discrepancy resulted from not being able to reprogram its election tabulation computer to accommodate a change in the complicated district delegate assignment formula
neither kemp or robertson qualified for any of missouri's 47 gop delegates at stake
the nes results showed gephardt with 62 delegates, jackson with 14 and dukakis with one
suddenly, maneuver and momentum, strategic ploys and comeback vows count for little in the campaign for the republican presidential nomination. it is a contest of plain numbers now, and they add up to vice president george bush
it isn't over, but it isn't open, and won't be unless a weakened, shrinking field finds a way to stop bush
after his super tuesday primary election sweep, on the biggest election day of a political lifetime, bush needs little more than one-third of the republican national convention delegates yet to be chosen in order to gain a nominating majority
to prevent it, sen. bob dole would have to score a succession of shutouts and capture more than three-quarters of the delegates left to be won. dole says he will storm back in the illinois primary next week. but even if dole does win there, bush surely will add significantly to his delegate count
and just now, the shutout belongs to bush: 16 victories, only two of them even close, and both of those on the borders of dole's kansas home
among democrats, sen. albert gore jr. has proven himself a strong regional candidate in the south, and now must prove that's not what he is. gore wagered his campaign on a southern strategy that defied conventional campaign guideposts, and made it work
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won big, too, at home and away. jesse jackson was a winner as well
the democrats' big three divided 15 states evenly among them. dukakis won his home state, and captured two of the biggest prizes in the south, texas and florida. that translated into more than 350 delegates for dukakis, with jackson and gore close behind
rep. richard gephardt managed to win only in his missouri home, losing in regional competition he once thought was structured to his advantage
gore bypassed the iowa and new hampshire contests after early forays showed his chances there were negligible. while gephardt and dukakis were splitting those contests, gore concentrated his time and, more important, his money on his southern base
it worked, and he won front-rank status for the next set of contests. now he must compete in the industrial north, beginning next week in illinois. that will be a difficult test
the political terrain there is promising for the liberal dukakis. jackson's black vote is solid and his base is chicago. illinois sen. paul simon returns to the campaign, at least for a week, as a favorite son. and while gephardt is battered, he isn't finished
gore boasts of his caucus showings in some states outside the south as evidence that he's more than a regional figure. but he says realistically that he must prove himself in places like illinois, michigan and ohio
add new york and pennsylvania to that lineup, and the schedule seems made to order for dukakis
while the massachusetts governor is the democrat to beat, bush's gop rivals will have to become political magicians to find a way to stop him
bush's triumph came exactly one month after the iowa caucuses in which he ran an embarrassing third, behind dole and pat robertson, the former television evangelist. bush then won the new hampshire primary, and said that reports of his death had been greatly exaggerated
dole and robertson were left to try to fend off the obituaries this time. rep. jack kemp wasn't even trying that. kemp, who once saw the south as a prime target for his conservative campaign, ran far behind the field, effectively ending his quest
as state after state went to bush, dole, in chicago, pronounced the illinois primary next tuesday ``more and more important.''
this is going to be bob dole's recovery state,'' he said, ``it's going to be the turnaround state.''
if it isn't, illinois could be the farewell state
robertson, whose evangelical supporters are dedicated and formidable in caucus states, salvaged one victory tuesday, in the washington state caucuses. ``coming out of illinois, it's very possible that it will be a two-man race _ bush and robertson,'' said robertson
by way of evidence, he said only that he has the financing to go all the way to the republican convention next summer
after losing states in bunches, dole, robertson and democrat gephardt agreed on one thing: they're glad to be going back to competition in which one state votes at a time
i think maybe it was a disservice to the voters to put 20 states on one day,'' said gephardt, after winning only one of them
editor's note: walter r. mears, veteran political reporter for the associated press, is now executive editor
democrat jesse jackson hammered the opposition in virginia's first presidential primary, while vice president george bush swept to another easy victory in his 16-state clean-up
jackson's campaign leaders had expected a sterling performance tuesday from their candidate, who carried the state's presidential caucuses in 1984
we laid the groundwork,'' said mary cox, jackson's virginia coordinator. ``our goal was to expand at least 10 to 12 percent beyond our natural black base, and we've successfully done that.''
with 1,967 of 1,986 precincts or 99 percent reporting, jackson had 161,704 votes or 45 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 81,139 or 23 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis 78,141 or 22 percent; and missouri rep. richard gephardt 16,082 or 4 percent
in the republican race, with 2,298 of 2,391 precincts or 96 percent reporting, bush had 141,743 votes or 60 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 51,239 or 22 percent, and virginia native pat robertson had 29,326 or 12 percent. new york rep. jack kemp had 11,490 or 5 percent
jackson, relying on strong support in hampton roads and the richmond area, overcame gore's numbers in southwestern virginia and dukakis' power base in virginia's washington, d.c., suburbs
with 75 of the state democratic party's 85 national convention delegates riding on the outcome, jackson appeared to have won 37 delegates to 22 for gore and 16 for dukakis
no gop delegates were at stake; the 50 national convention delegates are allocated through local caucuses and mass meetings
boyd marcus, state coordinator for the bush campaign, said he would have been pleased with a mid-40 percent showing. the 2-to-1 win over dole ``has been the most surprising thing,'' he said
robertson, a former tv evangelist, placed third even in his home city of virginia beach, a showing his supporters had anticipated
anne kincaid, robertson's virginia coordinator, said the former evangelist ``expected to run third because we hadn't done anything to broaden his base of support. ... pat's going to stay in this thing right through the convention.'' killed</head>
two military helicopters collided during a night training mission, and all 17 aboard the crafts were believed killed, an official said
the crash occurred late tuesday, 6 miles from fort campbell army air field, said randy schoel, a military spokesman
he said the crash occurred during a ``routine night mission,'' and that all 17 aboard were believed killed
the identification of the victims was not complete. illinois</head>
with the battleground of the south behind them, the presidential pack turned to illinois for a week-long campaign that could be a last stand for some
the candidacy of republican bob dole stood in sudden jeopardy after vice president george bush racked up huge wins in the super tuesday states
dole, recalling the days when he recovered from crippling war wounds at a hospital here, said he is starting his ``road to recovery'' in the state
on the democratic side, there are other contenders with something to prove here
sen. paul simon, who bypassed the super tuesday contests, called next week's illinois primary the ``super tuesday of the industrial states.''
the illinois senator maintained tuesday night he can kick his campaign into gear with a strong home-turf win
i think we're going to do very well once we get launched in illinois,'' he said
chicago-based civil rights leader jesse jackson, who surged to the top tier of democrats with a strong southern showing, will continue to court voters outside his black base
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., who divvied up dixie with jackson, will try to show he has more than regional appeal. and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the delegate leader among democrats, will be seeking to nail down his dominance here
on tuesday, 113 democratic and 82 gop delegates will be chosen. the remaining 85 will be selected at party meetings
illinois sends the fifth-largest delegations to the democratic and republican national conventions
missouri rep. richard gephardt, who won only his home state on super tuesday, was hoping for a comeback in the northern industrial states. gephardt, however, was not expected to mount a major illinois campaign
bush, exuberant over his sweep of all 16 states with republican primaries, will try to use strong party organization support in illinois to bury the opposition for good on the road to new orleans
rep. jack kemp and former television evangelist pat robertson failed to make their way to the front of the gop field on super tuesday
kemp's campaign looked likely to fold. robertson, however, had a caucus win in washington state to point to, and vowed to fight on
dukakis, attending a rally at a chicago nightclub as super tuesday results poured in, called illinois a key state where he hopes to do well
i'm somebody who doesn't just talk about economic development and good jobs,'' dukakis said. ``i've helped to create them ... and that's a message that is very important in a state like illinois.''
jackson's campaign manager, gerald austin, said tuesday night that illinois is important for jackson, who according to a network exit poll piled a 10 percent share of the white vote on top of a near sweep of black votes in super tuesday primaries
austin discounted the candidacy of simon
simon did not contest 20 states, and that has removed him from the list of people who are viable as candidates,'' austin said
dole, who won only about a sixth as many delegates as bush did tuesday, has challenged bush to a series of debates reminiscent of the famous lincoln-douglas duels of a more than a century ago. bush rejected the challenge
this is gong to be bob dole's recovery state,'' dole declared in the chicago suburb of oak brook on tuesday night. ``it's going to be the turnaround state.''
bush is backed by gov. james r. thompson, plus 93 of 102 county leaders and other influential state leaders
there are no areas we consider ourselves weak,'' said ed murnane, bush's illinois deputy campaign director
but dole also has a strong state operation, with coordinators in all counties and well-known delegate candidates, said campaign director mark schroeder. dole's organization began shifting forces to illinois even before super tuesday
more than 5.9 million residents are registered to vote in tuesday's primary _ the lowest number for any statewide election since 1982
the race is divided into a non-binding presidential preference, dubbed the ``beauty contest,'' and the selection of delegates pledged to a candidate or uncommitted
jesse jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore were tied in an early tally of presidential preferences of nevadans attending the democratic party's super tuesday caucuses
with 60 percent of about 6,000 expected preference listings counted, jackson and gore had 30 percent each, while massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 25 percent
the balance included 13 percent uncommitted, 1 percent for missouri rep. richard gephardt, and the remaining 1 percent balance split between sen. paul simon and former sen. gary hart
caucus goers gave jackson 1,111 votes, gore 1,102 and dukakis 951, while 479 were uncommited. gephardt had 44, simon 14 and hart 5
of jackson's strong showing, state democratic chairman beecher avants said, ``it was a real surprise.''
he had said before the caucuses that he sensed no movement in the jackson campaign in nevada. he noted that jackson had considerable support among blacks who represent about 7 percent of the state's registered voters
gore claimed support from prominent nevada democrats such as sen. harry reid, former gov. grant sawyer and assembly speaker joe dini
a last-minute mail campaign and telephone blitz were mounted by backers of gore and dukakis. those two and jackson made personal appearances during the campaign
sixteen delegates were at stake in nevada, to be selected at a state convention in may. the caucuses were the first stage in selection of those who will attend the convention
jesse jackson narrowly beat tennessee sen. albert gore jr. in alabama's democratic primary, while vice president george bush outpolled the entire republican field by nearly 2-1
bush claimed 35 of alabama's 38 republican national convention delegates, and dole the remaining three; jackson's showing would give him 30 and gore would get 26 of the state's 56 democratic delegates
both parties drew a record primary turnout
with 3,460 of 4,304 precincts, or 80 percent, reporting in the republican race, bush had 124,828 votes or 64 percent; robert dole had 31,562 or 16 percent, pat robertson had 27,594 or 15 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 9,525, or 5 percent
the people of this country appreciate that he (bush) has worked shoulder-to-shoulder with president reagan,'' said bush's alabama campaign director, doug adair. ``they want the reagan revolution to continue.''
in the democratic race, with 3,510 of 4,304 precincts, or 82 percent, reporting in the democratic primary, jackson had 159,681 votes or 44 percent to gore's 134,053 votes, or 37 percent. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis got 28,050 votes or 8 percent, missouri rep. richard gephardt 26,516, or 7 percent, and gary hart 6,586 or 2 percent
we expected it to be close,'' said youlanda curtis, jackson's state coordinator. jackson, the lopsided favorite in black precincts, drew a small but apparently critical number of white votes in his narrow margin over gore
the democratic voter turnout for super tuesday was expected at near 450,000; the old record was 423,000 in 1984. the gop record for a presidential primary was 211,000 in 1980; more than 230,000 were estimated voting tuesday
jackson's victory was a landmark in voting rights history in alabama, the site of the selma-to-montgomery march that led to the 1965 voting rights act, opening the ballot box to blacks across the south
sen. albert gore jr. bet on dixie and won but the south still proved anything but solid and allowed two other democratic presidential candidates to claim victory as well
jesse jackson exulted in the success of a ``new southern message'' and boasted: ``we've gone from a narrow mainstream to a broad-based river.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis gained bragging rights of his own with victories in the two biggest super tuesday states: texas and florida
the result was a fractured outcome that partially served the aims of the architects of super tuesday, who wanted a moderate democrat and maybe even a southern one to emerge from the primaries across the south
gore ran as that moderate and his victories in five states propel him to the next round of primaries. ``super tuesday succeeded,'' said a gore booster, former gov. charles robb of virginia
but dukakis' six victories and jackson's five were potent reminders of the law of unintended consequences in politics. and the evening's biggest winner was a republican _ george bush, who won 16 out of 16 primaries to take a commanding lead in the gop race
super tuesday is not what i had hoped it would be,'' declared charles whitehead, the democratic party chief in florida. ``if i had to speculate, i would say that there will be some changes before the next election four years from now.''
sen. bob graham of florida said, ``it's ironic that the governor of massachusetts most perceptively figured out the significance of the new rules in the south.''
added texan jim wright, the house speaker: ``if it was designed to produce a unified conservative southern candidate, i would say those who dreamed it up outsmarted themselves.''
still, the most dire prediction by southern democrats didn't materialize either: an exodus of disgruntled democratic voters to the competing republican primaries
southern republicans had hoped to capitalize on the democrats' division by attracting democratic voters in the eight states where cross-over voting was permitted. the prospect even led lee atwater, republican george bush's campaign manager, to taunt before the balloting that the democratic designed super tuesday would prove ``the political boo-boo of the decade.''
as it turned out, crossovers to the gop proved largely insignificant
gore established himself as a solid contender by winning five states: tennessee, kentucky, arkansas, north carolina and oklahoma
jackson won virginia, georgia, louisiana, alabama and mississippi. with overwhelming black support and a divided white vote, he moved far beyond his 1984 campaign which won only one state
we're the underdog with the biggest bite,'' jackson said
dukakis won in his home state of massachusetts as well as in neighboring rhode island, in maryland, idaho and in the two mega-states of florida and texas
gore immediately looked ahead to the next round of industrial states of the north _ where he now must show he is more than a regional candidate
i am not a southern candidate,'' declared the man who ran as a son of the south in the super tuesday contests
i'm a national candidate who's a southerner and proud of it,'' gore said
he was leaving today for chicago before dashing to south carolina, where he hopes to pick up delegates at that state's democratic caucuses on saturday
after succeeding with a strategy that pummeled rival richard gephardt with a torrent of negative ads, gore pointed to dukakis as his chief rival
this is becoming a two-person race between michael dukakis and al gore,'' gore said. ``it's a race between the politics of the past and the politics of the future.''
gore began suggesting that dukakis has an ``electability'' problem _ that despite winning the two biggest states of the south in the democratic primary, he is too northern, too liberal and too ethnic to carry those states or the region against the republcans
dukakis scoffed at the claim, noting that he won more delegates and more votes than gore on the tennessean's chosen battlefield
with the democratic field splintered into three parts, gore, jackson and dukakis all got big chunks of delegates
this has been a great night for us,'' said dukakis. ``to be able to take texas and florida, the two big ones, and to do well across the board demonstrates that this is a national candidacy, a national campaign.''
gephardt blamed his failure on a lack of money and vowed to go on to the next round of primaries. he criticized the super tuesday process with 20 states voting on a single day _ an arrangement that left his money-strapped campaign hard pressed to keep up
i think maybe it was a disservice to the voters to put 20 states on one day,'' he said
home states smiled on four out of five favorite sons on super tuesday
in nearly complete returns, gov. michael dukakis won 59 percent of the votes in the primary in massachusetts, his home turf
albert gore won 72 percent in his native state of tennessee
richard gephardt won 58 percent in the friendly surroundings of missouri
george bush carried his adopted state of texas with 64 percent
but pat robertson won only 15 percent in his state of virginia. bush carried the old dominion with 53 percent
the united states and britain vetoed a security council resolution to impose economic sanctions on south africa, saying such mandatory penalties would stifle chances for internal reform
the measure was aimed at putting pressure on south africa to end apartheid, that country's system of legalized racial segregation. it would have imposed mandatory worldwide sanctions, including an oil embargo, for a year
it failed by a vote of 10-2, with france, west germany and japan abstaining
prior to the vote tuesday, all speakers deplored white minority-led south africa's state of emergency and recent restrictions on anti-apartheid groups
but british ambassador sir crispin tickell and u.s. ambassador herbert okun both told the council mandatory sanctions would cripple the chances for an ``internal'' dialogue in south africa
the west german envoy, alexander count york von wartenburg, gave a similar reason for abstaining
but he also warned south africa that the west german abstention is ``a signal that my government's patience is not inexhaustible.''
the french and japanese envoys did not explain their abstention
the resolution called for a one-year ban on export and sale of oil to south africa, on iron and steel imports, on the sale of all south african coins and on investment and loans. it also called for an end to all promotion and support for trade with south africa
the united states, britain and west germany have vetoed similar measures in the past. the united states and britain are among the five permanent members with veto power. the others are china, france and the soviet union
african and asian nations pushed hard for the sanctions to punish south africa for its feb. 24 ban on activities by major anti anti-apartheid groups, and to force it to dismantle apartheid, under which the 26 million blacks have no say in national affairs
south africa's 5 million whites control the government and the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the council members belonging to the movement of nations professing non-alliance with either superpower _ argentina, nepal, senegal, yugoslavia and zambia _ sponsored the resolution
a ruling by the labor department against a chicago bank could expand by several thousand the number of people eligible to share in $12.2 milllion in back pay awarded to group of employees in the government's biggest case against federal contractors on charges of sexual and racial bias
nahum litt, an administrative law judge, tuesday ruled harris trust and savings bank is liable for back pay to all women and minority employees on its payroll from 1974 until dec. 22, 1986 unless it can prove it ceased its alleged discriminatory policies before then
originally, only 1,300 employees were to share in the award under another law judge's decision against the bank in 1981
but the amount of back pay ``could easily climb into the low 20s (in millions of dollars) if harris is unable to show it has ceased discrimination,'' said george salem, the labor department's solictor
litt also ruled that the amount of back pay will be determined through a formula originially developed by a consultant hired by harris and adopted by the labor department but opposed by the bank
harris has maintained all along that it has not discriminated against women and blacks, said tom abram, a chicago attorney representing the bank
this is just a ruling by an administrative law judge, which is subject to review by the secretary of labor and ultimately by the courts,'' abram said. ``we contend ultimately there will be a vindication of the bank that there has been no violation of the exeuctive order for any time period.''
the case, dates back to 1977 and marks a decade of legal wrangling in the first and biggest ever litigated under a 1965 presidential order requiring federal contractors to refrain from discrimination against minorities and women in their hiring, promotion and wage policies
attorney general edwin meese iii and the u.s. chamber of commerce tried unsuccessfully in 1985 to persuade president reagan to repeal the executive order, arguing that remedies requiring the use of affirmative action goals and timetables amount to reverse discimination
nancy kreiter of chicago's women employed, a group involved in the original charges, said litt's ruling tuesday ``ups the ante ... and puts new major pressure on the bank to settle.''
it brings us one step forward in getting the case over with and getting the money into the hands of the victims,'' she said
attorneys for both the labor department and the bank acknowledged they have been negotiating a possible settlement. pm-reagan-notre dame, a0510.</note>
knute rockne, the notre dame football coach being honored this week by his government, was a raw-boned norwegian immigrant whose locker-room orations inspired the fighting irish to three national championships and indirectly helped make ronald reagan a star
a master at motivating his players with such pleas as ``win one for the gipper,'' rockne was killed on march 31, 1931, in an airplane crash that stunned the nation. he remains a giant figure in the school's _ and the country's _ football legend
reagan, who played the gipper in a 1940 movie, was going to notre dame today for the issuance of a commemorative postage stamp in rockne's honor. the 22-cent stamp is the sixth in a sports series that also includes bobby jones, babe zaharias, babe ruth, roberto clemente and jim thorpe
rockne was born in voss, norway, in 1888, came to the united states with his parents in 1893 and grew up in the logan square district of chicago. after high school, he worked as a mail dispatcher for four years to save enough money to attend notre dame
he lettered in track, was a semi-pro boxer, wrote for the student newspaper and yearbook, played flute in the orchestra and paid his way by working as a janitor and as a chemistry research assistant
as a football player, rockne was credited with making the forward pass a legitimate offensive weapon, although he was a receiver for quarterback gus dorais. the pass first gained widespread notice in the 1913 notre dame-army game at west point, and the series became one of college football's greatest intersectional rivalries
as coach, a post he assumed in 1918, rockne made the fighting irish a standard for college football in an increasingly sports-hungry nation
we heard about red grange and illinois, of course. but the idea of a team with a real national reputation was almost unheard of when i was a young man,'' said hugh devore, who served as irish head coach in 1948 and in 1963. ``but rockne changed that because he would go anywhere to play anyone.''
it was in 1924 that the most famous backfield in college football history _ elmer layden, don miller, harry stuhldreher and jim crowley, better known as the four horsemen _ gained recognition in a 13-7 victory over army
the 1928 meeting was the game immortalized in ``knute rockne _ all american,'' starring pat o'brien and the young reagan
as the story goes, notre dame trailed 6-0 at halftime. then rockne inspired the irish by recounting a deathbed scene eight years earlier in which all-american george gipp, stricken with strep throat, told his coach:
i've got to go, rock. it's all right. i'm not afraid. some time, rock, when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go in there with all they've got and win just one for the gipper
i don't know where i'll be then, rock. but i'll know about it, and i'll be happy.''
the fired-up irish came back with two touchdowns in the second half and won 12-6
as to whether the gipper deathbed story is true, former athletic director edward ``moose`` krause says, ``i wasn't there, but i've talked to guys who were ... they swear it happened just like in the movies.''
the irish were undefeated the next two seaons. then an era came to an end when a plane carrying the 43-year-old rockne to california to make a football demonstration movie flew into a storm, became covered with ice and fell into a wheat field near bazaar, kan. seven other people also died
you would have thought the world had come to an end,'' recalled krause, then a freshman
rockne's funeral mass on the notre dame campus was broadcast across the country
everybody looked on rockne as a god. i was in awe of him,'' said krause, who was athletic director for 32 years until his retirement in 1981 and will be part of wednesday's program at the university's athletic and convocation center
during his 13 years as notre dame's coach, rockne won 105 games, lost 12 and tied five for an .897 percentage. he also also served as athletic director, business manager, ticket distributor, track coach and equipment manager, wrote a newspaper column once a week and was the principal designer of the current notre dame stadium
he and his wife, bonnie, had four children. a daughter, mrs. anthony kochendorfer of tulsa, okla., is expected to be at notre dame for the ceremony
besides gipp and the four horsemen, other all-americans who played for rockne included roger kiley, johnny mohardt, harvey brown, art boeringer, john smith, frank carideo, jack cannon, joe savoli, bert metzger, tom conley and marchy schwartz
the federal prosecutor in a case against lyndon larouche refused to represent the fbi in its bid to keep from defense lawyers classified files concerning the political extremist and figures in the iran-contra scandal
the unusual move tuesday by assistant u.s. attorney john markham delayed consideration of whether the defense will get the documents. several of the defense lawyers, charging that the government improperly withheld evidence, asked that the case be dismissed
larouche, six followers and five larouche political organizations all are charged with conspiring to cover up alleged credit card fraud by larouche supporters during his 1984 presidential campaign. four of the organizations are charged with fraud
markham told u.s. district judge robert e. keeton he could not represent the fbi because of a conflict of interest with his role as prosecutor. markham did not elaborate, but said the conflict would be resolved before a hearing scheduled for this afternoon
at that hearing, the fbi either might have to drop its request or present evidence that releasing the documents would be detrimental to national security. keeton deferred ruling on the dismissal motions until after the questions about access to the fbi records is resolved
one of the defense lawyers sought the fbi documents after obtaining a may 1986 memo that involves two key players in the iran-contra scandal and mentions an apparent effort to collect information damaging to larouche
in the memo, retired air force maj. gen. richard secord told marine lt. col. oliver north, the national security council aide fired for his role in the iran-contra affair, that ``our man here claims lewis has collected info against larouche.''
defense lawyer william moffitt said markham told him ``our man'' referred to oliver revell, the fbi's executive assistant director. markham refused to confirm that. moffitt also said he had confirmed that ``lewis'' was a retired army major, fred lewis
the memo, found in north's safe, was surrendered to larouche defense lawyers after the special prosecutor investigating the scandal acknowledged its existence
secord, reached tuesday in washington, said he could not recall the memo but never crossed paths with larouche. secord was one of north's principal operatives in the network of private aid to the anti-nicaraguan contras
defense lawyers contend that the reagan administration plotted to ruin larouche, who is seeking the 1988 democratic presidential nomination in his fourth run for the white house. he faces up to five years in prison if convicted
prosecutors deny defense contentions that the government infilitrated larouche's organzations and concocted a credit card fraud scheme to destroy larouche and his following
the defense, however, has presented evidence in recent weeks that the fbi had infiltrated larouche organizations as recently as 1985
keeton told markham he wants an explanation as to why defense lawyers, through freedom of information act requests, have learned of the existence of thousands of other fbi documents mentioning larouche but not turned over to defense lawyers before the trial
pat robertson's ``invisible army'' forged the only super tuesday victory for the former television evangelist, as he swept past sen. bob dole and vice president george bush in washington's republican caucuses
it took fewer than 10,000 foot soldiers to accomplish the victory that eluded robertson in his native south. robertson's success had been predicted, since his vaunted organizational juggernaut works best in caucus states
democratic leaders projected a victory for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, basing their assessment on bellwether democratic precincts. the democratic counting could take a week, officials said
jesse jackson ran a strong and surprisingly close second, pulling within a few percentage points of dukakis early today
dukakis had been the runaway favorite going into the caucuses and carried the blessings of gov. booth gardner and other state democratic heavyweights. his campaign was the best organized and had more paid staffers than all five of his competitors combined
uncommitted democratic slates placed third, and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and sen. paul simon of illinois were dueling for fourth place. before simon's announcement of a campaign moratorium for super tuesday states, he had been projected as the second-place finisher
rep. richard gephardt of missouri and former sen. gary hart received little support
with 4,650 gop precinct caucuses counted, or 71 percent, robertson led the republicans with 39 percent, dole had 26 percent, and bush, the big winner in the south, was third with 24 percent
new york rep. jack kemp was a weak fourth, with 8 percent, and uncommitted slates were favored by 3 percent of the voters
the vote tally was robertson 5,921; dole 3,952; bush 3,688; kemp 1,140; and uncommitted 444
if the proportions hold during the later two steps of national delegate selection, robertson will get 16 delegates, dole 11, bush 10, kemp 3 and uncommitted 1
for the democrats, with about 2,000 bellwether precincts reporting, dukakis was projected the winner with 40 percent
jackson, who campaigned little in washington, had 37.5 percent, but state democratic chairwoman karen marchioro predicted dukakis will increase his margin when the other two-thirds of the precincts report
that could take a week, she said
uncommitted slates were winning more than 12 percent of the vote, followed by gore at 4.5 percent and simon at 4.3 percent
gephardt had less than 2 percent. hart, the state's favorite four years ago, barely registered, with less than 1 percent
heavy showers drenched the gulf coast today from southeast texas to northwest florida, triggering flash flood watches in much of southern louisiana
rain also fell from the lower mississippi valley to georgia. scattered showers fell along texas' rio grande valley, the lower ohio valley, parts of illinois, northern indiana and southern michigan
light rain fell in the northwest and snow advisories were in effect for the cascade mountains of oregon and washington, where about 6 inches of snow was expected. a gale warning was posted for the washington coast, and a wind advisory for gusts up to 50 mph issued for eastern washington
as the storm moving through the northwest heads southeast, snow was expected to return to the central rockies. a winter storm watch was posted for tonight for the mountains of northern utah and northern and central colorado
skies were partly cloudy or cloudy in much of the eastern third of the nation, and clear skies prevailed across the plains states and into the southwest
temperatures early today were in the 50s as far north as detroit and buffalo, n.y., while 20s were common over the northern and central plains states
temperatures across the northern and mid-atlantic states were mostly in the 30s, but were near the 60-degree mark in kentucky. in southern florida, temperatures were in the 70s. the western third of the nation also had mild temperatures, with a 50-degree reading at boise, idaho, at midnight
today's forecast called for rain and thunderstorms from the central gulf coast states and tennessee valley to northern florida, georgia and the carolinas; numerous rain showers from the ohio valley across the middle atlantic coast, new york state and much of new england; freezing rain, sleet and snow in northern new england; and rain and mountain snow from the northern pacific coast through the northern half of the rockies
today's high temperatures were expected in the 50s or 60s in much of the nation; the 30s and 40s from the upper mississippi valley to the upper great lakes and from upstate new york to northern and central new england; 70s and 80s from southern california to the desert southwest and in florida; and the 70s in southwest texas, southeast georgia and coastal carolinas
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 7 degrees at houlton, maine, to 75 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 54 rain; boston 35 fair; buffalo 54 windy; charleston, s.c. 64 cloudy; cincinnati 55 showers; cleveland 56 showers; detroit 45 foggy; miami 73 cloudy; new york 38 fair; philadelphia 35 fair; pittsburgh 53 cloudy; portland, maine 35 partly cloudy; washington 40 cloudy
_central: bismarck 22 fair; chicago 37 cloudy; dallas-fort worth 46 cloudy; denver 31 fair; des moines 29 fair; indianapolis 44 cloudy; kansas city 30 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 35 cloudy; nashville 54 cloudy; new orleans 62 cloudy; st. louis 41 partly cloudy
_west: albuquerque 37 fair; anchorage 35 cloudy; las vegas 46 fair; los angeles 55 foggy; phoenix 57 fair; salt lake city 36 fair; san francisco 53 windy; seattle 43 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 28 cloudy; toronto 37 cloudy
the u.s. dollar steadied against european currencies and the japanese yen today after falling sharply against a surging british pound. gold was unchanged to slightly lower
in london, the british pound was quoted at $1.8340, compared with $1.8415 tuesday, and eased down from a high of 3.09 west german marks to 3.065
we think the pound will stabilize around these levels,'' said a trader with a frankfurt bank. ``its rise was too sharp and too fast.''
the pound has gained a massive 10 cents this week, powered by high british interest rates. although the bank of england has intervened to stem the rise, it was strengthened further by prime minister margaret thatcher ruling out a cut in interest rates
in tokyo the dollar rose 0.28 yen to a closing 128.08. later, in london, it was quoted at 128.23 yen
a dealer in rome speculated that vice president george bush's triumph in the super tuesday primaries may also have calmed markets, because he is perceived here as an anti-protectionist
the dollar, trading in a narrow range, was little changed from late tuesday. some rates:
_1.6718 west german marks, up from 1.6668
_1.3810 swiss francs, up from 1.3790
_5.6590 french francs, down from 5.6625
_1.8774 dutch guilders, down from 1.8780
_1.233.00 italian lire, down from 1,234.00
_1.2545 canadian dollar, up from 1.2524
gold opened in london at a bid price of $435.80 a troy ounce, compared with late tuesday's $438.10. at mid-morning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $436.10
in zurich, the bid price was $435.80, down from $436.50 late tuesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose one cent to close at a bid $438.01
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.28 a troy ounce, down from tuesday's $6.36
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis rode an endorsement by hawaii's top elected democrats to a narrow victory over jesse jackson in a presidential preference poll at the state's democratic party caucuses
with all but about a dozen of 283 precincts reporting, dukakis had 2,026 votes, while jackson had 1,470. none of the other candidates or the choice of ``uncommitted'' had enough votes to qualify for any of the state's 20 pledged delegates to the democratic national convention
party officials were analyzing the results today to determine the allocation of the pledged delegates, but it appeared dukakis would get 12 delegates and jackson 8
in endorsing dukakis, gov. john waihee was joined by sens. daniel inouye and spark matsunaga, rep. daniel akaka, lt. gov. benjamin cayetano, and the mayors of hawaii and kauai islands
waihee said he was not surprised by jackson's strong showing and said it was ``healthy for the democratic party.''
jackson supporters signed up about 2,000 new party members prior to the caucuses
the jackson campaign claimed victory with their strong showing against the endorsement of the democratic establishment
jackson's showing in hawaii puts an end to the belief that jesse jackson is not electable, and to the belief that jackson can win only in states with large black populations,'' said richard port, manager of the jackson campaign in hawaii
the votes of other candidates were richard gephardt, 83; paul simon, 46; albert gore, 41; gary hart, 83; and ``uncommitted,'' 183
only 36 democrats took part presidential preference caucuses in this south pacific territory, dividing their support between massachusetts governor michael dukakis and missouri rep. richard gephardt
the democrats rejected a call by party leaders in american samoa to endorse an uncommitted slate of delegates to the democratic national convention
american samoa was the smallest player in super tuesday, with three delegates available and about 300 democrats eligible to take part in the meetings
national committeeman glenn jones said 36 democrats attended the caucuses. he said few voters turned out probably because the territory has no electoral votes in the presidential election
of the 36 votes cast, 14 went for dukakis, eight for gephardt, and two for jesse jackson. the remaining 12 were uncommitted
that means that dukakis and gephardt will have one delegate each, and the third member of the american samoa delegation will be uncommitted
jones said that of all the candidates, only jackson's campaign had contacted party officials for convention support
we would rather wait to see where the trend is going ... who doesn't make the cut,'' said party chairman utu r.m. sinagege
at least $1.7 million fell into the street from an armored truck, and when a crowd gathered up the cash at least three people made off with $500,000, police said
two unidentified men and a woman disappeared tuesday afternoon with cash-stuffed money bags scattered from a crate that fell out of the moving loomis armored inc. truck in the city's mission district
(they) decided they were going to take advantage of what happened, threw the bags into their cars and left,'' said police officer harry soulette
soulette said he was flagged down by the loomis truck driver, who was unaware of the loss until a motorist honked his horn and told him the door of the truck was ajar, soulette said
two blocks back, a crowd gathered around the crate, which postal worker daniel higginbotham moved to the sidewalk. some people helped him gather the bags, recovering about $1.2 million, police said. some didn't
there was a gentleman from the post office grabbing bags of money out of people's hands and putting them back in the (crate),'' soulette said. ``at least three people looked at him and told him what he could do with his suggestion.'' others may have taken a few bags and fled on foot, police said. it's not a case of finders keepers, soulette said. if caught, the money-grubbers face grand theft charges. ``that's a felony. my advice to them is to turn it in,'' soulette said
witnesses gave detailed descriptions of the two men and the woman, who each took several bags, and their cars, soulette said
one man picked up two sacks and returned them immediately to the company, police said. louis a. lopez, of daly city, drove straight to loomis to hand over two bags containing $40,100 in cash, soulette said
neither lopez nor higginbotham could be reached for comment tuesday night
the money had come from different banks and businesses. the truck was on the way back to loomis and was several blocks away when the door, which may not have been closed securely, sprang open, soulette said
republican presidential candidate george bush was the clear-cut winner on super tuesday, capturing the largest delegate prize, while michael dukakis led a three-way democratic race in the primaries and caucuses
dukakis led among the democrats with 386 delegates for a total of 455.5, but jesse jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. were hot on the heels of the massachusetts governor
jackson picked up 366 delegates for a total of 393.55 while gore collected 326 delegates for a total of 347.8
the close finish among the three democrats fueled the theory of sen. paul simon's campaign that super tuesday would produce a ``gridlock'' of delegates, making it unlikely that any candidate would gain a majority of the delegates after the last round of primaries in june
bush, who amassed 578 delegates with wins in 16 primaries, has 62 percent of the 1,139 delegates needed to win the gop nomination _ a total of 705. kansas sen. bob dole was a distant second, collecting 98 delegates for a total of 163
former television evangelist pat robertson won 9 delegates for a total of 17 and new york rep. jack kemp added four delegates to his previous total of 35. thirty-five delegates remain uncommitted
simon, who bypassed the super tuesday contests to concentrate on the primary in his home state of illinois, slated for next week, gained no delegates and stands at his previous total of 35.5
rep. richard gephardt apparently failed to get his message across in the southern and border states, capturing just 93 delegates, including 61 of 77 in his home state of missouri. gephardt emerged from super tuesday with a total of 143 delegates
former colorado sen. gary hart had no delegates, and 259.65 are uncommitted
in minnesota, the state democratic party released results from its feb. 23 precinct caucuses, which had been kept under seal until super tuesday at the demand of the national party. the results were so incomplete, however, that a national figure could not be calculated for 78 of minnesota's delegates
going into super tuesday, bush held 127 gop delegates and dukakis had 69.5 democratic delegates
dole began the day with 65 delegates, robertson had eight and 12 republican delegates chosen before tuesday were uncommitted
gephardt had 50 democratic delegates before tuesday's balloting, jackson had 27.55, gore had 21.8, and 254.65 were uncommitted. in addition to delegates picked through primaries or caucuses, those totals included democratic ``super delegates,'' the party leaders, governors and others who will automatically hold seats as delegates to the national convention
under democratic party rules, some of the ``super delegates'' cast fractional votes
in all, 4,162 delegates are to attend the democratic national convention in atlanta in july and 2,277 delegates will attend the republican national convention in new orleans in august. winning the democratic presidential nomination will require support from at least 2,082 delegates
britain demanded today that the panamanian ambassador waive his diplomatic immunity and face police questioning about a raid he authorized to seize control of his country's london consulate
the foreign office said it expected an answer from ambassador guillermo vega by the end of the day, and warned that expulsion ``remains an option.''
vega was summoned to the foreign office twice tuesday to explain monday night's seizure, an extension of the struggle for control of panama's government
representatives of vega, accompanied by hired security guards, crashed a land rover through the glass doors of the consulate on fleet street and occupied the offices
vega supports panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, who engineered the ouster of president eric delvalle feb. 26. consul eduardo arango, whose offices were seized, is loyal to delvalle
the foreign office said it asked vega and embassy counselor jorge e. constantino to waive their diplomatic immunity so that police can question them about the incident
we haven't given him a deadline as such. we made it clear that we want to hear (a reply) today,'' said a spokesman who, under british civil service rules, cannot be identified
under international law, accredited diplomats are immune from police action but can be expelled if the host government believes them guilty of misconduct
seven britons were arrested and charged with public order offenses for alleged roles in the consulate raid
the times quoted foreign office minister timothy eggar as saying: ``what is at issue here is whether any panamanian embassy official has taken the law into his own hands. the british government will not tolerate any such action.''
prime minister margaret thatcher told parliament tuesday: ``differences of opinion should not be fought out on london streets.''
vega has said the raid had his authority, and that the consulate was ``full of outsiders to the panamanian government.''
control of the panamanian embassy in washington is also in dispute
delvalle was ousted hours after he ordered noriega to step down. the general was indicted in florida last month on federal drug trafficking charges
the reagan administration says it still considers delvalle panama's chief of state. the thatcher government has not stated a position on the matter
the christian democratic politician died in the tuebingen university hospital of heart failure, the ard television network said on its 1 p.m. newscast
kiesinger served as west germany's third chancellor, from 1966 to 1969
he grouped together the christian democrats and their bavarian counterparts with the leftist-leaning social democrats (spd) to form what is called the ``grand coalition.'' willy brandt served as the coalition's foreign minister, before taking over as chancellor. integrity</head>
the engineer who tried to prevent the launch of the space shuttle challenger before its fatal 1986 launch has been honored as nation's the most courageous and most ethical engineer
allan j. mcdonald, a vice president of morton thiokol corp., received an honorary award tuesday from design news magazine, said steve thompson, the publisher of the magazine
al mcdonald was the one guy who tried to stop it,'' said thompson, who presented the magazine's awards at a banquet in chicago
he had the courage to stand up to the whole world and say `look, you can't do this' _ that's why he's special.''
a presidential commission has blamed the challenger disaster on a flaw in a booster rocket built by morton thiokol. seven astronauts died in the explosion
during a speech after receiving the award, mcdonald, 50, said he hopes the challenger disaster does not leave the nation's space program paralyzed
my biggest concern is that we've lost the nerve to ever fly anything again,'' mcdonald said. ``we think we have to have complete safety. i don't think we will ever have that.''
mcdonald said the space shuttle will be ready for its next scheduled launch in august
one thing worse than failure is not to try,'' he said
also honored tuesday was elbert rutan, who designed the voyager, the first aircraft to fly around the world without refueling. rutan was voted best engineer by the magazine's 750,000 readers, thompson said
a preliminary autopsy on the body of 300-pound female impersonator divine, star of the cult film classic ``pink flamingos,'' failed to pinpoint a cause of death, coroner's officials said
the 42-year-old actor, whose real name was harris glenn milstead, was found dead in his bed monday at the hollywood regency plaza hotel
the los angeles county coroner's office has ordered a microscopic examination of tissue samples, but preliminary tests taken tuesday showed no signs of trauma or any other factor that would have contributed to the actor's death, coroner's spokesman steve stewart said
drugs and alcohol are unlikely to have caused the death of milstead, his manager said. publicist john west of pmk said the actor apparently died of asphyxiation
john waters, director of ``hairspray'' and ``pink flamingos'' who grew up with milstead in baltimore, read a tribute to his friend tuesday afternoon at a downtown baltimore hotel
not only did i respect him as the best actor i've ever worked with, i knew him personally as a kind and gentle man,'' waters said, his voice catching. ``a huge portion of the success of my film is owed him. ... divine is as irreplaceable to me as a member of my own family. i'll miss him incredibly.''
manager bernard jay said milstead had a long-term weight problem, but except for that was found to be in excellent health during a medical checkup last friday
he was not on drugs at all, and he never drank alcohol,'' jay said. ``i suppose it all comes down to his weight. he was constantly trying to diet, but as soon as he'd take the pounds off, they'd come right back on again.''
milstead was in town to appear in an episode of ``married ... with children,'' a fox television network series
he had been pleased over critical praise for his role in ``hairspray'' as edna turnblad, the fat mother of a fat teen-age girl
he'd call me in the middle of the night to read me some newspaper interview and say, ``isn't it wonderful! they called me divine, the 300-pound actor, not divine, the 300-pound transvestite,'' jay said
a native of lutherville, md., milstead's came to fame as the bizarre star of ``pink flamingos,'' ``lust in the dust,'' ``polyester'' and ``female trouble.''
milstead played one full non-transvestite role in his career, that of a sydney greenstreet-type character in the 1985 film ``trouble in mind.''
besides film roles, milstead also used the divine persona in a nightclub act
waters said that the last time he had spoken to divine was two days ago, and he had last seen him at the premiere of ``hairspray'' in new york city
in their last conversations, waters said, ``he was just so happy. he said `can you believe we came this far?'''
here, at a glance, are results from the super tuesday primaries and caucuses:
jesse jackson had expected to win comfortably on the strength of a sizable black vote, but instead narrowly defeated tennessee sen. albert gore jr., who was endorsed by sen. howell heflin. vice president george bush swamped kansas sen. bob dole just as expected
democrats in the south pacific territory, smallest of super tuesday's players, chose one national convention delegate for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, one for missouri rep. richard gephardt, and one uncommitted. only 36 people voted at party caucuses
gore won with 36 percent, dukakis had 19 percent and jackson had 17 percent. gov. bill clinton said gore benefited from undecided voters, and the big surprise was the fourth place, 12 percent showing of gephardt. bush won with nearly half the vote
rep. bill alexander won re-election to an 11th term, defeating political consultant darrell glascock by 2-1 in the democratic primary. alexander is unopposed in the general election
dukakis found a warm reception from transplanted northerners and pulled in 39 percent of the vote to jackson's 20 percent. bush took advantage of president reagan's popularity, gov. bob martinez' endorsement and family ties (his son jeb is secretary of commerce) to trounce dole nearly 3-1
jackson won by piling up margins of better than 8-1 over gore and dukakis in the 5th congressional district, composed largely of the city of atlanta. the heavy black vote outweighed gore's endorsements by sen. sam nunn and gov. joe frank harris. bush beat dole better than 2-1
endorsements by the state's top democrats were credited with helping dukakis defeat jackson at hawaii's democratic party caucuses by nearly a 3-2 margin. gov. john waihee, who backed dukakis, said he wasn't surprised by jackson's strong showing and called it ``healthy for the democratic party.''
dukakis captured 8 of 18 uncommitted delegates, with jackson winning 4 and 6 going to the state convention uncommitted. gov. cecil andrus, who says he will go to the convention uncommitted, said the turning point in the dukakis campaign was a last-minute visit to boise last weekend. jackson's strong showing was a surprise because the state has a minority population of less than 5 percent
gore won his neighboring state with help from gov. wallace wilkinson, gaining 46 percent of the vote to dukakis' 18 percent. bush's 59 percent vote was termed ``astounding'' by his state campaign chairman, rep. harold ``hal'' rogers, who had predicted a 48 percent victory
jackson edged gore 34 percent to 29 percent despite gore's endorsement by democratic gov.-elect buddy roemer. bush breezed to victory with 59 percent, leaving dole and roberston each with 18 percent
in the 4th congressional district race to replace roemer, his former congressional aide jim mccrery, a republican, and democratic state sen. foster campbell claimed spots in an april 16 runoff
jackson finished second to dukakis, 31 percent to 43 percent, with a strong showing in the two predominantly black congressional districts. bush carried all eight districts even though he didn't campaign personally in maryland, while dole did spend some time in the state. bush led 53 percent to 32 percent
democratic sen. paul sarbanes easily won nomination for a third term and will be opposed by millionaire businessman thomas blair, a newcomer to politics
dukakis' home state gave him 59 percent of the vote. jackson was second with 19 percent. the win at home and victories in florida and texas gave dukakis the three biggest super tuesday prizes. bush, who was born in massachusetts, got 59 percent of the vote to dole's 26 percent. gordon nelson, state co-chairman for new york rep. jack kemp's campaign, said bush convinced voters he was reagan's logical successor: ``george bush won because he is reagan ii.''
bush and jackson rang up big victories, with jackson helped by turnout in the heavily black delta that enabled him to defeat gore
in a democratic primary for the seat of retiring sen. john stennis, voters chose rep. wayne dowdy to oppose gop rep. trent lott in november
bush won a narrow victory in dole's backyard, getting 42 percent of the vote to dole's 41 percent. bush pulled ahead with returns from st. louis county. gephardt easily won his home state with 58 percent of the vote, but it was his only victory tuesday. jackson was second with 21 percent
gore won in a tally at nevada's democratic caucuses, with dukakis second and jackson a surprisingly strong third. in balloting for county convention delegates, gore, who got support from sen. harry reid and other top state democrats, had 33 percent to dukakis' 26 and jackson's 22. party chairman beecher avants said jackson's strong showing ``was a real surprise.''
dole lost his wife's home state as bush emphasized his ties to president reagan. bush had 45 percent to dole's 40 percent of the gop vote. endorsements from such key democrats as sen. terry sanford and former gov. jim hunt helped gore squeeze past jackson 35 percent to 33 percent
gore got 41 percent of the vote, almost double his nearest competitor, gephardt. gore's victory margin was a surprise because a recent poll showed him in a tie with gephardt and dukakis. but he visited the state several times and spent more on advertising than any other democrat. as expected, the gop contest was close, with bush capturing 37 percent of the vote and dole 35 percent
bush and dukakis continued their new england sweeps, with the vice president winning 65 percent of the gop vote and the governor from neighboring massachusetts getting nearly 70 percent of the democratic vote. bush had built up good will through previous campaign journeys on behalf of gov. edward d. diprete and rep. claudine schneider
gore's home state gave him about 74 percent of the vote, leaving jackson, with 19 percent, a distant second. bush trounced dole nearly 3-1
dukakis won the top delegate state with 33 percent of the vote. bush, who built an oil business in texas, crushed all his rivals, receiving 65 percent of the vote. robertson got 15 percent and dole 14 percent
democratic u.s. sen. lloyd bentsen easily won renomination for a fourth term. rep. beau boulter and wes gilbreath, a houston investor, advance to gop runoff for u.s. senate. the winner faces bentsen in november
jackson received 45 percent of the vote, with gore far behind at 23 percent and dukakis with 22 percent. jackson got strong support in hampton roads and the richmond area, overcoming gore's numbers in southwestern virginia and dukakis' power base in suburbs near washington, d.c. boyd marcus, bush's state coordinator, said he would have been pleased with a mid-40 percent showing. the 2-to-1 win over dole (60 percent to 22 percent) ``has been the most surprising thing,'' he said.virginia native robertson had 12 percent
robertson's 38 percent of the vote gave him his only victory of super tuesday. dole had 27 percent, and bush was third, his only loss of the night, with 24 percent. to claim their share of the state's 41 gop delegates, the candidates will have to fare as well in this spring's county or legislative district caucuses, which precede the july 15 state convention where delegates will be allocated. dukakis, endorsed by gov. booth gardner, led democrats with 45 percent, followed by jackson with 32 percent. the democrats' tally won't be completed for a week
the man who found what police believe to be a valuable stolen painting by french impressionist claude monet stolen says the artwork appears to be damaged
you could see places where it was rolled up very tightly and maybe flattened. it had lines running down it from that, and some of the oil paint was peeled off in places,'' said charles polley, postmaster at legrand who found the painting tuesday morning in a mail drop-off box
local police, the fbi and the international police agency interpol have been searching for the oil painting since it was cut out of its frame at the fisher community center on march 19, 1987
the painting, ``fishing boats in front of the cliffs at etretat,'' was insured for $175,000 by st. paul fire and marine insurance co. the canvas was painted by monet around 1891
the painting was rolled up and bound by two rubber bands when polley found it mixed in with other pieces of mail. he said it was dropped sometime after 3 p.m. monday and before 7:30 a.m. tuesday when he opened the mailbox
i thought it was trash at first _ but it sure wasn't trash,'' polley said. ``it had the look of canvas, and i looked at the edges and knew exactly what it was.''
when the painting was cut out of its frame, which was rigged to an alarm system in the police department, the thief didn't make a clean cut along the bottom of the frame, leaving a jagged tear in the painting
i called just about everyone but interpol,'' said polley. ``you never know what a day will bring.''
lt. darrell templeton said at a news conference that he unrolled part of the left edge of the painting _ the side that shows the cliffs _ and to him it appears the painting is the original
he said the fbi will be contacted, and examiners hired by the insurance company will have to determine for certain that the painting is the stolen monet
templeton said it was a frustrating investigation involving countless telephone calls and false leads. but he said articles about the theft probably kept it from being sold on the black market, ``because it was an odd way of getting it back.''
templeton said police have no suspects other than a white male, about 6-foot-2 or 6-3 and weighing about 250 pounds, who was seen cutting the painting out of its frame
rex ryden, in charge of the fisher foundation, wasn't sure yet how the insurance company will react, since the insurance was paid
he said the painting will have to be inspected for damage and whether it can be restored
it will be a drawn-out procedure,'' ryden said
guerrillas derailed a passenger train with a mine and then attacked it, killing at least 11 people and wounding 29, the national news agency reported today
the news agency, aim, said attack occurred tuesday after the train crossed into mozambique from south africa. it said many of the passengers were mozambican miners returning from jobs in south africa
rebels of the mozambique national resistance killed 23 people and wounded 71 in an attack on a train in the same area last dec. 31, according to mozambican officials
the rebels have been waging a hit-and-run insurgency against the marxist government since 1977. maputo claims the rebels are backed by south africa, a charge both the rebels and south africa deny
ewes imported from britain, new zealand and australia for breeding are being sheepish about sex, veterinary officials said
local rams are not interested either, apparently because they like their mates petite and find the foreigners too big. the coy ewes may be disoriented by the tropical weather, because they are used to four seasons
agriculture minister sanusi junid has suggested keeping the animals in the dark, an idea the veterinary services department is taking seriously, director-general ahmad mustaffa babjee said at a conference today
the imported sheep should be put in a dark room at a certain time of the year for some time. when they come out into the light they may think it is another season and get into the mood to mate,'' sanusi said in a speech to the commonwealth veterinary officers conference
about 20,000 sheep are imported annually for breeding as part of a government plan to have 1 million head of sheep in malaysia by the year 1990
italian soldiers will have to brave the weather without umbrellas, defense minister valerio zanone has decided
zanone, a liberal, said equipment issued to italian soldiers provides adequate protection in the average climatic conditions of this mediterranean country
the radical party had suggested that italy follow the u.s. military's decision to authorize use of umbrellas
a white supremacist accused of plotting to overthrow the government said he would plead guilty after a judge refused to suppress a statement the man gave to authorities
bruce pierce had sought dismissal of the statement he gave to fbi agents after he was arrested in georgia in 1985. when u.s. district judge morris arnold refused, pierce rose in the courtroom
i'm going to plead guilty, if that's the court's decision,'' pierce said tuesday
arnold told him to discuss the matter with his attorney, bennett nolan, and after a conference with pierce and other defendants, nolan said that pierce would make a final decision this week on whether to plead guilty
pierce and nine other white supremacists are charged with sedition. five defendants are accused of conspiring to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent, and two are accused of interstate transportation of stolen money
pierce is serving sentences totaling 250 years in prison _ 100 years for racketeering and 150 years for violating the civil rights of outspoken jewish radio talk show host alan berg, who was machine gunned to death in denver
wayne manis, an fbi agent, had been scheduled to testify tuesday that pierce confessed several crimes to him while pierce was in federal custody in atlanta
pierce had argued that his statement was not made voluntarily and should be suppressed. he said agents threatened to have his wife arrested and put his three children in foster homes if he refused to make the statement
arnold said he decided the statement was made voluntarily
silent screen actress lois wilson, who appeared in more than 100 early films including the 1923 western epic ``the covered wagon,'' has died of pneumonia. she was 93
the actress, who sought fame in hollywood after winning a 1915 statewide beauty contest in alabama, died at the riverside hospital for skilled care here on march 3, a nursing supervisor confirmed today
miss wilson was buried monday at forest lawn memorial-park in glendale, calif., after a memorial service at the church of the good shepherd in beverly hills, calif
after her arrival in hollywood, miss wilson landed a small part in ``the dumb girl of portici,'' which starred legendary ballerina anna pavlova. she went on to act in more than 100 silent and sound films over the next 33 years
her best-known roles included molly wingate in ``the covered wagon'' and daisy buchanan in the 1926 version of ``the great gatsby,'' for which she won the photoplay magazine best performance award
miss wilson acted opposite such leading men as rudolph valentino and john gilbert
after retiring from motion pictures in 1941 _ except for a bit part in the 1949 comedy ``the girl from jones beach,'' starring ronald reagan _ miss wilson turned to the broadway stage, and eventually television
among the network soap operas in which she played featured character roles were ``the guiding light'' and ``the edge of night.''
although she never married, miss wilson, a 5-foot-5 brunette, was once described as cultivating a screen image of the ``soft, marrying kind of woman.''
selected in 1924 by paramount to represent the motion-picture industry at the british empire exposition, miss wilson was termed ``a typical example of the american girl in character, culture and beauty.''
on leaving television, miss wilson returned to the los angeles suburb of north hollywood, where she shared a home with a sister. she later moved near a niece in reno. 3rd graf pvs, he was</note>
tennessee sen. albert gore, who vaulted into the front rank of the democratic pack with a strong super tuesday showing, said today that ``people were responding to my message,'' not his southern background
we won in the west also, and sooner or later it's going to stop being a surprise,'' gore said on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
i am not a southern candidate,'' gore said tuesday night in nashville, tenn. ``i'm a national candidate who's a southern and proud of it.''
i'm excited about this victory. i thought it would happen exactly this way ... people were responding to my message,'' gore said today
i think it essentially is a three-person race,'' gore said. ``democrats are looking at who can best carry our party's standard into the fall election
he was leaving today for chicago before heading for south carolina, where he hoped to pick up delegates at that state's democratic caucuses on saturday
gore established himself as a solid contender by winning five states in his native south: tennessee, kentucky, arkansas, north carolina and oklahoma
even as the votes were being counted in tuesday's races, gore was looking ahead to the next round of contests, in the industrial states of the north
after spending much of the super tuesday campaign sparring with rep. richard gephardt of missouri, gore began the next round by pointing to dukakis as his chief rival
gephardt was one of the big losers of super tuesday, winning only his home state
this is becoming a two-person race between michael dukakis and al gore,'' gore said. ``it's a race between the politics of the past and the politics of the future.''
dukakis also ran well in tuesday's contests, as did jesse jackson
gore advisers began making the pitch that dukakis has an ``electability'' problem _ that he is too northern, too liberal and too ethnic to carry the region against the republcans
i think mike dukakis is going to represent for many voters the same old formula that led to the loss of 49 out of 50 states twice in the last five elections,'' gore said
we did particularly well with independents and independently-thinking democrats and some disillusioned republicans,'' he said. ``and that's where the battle ground is going to be in the general election.'' to buntz, sted bunz</note>
blair brown and dennis franz, better known as their tv personas molly dodd and norm buntz, will rejoin nbc's lineup this month, a network spokesman says
the return of ``the days and nights of molly dodd'' and ``beverly hills buntz'' were unrelated to a strike called by the writers guild of america, nbc media representative brian robinette said tuesday. ``this is phase two of late-season schedule changes that we announced over 10 days ago,'' he said
molly dodd,'' a soft-pedaled show featuring brown as an over-30 working woman struggling to make a living in manhattan, will be broadcast 9:30 p.m. thursdays beginning march 24
beverly hills buntz,'' featuring franz as the sleazy detective who moved to the west coast after punching out chief daniels on ``hill street blues,'' returns friday, march 25, at 9:30 p.m., robinette said
other shows had to be shuffled to accommodate the two 30-minute additions. ``night court,'' which was on thursdays at 9:30 p.m., will move to fridays at 9 p.m. ``miami vice,'' normally seen at 9 p.m. on fridays, will take a two-week break, then return on fridays at 10 p.m. beginning april 8, robinettee said
the recently introduced ``sonny spoon,'' which has been airing fridays at 10 p.m., will return later this spring
opponents argued that making english the official language of texas was a divisive measure, but state republicans spoke with almost one voice in backing the proposal
more than nine in 10 gop voters in texas' super tuesday elections endorsed a non-binding referendum to make english the official language of texas and the united states
we were hoping for approval between 75 and 80 percent, so the higher the percentage goes above that the happier we are with the results,'' said lou zaeske, chairman of the bryan-based american ethnic coalition
zaeske, whose group helped place the proposal on the gop ballot, said proponents were not trying to keep people from learning and speaking foreign languages
we just think we should have a common language _ like we have a common currency.''
fred meyer, texas republican party finance chairman, said the idea behind the proposals is to help all americans succeed at jobs and elsewhere in society
but texas democratic party chairman bob slagle criticized the measure, saying it would be more ``politically courageous'' to do what is right than to capitalize on what polls show to be a popular notion
i think it is terribly divisive, and i think it causes mexican americans who already know they must speak english in order to advance in this society to feel they are being picked on,'' slagle said
the official-language issue was only on the republican ballot in texas
in a june survey, 70 percent of the texas democrats surveyed said they favored the idea of establishing english as the official language of the state, and 75.4 percent of independents approved of the proposal
on tuesday, about 93 percent of those voting in the texas republican primary favored the statement, ``english should be established as the official language of the state of texas and the united states of america.''
meanwhile in florida, organizers of a drive to make english that state's official language said they collected 260,000 signatures on super tuesday. the group needs 342,939 signatures to get the issue on the november ballot as a referendum
the issue is emotional in heaily hispanic dade county, around miami, where some fear the drive could increase ethnic tensions
share prices were firmer in london at midday today, boosted by previous rises in new york and tokyo
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was up 6.3 points at 1,821.3 at 12:47, below the day's peak of 1,826.0, up 11 points, at around 10 a.m
the index opened 8.2 points higher at 1,823.2 points following gains in new york on tuesday, where the dow jones industrial average rose 24.70 to 2,081.07, and a rise in tokyo earlier today, where the nikkei dow index climbed 139.66 to 25,605.39
dealers said prices eased in later trading because the london price rise was not supported by sufficient buying interest
among the stocks marked up was hillsdown holdings, which rose 7.3 cents to $5.57 after announcing that its pre-tax profits last year doubled to $202.3 million from $100.7 million in 1986
among the banks, barclays was off 1.8 cents at $9.32, and tsb group fell 1.8 cents to $2.05. british government bonds were opening little changed. wheelchair and moved on padded hands</note>
bob wieland, the legless vietnam veteran who co-stars in the nbc-tv series ``sonny spoon,'' started the los angeles marathon a day early and ended it two days late, exhausted but proud
wieland, 41, covered the 26.2-mile course in about 74{ hours without using a wheelchair. he bettered his 1987 marathon time by an impressive 18 hours, using his powerful arms to push himself along on his padded hands
he crossed the finish line tuesday morning to cheers from about 100 well-wishers and reporters. ``outside of vietnam, this has been the most intense 72 hours i ever spent in my entire life,'' he said as he neared the finish
wieland was the first to start the la marathon on saturday, a day earlier than most of the 17,040 runners, and was the last to finish. pickup.</note>
former chancellor kurt georg kiesinger, who overcame the taint of a nazi past to head west germany for three years in the 1960s, died today at age 83
kiesinger had been a member of the nazi party from 1933 to 1945 and worked in the foreign ministry's radio propaganda section during world war ii. he was never charged with war crimes or atrocities
the christian democratic politician died in the tuebingen university hospital of heart failure, his office in bonn said in a statement released to the news media
in 1966, kiesinger succeeded fellow christian democrat chancellor ludwig erhard, whose mini-coalition with the small free democrats had broken up
kiesinger, serving as west germany's third chancellor, was a symbol of reconciliation to many germans. he grouped the conservative christian democrats and their bavarian counterparts with the leftist-leaning social democrats to forge what was called the ``grand coalition.''
it was the first german government in a generation to include the social democrats, whose willy brandt served as the coalition's foreign minister before taking over as chancellor in 1969
kiesinger, a roman catholic, was born april 6, 1904 in ebingen, baden-wuerttemburg. tall and silver-haired, he spoke with a vibrant voice tinged with the dialect of his native swabia
as a 29-year-old lawyer, kiesinger joined the nazi party in 1933, the year adolf hitler came to power. he said he became disillusioned with the party a year later because of the bloody purge of storm trooper leader ernst roehm and his associates
during world war ii, kiesinger worked in the radio propaganda section of the nazi foreign ministry, acting as department head for some of his term there
after the war, he spent 16 months in an american internment camp. a german court fined him 50 marks, then $12.50, for being a party member. the fine was remitted when the court ruled later that he had risked his life to get a student out of a nazi prison
kiesinger's nazi past brought him much unfavorable publicity when he became a candidate for chancellor, and the issue cropped up again during his term. he always denied any wrongdoing and declared:
i have clean hands. i know what i did and what i did not do.''
he forged stronger ties with the communist states of eastern europe, breaking with past policy. he opened diplomatic relations with romania and yugoslavia, but his overtures suffered a setback when the soviets invaded czechoslovakia in 1968
his government remained a resolute ally of the united states, but he feuded with president johnson in 1967, when he complained that he had not been adequately consulted on a u.s.-soviet nuclear weapons treaty
he also let johnson know that bonn no longer could afford to buy enough u.s. arms to offset the cost of stationing u.s. troops in germany. as a result, the united states withdrew 35,000 troops in 1967
his administration had inherited a recession, but the coalition suceeded in revitalizing the economy. toward the end of his kiesinger's tenure, however, the booming economy wrought high inflation that was a key to cracking the coalition he helped forge
attackers hurling hand grenades and firing automatic rifles assaulted a police station in soweto and injured nine black officers, police headquarters said today
the assailants fled in a vehicle after policemen returned fire with shotguns, according to police. no arrested were reported
the attack occurred tuesday night as municipal policemen were changing shifts at the mapetla police station in soweto, johannesburg's main black township
police said the attackers threw three hand grenades at the officers and fired soviet-made ak-47 rifles. only one of the wounded officers was seriously hurt, police said
black policemen have been frequent targets of attacks by anti-apartheid militants who view them as government collaborators
authorities have blamed many previous attacks on the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement
union writers refused to continue working on next month's academy awards ceremony script and cbs-tv shelved two new shows as a strike by the writers guild of america put a crunch on hollywood
the academy awards ceremony, scheduled for worldwide broadcast by abc-tv on april 11, will air without the aid of the striking wga, spokeswoman cheryl rhoden said tuesday night
the union's western unit board voted unanimously tuesday night to reject a request for a waiver from the producers of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences show. a waiver would have allowed union work despite the strike
ms. rhoden said the guild's eastern unit didn't vote because the show is produced in los angeles and would only involve members of the western unit
scriptwriter mel shavelson, former wga president, and jack rose were hired by the academy to write the program
if there is no waiver, i won't do the show,'' shavelson said before the vote. he added that the writing is far from complete. ``most of the work is done when the cast shows up at rehearsal. it's rewriting, really.''
cbs-tv announced tuesday that two new shows scheduled to debut later this month have been shelved indefinitely
the dictator,'' a comedy starring christopher lloyd, was in its third week of production in new york but didn't have enough scripts completed to warrant going ahead with next week's premiere, the network said
no scripts had been completed for the other show, ``the smothers brothers comedy hour,'' which was to debut march 23
cbs said ``my sister sam,'' which had been removed from the network's schedule earlier this year, would return in place of ``the dictator.'' the network said it would fill ``the smothers brothers comedy hour'' slot with special programming
on tuesday, leonard farrell of the federal mediation and conciliation service brought together negotiators for the scriptwriters and producers to review differences
both sides outlined differences and issues, but no bargaining was conducted, said herb steinberg, a spokesman for the alliance of motion picture and television producers. sticking points were writers' demands for increased fees and creative rights
in the early evening, the meeting was recessed until 11 a.m. thursday
this strike is going to be over someday,'' farrell told reporters. ``and it might just as well be over now. that's what we usually tell (the opposing sides).''
the strike began monday with a massive picket line in front of 20th century fox studios. it followed the writers' rejection sunday of the producers' final contract offer
talk shows and soap operas would be the first to feel the effects of the strike, probably turning to reruns, the union said. producers said other shows had stockpiled scripts
the wga strike is the fourth since a 17-week walkout in 1973. the longest, in 1981, lasted three months. quote; picks up 4th graf bgng, `bybee contended</note>
a government attorney contends that although the united states committed ``great wrongs'' to the thousands of japanese-americans detained in prison camps during world war ii, the victims shouldn't be allowed to sue now for damages
the statute of limitations clearly began to run in the 1940s,'' justice department attorney jay bybee told the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the federal circuit during arguments tuesday on a $24 billion lawsuit filed in 1983 on behalf of 120,000 japanese-americans
bybee told the three-judge panel of giles rich, phillip baldwin and helen nies, ``there is no dispute that there were great wrongs done to japanese-americans.... but even when mistakes are made, people must file timely claims for redress.''
bybee contended that the six-year statute of limitations on suits against the government expired decades ago
but plaintiffs' attorney benjamin zelenko argued that the statute of limitations did not come into play until the early 1980s because of ``deliberate concealment and misrepresentation by the government of critical information regarding its claim of `military necessity''' for the internment
president franklin d. roosevelt authorized the internment of japanese-americans and japanese citizens living in california and parts of oregon, washington and arizona in the wake of the 1941 japanese attack on pearl harbor, when he was advised by military leaders that people of japanese descent could not be trusted
the only time the supreme court has ruled on the internment itself was in 1944, when it found the action was a constitutionally acceptable military necessity. government documents discovered later indicate no such military necessity existed
the concealment didn't end, zelenko argued, until the 1980s, when a congressionally appointed commission found that there was no military necessity for the internment. the policy was ``driven by race prejudice, war hysteria and lack of political leadership,'' he said
this is the second time a federal appeals court has heard the case. in 1986, the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the district of columbia ruled that the government must defend itself at trial against the suit. that ruling overturned a 1984 decision by district court judge louis f. oberdorfer, who had ruled that the statute of limitations had expired
but last june, the supreme court ruled that the statute of limitations issue should have been decided by a different court _ the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the federal circuit
the lead plaintiff in the case is william hohri, a computer programmer living in chicago. hohri, a san francisco native who lived in southern california when the war began, said tuesday he was interned at manzanar camp east of the sierra nevada shortly after his 15th birthday. he left for the midwest 2{ years later and never returned to california
an inmate at the federal correctional institute who arranged a helicopter escape with an undercover fbi agent was seized just as he was trying to make his getaway, officials said
prison officers grabbed william m. carroll, 28, on tuesday after he used a red apron he was wearing to signal a helicopter pilot hovering over the facility, said ray hooker, executive assistant to warden john gluch
but it didn't land, and the guy tried to blend into the prison population,'' said kenneth walton, head of the fbi's michigan office
he thought he had it made, and then the guards started coming out of the woodwork. they arrested him and now he's in segregation.''
carroll, a georgia native, was serving a 15-year sentence on a 1986 conviction for aiding and abetting in the counterfeiting of $20 bills, hooker said. he had been scheduled for parole in october 1992
carroll allegedly offered $1.25 million in counterfeit money for the escape, and $1 million if the pilot would kill a federal witness, walton said
authorities at the prison 45 miles southwest of detroit learned of the escape plan through an internal investigation, hooker said. they referred the matter to the fbi, which planted an undercover agent who acted as carroll's contact and also supplied the helicopter and pilot, hooker said
a mathematical puzzle that has fascinated scientists and researchers for hundreds of years may now be solved, a professor at west germany's max-planck institute said today
the puzzle has been how to prove fermat's last theorem, developed by french mathematician pierre de fermat, who lived from 1601 to 1665
the theorem states: x to the nth power, plus y to the nth power, equals z to the nth power, where x, y, and z are nonzero integers, has no solutions for n when n is an integer _ or whole number _ greater than the number two
fermat, who was also a magistrate, developed his expertise in mathematics as a hobby, and was one of the founders of modern number theory and probability
many important developments in number theory have resulted from unsuccessful attempts to prove fermat's last theorem,'' professor don zagier said in a telephone interview
now, japanese mathematician yoichi miyaoka, who also works at the max-planck institute for mathematics in bonn, may have finally proven fermat's last theorem, zagier said
this whole thing is of course in the preliminary stages, but miyaoka, who gave a presentation on his solution 10 days ago, believes he has proven the theory and it is certainly serious and very exciting,'' zagier said
zagier, an american working as a researcher at the max-planck institute, is also a professor at the university of maryland
he said he jotted down notes at miyaoka's presentation and sent them to several experts, including gerd faltings at princeton and mathemeticians barry mazur and christophe soule' in paris
of course the notes alone are not sufficient, and miyaoka has been preparing and checking his manuscript on the solution for the past week, and that will also be sent to the experts to check,'' said zagier
zagier said he hoped some results from the experts would be forthcoming ``within 10 days, but it could also take several months.''
asked if miyaoka was available to discuss his solution of proving fermat's last theorem, zagier said the japanese was ``too busy rechecking his work, because there is always a chance of an error, and he wants to be sure the manuscript is accurate before it goes out.''
i've been more or less answering the telephone for him since word of this leaked out,'' zagier said. corrects number captured to eight, sted 10. adds byline. picks up 6th graf pvs, `military and ...' ^by robert h. reid</note>
eight communist rebels, including a former regional commander, were captured and two were killed in separate raids and clashes across the country, the military said today
also today, opposition sen. juan ponce enrile, a former defense minister, claimed the 19-year communist insurgency was strengthening because the nation's 160,000-member armed forces was increasingly disorganized and poorly supplied
the military said troops killed the leader of the rebel propaganda unit in nueva ecjia province in a clash tuesday north of manila. government forces, which suffered no casualties, also captured four rebels, the report said
brig. gen. domingo rio said nemesio demafiles, former commander of the communist new people's army on negros island, was captured tuesday afternoon in a private home near the local headquarters of the philippine constabulary in bacolod, 300 miles south of manila
three others were arrested in the same raid, the military said, adding that it came a day after demafiles' bodyguard was arrested near bacolod
in a separate incident tuesday, troops killed a rebel officer near the mindanao city of butuan, the military said
military and rebel sources said demafiles was replaced last year as the negros commander of the new people's army, the armed wing of the communist party of the philippines
in a report to constabulary headquarters in manila, rio said police found a .45-caliber pistol and a map of the constabulary office in bacolod during the raid in which demafiles was arrested. the report said demafiles was apparently planning an attack on the paramilitary police bacolod headquarters
negros has been a stronghold of the new people's army
in manila, enrile told the american chamber of commerce that disorganization in the armed forces and a lack of supplies are hampering the anti-insurgency drive
he said the new people's army had grown in size to between 25,000 and 30,000 fighters and that they controlled more territory than at any time during the rebellion
michael dukakis, proclaiming himself ``halfway to winning'' the democratic presidential nomination, said today he was looking forward to the prospect of facing george bush in the fall election
but dukakis, who won in the big super tuesday states of texas and florida and generally split the day's spoils with jesse jackson and albert gore, said he's not assuming the democratic contest is over
i said when this started this is a marathon and we're going to have to take it contest by contest,'' dukakis said on cbs-tv
interviewed on nbc-tv, he said, ``i'd say i'm about halfway to winning the nomination.''
he said he expects to gain enough delegates in the final round of primaries, in california and new jersey, to secure the nomination before the democratic convention
looking past that, he said that ``it looks like the republican nominee is going to be george bush. i'm looking forward to that.''
dukakis, here to campaign for next week's illinois primary, said, ``it's really a great day'' following his showing tuesday
to be a son of massachusetts and to go into florida and texas and beat some candidates who obviously have some very strong ties with the south is just a terrific thing, as well as to do well in maryland ... and out in the pacific northwest.''
asked whether he intended to use negative ads similar to those he has aimed at rival richard gebhardt, dukakis said, ``if people insist on using this negative stuff, then i've learned, unfortunately from painful experience, that you have to respond.''
kicking off his illinois primary campaign, dukakis was playing up his greek immigrant heritage. the chicago area is among the most ethnically diverse in the nation, with its heavy population of first- and second-generation eastern europeans
many of your families, like my parents, came to this land in search of opportunity,'' dukakis told cheering supporters on tuesday. ``they didn't have much money in their pockets; they couldn't speak the language, but they believed in the american dream. ... it was their broad shoulders and strong arms and keen minds that built the mightiest industrial machine in the world.''
despite the cash drain of super tuesday with its emphasis on television advertising, the dukakis campaign remains financially well off
campaign finance chief robert farmer said dukakis was raising half a million dollars a week. coming out of super tuesday, he said, dukakis had $2 million in the bank and another $1 million on the way in federal matching funds
an undergraduate's bill at yale university will rise 6.1 percent to $18,060 for the 1988-89 school year, the prestigious private university said
the percentage rise was the same as last year's, said yale president benno c. schmidt jr. said tuesday. it cost $17,020 to attend yale this school year
the increase was approved over the weekend by the yale corporation, the school's board of trustees. tuition will increase 6.9 percent to $12,960, an increase of 6.9 percent, and room and board will go up to $5,100, an increase of 4 percent
announced increases at other ivy league schools range from 6.2 percent at princeton to 6.7 percent at cornell, said yale spokesman walter littell. the cost of attending most ivy league schools will be in the range of $17,000 to $18,300, according to figures supplied by littell
a bogus fund-raising ring that claimed to aid the families of police officers killed in the line of duty instead pocketed millions of dollars from donors, authorities have charged
three former police detectives for the brooklyn district attorney's office were among 11 people arrested following raids monday at 15 sites in new york city and on long island, manhattan district attorney robert morgenthau said
the ring raised $600,000 a year since setting up the fraudulent charity 10 years ago, morgenthau said tuesday. the ring operated under two names: the police conference of new york inc. and the new york state district attorney police benevolent association
the groups are not registered with the state as charities. the authorities said the groups kept all but about $4,000 a year, which was spent on insurance they sold to police officers on long island
the operation was run by joseph tarantola, 48, of tannersville, pa., who was a detective in the brooklyn district attorney's office until he was fired in 1976 because of questionable fund-raising activities, morgenthau said
also arrested were two of his associates who held the same post: neil lombardo, 44, of brooklyn, a detective from 1970 to 1983; and clark simmons, 66, of brooklyn, a detective from 1969 to 1977
the district attorney said tarantola's group, in business for several years, used solicitors operating out of ``boiler rooms'' to call and pressure potential contributors, most of them businessmen
the solicitors would call and claim connections to legitimate police groups. they would refer to news accounts of officers wounded or killed on duty and appeal to the donor's sympathy or sense of civic duty to get money
if the solicitor got a donation, he would send the giver a souvenir imprinted with an official-looking badge and slogan. souvenirs included decals, baseball caps, lapel pins shaped like badges and large metal shields designed to be affixed to a car bumper. a donor's gift determined which souvenir he got
they would tell the contributor that having this decal on your window is like having the chief in your backseat,'' the district attorney said
the solicitor received a percentage of donations, morgenthau said
the investigation into the ring began in july 1985 after people complained they were being harassed, morgenthau said
authorities raided 15 suspected boiler room sites monday in manhattan, the bronx, brooklyn and queens, and on long island in hempstead and massapequa
tarantola and nine others arrested were charged with first-degree scheming to defraud, punishable by up to four years in prison. an 11th person was arrested on a weapons possession charge for allegedly having an unlicensed pistol. carolina, fresh quotes, picking up 2nd graf pvs, ``this wasn't; subs 17th graf, to underscore</note>
richard gephardt headed for campaign stops in south carolina today after a super tuesday disaster he blamed on lack of money and a withering crossfire from rivals michael dukakis and albert gore jr
with 20 states and a million dollars, we just could not get our message ... in front of the voters,'' gephardt said in an interview broadcast today on abc-tv
i really think i'm the only one who has talked about the issues people really care about,'' gephardt said. ``i just couldn't get it across in enough southern states.''
gephardt said he's not finished ``if i can get back into the race in the states coming up.'' to make the point, he was flying to south carolina today, campaigning for that state's caucuses on saturday
tuesday night, gephardt told supporters, ``i never told you it was going to be easy.''
this wasn't the best of days,'' gephardt told a subdued group of backers after winning only on his home turf of missouri and finishing a dismal third or fourth in most of the 19 other states up for grabs tuesday
gephardt's loss was gore's gain, as the tennessee senator decisively won their battle for the mantle of moderate alternative to dukakis and jesse jackson. gephardt acknowledged that he was unable to counter a spate of negative ads aimed at him by both gore and dukakis
we had a situation where we had about $6 million or $7 million spent against us by those two candidates, against about $1 million we were able to spend,'' he said as the voters' verdict became apparent
later, addressing supporters at his st. louis headquarters, he spoke bravely of future victories rather than analyzing his super tuesday losses
he insisted there are still ``great days ahead'' for his campaign, which had jumped out of the starting gates with a win in the iowa caucuses but began slipping in successive contests
aides, however, conceded that gephardt's fourth-place overall showing would put a pinch on fund raising just when the campaign needs money the most
we're not penniless,'' said campaign consultant bob shrum. ``it won't be as easy to raise money, but we'll raise money. it's not a good thing to have happen to you.''
they pointed to michigan's caucuses later this month as the next ``clean shot'' of the campaign, downplaying the impact of next week's illinois primary
but as his spoke of targeting resources in selected tests, gephardt told his backers in the city he represents in congress that he will campaign everywhere and stay in the race until the democratic convention this summer
we're going to carry our cause to every one of those days in every one of those states,'' gephardt said. ``we didn't shrink when we were behind in iowa and we're not going to shrink now.''
gephardt said he simply didn't have the money to respond to the advertising blitz by dukakis and gore
our message got across in iowa, got across in new hampshire, got across in south dakota,'' gephardt said. ``but in 14 short days we were not able to get it across in the 20 states of the south the way we wanted.''
deputy campaign manager joe trippi said gephardt's financial shape isn't all that bad, because he has debts of only $75,000 and has $250,000 on hand. in addition, trippi said, the campaign anticipates raising $500,000 within two weeks despite the anticipated financial pinch stemming from tuesday's showing
gephardt aides spent most of the day tuesday saying the campaign will focus on the march 26 michigan voting, in effect conceding the large illinois showdown to home-state favorites sen. paul simon and jesse jackson
our intention is to compete in south carolina, campaign in illinois but really focus on michigan,'' trippi said
to underscore that point, gephardt made south carolina his first post-super tuesday appearance
he then was heading for michigan before traveling to illinois for two days of stumping. gephardt is scheduled to take a couple of days off the campaign trail next weekend, just two days before the big illinois primary, and trippi said that was to allow the candidate to prepare for michigan
this is a long campaign,'' gephardt said. ``those who prevail are those who don't lose their heart.''
radical priest jasbir singh rode was installed as the leader of 25 million sikhs today and vowed to win the fight to create a homeland for his people
rode was named by a sikh committee as chief priest of the akal takht, or the eternal throne within the golden temple, the holiest sikh shrine and the seat of sikhism's spiritual authority
the post, although religious, wields great political influence
rode was released from jail saturday in what apparently was a move by the federal government to involve militant sikhs in finding a solution to the violence in punjab state
militant sikhs have been waging a five-year war for a separate homeland in punjab, claiming that they are discriminated against by the predominant hindu community. sikhs form 2 percent of india's 800 million people but are in a majority in punjab state
rode said at his installation ceremony that he had not reached an understanding with the government prior to his release from jail. he had been held since 1985 for alleged sedition, but he never was brought to trial
we will try to reach a solution with the government which will not amount to a surrender,'' rode said. ``but we will struggle till we get our rights.''
he called for unity among political factions in the sikh community. during the ceremony, young men armed with soviet-made ak-47 rifles stood guard
more than 400 people have been killed in punjab this year in attacks blamed on sikhs. most of the victims have been hindus or moderate sikhs. more than 1,000 people died last year in attacks blamed on the extremists. revised delegate figures, picking up 11th graf pvs, gephardt's money</note>
northerner michael dukakis declared today he had a ``national victory'' with wins in texas, florida, maryland and the west but southerners jesse jackson and albert gore jr. celebrated their own strong super tuesday showings in the democratic primaries
rep. richard gephardt, the iowa winner, took only his home state of missouri and faced a fight to keep his campaign from fading into oblivion
this was a good national victory and i feel terrific this morning,'' dukakis said on abc-tv. ``i think that demonstrates who can win in november.'' the massachusetts governor won the day's three biggest prizes: florida, texas and his home state. he also won in rhode island, maryland, idaho and hawaii
dukakis scored well among elements of ``the new south,'' collecting heavy support from jewish voters in florida, hispanics in texas and catholics across the region, according to abc news surveys of voters as they left the polls
the democrat with the best-financed and probably best-organized campaign, dukakis emerged in a strong position for the next round of primaries in midwestern and northern industrial states
poised to challenge him were tennessean gore and south carolina native jackson, who divided the day's spoils with the front-runner. dukakis picked up 386 new delegates toward the party's july nominating convention, jackson collected 366 and gore 326
gore, who was seen as fighting gephardt for the more conservative southern democratic vote, suggested that rivalry was now behind him. ``it's a three-man race, no question about it,'' he said on nbc-tv
he immediately took aim at dukakis, calling him a representative of ``the politics of the past'' who lacks the appeal to moderate voters that democrats need to win back the white house in november
jackson declined to attack his democratic rivals. ``i'm concerned we run a campaign that will serve my party well,'' he said, contending intra-party bickering had cost democrats the white house in the past
gore racked up victories in kentucky, oklahoma, north carolina and arkansas, as well as his home state of tennessee, while jackson won in virginia, georgia, mississippi, louisiana and alabama
the day's big loser among democrats was gephardt, who won only in his home state of missouri and added just 93 delegates to his total
gephardt's money-starved campaign was unable to afford the expensive media buys necessary to blanket the 20 states which had democratic contests on tuesday. he said he was outspent seven-to-one by gore and dukakis and couldn't get his message across
it certainly wasn't the best of days,'' gephardt said in st. louis. he vowed to press on, despite comments like those from the party's senior statesman robert strauss, who said the contest had narrowed to dukakis, jackson and gore
i expect one of those three fellows will probably be the nominee,'' strauss said
jackson demonstrated that he had expanded his political base somewhat beyond what he established in his 1984 candidacy, doubling the proportion of white southern votes he won to 10 percent. he got virtually all of the black vote. in virginia, he piled up a surprising 2-1 margin over gore, his nearest competitor
jackson, who has campaigned hard on themes like economic justice and combating the drug crisis, told supporters: ``our message is winning. we have the poorest campaign, the richest message.''
gore, who sat out most of the early primary and caucus battles to concentrate his resources on his home turf, made the strong showing he needed. it remained to be seen, however, whether he could maintain that strength beyond the south
the day had been designed by southern democrats from the start to bring to the forefront a candidate like gore, whose strong views on defense and foreign policy have appeal in the south
one of those behind the ``super tuesday'' southern strategy, former virginia gov. charles robb, called the day a success. ``i think the emergence of al gore is the most important development on the democratic side,'' said robb
the message today is that we're still a part of the mainstream of the nation,'' said atlanta mayor andrew young. ``super tuesday probably won't decide anything, but it will take everybody one step further along the way. our job is to let the folks in illinois, pennsylvania (which have upcoming primaries) ... sort this all out for us, and give us a nominee we can get behind.''
bill britt, who gained fame as the ``hermit of chestnut hill'' before dying alone in the woods, will be cremated and his ashes scattered next to his favorite tree, his daughter said
i think my father would have wanted to return to the elements,'' ingrid boughner said tuesday. ``i know he would want to be returned to his favorite tree. i can almost hear him saying `yes.'''
britt, who resisted efforts to move him to a shelter, should have been more carefully monitored although he was unlike most homeless people, say city officials who knew him
britt, 52, died of hypothermia two weeks before his body was discovered monday by ms. boughner and her brother in a makeshift wigwam in brookline, the suffolk county medical examiner's office said tuesday
homeless people, people like britt who say they want to be alone, should be protected in this weather,'' said dr. stanton kessler, a senior pathologist in the medical examiner's office. ``he had no food in him. he had no sleeping bag. this type of thing should be prevented.''
ms. boughner said she decided on cremation after talking to her father's longtime friend william baird, the birth control activist, who told her the two had once discussed cremation
officials of the metropolitan district commission, on whose land britt lived, said they did not object to ms. boughner's decision
britt died in the woods in the chestnut hill reservoir, near the affluent community of the same name where he was born and grew up. he had lived in the woods since 1969 and did not attract much attention until 1985, when officials began trying to move him out of the woods and into public or subsidized housing
britt's continual resistance to efforts to help him gained media attention and led to his nickname ``the hermit of chestnut hill.'' at one point, actor mickey rooney said he planned to buy the rights to his story. in may, britt appeared on ``late night with david letterman.''
boston chief housing court justice e. george daher, who tried to arrange housing and medical aid for britt despite his lack of cooperation, said tuesday he was shocked and saddened by the news of britt's death
he represents in a microcosm what happens to the homeless, the unfortunates, the eccentrics in this cold society,'' said daher. ``someone should have checked in on him, rather than have him die a lonely tragic death like this.''
a one-time insurance agent who also worked in procter &amp; gamble's marketing division in new york city 30 years ago, britt once had been married with a family
both public officials and friends said he was a paradox; a loner who loved to chat with boston college students who went to class just yards from his shelter; an eccentric who said he wanted to be left alone but who regularly pitched stories about himself to the media
mary callahan, 27, was one of the first to write about britt as a reporter on a weekly newspaper
it seems so sad to me,'' said callahan, who now works for boston college. ``he was a singular person, a very interesting man. he looked very old but he was so articulate. he talked about writing poetry, about writing books. it's strange that he decided to live there.''
searchers have discovered the wreckage of a vintage p-51d mustang warplane and the body of its pilot, who crashed on of state college had taken off for an air show in florida, authorities said
clark, 67, and his friend robert byrne, piloting another p-51, were ascending from university park airport around 9:30 a.m. monday when clark disappeared, airport manager robert dannaker said
apparently they went into the clouds, and one came out and one didn't,'' said civil air patrol maj. marilyn lappe
the wreckage was found on pine grove mountain, about five miles east of pine grove mills in centre county, said cap lt. col paul rost, who coordinated the air search from allegheny county airport near pittsburgh
byrne, reached at the tico air show at space center executive airport in titusville, fla., declined to discuss the accident. he had called university park during a planned stop to ask if. the one-seat, single-engine plane was used as a bomber escort over northern europe during world war ii. graf pvs, ``it's going</note>
republican presidential candidate bob dole, trying to revive his campaign after super tuesday's losses, told chicago voters today it is ``up to illinois now to turn it around.''
dole visited a commuter train station in the village of hinsdale, a western chicago suburb, to shake hands with a few people as they hurried off to work. supporters displayed a large banner reading, ``vote for dole delegates or alternatives.''
across the street, dole gulped down a pastry and coffee at a restaurant counter as television cameras recorded the scene
are you hanging in there?'' a gray-haired woman asked dole
it will be up to illinois now to turn it around,'' dole replied
dole left the super tuesday states behind long before the polls closed and arrived in illinois tuesday, saying he was ``on the road to recovery.''
this is going to be bob dole's recovery state,'' the kansas senator told a crowd of cheering supporters tuesday night in chicago
it's going to be the turnaround state. it's going to get us back on the winning track.''
after dole's losses in tuesday's primaries and caucuses, the march 15 illinois primary is a make-or-break event for the senator's candidacy, his aides concede
we've got to make it happen in illinois,'' said thomas d. rath, a senior strategist in the campaign
although polls indicate that vice president george bush leads dole in illinois, rath said, the campaign hopes to surge ahead by focusing on what has become a dominant theme _ dole's leadership in the senate and contrasting that to bush's record
if you're looking for somebody who understands the issues, somebody who deals with the issues every day and somebody who has made a difference, you can pretty well judge a candidate by what they've done in the past,'' dole told supporters in oak brook, a chicago suburb where he watched the super tuesday results on television
the dole campaign is counting on strong support in downstate farming areas and in republican counties near the illinois-missouri border. in addition, the campaign is targeting white-collar suburban areas around chicago
william brock, dole's campaign chairman, acknowledged that tuesday's losses dealt a serious blow to the dole campaign
the psychological hit is very heavy,'' said brock
brock attributed bush's victories to president reagan's popularity in the south, and expressed frustration that the dole campaign had not been able to make gains by attacking bush and focusing the campaign on issues such as the deficit and drug use in america
you do the best you can. we did not have time to develop the one-on-one message that we did in the earlier states,'' brock said. ``now we've got a little more time. we'll see if we can do a better job.''
on arriving in illinois on tuesday, dole immediately took aim at bush when he spoke at a rally at the state capitol in springfield, challenging the vice president to a series of debates
later tuesday, when it became clear he had suffered a big defeat, dole rallied his supporters by recalling that he had come to chicago 40 years ago for treatment by a surgeon for crippling wounds suffered in world war ii
i've been coming to illinois for a long, long time,'' dole said. ``i don't give up very easily. we're going to be on the road to recovery in the state of illinois.'' koenig's comments were in an interview and also in a report.</note>
the number of farmers seeking relief under federal bankruptcy law leveled off in the second half of 1987, but an agriculture department official says another upward surge could occur this winter
as of dec. 31, 6,664 bankruptcy filings under chapter 12 of the u.s. bankruptcy code had been reported by the u.s. federal court system, said steven r. koenig of the department's economic research service
the new chapter 12 provisions, which allow farmers to restructure debts under specially designed rules, went into effect on nov. 26, 1986
koenig said court records showed about 600 filings in the first five weeks of the new chapter 12 law. those climbed to more than 2,300 in the first three months of 1987 and then eased back to around 1,900 in the second quarter, 929 in the third quarter and to 923 in the fourth quarter
i would suspect that the filings would be up again this winter, because that's when a lot of farmers' loans come up for renewal _ during the winter months,'' koenig said. ``i would think that it would spike up a bit, but probably not like we saw last winter. but, who knows?''
koenig's comments were in an interview and in a report in the march issue of agricultural outlook magazine published by the usda agency
the largest number of financially strapped farmers appear to benefit from chapter 12 through the increased negotiation power they now have with their lenders, rather than through actually filing a case,'' he said. ``with chapter 12 looming, many lenders agree to debt writedowns and restructuring in out-of-court settlements.''
koenig said filings of debt reorganization plans have varied greatly across the country, with some courts confirming large number of the plans while other have not
differing legal interpretations by the courts explain much of this variation,'' he said. ``legal confusion over chapter 12 rules and procedures abounds.''
koenig added: ``for farmers, the income tax consequences of discharging their debt, selling their assets, and several other facets of bankruptcy remain largerly unsettled. internal revenue service rulings and court decisions are still pending on many tax issues, making a reorganization plan more uncertain.''
besides the unsettled tax questions, koenig said ``the acid test'' of chapter 12 benefits will be when payments under the court-confirmed debt restructuring plans come due. payments in the earliest confirmed cases are just now coming due
as of dec. 31, since the law went into effect on nov. 26, 1986, chapter 12 filings, by region, included:
northeast, 108; lake states, 515; corn belt, 1,395; northern plains, 1,701; appalachia, 562; southeast, 382; delta states, 591; southern plains, 435; mountain states, 588; pacific states, 387
winter wheat planted last fall for harvest this summer is in ``mostly good-to-fair'' condition in some of the nation's major production areas, a government report says
the joint agricultural weather facility said tuesday that wheat during the week of feb. 29 through march 6 was not quite in such good shape in the northern great plains, delta and rocky mountain states, however
snow cover was virtually non-existent in the central and northern great plain and rocky mountain states, but mild temperatures kept damage at a minimum,'' the report said. ``snow, preceding freezing temperatures, prevented severe winter damage to small grain (including wheat) in eastern kansas, northern oklahoma, illinois, missouri, indiana and ohio.''
crop development by early march ranged from greening in colorado to jointing of plants in mississippi and oklahoma, and heading in arizona, the report said
the facility is operated by the departments of commerce and agriculture. reports do not forecast actual production of crops, only the condition of fields and plants
in kansas, the leading wheat state, fields had started to turn green but had not reached the jointing stage of development, the report said. light cases of wheat streak mosaic were reported in the eastern third of the state, and russian wheat aphids were ``concentrated mostly in western areas of kansas but posed no serious threat thus far.''
the agriculture department has some advice for those who may be planning easter dinners around hams
there are three types of hams most commonly found in supermarkets, according to usda home economists. those are labeled ``ham'' or ``ham-with natural juices'' or ``ham-water added.''
from the nutrition standpoint, the product labeled `ham' is the highest protein, while `ham-with natural juices' is the next highest, and `ham-water added' has the least,'' they said tuesday in a report
those hams don't include another type, the country ham or dry-cured ham that has been dried and cured with salt, smoked and aged, the report said. those are easy to identify from their burlap wrappings
country hams require special treatment and cooking procedures, which are usually described on labels, the report said. toll put at 32 from sumgait violence, protest reported in yerevan. changes byline. no pickup.</note>
armenian nationalists today called on the politburo to protect their countrymen from ethnic attacks during a moslem celebration next week in the republic of azerbaijan, a spokesman said
hovik vassilian, a nationalist in the armenian capital of yerevan, said armenians fear that azeris will launch violent attacks during iranian new year celebrations, observed march 18-23 by shiite moslems
the republic of azerbaijan borders iran, and most azeris are shiite moslem. most armenians are christian
tension between armenians and azeris erupted in violence feb. 28 in the azerbaijani city of sumgait. the unrest was triggered by armenian demands that nagorno-karabakh, a predominantly armenian district in azerbaijan, be annexed to armenia
gennady i. gerasimov, the soviet foreign ministry spokesman, said today the death toll in the sumgait rioting was 32, one more than previously reported
the government blamed the deaths on hooligans provoked by rumors of ethnic turmoil elsewhere. some armenian activists say the violence was instigated by azeris out of ethnic hatred, and they claim the death toll was much higher
vassilian said armenian nationalists sent a telegram to the ruling communist partry politburo today to ask for protection during the moslem celebrations
he said armenians also planned an hourlong general strike throughout armenia on friday to underscore their concerns about security
gerasimov, speaking at a regular briefing, said sumgait residents were not allowed on the streets after 6 p.m. to maintain order in the city
the situation is normal but passions are still running high since people still remember what happened,'' he said when asked why foreign reporters weren't being allowed into the area
vassilian, editor of an underground journal called the armenian cause, said by telephone that several hundred thousand armenians demonstrated tuesday in yerevan to mourn armenians killed in the turmoil
they placed flowers at the base of a monument to the estimated 1.5 million to 2 million armenians killed in a 1915 turkish invasion, he said
asked to estimate the crowd size, vassilian said, ``there was no room to stand. there must have been several hundred thousand there.''
gerasimov said wreaths were laid at the monument, but he did not say how many people attended
in moscow, about 300 armenians gathered tuesday in a cemetery to mourn the armenian victims of ethnic violence and exchange tales of how their countrymen were killed by azeris. their accounts could not be independently verified
one man said he saw a pregnant woman and her unborn baby slain and mutilated in sumgait
a resident of a village near sumgait said azeris roved through his settlement, looking under beds for armenian children and raping armenian women. another armenian said children were thrown from windows
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has indicated the central committee will review the dispute at a forthcoming meeting
vice president george bush's super tuesday triumph makes him the favorite to win the presidency, at odds of 4-to-9, bookmaker william hill said today
that means a $9 dollar bet on bush would net $4 plus the original stake
next in line was democrat michael dukakis at 4-1, followed by sen. robert dole, r-kan., at 8-1. new york gov. mario cuomo, a democrat, fetched odds of 10-1 despite staying out of the race. sen. albert gore, d-tenn., was quoted at 11-1, the rev. jesse jackson at 20-1 and rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., at 50-1
americans spent $8.3 billion keeping warm in february, $340 million more than normal for the month, the federal government estimated today
february was colder than the long-term average for the month, pushing up bills for oil, natural gas and electricity used to heat homes across most of the nation, according to the monthly report from the national oceanic and atmospheric administration
heating bills were above normal for the month in every region except new england and the mountain and pacific coast states, the study reported
on average, american homeowners spent $115.72 for heat during the month, $4.73 more than would have been expected with normal february weather
here is a regional rundown of the average cost of residential heating in february, and the comparison to what would have been expected in normal february weather
_middle atlantic: $159.52, $2.38 more than normal. includes new york, new jersey and pennsylvania
_east north central: $140.87, $13.14 more than normal. includes wisconsin, michigan, illinois, indiana and ohio
_new england: $136.58, $1.22 below normal. includes maine, vermont, new hampshire, massachusetts, connecticut and rhode island
_west north central: $126.42, $13.21 above normal. includes north dakota, south dakota, minnesota, nebraska, iowa, kansas and missouri
_east south central: $123.68, $10.53 more than normal. includes kentucky, tennessee, mississippi and alabama
_south atlantic: $103.54, $5.31 more than normal. includes maryland, delaware, district of columbia, west virginia, virginia, north carolina, south carolina, georgia and florida
_mountain: $97.14, $2.86 below normal. includes montana, idaho, wyoming, nevada, colorado, utah, arizona and new mexico
_west south central: $76.71, $5.48 above normal. includes oklahoma, arkansas, texas and louisiana
_pacific: $58.09, $5.71 below normal. includes washington, oregon and california
the monthly study of energy costs does not include alaska and hawaii
the parent company of great scott supermarkets inc. has removed frozen food bags that an asian-american group found offensive
the bags, which bore a caricature of a child with slanted eyes and prominent teeth, carry the words ``coolee bag for your purchases of ice cream and frozen foods.''
unskilled asians who worked for u.s. railroad companies in the middle and late 19th century were called ``coolies.''
those kinds of things are just stupid,'' said david fukuzawa, director of american citizens for justice, an asian-american civil rights organization
paul coleman, a spokesman for meadowdale foods, great scott's parent company, said tuesday the bags would be removed from the chain's 24 metropolitan detroit stores
raymond gomez, a spokesman for the bag maker, said the character was intended to be an eskimo. graf pvs bgng ``jackson won big...</note>
jesse jackson said today that super tuesday proved ``the jackson message is winning'' and proclaimed the primary season is erasing democratic establishment doubts about the viability of his campaign
he said if his cash-poor campaign had spent as much money as the well-heeled forces of michael dukakis, ``it would have been a different situation'' in the results
he acknowledged that the endorsements of white democratic politicans, many of them elected with support of the black voters jackson has helped register in recent years, went to dukakis and rivals albert gore jr. and richard gephardt
`it would be fair to say that many of them had reasonable doubts about the success of our campaign,'' jackson said. ``in these elections we are removing those doubts ... our coalition represents the future of the democratic party.''
he said the white politicians will have to make choices, not only about who can win, but which candidate ``can help them.''
he also spoke about party unity and said the candidates should not ``self destruct'' their chances in november by attacking each other during the primary season
jackson's rivals thus far have refrained from criticizing him, but his campaign manager says the jackson forces are prepared for the possibility he will come under attack now that he has collected a sizeable number of delegates
jackson was heading today to cicero, ill, where voters go to the polls next tuesday. he was visiting the site of a general electric plant that is closing down, to show solidarity with workers who are losing their jobs
our campaign is winning,'' jackson told jubilant supporters tuesday night. ``our message is winning. we have the poorest campaign, the richest message.''
jackson won big in virginia and also won in the deep south states of georgia, louisiana, mississippi and alabama
he also came in second in the home states of his three main rivals, massachusetts, tennessee and missouri, home of rep. richard gephardt
`we're right where we wanted to be, and now it's on to north carolina and illinois,'' said campaign manager gerald austin. ``tonight jesse jackson became a valid candidate for president, with an organization and with a message, and he just happens to be black.''
an exit poll by abc news indicated that jackson won 10 percent of the white vote in the super tuesday contests, which included 14 southern and border states
jackson has vigorously courted sectors of the white population in his campaign, principally the economically hard-pressed, the unemployed, students, gays and lesbians
on tuesday night, jackson recalled the selma, ala., civil rights march 23 years ago that was violently turned back at the bridge into town by state troopers
the same state that wouldn't let us walk across the bridge _ we won that state today,'' jackson said. ``america has won.''
jackson was joined at the celebration by his wife and mother and other family members, and several political figures, including district of columbia mayor marion barry and rep. mickey leland, jackson's campaign chairman in texas. his longtime supporter, rock disc jockey casey kasem, was the master of ceremonies
jackson, who spent just $100,000 on super tuesday television ads, contrasted his low-budget campaign to the multimillion-dollar tv budgets of his opponents
he criticized the negative ads aired by his rivals as `party bloodletting.'' that is ``a way to lose and we want to win,'' he said
i'm not running against gore or dukakis or gephardt on super tuesday. i'm runing against george bush in the super bowl in november,'' he said
austin said jackson's success means he will now come under increasing scrutiny by the media and attacks from other candidates
we are prepared for the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune that will come our way,'' he said
he said he anticipates the campaign will benefit from greater fund-raising which has been on an upswing since the feb. 8 iowa caucuses. the campaign raised $600,000 in february, a one-month record for jackson, he said
decisions will have to be made on buying more media time than in the past, especially in large states such as new york and california, he said
this month, jackson took out $400,000 in loans to keep his campaign afloat for super tuesday. washington</head>
a formal complaint has been filed against an illinois appellate judge for saying south side residents who failed to vote for the late mayor harold washington ``ought to be hung.''
the complaint tuesday to the illinois courts commission cited comments made by appellate judge r. eugene pincham in a speech at an operation push gathering on jan. 31, 1987
pincham mentioned the hanging of several slaves and white collaborators during a 1741 slave rebellion in new york, then said, ``any man south of madison street who casts a vote in the feb. 24th election who doesn't cast a vote for harold washington ought to be hung as those were hung in new york.''
the speech before the civil rights group was broadcast over three chicago-area radio stations. washington won the election but died nov. 25, only a few months into his second term
former u.s. attorney dan webb filed the complaint on behalf of the illinois judicial inquiry board, contending that the judge's comments violated portions of the illinois code of judicial conduct
the code prohibits judges from participating in political campaigns or activities unless they are candidates for office or judicial retention
pincham said his comments were protected by the first amendment. to punish him would violate his constitutional rights, he said, adding that he would continue with his own court challenge to the complaint
pincham had attempted to avoid action by the judicial inquiry board by filing a lawsuit on first amendment grounds in u.s. district court, but that suit was dismissed last week. pincham said he would appeal that ruling
the illinois courts commission will set hearings on the board's complaint. picking up 2nd graf pvs, robertson said.</note>
george bush's powerful super tuesday punch packed such a wallop it knocked jack kemp and pat robertson flat and left bob dole scrambling in illinois today to regain his footing in the industrial midwest
dole was out campaigning today in the western chicago suburb of hinsdale, where he visited a commuter train station and gulped coffee and a pastry before television cameras at a restaurant counter across the street
it will be up to illinois now to turn it around,'' dole told one supporter
robertson said today that bush ``just ran a fabulous race.'' he also said, in an interview on abc-tv: ``i was running against the ghost of ronald reagan, not against george bush.''
while robertson vowed to stay in the race, kemp was meeting with his advisers to determine the future of his campaign. a spokeswoman said that kemp, who got no better than 7 percent of the vote in any of tuesday's primaries, would have a news conference thursday
an exhilarated bush said tuesday night that the voters' message was clear: ``i'm going to be the next president of the united states.''
the vice president was victorious in 16 of 17 gop contests tuesday, most of them in the south. he won a shutout in the primaries, though robertson did win washington state's caucuses
this is a unique political happening,'' bush told cheering supporters in houston as his lopsided victory became apparent. ``it exceeded my fondest expectations.''
while dole hadn't expected to dominate super tuesday, he'd hoped for a better showing than the distant runner-up status to which he was relegated
he began focusing on next week's illinois primary even before tuesday's results were final, telling a crowd of supporters in chicago: ``illinois is getting more and more important as the evening wears on.''
this is going to be bob dole's recovery state,'' he said. ``it's going to be the turnaround state.''
robertson, who earlier had predicted he'd emerge from super tuesday as the gop front-runner, insisted his third-place showing still was respectable
it isn't too bad for an amateur but it isn't near what i expected,'' said the former television evangelist
kemp kept out of public view as super tuesday voters designated him their last choice. aides said he'd be reassessing his candidacy
super tuesday's balloting represented a dramatic comeback for bush, who just a month earlier had been reeling from a third-place finish behind dole and robertson in iowa
damaged but not destroyed, bush managed to hang on to a slimmed-down lead in new hampshire a week later, and his self-portrait as loyal sidekick to ronald reagan was well-received in the south
bush claimed most of the 712 delegates at stake tuesday, adding them to the 126 he'd amassed in earlier contests. that put him well on the way to the 1,139 needed to land the gop nomination
his super tuesday victories reached across the nation, including delegate-rich florida and texas. he also triumphed in tennessee, kentucky, georgia, alabama, virginia, mississippi, louisiana, arkansas, north carolina, maryland, massachusetts, rhode island, oklahoma and missouri
robertson conceded he'd been damaged by some unusual comments he'd made on the campaign trail, such as his insistence there are soviet missiles in cuba, claims his christian broadcasting network at one point knew the whereabouts of american hostages in lebanon and his assertions that disclosure of the jimmy swaggart sex scandal had been timed to hurt his candidacy
i spoke too much and i should have kept my mouth shut but i was misinterpreted,'' he said
but he shrugged off any suggestion that the damage was irreparable or that he would join forces with dole in a stop-bush offensive, saying ``it looks like the one that may come out of illinois is going to be pat robertson rather than bob dole.''
i, right now, am going to be the rallying point for those who don't want george bush as the nominee of the party.''
dole, meanwhile, was challenging bush to a series of debates ``all over illinois, one on one, no moderator, no notes, stand up and have it out.''
lee atwater, bush's campaign manager, didn't welcome the invitation
there just doesn't seem to be any point in following the other guy's campaign schedule,'' he said
bush, however, was ready to fight dole for illinois' 82 delegates. while dole thus far has dominated contests in the midwest and has a strong organization in illinois, bush is supported by illinois gov. james thompson and 93 of the state's 102 gop county chairmen
the vice president planned to fly to chicago thursday. quote from bonior on possible federal funding cuts.</note>
gallaudet university students threatened to withdraw from the school for the deaf as a protest over the appointment of a hearing woman as president entered its fourth day today
gallaudet board of trustees chairwoman jane bassett spilman said the decision to hire elisabeth ann zinser will stand, and scheduled a press conference today for herself and the new president
at a campus rally tuesday night, student leaders said that up to two-thirds of the school's 2,200 undergraduate and graduate students might withdraw thursday if zinser is not replaced with a deaf president
psychology professor neil reynolds, who chairs two faculty groups, said they will meet today to discuss the controversy over zinser's selection, and could vote to suspend classes
there has been in the past week an escalation of overt support from faculty members for a deaf president,'' said reynolds, who chairs the school's 21-member faculty senate and a group that includes the entire faculty. ``this is definitely a change.''
when school officials announced sunday that zinser, an administrator at the university of north carolina at greensboro, had prevailed over two deaf finalists, students staged protest marches to the capitol, forced closure of the school monday, and boycotted classses tuesday
rep. david e. bonior, d-mich., a member of gallaudet's board of trustees, said congress might consider scaling back funding for the school if the conflict over zinser's appointment is not resolved
i'm concerned it has the potential to hurt the funding of the university, especially when you have leaders from both sides going out of their way to express themselves on this,'' bonior said
bonior, the chief deputy majority whip in the house, said he has been meeting privately with university officials, and intends to ask zinser ``whether she is indeed interested in coming into an environment that is as hostile as it is.''
gallaudet, founded in 1864 by an act of congress, is the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf. last year, federal funding accounted for $62.2 million of gallaudet's $76 million operating budget
spilman said the selection of zinser, a vice chancellor for academic affairs at greensboro, ``was a vote cast in the best interests of the university.''
zinser, who prevailed by a 10-4 margin over two deaf finalists, ``was selected for one and only one reason _ she was the best person qualified,'' spilman said
the students claim that by picking zinser, who doesn't know sign language, the board of trustees has shown it has no understanding of the importance deaf students place on having a deaf leader. including zinser, none of the school's seven presidents has been deaf
the alumni sympathize with and support the students,'' gerald burstein, president of the school's alumni organization, said at a campus rally tuesday. ``we _ unlike hearing members on the board _ know fully what it is like to be deaf.''
i'm behind the students 100 percent,'' said prof. herbert maples, chairman of gallaudet's math department, who is deaf. ``something has to be done about this situation.''
thirty percent of gallaudet's faculty and 22 percent of the school's 1,300-member support staff is deaf, according to university publicist barbara dennis
the national association of the deaf is planning to have state representatives from the 20,000-member organization meet in washington friday to discuss ways to help the protesting students, said fred weiner, a washington spokesman for the group
students vowed to continue their protest until they achieve their goal
we will not give up until we have a deaf president,'' said jerry covell, a leader of the student protest. ``we will just keep trying.''
students also want spilman replaced, and a plan to make deaf persons a majority on the board of trustees. the 20-member board now has four deaf members
president reagan was urged today to award the medal of freedom posthumously to three american journalists killed by soviet troops while covering the eight-year afghanistan war
rep. jim courter, r-n.j., introduced a resolution in the house urging reagan to give the nation's highest civilian award to relatives of charles e. thornton, a medical reporter for the arizona republic in phoenix, and independent filmmakers lee shapiro of north bergen, n.j., and jim lindelof of sacramento, calif
thornton was killed in an ambush by soviet troops on sept. 19, 1985, while preparing a story on volunteer doctors in afghanistan. shapiro and lindelof, a paramedic serving as soundman for a documentary being filmed by shapiro, were killed oct. 9, 1987, when they were strafed by soviet helicopter gunships and shot by soviet soldiers who confiscated their cameras and film. their bodies have never been returned from afghanistan
the journalists' only `crime' was in bringing a trace of glasnost to the most brutal war of the decade,'' courter told a news conference. ``unable to completely conquer the afghan resistance, the soviets have committed themselves to a policy of tracking down and murdering western journalists in an attempt to prevent the rest of the world from learning of the afghans' valiant struggle for freedom.''
courter's resolution is cosponsored by reps. bob stump, r-ariz., and robert t. matsui, d-calif. the same appeal to reagan will be introduced in the senate next week by dennis deconcini, d-ariz., and pete wilson, r-calif
the resolution urges reagan to award the medal of freedom posthumously to the three journalists at a white house ceremony on march 21, the afghan new year which the president designated last year as ``afghanistan day.''
the great courage displayed by these american heroes in facing the dangers of war and a lethal soviet threat against them as correspondents should not go unrecognized,'' matsui said
linda shapiro, the filmmaker's widow, said her husband was ``sought out and deliberately gunned down for telling the truth'' about the war. she urged continued u.s. support for the afghan rebels, and promised to finish her husband's documentary
bill lindelof, a reporter for the sacramento bee, said his brother originally went to afghanistan to provide medical treatment for afghan war refugees
he did so much and unselfishly, and this (award) would be sort of something in his memory,'' lindelof said. ``it would say that jim did all he could, and it was appreciated.''
experts from non-opec oil producing nations met today to debate moves aimed at halting plunging oil prices, said a spokesman at the mexican embassy, which served as host of the gathering
the meeting was called by egypt but was held in london because it was a more convenient location than cairo
apart from egypt, the other invited participants were the soviet union, china, angola, malaysia, brunei, oman, mexico and colombia
britain, which rejects group pricing policies for its north sea oil, was not invited. norway, another european producer, declined to attend
the meeting is at expert level with no ministers involved,'' said a mexican spokesman, who declined to be identified. ``they just want to talk about the situation in the market, although obviously they are not in any position to take a decision.''
on tuesday, oil minister abdel-hady kandil of egypt said the meeting was not against the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries, ``but is an attempt by non-opec producers to help save the world oil market from further deterioration.''
there was speculation that opec may call an emergency meeting about the oil price drop, due partly to increased output by non-opec producers and a mild winter in japan and europe
north sea brent crude for april delivery was quoted at $14.20 to $14.30 a barrel in london today. at its december meeting in vienna, opec pledged to defend a price of $18 a barrel. death, u.n. raises total death toll to 90. pick up 8th pvs, `prime minister...'</note>
israel's divided government today refused to endorse a u.s. plan designed to end more than three months of violence in the israeli-occupied lands. troops killed one arab and wounded 10 others in clashes
palestinians staged a general strike in observance of another ``martyrs' day'' to honor the arabs killed since the anti-occupation unrest began dec. 8
the death brought the confirmed death toll from the rioting to 85 since dec. 8. u.n. figures now put the number killed at 90, including five arabs who died from tear gas inhalation. however, there was no independent confirmation that the five arabs included in the u.n. count died as a result of the riots
israeli troops shot and killed a palestinian in the west bank village of silwad, 10 miles northeast of ramallah, the army said
officials at ramallah hospital said mohammed ochman sarris, 22, died of a gunshot wound to the back. they said another palestinian from silwad was admitted with a gunshot wound to the thigh
in clashes in nablus in the west bank, officials at al ittihad hospital said seven palestinians from the nearby faraa refugee camp were hospitalized with gunshot wounds to the legs, hands and side
another palestinian from the village of masha, 15 miles west of nablus, was treated for a gunshot wound to the left leg, the officials said
officials at rafidiyeh hospital in nablus said a palestinian from jenin, 20 miles to the north, was shot in the shoulder
prime minister yitzhak shamir successfully defeated attempts by the left-of-center labor party to force a vote in the 10-member inner cabinet on a peace plan offered by u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz
foreign minister shimon peres, who has accepted the shultz plan, attacked shamir's refusal in a speech in parliament
we might miss this historic opportunity, and we won't have an answer, not for our generation and not for those to coe, as to why we became afraid of peace,'' said peres, leader of the labor party. ``why did we reject the outstretched hand because of imaginary fears?'
in clashes near qalqilya in the west bank, israeli armored personnel carriers fired pebbles at demonstrators with a newly developed riot-control device, israel radio said. the gravel-firing gun was used for this first time this week, it said
the ``martyrs' day'' strike closed shops throughout the west bank and the occupied gaza strip and kept most of the 110,000 arabs who work in israel away from their jobs, an army spokesman and the palestine press service said
army spokesmen said the only exception to the general strike was the tulkarem area near the israeli town of kfar saba, where some workers ignored the boycott
in the west bank town of halhoul, an empty israeli-owned bus used to carry arab workers to their jobs was burned in front of the municipal building, the palestine press service said
it said arabs demonstrated at a dozen locations in gaza strip refugee camps and towns and shouted palestine liberation organization slogans, raised palestinian flags and threw stones
about 1.5 million palestinians live in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war
ezer weizman, a labor minister-without-portfolio, said ``the government is split 50-50'' over the u.s. peace plan
shultz, who brought the peace initiative to the arab and israeli leaders last week, had asked shamir to bring israel's response to washington for talks with president reagan on march 14. labor leaders had hoped to commit shamir to accept before he left
shamir's spokesman, yossi ahimeir, said the prime minister ``opposed most of the ideas'' in the u.s. plan and sought to talk the americans into making changes
shamir, leader of the right-wing likud bloc, objects to shultz's call for an international conference by may 1. he also opposes a proposal that talks on the final status of the occupied lands begin in december, even if agreement had not been reached on palestinian self-rule
ahimeir said that for the first time, shamir will suggest an agreement with jordan on a step-by-step plan for implementing self-rule quickly in a limited area of the west bank or gaza
the idea is to make autonomy work in a limited area such as nablus or hebron and then enlarge it until it is in force in all of the territories,'' ahimeir said
a soviet official acknowledged today that his country had supplied missiles to iraq, but he said their range was too short to strike iranian cities
the statement by foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov was believed to be the first time the soviet union acknowledged shipping missiles to iraq, iran's enemy in a 7{-year-old war
the soviets have been iraq's chief arms supplier
western military analysts say iraq has been using scud-b missiles, fitted with strap-on boosters for added power, in recent attacks on the iranian capital, tehran. the city is 290 miles from the iran-iraq border
iran also uses scud-bs in its attacks on iraqi cities
the missiles have a range of 190 miles
on sunday, iranian media reports blamed the soviet union for the missile attacks on iran, prompting an angry mob in tehran to try to storm the soviet embassy
gerasimov, asked about the iranian charges at a government news briefing, said soviet missiles had been shipped to iraq under an agreement between the two countries
the soviet union previously delivered a limited shipment of short-range missiles,'' he said. ``we never gave our permission to modify those missiles to increase their range, and modernization was not foreseen by that agreement.''
gerasimov said the agreement ``ruled out'' modernizing the missiles
this is the basis on which we're insisting that we have nothing to do with the `war of the cities,''' he said
iraq claims the missiles are iraqi-made
another soviet foreign ministry official, vsevolod l. oleandrov, was asked at the briefing if he believes the iraqi claims. after a long pause he said, ``it's difficult for us to say.'' 4th graf pvs, simon, his</note>
illinois sen. paul simon said today his presidential hopes are riding on a home-state primary victory next week, and he said he still can get the democratic nomination despite sitting out super tuesday
i'm going to finish first in illinois,'' said simon. ``if i don't i'm going to have to re-evaluate,'' he said in an interview on cable news network
simon said the strong showings of rivals michael dukakis, jesse jackson and albert gore jr. on tuesday showed that the democrats won't have a candidate picked before their convention in july
nobody's going to have that first-ballot nomination, and then groups are going to start leaving one candidate or another, going to someone who is going to be generally acceptable,'' he said. ``i think i fit that. but, i also have to win in wisconsin or ohio or pennsylvania or new york.''
there is no question that if i can do it in illinois, we're going to pick up some states after illinois,'' he said
simon, his campaign strapped for cash, sat out the 20-state super tuesday campaign in favor of concentrating on his home-state primary next week, as part of what he calls a midwest industrial strategy
the simon campaign has missed one payroll and is in danger of missing a second, said spokeswoman pam huey. simon also said tuesday the campaign was paying cash for expenses and hoped to avoid borrowing any more money, but had enough federal matching funds to cover its existing debt
february fund-raisers generated about $932,000 and federal matching funds totaled $364,000, said simon spokesman terry michael. the campaign owes about $145,000 but is in ``pretty solid condition as a result of not going into debt'' for super tuesday, michael said
we have a really small payroll, and we didn't make the big tv buys others did for march 8,'' he said
but simon doesn't plan to spend for television advertising in illinois either, again looking to future races
it would be foolish for us to make a big tv buy when we don't even know what the other candidates are going to do,'' michael said
we need a lift from illinois. with that help we can raise additional money so we can be more competitive in the states after illinois,'' he added
simon is eyeing his fellow illinois candidate _ jackson, who makes his home in chicago
some jackson supporters have called on simon to get out of the race before illinois, contending the democratic senator will only siphon votes from jackson with no hope of victory himself
i've heard more people say jesse should get out of the race because he's hurting me, but i'm not calling for him to drop out,'' simon countered
simon has pitched himself in recent days as the consensus candidate, the man most likely to get the nomination in atlanta if no clear favorite emerges from the primaries
any candidate winning enough of the remaining delegates to secure a clear first ballot victory is becoming a mathematical and political improbability,'' he said
right now, with no mr. inevitable in the race, it's going to be a situation where the one who gets hottest at the end wil be in the best possible position to negotiate a first ballot victory,'' michael said
so really, you just have to hang in there and hope to get hot at the end.''
surgeon general c. everett koop said today that claims about the spread of aids among heterosexuals by researchers dr. william masters and virginia johnson are unproven and irresponsible
koop, interviewed from london on abc-tv's ``good morning america'', said the sex experts have no scientific evidence to back claims that aids among heterosexuals is ``rampant,'' that the disease can be spread by casual non-sexual contact or that the nation's blood supply is unsafe
in as much as some very wild claims were made, we have to be very careful,'' koop said
the government's top medical officer was reacting to widely publicized findings from a new masters and johnson book, co-authored by dr. robert kolodny, ``crisis: heterosexual behavior in the age of aids.'' excerpts from the book appeared in this week's newsweek magazine
koop noted that masters and johnson did not submit their findings to scientific review or have them published in a recognized medical journal
i think it is irresponsible. it is scare tactics,'' koop said
the couple has published several books based on surveys of americans' sexual activities and attitudes. the new book calls for widespread mandatory testing for acquired immune deficiency syndrome infections, and estimates there are 3 million or more aids carriers in the united states. the government estimates up to 1.5 million
koop acknowledged that there is an explosion of aids among heterosexuals in africa but said ``the united states is not like africa... that's not going to happen here.''
he said heterosexuals have accounted for only 4 percent of aids cases in the united states and this is expected to increase to 5 percent by 1991
scientists say the disease is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from infected pregnant women to their offspring. the chief victims have been homosexual men and intravenous drug abusers
koop said if there were any truth to the suggestion that aids is spread through other means, the government would be warning against it. ``we have never gotten ahead of our scientific base, and that's something the american people can rely on,'' he said
he said that among more than 50,000 aids cases so far in the united states, ``not one single one was proven to be transmitted by casual non-sexual contact.''
aids is very hard to catch,'' said koop. with soviets admitting sending short-range missiles to iraq.</note>
iran and iraq bombarded each others' capitals with missiles today for the 10th day. iran said 35 people were killed in tehran and iraq reported baghdad residents died when a missile wrecked homes and stores
each side in the 7{-year-old war vowed to continue its missile, air and artillery assaults on population centers until the other halts the attacks
iran's official islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, said the revolutionary guards corps fired two missiles into baghdad, one at 10 a.m. and the second five minutes later
baghdad's official iraqi news agency, also monitored in nicosia, said only one missile exploded in the city of 5 million. it said the missile demolished houses and stores, ``killing or wounding numbers of civilians.''
the iraqi army retaliated by firing an al hussein missile, named after the shiite moslem saint, into tehran at 11:24 a.m., the agency said
iran said it hit a residential district, killing 35 people, wounding 120, knocking down buildings and burying people under the rubble. among the survivors was an 80-year-old woman dragged from the debris by rescue workers, it said
iran claims to have fired 29 missiles into baghdad, the northern city of mosul and the southern town of al-amarah since the missile exchange began feb. 29. the iraqis have acknowledged 24 hits
iraq has reported firing 46 missiles into tehran, the holy city of qom, 100 miles south of the iranian capital, and the central city of isfahan during the same period
iraqi communiques said iranian artillery pounded the southern port of basra and al-amarah during the night, killing ``many civilians.''
the iraqi news agency said the iranian shells rained down on densely populated residential areas in basra. it said that among the dead were four children buried under the rubble of their home after it took a direct hit
the agency said the shelling spread to qurnah, 30 miles north of basra, and zubair, south of basra
gulf-based salvage executives said today that an iraqi warplane fired a missile at a cypriot oil tanker carrying iranian oil in the persian gulf on tuesday. the shipping executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 101,977-ton felicity sustained minor damage
baghdad's government-run al thawra daily said in an editorial that iraq will go on ``hitting new iranian targets every day to shatter the lies of the charlatans in tehran'' until iran accepts the u.n. security council's july 20 cease-fire resolution
iraq has said it will comply with the resolution, but iran demands that iraq must be branded the aggressor before it will agree to a cease-fire
the commander of the iranian revolutionary guards' air wing, mohsen refan, said that if iraq continues its ``atrocities in the war of the cities, we will increase our missile attacks on baghdad manyfold and attack other iraqi cities with our missiles.''
he said iraq has suffered more than iran recently because ``our missiles have four times the destructive force'' of iraq's weapons and are more accurate
the iranians charge that the soviet union, iraq's main arms supplier, provided baghdad with the long-range missiles capable of hitting tehran
soviet foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov acknowledged today that the soviets supplied iraq with missiles, but he said their range was too short to hit iranian cities and that the soviets never gave iraq permission to modify the missiles to extend their range
both iran and iraq have soviet-built scud-bs, which have a range of 190 miles. baghdad, only 80 miles from the border, is within easy range of the iranian batteries
to hit tehran, 290 miles from the frontier, the iraqis need longer range weapons. analysts say the iraqis attach booster rockets to the scuds to give them the range to hit tehran
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 383
gephardt, 94
gore, 323
hart, 0
jackson, 370
simon, 0
uncommitted, 8
no preference, 0
other, 0
total -  1,178
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday
bush, 577
dole, 98
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 4
robertson, 9
uncommitted, 20
no preference, 4
other, 0
total -  712 turmoil</head>
bangladesh's foreign minister humayun rashid chowdhury met today with u.s. diplomats in a bid to recruit their support for his government against opposition charges of election fraud, officials said
chowdhury, who came here on his own initiative, met with deputy secretary of state john whitehead and with another, lower-level state department representative, said the officials who spoke on condition they not be named
there are all sorts of groups in bangladesh trying to involve us in their political process. we're not interested in getting involved,'' said one official
what we intend to tell him is that bangladesh has to solve its own internal problems,'' he added. the united states favors political reforms but they have to come from within bangladesh, he added
chowdhury's government, headed by president hussain muhammad ershad, won a landslide victory in last week's parliamentary elections, but a group of 21 opposition parties boycotted the balloting and charged that it was fraudulent
at least 11 people were reported killed and hundreds wounded in violence connected with the march 3 elections. ershad, a former army general, came to power in 1982 in a bloodless coup and was elected president in 1986 in elections which the opposition also declared were rigged
the united states is providing ershad's government with about $130 million in economic support this year and the same amount for 1989, most of it for food and basic commodities. bangladesh has a population of 105 million
chowdhury, who arrived here tuesday, also discussed economic and regional developments, the officials said, and he scheduled meetings with members of congress
authorities were hunting today for two men suspected in a three-state crime spree, including the killings of three men in arkansas and texas
police also were investigating whether the men were responsible a bank robbery and the slaying of a 23-year-old woman
the search was focusing on southern oklahoma, where a car belonging to one of the victims, kenneth olden, was found. the two suspects were believed to have fled on foot, authorities said
the suspects were described as two 18-to 20-year-old white men, one weighing about 190 pounds, with blond, curly hair, and another with stocky build and long, black hair
the bodies of cecil floyd morrison, 85, and his son, cecil leonard morrison, were found in their collin county, texas, home monday night after arkansas officials found their pickup truck partially submerged in a lake there
ammunition and a check stub with the morrison's address were found inside the truck, and arkansas officials alerted texas police
they had been struck in the head several times with a tire iron or tire tool and wooden club,'' said sgt. anthony hancock of the collin county sheriff's office. the men had also been shot in the face, authorities said
the two men suspected in the morrison deaths are also being sought in connection with the death of olden, 34, whose body was found tuesday morning on a rural road outside saratoga, in southwest arkanas. he had been shot three times, said hempstead county, ark., sheriff don worthy
a car belonging to one of the victims was found tuesday submerged in a pond in marietta, okla., near the texas border north of dallas. collin county, where the morrisons lived, is east of dallas
authorities were looking at the fourth killing and the bank robbery to see if they were related to the three slayings
olden and those two (in texas) we feel are connected, but we haven't gotten a link to the woman and the robbery,'' said hempstead county sheriff's deputy tom witt
deana andrews woodard, 23, was found dead in her gainesville home, a few miles south of the texas-oklahoma border, monday afternoon. her throat had been cut and a bloody ax was found near her body, said the cooke county sheriff's office. her infant son was unharmed
earlier monday, three gunmen robbed the first national bank of seminole in oklahoma, authorities said
the gunmen forced four employees and one customer into a restroom while one suspect took money from the bank's vault, said fbi spokesman dan vogel. the fbi recovered most of the stolen cash in muskogee, okla
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday
88 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 0
gephardt, 0
gore, 26
hart, 0
jackson, 30
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
larouche, 0
total -  56
100 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 1
gephardt, 1
gore, 0
hart, 0
jackson, 0
simon, 0
uncommitted, 1
total -  3
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 0
gore, 19
hart, 0
jackson, 9
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
dennerll, 0
duke, 0
larouche, 0
total -  38
100 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 90
gephardt, 7
gore, 6
hart, 0
jackson, 33
simon, 0
undecided, 0
total -  136
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 0
gore, 30
hart, 0
jackson, 37
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
total -  77
96 percent of precincts reporting
dukakis, 12
gephardt, 0
gore, 0
hart, 0
jackson, 8
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
larouche, 0
total -  20
100 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 8
gephardt, 0
gore, 0
hart, 0
jackson, 4
simon, 0
uncommitted, 6
total -  18
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 12
gephardt, 0
gore, 37
hart, 0
jackson, 6
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
kay, 0
larouche, 0
martin-trigona, 0
total -  55
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 6
gephardt, 2
gore, 23
hart, 0
jackson, 32
simon, 0
ahern, 0
dennerll, 0
duke, 0
kay, 0
larouche, 0
total -  63
100 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 47
gephardt, 0
gore, 0
hart, 0
jackson, 20
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
larouche, 0
total -  67
97 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 79
gephardt, 0
gore, 0
hart, 0
jackson, 19
simon, 0
no preference, 0
di donato, 0
larouche, 0
total -  98
100 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 1
gephardt, 0
gore, 15
hart, 0
jackson, 24
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
larouche, 0
total -  40
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 1
gephardt, 62
gore, 0
hart, 0
jackson, 14
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
dennerll, 0
duke, 0
kay, 0
koczak, 0
larouche, 0
total -  77
56 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 5
gephardt, 0
gore, 7
hart, 0
jackson, 3
simon, 0
uncommitted, 1
total -  16
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 17
gephardt, 0
gore, 34
hart, 0
jackson, 31
simon, 0
no preference, 0
total -  82
100 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 7
gephardt, 13
gore, 23
hart, 0
jackson, 3
simon, 0
dennerll, 0
doty, 0
duke, 0
koczak, 0
larouche, 0
total -  46
100 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 19
gephardt, 0
gore, 0
hart, 0
jackson, 3
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
total -  22
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 0
gephardt, 0
gore, 56
hart, 0
jackson, 14
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
total -  70
94 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 43
gephardt, 9
gore, 25
hart, 0
jackson, 42
simon, 0
dennerll, 0
duke, 0
larouche, 0
williams, 0
total -  119
99 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 0
dukakis, 15
gephardt, 0
gore, 22
hart, 0
jackson, 38
simon, 0
uncommitted, 0
larouche, 0
total -  75
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday
86 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 35
dole, 3
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
total -  38
88 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 14
dole, 7
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 1
robertson, 5
uncommitted, 0
total -  27
100 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 82
dole, 0
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
total -  82
99 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 48
dole, 0
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
total -  48
99 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 27
dole, 11
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
uncommitted, 0
stassen, 0
total -  38
98 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 34
dole, 0
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
uncommitted, 7
total -  41
99 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 41
dole, 0
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
total -  41
97 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 30
dole, 13
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 3
robertson, 2
no preference, 4
total -  52
100 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 27
dole, 2
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 2
total -  31
99 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 22
dole, 18
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
uncommitted, 7
total -  47
99 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 29
dole, 25
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
no preference, 0
total -  54
100 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 33
dole, 3
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
masters, 0
total -  36
99 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 15
dole, 6
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
uncommitted, 0
total -  21
99 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 29
dole, 10
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
uncommitted, 6
total -  45
93 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 111
dole, 0
du pont, 0
haig, 0
kemp, 0
robertson, 0
uncommitted, 0
total -  111 pvs, the former ... abc-tv.</note>
pat robertson said today he'll keep fighting for the republican presidential nomination because ``you never know what will happen between now and august,'' but a pile of third-place finishes on super tuesday was enough to start him talking about 1990 and beyond
the mantle of ronald reagan has passed to george bush,'' robertson said at a news conference today. ``none of us could have dreamed that he could be so strong.''
it isn't over yet,'' the former television evangelist added. ``still half of the delegates are to be selected.''
in separate comments, on abc-tv, ``i was running against the ghost of ronald reagan. in the south the love of ronald reagan is so deep with these people, and george bush is totally identified with him.''
robertson, who said earlier his showing wasn't ``too bad for an amateur,'' said, ``i'm in it for the long haul, for this time, for 1990, the congressional races, and who knows what will happen in 1992.''
politics are so erratic in america,'' robertson said. ``you never know what will happen between now and august.''
robertson conceded vice president george bush ``beat the daylights out of us'' in tuesday's voting, but he assured several hundred cheering supporters in an atlanta hotel ballroom tuesday night: ``this is not the end. this is just the beginning
we're going to new orleans. i'm going to be the conservative champion for everyone who wants to rally around the conservative cause in this nation,'' he said
i'm in all the way. i'm in to see a republican conservative congress in 1990 and we're in for the presidential race in 1992.''
robertson said his campaign has brought thousands of conservatives into the republican party ``for the long haul.''
they're in the process and american politics won't be the same in this century,'' he promised
in this campaign, robertson said, his supporters have worked the caucuses and dominated the delegate selection process in many states. when the republican national convention convenes in new orleans this summer, there will be many more robertson supporters than the numbers might suggest, he said
for one vote the georgia delegation is bound (to bush). beyond that, the georgia delegation will be a pat robertson delegation. the same is true in oklahoma, north carolina, the state of washington, most likely, and many other states _ hawaii, alaska and nevada,'' he said
although he gained only a handful of delegates in tuesday's voting, robertson told reporters he had greatly improved ``on my early ratings 10 months ago when i was laughed at with 3 percent.''
robertson called the performance ``not too bad for an amateur, but it's not nearly what i expected.''
the former television evangelist said he may have spread his campaign too thin by running in all the super tuesday states
i didn't have the concentration i should have had in ky states. i tried to play (to) everyone in the south,'' he said. ``we just didn't have the resources to compete with george bush.''
robertson admitted his campaign was hurt by controversy over several statements he had made _ trying to tie the bush campaign to the timing of revelations about the sex scandal involving evangelist jimmy swaggart; saying his christian broadcasting network reporters had known where some hostages were being held in the middle east, and proclaiming that the soviet union has missiles in cuba
i spoke too much and i should have kept my mouth shut,'' he said
but he blamed the news media for much of the controversy. ``i was misinterpreted,'' he said
the worldwide aids epidemic is causing an upsurge in tuberculosis in many countries, including the united states, a researcher from the world health organization said today
dr. gary slutkin told the first international conference on the global impact of aids that tuberculosis rates are going up in areas worst hit by acquired immune deficiency syndrome
about 1,100 specialists from 20 countries are attending the conference at london's barbican center
slutkin said the reason appears to be that aids suppresses immunity to tuberculosis, a lung infection
aids attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a variety of infections and cancers
slutkin, an epidemiologist, said the number of tb cases in the united states increased between 1985 and 1986 for the first time since records have been kept on the disease
he said the number of tb cases went up from 22,201 in 1985 to 22,768 in 1986
the largest increases in tb in the united states occurred in new york city, where the rate jumped by about 50 percent between 1981 and 1986, slutkin said. he said there also have been increases in tb rates in 25 states and in washington, d.c
he said that in africa, where aids is prevalent, 20 percent to 50 percent of tb patients tested positively for the aids virus. that's three to 20 times higher than the rest of the population
slutkin told reporterst the scale of the expected increases in tb due to aids, slutkin said, ``i think we should certainly expect to see increases in the number of cases of tuberculosis in the next five years. in fact, it's almost certainly already occurring in many countries.''
other speakers at the conference today discussed the economic and social impact of the aids epidemic, which has spread to 133 countries
anne scitovsky, the chief health economist for the palo alto medical foundation in california, estimated that the direct cost of treating aids patients in the united states will probably increase by eight-fold to $8.5 billion by 1991
indirect costs from lost wages and future earnings could soar to $55.6 billion by 1991, she said
aids is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
a woman armed with a toy gun failed in an attempt to rob a doughnut shop, but bit the baker who subdued her, police said
police arrived at the winchell's donut house tuesday to find the ``exhausted'' 59-year-old baker, jay anderson, holding a 36-year-old woman down on the floor, the police report said
the woman entered the shop at about 4 a.m. and bought a chocolate doughnut. when the baker opened the cash register, the woman pulled a gun from under her jacket and said ``give me all of it or i'll kill you,'' the report said
anderson stood back and told her to take the money herself. while the woman had her hands in the till, he grabbed her and pulled her across the counter. the gun, which anderson believed to be real, came out of the woman's hand and broke apart
after wrestling with the woman for what ``seemed like forever,'' the baker said he got to the phone and called police. meanwhile, the woman was kicking and punching him continuously, and also ``took a bite out of his arm,'' the report said
anderson was treated at a nearby hospital and released. police said the woman would be charged with aggravated robbery, but refused to release her name immediately
white house chief of staff howard baker today denied that the united states is planning an invasion of panama, saying american troops there are merely holding regularly scheduled training exercises
panama is the site of national guard training exercises and has been for years,'' baker said. ``and as i understand it, the rhode island national guard is now holding regularly scheduled exercises in panama
and certainly if the united states was going to invade panama, it wouldn't be with the rhode island national guard. so it simply is not so. it has no connection at all,'' baker said, talking with reporters at the white house after seeing president reagan off on a trip to indiana
jorge abadia, panama's foreign minister, on tuesday accused the united states of conducting ``the prelude of an armed invasion'' by staging military exercises along the panama canal
the u.s. southern command said the exercises were scheduled a year ago and were ``routine training.'' comments, picking up in 3rd graf pvs, just hours</note>
republican george bush took a breather today after the landslide super tuesday victories that he said made it virtually sure he'll be the next president
bush was relaxing in private today but planned to rejoin the campaign thursday in illinois, which has its primary next tuesday
in washington, meanwhile, white house chief of staff howard baker said today ``it would take a major event'' to prevent bush from winning the republican nomination. he said there is no sign president reagan is about to endorse anyone
bush, the winner in 16 of 17 states with gop contests, said: ``this is a unique political happening. it exceeded my fondest expectations.''
just hours after the vice president's top aides said he would not accede to sen. bob dole's demand for one-on-one debates in illinois, bush appeared before a crowd of supporters to declare ``a national victory.''
bush was getting a respite from the campaign wars today as he and his wife, barbara, remained in seclusion at their houstonian hotel condominium while aides held strategy sessions for next tuesday's illinois primary
bush's election performance on tuesday was stunning. after winning the south carolina primary on saturday, he captured delegate-rich florida and texas, and scored other victories throughout the south. he pushed his delegate total toward 700, close to two-thirds the number needed for nomination in new orleans next august
this will probably be the single most smashing win anyone's ever had from the standpoint of delegates in one day,'' exulted campaign manager lee atwater. ``a guiness book of records day.''
bob dole is on the canvas now,'' said bush's deputy campaign manager, richard bond. ``i don't think he's knocked out, though.''
top bush aides said they saw no benefit in the vice president meeting dole in the kind of lincoln-douglas face-to-face debates the kansas senator demanded on tuesday
atwater called dole's maneuver ``an eleventh-hour ploy'' and bush spokesman pete teeley said: ``we're not going to allow him to dictate how we run our campaign strategy in illinois.''
bush will fly to chicago tomorrow to kick off five days of intensive campaigning. ``we look very strong there,'' teeley said
but on tuesday night, it was bush's turn to bask in the glory of his finest political hour in more than 20 years in public life
after watching returns for about two hours with members of his family and political associates gathered in a 21st floor penthouse hotel suite, bush entered a ballroom to the cheers of supporters
as i said yesterday, whoever wins super tuesday convincingly is going to be the next president, and i'll repeat it. i'm going to be the next president of the united states,'' he declared
it's a national victory, not a victory so much for me personally as for the themes we've been discussing.''
bush said he would continue to hammer away at his basic themes of balancing the budget without raising taxes, ``make progress toward peace through strength ... and reducing the threat of war.''
this is a big, a major political victory,'' he said. ``my message is going to continue to be one of hope. america's best days, i am convinced, lie ahead.''
here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers throughout the nation
march 2
albany (ore.) democrat-herald on the united states and panama:
the united states finds itself powerless to do anything about yet another irritant in central america
the irritant is manuel (antonio) noriega, the national guard general and dictator in panama. ..
the u.s. government is pussyfooting around partly because it used to rely on noriega for occasional help and partly because it doesn't know what to do. ..
many latin americans regard the united states as an imperialistic power, but in fact we can't seem to get rid of a tinpot dictator who gets rich by funneling narcotics to shiftless american youth. some imperialism!
march 7
lubbock (texas) avalanche-journal on the united states and nicaragua:
the muddled u.s. policy in central america became even more so over the weekend as experts pondered the house defeat of ``humanitarian'' aid for the nicaraguan contras
as a result, not only is the fate of the nicaraguan rebels fighting to overturn the marxist sandinista regime in jeopardy, but u.s. policy in the region remains one of vacillation and weakness _ the result of unbelievable on-again, off-again meddling by congress
with no immediate aid in the pipeline, the fate of the contras is now in limbo
the white house, congress, the media and the american people can be faulted for not coming to grips with the issue of what to do about soviet expansion into this hemisphere
the problem is the same as it has been all along _ fear of becoming involved in another guerrilla-type war and guilt for not being able to deal with third world problems which have no easy solutions
great nations do not let themselves become enmeshed in such fuzzy thinking
march 4
the tennessean, nashville, tenn., on barry goldwater on evan mecham:
one thing you have to say for barry goldwater, former arizona senator: he expresses his opinions forcefully and pulls no punches
another thing you have to say for him: he can admit a mistake
goldwater now says he was mistaken to support the election in 1986 of (arizona) gov. evan mecham, who is undergoing an impeachment trial and faces a recall election in may
the arch-conservative goldwater said mecham should go back to the job he had before becoming governor _ selling cars. but he acknowledges that mecham may not listen to reason
he is a very obstinate man,'' goldwater said of mecham. ``i used to drive mules and he's a lot like a mule.''
goldwater not only expresses opinions forcefully, he tells the truth
mecham, indeed, resembles a stubborn mule. but with goldwater's help, perhaps the state of arizona won't have to put up with the errant and arrogant governor too much longer
march 4
the press, atlantic city, n.j., on the war against drugs:
just say no.''
that's what the reagans have been saying to people who use drugs. it's not that simple. for thousands of addicts, going straight is difficult; many need help, but as a result of budget cuts, the help is often nowhere to be found
it should be easy, though, for the president to cut off all foreign aid and impose severe sanctions against those countries doing little, if anything, to stop the flow of drugs into this country
the penalties can range from a loss of foreign aid to a 50 percent tax on imports
according to congressional reports, wholesale corruption in mexico has made that country ``the portal through which flows one-third of all the marijuana, heroin and cocaine on america's streets and schoolyards.''
yet the administration declined to decertify mexico and other nations, citing national security problems. ..
that means the administration places a higher priority on how anti-moscow a nation is than it does on how anti-drug it is
march 3
morning sentinel, waterville, maine, on the shultz peace mission:
secretary of state george shultz accomplished two things on (his) peace mission to syria and jordan. he spent some of the taxpayers' money. and he spent some of the taxpayers' money. ..
the truth is that the palestinians, though they are falling to israeli gunfire at the rate of two or three a day in occupied towns, see no reason to give up their position at this time. ..
what the recent skirmishes ... have done is publicize the plight of the palestinian refugees, a situation that had existed for so long that even terrorist acts failed to make it big news. ..
what the u.s. proposal would do is move the bitter dispute of palestinians and israel to the bargaining table. such a move would defuse the explosive situation in the occupied territories, and end the battle that has been costly in terms of palestinian lives but a boon politically
if the united states or any other party is going to bring peace to this troubled land, it will take more than vague promises of negotiation. without the ingredients for a real compromise, peace envoys might as well just stay home
march 3
carlsbad (n.m.) current-argus on george shultz:
the man is aging gracefully, just like his boss. unlike ronald reagan, though, secretary of state george p. shultz skips around the globe on a monthly basis, handling missions of import with savvy and vitality
nearing the end of a lengthy and distinguished career in governmental service, shultz has not only survived in an administration that has had constant turnover, he has thrived. he has emerged as the true superstar of the reagan years
a gentleman in the most complimentary sense, shultz possesses an iron will and discipline. he has hung tough with an impeccable dignity through some trying circumstances, ranging from lebanon to ollie north
though he has been off the mark on occasion, he has never wavered from what he believes. a man of intense patriotic devotion, shultz has been the man that has kept things together for reagan
unlike his whirling dervish predecessor, al haig, shultz exudes a calm that has made the difference in various situations. he's everybody's favorite uncle george
march 7
los angeles daily news on alcoholism firings:
last wednesday, u.s. district judge elizabeth kovachevich ruled in tampa, fla., that the national marine fisheries service's firing of an alcoholic who missed 14 months of work in a three-year period constituted unlawful discrimination because the employee was legally crippled by alcohol
kovachevich's ruling was based on a law that requires federal agencies to ``make reasonable accommodations'' for handicapped workers, including alcoholics and drug addicts
that law seems part of a trend, one that the u.s. supreme court will fortunately have an opportunity to stop this summer when it rules on another case. that case involves two veterans who claim that alcoholism prevented them from taking full advantage of veterans administration education benefits during the 10-year limit following their military discharges. ..
there is a big difference between people with incurable medical problems and people who choose not to fight their thirst for alcohol. ..
but legally defining alcoholism as a disease would set a dangerous precedent that conceivably could lead to the decriminalization of drunken driving (or make it a prosecutable offense for social drinkers only). this trend could even spawn the birth of the alcoholic defense, by which those who can blame their addiction for their transgressions could escape punishment. ..
there comes a point at which the legal system must assume that adults are responsible for their behavior, and that line must be drawn at excessive drinking
march 4
the sheboygan (wis.) press on how hard congress works:
what's this? one of our local congressmen claiming that congress doesn't work hard enough?
what kind of way is that to treat one of your own? why, the very thought is almost un-american. it's also a good way for rep. thomas petri, r-fond du lac, to light a fire under his colleagues and then watch them do a slow burn
petri criticized house speaker jim wright, d-texas, for scheduling a ``measly'' 14 legislative working days and calling for only 10 votes in the first 50 days of 1988. he described it as ``a stunning absence of congressional activity.''
that accusation, of course, was enough to send his colleagues into a tizzy. before long, several of them were grumbling about how petri doesn't know what he's talking about
of course they all work hard, the insulted congressmen said. and how dare petri even think of such a thing?
if congress is so busy, why do they waste so much time on foolish proclamations to satisfy their constituents back home and dream up ways to tack their own pet projects onto bills that have absolutely nothing to do with each other?
the only thing petri is guilty of is calling 'em as he sees 'em. conferences, inserting new 3rd graf and subbing 10- grafs for grafs 5-11 pvs, many of ... state.</note>
vice president george bush stood within reach of the republican presidential nomination today after a sweep of super tuesday primaries. democrats michael dukakis and jesse jackson split a rich harvest of delegates with albert gore jr., who declared today ``it's a three-man race'' after thrashing richard gephardt in the south
it exceeded my fondest expectations,'' exulted bush as he surveyed his 16-0 primary shutout tuesday and looked ahead to an illinois showdown next tuesday, where another victory over kansas sen. bob dole would give his nomination an aura of inevitability
white house chief of staff howard baker, himself once a candidate, said of bush, ``i think it would take a major event to deny him the nomination.'' but there was no sign president reagan was ready to endorse him or another candidate, he said
super tuesday spelled disaster for dole, fellow republican pat robertson, and gephardt, all three teetering on the verge of elimination after rejection in state after state. robertson did win the party's caucuses in washington state on tuesday
almost certain to pack it in was republican jack kemp, who was meeting with advisers to see if there was any point in continuing. kemp, who got no better than 7 percent of the vote in any of tuesday's primaries, scheduled no announcement today about his plans, but a spokeswoman said he would have a news conference thursday
in nashville, tenn., today, gore dismissed the chances of gephardt. ``it's a three-man race, no question about it,'' gore said on nbc-tv. the tennessee senator, who won his own state and four other southern primaries, said ``all three of us are going all the way to california and probably to the convention.''
massachusetts gov. dukakis, who won the two biggest southern states, florida and texas, made television appearances from chicago, where he was already campaigning
i've always felt that ... this will go right down to the last primaries in california and new jersey,'' he said on cbs-tv
jackson, who won in five southern states, said at a houston news conference today his results show he is a serious contender
in these elections we are removing those doubts. ... our coalition represents the future of the democratic party,'' he said
robertson, at a news conference in atlanta today, said, ``none of us could have dreamed that he (bush) could be so strong. the mantle of ronald reagan has passed to george bush.''
but, he said, ``it isn't over yet. ... still half of the delegates are to be selected.''
robertson had hoped to do well in the south but won only the washington caucuses, which represent an early stage in that state's delegate selection. still, he said he believed he was ``making a profound change in american politics'' and he planned to continue his cause beyond this year's election
dole acknowledged he took a whipping. campaigning today in chicago, he said, ``it will be up to illinois now to turn it around.''
the delegate total dramatically spelled out how bush dominated the day
with 712 republican convention delegates at stake, bush won 578, giving him 705 when combined with the delegates he won in earlier contests. dole had 98, for a total of 163. robertson gained 9 delegates for a total of 17. kemp picked up four for a total of 39. the remainder will be apportioned as the final few votes are counted
it takes 1,139 to gain the republican nomination at the party convention in new orleans in august
on the democratic side, with 1,307 national convention delegates at stake in 21 contests, the race looked like this:
dukakis won 386 for a total of 455.5; jackson picked up 366, giving him a total of 393.55; and gore took 326 for a total of 347.8. gephardt picked up 93 delegates for a total of 143, while gary hart failed to pick up a delegate
it takes 2,082 to gain the democratic nomination at the party convention in atlanta this summer
super tuesday was designed by southern democrats hoping for a more conservative candidate that they believed could avoid the disasters which have befallen the democrats in four of the last five presidential elections
but the massive schedule _ 20 democratic and 17 republican contests _ appeared to offer an advantage to the best financed candidates or, in the case of jackson, the one who had the most solid base in the region
while jackson was far outspent by his rivals, he received more than 90 percent of the black vote in the south, according to exit polls, which said he won as much as 10 percent of the white vote _ more than twice as much as his 1984 showing among whites
with 96 percent of precincts reporting, the popular vote from the democratic primaries was jackson 2,493,700, dukakis 2,439,856, gore 2,431,306, gephardt 1,204,585, hart 276,594, and illinois sen. paul simon 179,580
with 93 percent of the republican precincts reporting, the totals were bush 2,584,238, dole 1,095,419, robertson 582,730, and kemp 218,136
while bush towered over his republican rivals after the biggest day in primary election history, the democrats still were a party in search of a clear leader
super tuesday gave them three and left gephardt on shaky ground. democrats will hold caucuses on saturday in south carolina, where gephardt, jackson and gore are the principal contenders, and then move on to illinois for next tuesday's primary
gephardt, already hurting for money, said he will concentrate scarce resources on michigan rather than illinois, where favorite son simon is making a last stand. michigan's democratic caucuses will take place march 26
i never told you it was going to be easy,'' gephardt told supporters in st. louis. he said the 20-state super tuesday landscape was just too broad for his financially pressed campaign
robertson's political base among fundamentalist christians was simply too narrow, and he failed once again to win a primary. even in his home state of virginia, he finished third
dukakis proved he could attract southern votes with victories in texas and florida to add to majorities in rhode island, maryland and his home state of massachusetts. he also was an easy winner in idaho's democratic caucuses, and topped the field in hawaii's caucuses also
jackson carried alabama, georgia, lousiana, mississippi and virginia
gore, the tennessee senator who gambled all on a southern strategy, came out a winner though he still needs to prove his appeal north of the mason-dixon line. gore carried arkansas, kentucky, north carolina, oklahoma and tennessee and was leading in nevada
the st. paul pioneer press &amp; dispatch's drama critic said today that he has resigned because he plagiarized portions of a review from a review published six years ago in the new york times
in his final column, david hawley said that in preparing to write his feb. 14 review of ``good,'' a play by c.p. taylor, he studied articles and reviews written when the play was performed elsewhere
my own piece contained material from a review by frank rich printed oct. 14, 1982, in the new york times,'' wrote hawley, who brought the problem to the attention of his editors himself and said he will remain at the paper in another capacity
although i did not have the original notice before me at the time i was writing, my reference notes _ by then `commingled' with notes taken during the performance _ were so detailed that i duplicated both the general structure of the original piece and many key phrases
it constituted blatant plagiarism, though i managed to ignore that fact while i was writing my review and after i had written it,'' hawley wrote in the column published today. ``i convinced myself that my reasoning was original enough to be my own and that my words, too, were my own.''
hawley, the st. paul paper's drama critic for 9{ years, said the plagiarism was discovered by a reader, who sent him a personal letter
my reaction was first surprise, then shock, then humiliation. clearly, i have forfeited any right to work as a drama critic,'' hawley said
hawley said his resignation as a drama critic was accepted on friday
plagiarism is one of the most serious of all journalistic sins and cannot be tolerated,'' editor deborah howell said in a notice to readers printed with hawley's column
yet, it is to his credit that he brought the case to his editors' attention and offered his resignation at the same time,'' howell said
i would like to assure readers that while we have compassion for a fellow human being's mistake, it does not lessen our commitment to high standards of critical journalism.''
in his column, hawley wrote, ``by not firing me outright, they have generously given me the opportunity to redeem myself in some other capacity.''
tobe reed, former radio and television performer and newspaper columnist, has died at the age of 76
reed died march 3 at eisenhower memorial hospital in this desert resort town
reed hosted tv's ``top dollar'' game show in the 1950s and performed with george burns and gracie allen on their radio show. he also was heard on the radio programs ``fitch's bandwagon'' and ``duffy's tavern.''
reed also worked as a columnist for the san francisco chronicle. he was born in seattle on christmas day 1911
reed is survived by his wife, mary elizabeth; a son, tobe jr.; a daughter, melinda, and two grandsons
rancho mirage is about 10 miles southeast of palm springs, about 120 miles southeast of downtown los angeles
march 3
st. paul (minn.) pioneer press dispatch on the noriega regime:
it is time for the united states to turn the economic screws as tight as possible on gen. manuel antonio noriega and his henchmen. that may be the only way to get them to relinquish their grip on panama
the state department is preparing to notify u.s. banks that hold panamanian deposits not to engage in any transactions with the noriega regime. (deposed president eric arturo) delvalle's lawyers also have started lawsuits to block any transfer of funds
the united states should refuse to hand over the $8 million payment of canal revenues due panama next month. that is part of the $80 million in revenues for this year
the united states also should consider a trade embargo and a ban against flights into the united states of air panama _ which also might cut down the drug traffic _ and termination of any humanitarian aid to panama
applying all available drastic economic pressure now may be the only way to topple the noriega regime without widespread bloodshed
march 6
providence (r.i.) journal on aid to the contras:
on thursday (march 3), the house of representatives defeated yet another proposal to aid the contra rebels in nicaragua. the vote leaves the resistance stranded with no american aid whatsoever
the issue of peace and freedom in central america is too important to lay to rest. president reagan can be counted on to press congress for a new vote on aid. ... but he must act swiftly. ..
when the tally was complete, it was applauded by reagan, but regretted by speaker (james) wright _ even though the president supports the contras and the speaker opposes them. this ... may possibly be explained by the cynical purpose of the measure itself
the real intent was not to aid the contras but protect their opponents on capitol hill
reagan wants to give congress one more chance. ... if speaker wright blocks this effort ... his democratic colleagues will need more than a fig leaf to hide behind in november
march 2
huntington (w.va.) herald-dispatch on irs accuracy:
if you've been putting off doing your 1987 taxes, here's a chilling thought: money magazine reports it asked 50 tax preparers nationwide to figure out one family's taxes _ and got 50 different answers
meanwhile, the general accounting office has told congress that the internal revenue service is giving incorrect answers to 39 percent of the questions posed by people who call for help with their tax returns
no matter how complex the law, those who turn to the irs for help are entitled to a straight answer, and congress should make it clear to irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs and his staff that it expects nothing less
two bombs exploded early wednesday outside the police headquarters in this northwestern city, damaging two police buses and a car but causing no injuries, a police spokesman said
the spokesman said the blasts occurred just before 4 a.m. on a street that runs past one side of the national police station
no group immediately claimed responsibility, but police suspected the small, radical nationalist group, the guerrilla army of the free galician people, which seeks independence from spain for the four-province northwestern region of galicia
in the past two years, the group has claimed responsibility for setting off several small, homemade bombs against utilities, public offices and banks in the region
the government charged 13 opposition leaders wednesday in connection with street violence that followed last month's presidential elections, according to an official report
the senegalese press agency did not give the specific charges. a conviction for inciting violence calls for a prison term of from one to five years
among those charged was abdoulaye wade, leader of the opposition senegalese democratic party, who was president abdou diouf's strongest opponent in the feb. 28 elections
diouf won re-election with 73 percent of the vote, while wade received 25 percent. the announcement of preliminary results declaring diouf the victor sparked several days of street riots
a state of emergency was declared, a curfew put into effect, and riot and police and army troops were called out to restore order. several opposition leaders were blamed for inciting the demonstrations and arrested
rep. wayne dowdy called for party unity wednesday to help him keep john stennis' senate seat in democratic hands, while a supporter of sen. albert gore jr. said he was ``the big winner'' despite his second-place finish behind jesse jackson
dowdy defeated secretary of state dick moplus by a 54 percent to 42 percent margin tuesday to grab the democratic nomination for the seat of the retiring stennis. rep. trent lott, who became the state's first gop congressmen since reconstruction when he first won election in 1972, was unopposed
we're not running against anybody,'' said lott, who said he'd based his campaign on issues. ``our strategy until november is to run a continous campaign and to work hard and aggressively all over the state.''
it will take a united democratic party to beat him,'' dowdy said. ``it can be won, and things are ripe for the democrats to win in november. mississippi should have at least one democrat in the u.s. senate.''
gop sen. thad cochran holds the state's other seat
in the democratic presidential primary, with 99 percent of precincts reporting, jackson had 157,523 or 44 percent, gore had 120,049 or 34 percent and trailing far behind were massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with 29,789 or 8 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt with 19,646 votes or 6 percent; and former colorado sen. gary hart with 13,439 votes or 4 percent
we're pleased. we were the big winner'' said gore state coordinator brad chism. ``we came away with a lot more than people thought we would.''
jackson was leading for 24 delegates, gore for 15 and dukakis for one
in the republican race, with 2,298 of 2,340 precincts or 98 percent reporting, vice president george bush had 103,498 votes or 66 percent to kansas sen. bob dole's 26,212 or 17 percent. former tv evangelist pat robertson had 21,291 or 14 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 5,699 or 4 percent
bush picked up 27 gop delegates, with two each going to dole and robertson
population growth puts pressure on the environment and resources, whether it occurs in the third world or the united states, a population group says in a new booklet
usa by numbers: a statistical portrait of the united states,'' was issued wednesday by zero population growth to show how increasing numbers of people affect the nation's environment, economy and society as a whole
although americans are increasingly aware of population pressures in other parts of the world, many of us do not recognize the symptoms of overpopulation when we find them in our own backyards,'' said susan weber, executive director of the non-profit population group
the group has compiled statistics from a variety of sources, many of which also appear in the massive statistical abstract of the united states issued annually by the commerce department
the new 164-page volume, however, concentrates on the relationship between population and the quality of life in the nation
chapters in the volume look at population growth over time, city and rural relationships, young and old, fertility and health, sexuality and abortion, unemployment, poverty, water use, pollution, land use and habitat
the paperback volume costs $8.95 plus $1.50 for shipping and handling and can be purchased from zero population growth, 1601 connecticut ave., n.w., washington, d.c., 20009
fire swept through an apartment building housing mental patients, killing a 64-year-old woman and seriously injuring four other people, firefighters said
the fire, possibly originating in a stove, broke out in a third-floor apartment where several patients had been living since 1975 under a reform providing their treatment outside hospitals
the dead woman was identified as maria svagel, who was trapped by the flames in her bed. pvs, ``a local cable xxx</note>
a 15-year-old youth charged with murdering a classmate with a baseball bat for the thrill of it was a confused youth whose cries for help were ignored, the defense argued in closing arguments today
defense attorney john philip white, who urged the jury to deliver a verdict of innocent by reason of insanity, characterized rod matthews as having a ``diseased intellect'' that made him unable to act rationally
white also said that the canton youth's attempts to seek help from teachers prior to the nov. 20, 1986 slaying were ignored
norfolk county assistant district attorney peter casey said the defense's contention that ritalin adversely affected matthews was a ``smoke screen.'' he argued that mathews, who is being tried as an adult, was a calculating murderer
casey noted testimony from several medical experts that ritalin does not permanently alter behavior or trigger violence or hallucinations in normal doses
matthews, whose eyes were downcast during two hours of closing arguments on the seventh day of the trial, admitted to bludgeoning 14-year-old shaun ouillette of canton with a baseball bat in a wooded section of the community south of boston
white depicted matthews as a highly unstable youth whose use of the drug ritalin to control hyperactivity may have contributed to his violent behavior
he was working in his own world,'' said white
the judge gave final instructions to the jury and said deliberations would begin in the afternoon
a local cable access station has run the trial unedited, including dramatic testimony by classmates that matthews plotted the murder for a month and calmly showed them the body as it lay for weeks in snow-covered woods
nothing has impacted the community more than this case,'' canton cable general manager tanya willow said. ``it's what everyone talks about. it's such a tragedy.''
defense experts maintained and prosecution witnesses contested that matthews, who pleaded innocent by reason of insanity, had emotional problems worsened by his use of the prescription drug ritalin
coincidentally, ouillette's mother, jeanne quinn, testified that her son took ritalin from age 7 through 11 to successfully control frantic behavior that plagued his childhood
dr. michael annunziata, a court-appointed psychiatrist, testified tuesday that matthews suffered from a ``conduct disorder'' but had not experienced classic symptoms of psychosis, such as hallucinations
dr. marcel kinsbourne, a neurologist at the eunice shriver center in waltham, testified that standard doses of ritalin should not trigger violent behavior
under cross-examination by the defense, kinsbourne said the drug could not totally eliminate matthews' volatile behavior
dr. bernard yudowitz of belmont's mclean hospital testified monday that ritalin may have made it harder for matthews to control his behavior
matthews said he had plotted the slaying for a month to experience what killing someone was like, according to testimony from two classmates. ouillette's body was discovered in december 1986 after one of the classmates sent an anonymous letter to police
matthews has been held at a danvers children's facility since last year
the case has been compared to the trial of anthony broussard, 18, sentenced to 25 years to life dec. 3, 1982, in san jose, calif., for killing his girlfriend in 1981. broussard, who was tried as an adult, took at least 13 schoolmates to see the victim's body
here, at a glance, are results from the super tuesday primaries and caucuses:
jesse jackson had expected to win comfortably on the strength of a sizable black vote, but instead narrowly defeated tennessee sen. albert gore jr., who was endorsed by sen. howell heflin. vice president george bush swamped kansas sen. bob dole just as expected
democrats in the south pacific territory, smallest of super tuesday's players, chose one national convention delegate for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, one for missouri rep. richard gephardt, and one uncommitted. only 36 people voted at party caucuses
gore won with 37 percent, dukakis had 19 percent and jackson had 17 percent. gov. bill clinton said gore benefited from undecided voters, and the big surprise was the fourth place, 12 percent showing of gephardt. bush won with nearly half the vote
rep. bill alexander won an 11th term, defeating political consultant darrell glascock by 2-1 in the democratic primary. alexander is unopposed in the general election
dukakis found a warm reception from transplanted northerners and pulled in 41 percent of the vote to jackson's 20 percent. bush took advantage of president reagan's popularity, gov. bob martinez' endorsement and family ties (his son jeb is secretary of commerce) to trounce dole nearly 3-1
jackson won by piling up margins of better than 8-1 over gore and dukakis in the 5th congressional district, composed largely of the city of atlanta. the heavy black vote outweighed gore's endorsements by sen. sam nunn and gov. joe frank harris. bush beat dole better than 2-1
endorsements by the state's top democrats were credited with helping dukakis defeat jackson at hawaii's democratic party caucuses by nearly a 3-2 margin. gov. john waihee, who backed dukakis, said he wasn't surprised by jackson's strong showing and called it ``healthy for the democratic party.''
dukakis captured 8 of 18 uncommitted delegates, with jackson winning 4 and 6 going to the state convention uncommitted. gov. cecil andrus, who says he will go to the convention uncommitted, said the turning point in the dukakis campaign was a last-minute visit to boise last weekend. jackson's strong showing was a surprise because the state has a minority population of less than 5 percent
gore won his neighboring state with help from gov. wallace wilkinson, gaining 46 percent of the vote to dukakis' 19 percent. bush's 59 percent vote was termed ``astounding'' by his state campaign chairman, rep. harold ``hal'' rogers, who had predicted a 48 percent victory
jackson outpolled gore 35 percent to 28 percent despite gore's endorsement by democratic gov.-elect buddy roemer. bush breezed to victory with 58 percent, leaving dole and roberston each with 18 percent
in the 4th congressional district race to replace roemer, his former congressional aide jim mccrery, a republican, and democratic state sen. foster campbell claimed spots in an april 16 runoff
jackson finished second to dukakis, 29 percent to 46 percent, with a strong showing in the two predominantly black congressional districts. bush carried all eight districts even though he didn't campaign personally in maryland, while dole did spend some time in the state. bush led 53 percent to 32 percent
democratic sen. paul sarbanes easily won nomination for a third term and will be opposed by millionaire businessman thomas blair, a newcomer to politics
dukakis' home state gave him 59 percent of the vote. jackson was second with 19 percent. the win at home and victories in florida and texas gave dukakis the three biggest super tuesday prizes. bush, who was born in massachusetts, got 59 percent of the vote to dole's 26 percent. gordon nelson, state co-chairman for new york rep. jack kemp's campaign, said bush convinced voters he was reagan's logical successor: ``george bush won because he is reagan ii.''
bush and jackson rang up big victories, with jackson helped by turnout in the heavily black delta that enabled him to defeat gore
in a democratic primary for the seat of retiring sen. john stennis, voters chose rep. wayne dowdy to oppose gop rep. trent lott in november
bush won a narrow victory in dole's backyard, getting 42 percent of the vote to dole's 41 percent. bush pulled ahead with returns from st. louis county. gephardt easily won his home state with 58 percent of the vote, but it was his only victory tuesday. jackson was second with 20 percent
gore won in a tally at nevada's democratic caucuses, with dukakis second and jackson a surprisingly strong third. in balloting for county convention delegates, gore, who got support from sen. harry reid and other top state democrats, had 33 percent to dukakis' 26 and jackson's 22. party chairman beecher avants said jackson's strong showing ``was a real surprise.''
dole lost his wife's home state as bush emphasized his ties to president reagan. bush had 45 percent to dole's 40 percent of the gop vote. endorsements from such key democrats as sen. terry sanford and former gov. jim hunt helped gore squeeze past jackson 35 percent to 33 percent
gore got 41 percent of the vote, almost double his nearest competitor, gephardt. gore's victory margin was a surprise because a recent poll showed him in a tie with gephardt and dukakis. but he visited the state several times and spent more on advertising than any other democrat. as expected, the gop contest was close, with bush capturing 37 percent of the vote and dole 35 percent
bush and dukakis continued their new england sweeps, with the vice president winning 65 percent of the gop vote and the governor from neighboring massachusetts getting nearly 70 percent of the democratic vote. bush had built up good will through previous campaign journeys on behalf of gov. edward d. diprete and rep. claudine schneider
gore's home state gave him about 72 percent of the vote, leaving jackson, with 21 percent, a distant second. bush trounced dole nearly 3-1
dukakis won the top delegate state with 33 percent of the vote. bush, who built an oil business in texas, crushed all his rivals, receiving 64 percent of the vote. robertson got 15 percent and dole 14 percent
democratic u.s. sen. lloyd bentsen easily won renomination for a fourth term. rep. beau boulter and wes gilbreath, a houston investor, advance to gop runoff for u.s. senate. the winner faces bentsen in november
jackson received 45 percent of the vote, with gore far behind at 23 percent and dukakis with 22 percent. jackson got strong support in hampton roads and the richmond area, overcoming gore's numbers in southwestern virginia and dukakis' power base in suburbs near washington, d.c. boyd marcus, bush's state coordinator, said he would have been pleased with a mid-40 percent showing. the 2-to-1 win over dole (53 percent to 25 percent) ``has been the most surprising thing,'' he said. virginia native robertson had 12 percent
robertson's 39 percent of the vote gave him his only victory of super tuesday. dole had 26 percent, and bush was third, his only loss of the night, with 24 percent. to claim their share of the state's 41 gop delegates, the candidates will have to fare as well in this spring's county or legislative district caucuses, which precede the july 15 state convention where delegates will be allocated. dukakis, endorsed by gov. booth gardner, led democrats with 45 percent, followed by jackson with 32 percent. the democrats' tally won't be completed for a week. english</head>
britain's army of civil servants got new marching orders wednesday: use plain english
citing such authorities as confucius and winnie the pooh, a cabinet office pamphlet appealed to the bureaucrats to be clear and concise in talking to the public and to each other
britain's 500,000-member civil service has never been known for using a word when three would do, as the pamphlet notes in citing this 18th-century note from the commissioners of excise to the supervisor of pontefract:
i am ordered to acquaint you that if you hereafter continue that affected and schoolboy way of writing, and to murder the language in such a manner, you will be discharged for a fool.''
the duke of wellington railed against official jargon as ``the futile driveling of mere quill-driving.''
some of the examples given as good writing would make those quill-drivers blanch. it quoted this note from a minister in ancient egypt to a senior civil servant:
apollonius to zeno, greeting. you did right to send the chickpeas to memphis. farewell.''
the pamphlet was written by john wright, head of information at the cabinet office. the introduction is by prime minister margaret thatcher, who likes to be thought of as the enemy of verbose bureaucrats
she's a very great friend of the plain english campaign and extremely keen on the civil service using plain english,'' said wright. ``she is a plain-speaking woman.''
mrs. thatcher writes: ``too often clarity and simplicity are overwhelmed by pompous words, long sentences and endless paragraphs.''
or as the book of ecclesiastes admonishes: ``let thy speech be short, comprehending much in few words.''
among the tips in the pamphlet:
_ ``use shorter words. write `try' for `attempt,' `about' for `concerning,' `more' for `additional.' long words are often a sign of a stodgy style that sends readers to sleep.''
_ ``use short sentences. aim at an average of 15-20 words _ even shorter if you can manage it. you can still be polite and, if need be, formal or forceful.''
_ ``use jargon and abbreviations only when you're sure the reader knows what they mean. otherwise explain them.''
it suggests sentences with active verbs, such as ``the department decided that employees should work from 9 to 5'' instead of ``the decision of the department was that employees should work between 9 and 5.''
or as confucius would say: ``if language is not correct, then what is said is not what is meant; if what is said is not what is meant, then what ought to be done remains undone.''
remember,'' says the pamphlet, ``readers are in a hurry to get to the point. they don't want to be stuck in a verbal traffic jam.''
wright told the associated press the problem has been clearing up in recent years. ``there's increasing use of crisp and direct language. there's a great deal of plain english around.''
that would please winnie the pooh, that bear of little brain who signs off the pamphlet: ``long words bother me.''
several people hospitalized after a speeding bus rolled off a mountain road have died, raising the death toll in the accident to 42, it was reported wednesday
the reports on china's evening news broadcasts said 33 of the 71 passengers were killed in the crash and nine others died from their injuries during hospital treatment
the bus reportedly was traveling too fast as it headed down a curved mountain road in henan province. the driver hit the brakes and the vehicle swerved off the road, plunging 371 feet into a ravine
the bus accident was the third biggest transportation disaster of the year. a plane crash in southwest china killed 108 and a train derailment in southern china claimed 88 lives, both in january. will continue to aid afghan govt. if agreement signed. no pickup.</note>
the afghan government today rejected washington's demand that a simultaneous cessation of u.s. and soviet military aid be part of an afghan peace settlement
afghan foreign minister abdul wakil said soviet assistance cannot be compared to u.s. aid for ``terrorist groups,'' a reference to guerrillas fighting the kabul government
afganistan has always received soviet assistance and will continue to receive it even after the withdrawal of the soviet troops,'' he said. he did not specify what kind of aid he was talking about
wakil charged that the united states was trying to introduce a new issue just as the nearly 6-year-old afghanistan peace talks appeared to be close to conclusion
the same approach, he said, was used by pakistan when it insisted that formation of an interim government to replace the current kabul government be linked to an agreement to withdraw soviet troops
asked whether these two points could produce a deadlock, he responded, ``don't you think so?''
wakil told reporters the latest round of u.n.-mediated talks had produced ``nothing important,'' since agreement was reached last week on the timetable for withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 soviet troops in afghanistan
the soviets intervened in afghanistan in december 1979 to back kabul in a war that has waged for nine years
wakil accused pakistan, which represents the guerrillas in the talks, of resorting to ``maneuvers to push the geneva negotiations toward stalemate.''
but he said the afghan side was determined to push for a speedy conclusion
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has said moscow will bring home its troops starting may 15 if a peace package is signed by next tuesday
asked whether afghanistan was prepared to continue negotiations if that target date was not met, wakil said, ``regardless of whatever new obstacles the pakistanis are going to create, we are determined to move seriously toward the finalization of the agreements.''
wakil's comments contrasted with the cautious confidence displayed earlier this week by u.n. mediator diego cordovez and the chief pakistani representative, acting foreign minister zain noorani
cordovez spoke tuesday of ``substantive'' progress in readying the documents which make up the settlement
sources close to the pakistani delegation said noorani was hopeful that some deal could be struck on the issue of the interim government, perhaps by a compromise on the timing of its formation
for the fourth straight day, the separate meetings cordovez had with the pakistani and afghan delegations were confined to the morning. cordovez earlier told journalists that no spectacular developments were expectable to emerge from the talks before next week
assistant secretary of state richard murphy headed for moscow today to brief kremlin leaders on u.s. efforts to bring about mideast peace talks, the state department said
murphy will brief soviet foreign minister edouard shevardnadze on the latest u.s. efforts in advance of shevardnadze's visit to washington later this month, said spokesman charles redman
secretary of state george shultz promised to keep the soviets updated about his mideast plans when he conducted a shuttle mission in the region last week. shultz personally briefed the soviets on the initial phase of his mission when he stopped in moscow last month
shultz is seeking to bring israel and the arabs to the negotiating table for talks on palestinian autonomy starting may 1. under the plan shultz presented to israeli, jordanian and egyptian leaders, the talks would be launched in an international forum that would include the participation of the united states, the soviet union, china, england and france
shultz, who initially rejected soviet involvement in the process, now views the kremlin's involvement as necessary to nudge along the reluctant arabs who are moscow's allies. shultz has asked both israel and jordan for responses to his proposals by next week
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir has balked at bringing the u.s. plan up for a cabinet debate, and intends instead to present a plan of his own when he comes here next week. that plan calls for joint u.s.-soviet participation in autonomy talks for the 1.5 million palestinians under israeli occupation
murphy will also stop in bonn, rome, paris and brussels to bring officials there up to date on the u.s. mideast initiative, redman said
western european leaders have praised the u.s. involvement, which is aimed at resolving the three months of israeli-palestinian bloodshed in which at least 80 arabs have been killed. ``anderson said it...''</note>
a former top aide to impeached gov. evan mecham testified today that she called a newspaper after she was told a state official had threatened her life in hopes that she would be safe if the matter were public
donna carlson, former special assistant to the first-term republican governor, also said that shortly after mecham took office in january 1987 he asked her to keep notes on conversations with legislators ``so that it might be used against them in the elections if he chose to use it.''
she said she did not do so because she thought it would be improper, and said her job at times was ``like a three-ring circus.''
director of public safety ralph milstead has accused mecham of ordering him not to cooperate with an investigation of the alleged nov. 12 threat against ms. carlson by lee watkins, former head of state prison construction
at the time, ms. carlson had resigned from the governor's staff and was about to testify before a state grand jury that was investigating mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan
mecham is accused of trying to thwart an investigation of the alleged death threat
watkins refused to testify last week, citing his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination, but has previously denied threatening ms. carlson's life
ms. carlson spoke softly today as she described how milstead told her on nov. 14 that watkins had threatened her
ms. carlson testified that milstead telephoned and ``told me that there had been a threat made against me by lee watkins ... and it was something to the effect that if i didn't stop talking i would end up in the bottom of a river.''
i didn't say anything; i was taken aback,'' she said. ``it's kind of a shock.''
ms. carlson testified that she was upset and called a newspaper reporter and told him about the alleged threat after a friend advised her that the best thing for her safety might be to make the matter public
ms. carlson said she had previously expressed doubts about watkins to both mecham and then-chief of staff jim colter when she learned that watkins had a criminal record
she said colter told her, ``we have to take care of lee. he raised a lot of money for the campaign.''
on tuesday watkins' attorney, dale anderson, testified that a top mecham aide helped craft a lie-detector test so watkins could pass it
also tuesday, arizona supreme court chief justice frank x. gordon jr., presiding over the senate trial, decided to bar further testimony challenging milstead's credibility
mecham appointed max hawkins, then director of the state department of administration and watkins' boss, to investigate the alleged death threat
anderson testified that after his client failed four polygraphs, hawkins suggested having the polygraph operator ``figure out what kind of questions could be asked so my client could answer these questions and get his job back.''
anderson said it was not unusual to choreograph a lie detector test
you shop for polygraphers and you shop for questions,'' he said
the trial was scheduled to continue today with testimony from donna carlson, target of the alleged threat. at the time, ms. carlson was preparing to testify before the state grand jury about mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan
prosecutor paul eckstein said the polygrapher, manuel valenzuela, also may be called to testify before the prosecution closes its case on the first of three charges against the first-term republican governor
in addition to the alleged death threat and loan matters, mecham is accused of misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
watkins was placed on administrative leave last november after he was accused of telling another state official that if ms. carlson didn't keep her mouth shut about the $350,000 loan she ``could take a long boat ride.''
a transcript of a tape-recorded nov. 12 conversation between anderson and hawkins was released tuesday and quotes hawkins as saying he wanted polygraph test results that would allow him to reinstate watkins
i love lee and i want to save his ass,'' the transcript quotes hawkins as saying. ``i believe he is getting railroaded.''
the transcript quotes hawkins as suggesting the polygraph operator ask, ``what did lee say he said? and then he just writes that down. ... then the polygraph (operator) says he (watkins) made this statement. is it true?''
on nov. 20, hawkins announced watkins would be reinstated but refused to release the polygraph results. at the time, hawkins said he knew little beyond the fact that anderson told him that watkins had passed the test
watkins resigned his state job, and hawkins was fired last week by acting gov. rose mofford, a democrat who took over when the house impeached mecham on feb. 5
much of tuesday's questioning by defense lawyer fred craft centered on use of state vehicles by milstead, arizona's highest-ranking lawman, and his relationship with a woman who claimed she had an affair with him
after milstead's testimony, gordon said he would allow no more testimony about these matters
you have made your point,'' gordon told craft. ``you have established that director milstead had a motive for testifying against the governor,'' including the knowledge that mecham wanted to fire him
under questioning by craft, milstead denied paying for the woman's meals or staying overnight at her home after driving there in a state vehicle. prosecutor william french contended the questioning was ``cross-examination by innuendo'' and was improper
mecham is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to remove him, and lawmakers also could vote to bar him from future public office
mecham also faces a march 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan and a may 17 recall election
a convicted rapist who was placed on the u.s. marshal service's 15 most wanted list after twice escaping from county jails was recaptured after seven months on the run, authorities said
garnett r. leacock, 38, offered no resistance when marshals acting on a tip arrested him tuesday at a brooklyn apartment, said frank peo, marshal for the northern district of new york
leacock escaped aug. 9 from the montgomery county jail in fonda, where he was awaiting sentencing in the rape of a 16-year-old girl at his home at griffiss air force base in rome, authorities said. he was sentenced in abstentia to 27 years
in july, leacock escaped from the madison county jail by digging a hole in the wall of his cell and slipping through after lathering his body with shampoo. he was recaptured two days later after his wife, who aided in both escapes, turned him in after having second thoughts, authorities said
air force sgt. deborah leacock is serving a five-year sentence for her role in the second escape. strength</head>
republicans claimed victory in georgia wednesday after almost twice as many people voted in the party's presidential primary as ever before, boosting vice president george bush's campaign
democrats, meanwhile, picked jesse jackson, with sen. albert gore jr. a surprisingly strong second
secretary of state max cleland said the 39 percent turnout _ a presidential primary record _ helped bush and gore, who were preceived as the moderate candidates
with 99 percent of the ballots counted, bush led with 214,892 votes, or 54 percent, giving him all 48 delegates to the august gop nominating convention in new orleans
sen. bob dole of kansas trailed with 94,121 for 24 percent. former television evangelist pat robertson had 64,995, 16 percent, and rep. jack kemp of new york had 23,459, or 6 percent
in the democratic race, jackson had 247,317 votes, or 40 percent. his plurality victories in two congressional districts, plus his statewide lead, put him ahead for 37 delegates to the atlanta convention in july
gore parlayed endorsements by several top state democrats, including sen. sam nunn, into 200,758 votes, or 32 percent, good for 30 delegates. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis was a distant third with 96,881, 16 percent, and received 10 delegates
with almost 400,000 ballots cast in the gop primary, the party doubled the turnout of 1980, when president reagan blasted bush on the way to nomination
longtime gop activist bob bell, currently chairman emeritus of the state party, was buoyed by the turnout, claiming it represented a solidifying of the party in the state
although he agreed that newly active robertson supporters were responsible for some of the increase, he said most of the new voters were oldtime democrats who ``couldn't find anything in the democratic party to attract their attention, ... so they opted for bush.''
cleland, a democrat, agreed with bell, saying, ``i think it (the gop turnout) shows that georgia is a bonafide two-party state.''
the air force has improperly allowed foreign servicemen to play slot machines at its overseas bases in six countries, violating the host-nation agreements that sanction the presence of u.s. troops, service auditors have found
the air force audit agency said in a 13-page report such a permissive attitude violates local laws prohibiting or controlling gambling in britain, west germany, turkey, the philippines, japan and south korea
the air force is allowed to operate slot machines at the overseas bases for american personnel only, the auditors noted
violation of host nation laws or supplement agreements is potentially embarrassing to the air force and could result in overall prohibition of slot machines in overseas open messes,'' the auditors added
the audit was conducted in the spring of 1987 and the results forwarded to air force officials at that time. the report was released publicly earlier this week
the air force said wednesday it had yet to resolve the issue because it originally had tried to develop a single policy directive to govern such situations
the foreign laws of the various countries vary to such an extent, however, that air force attorneys are now trying to write a directive that will allow service officials in each country to tailor their gambling regulations to local law, said capt. lou figueroa, an air force spokesman
it is true that we would appear to be in violation in these six countries,'' figueroa added
but i would also point out the air force is not aware of any complaints by any of the host countries. and we do not know the extent to which foreign nationals are really playing the slots.''
the air force currently operates 2,358 slot machines at 55 base facilities outside the united states. the machines generated $20.4 million in gross revenue in fiscal 1987. proceeds from the slots are designated exclusively for the support of morale, welfare and recreation programs at the bases
the air force had allowed gambling at its overseas bases for years until 1972, when all slot machines were removed amid disclosures of widespread corruption. the secretary of the air force, after promulgating new, more stringent controls, authorized their return in march 1982
we found accounting controls and existing regulatory guidance generally satisfactory,'' the auditors wrote in their report
overall management policies for slot machine maintenance and personnel administration were effective. cash and other asset controls were generally adequate. our review, however, disclosed problems associated with legality of slot machine play by citizens of host countries,'' the report said
the auditors said they were recommending more attention be paid to gambling policies at overseas bases not only because foreign laws were being ignored, but also because the air force was ignoring what other u.s. military services were doing
for example, south korean military personnel are prohibited from slot machine play in u.s. army open messes, whereas the air force was in violation of local laws prohibiting gambling,'' the auditors wrote
gallaudet university, currently embroiled in a dispute over the selection of its new president, is the only liberal arts institution in the world for the deaf
the 99-acre campus in northeast washington provides education for 2,200 university students, 400 high school students and 200 elementary school students. nearly all the undergraduates are deaf
the federally supported institution receives 75 percent of its $76 million budget from congress, with the rest coming from tuition, which is about $6,000 per student
the school began in 1856, when amos kendall, a wealthy journalist and former postmaster general opened the kendall school for deaf and blind children on his 99-acre farm
the following year, kendall persuaded congress to incorporate the school as the columbia institution for the instruction of the deaf and dumb and the blind, with president james buchanan as its patron
in 1864, president abraham lincoln signed legislation empowering the institution to award college degrees through a new national deaf mute college. edward miner gallaudet, son of thomas hopkins gallaudet, a pioneer in educating the deaf, became its president
five years later, president ulysses s. grant signed the diplomas of the college's first three graduates, starting a tradition that president reagan follows today
in 1894, the college was renamed in honor of the elder gallaudet, and in 1986, gallaudet college became gallaudet university by an act of congress
the institution today has 274 full-time professors, of whom 30 percent are deaf. in addition, 22 percent of the school's 1,300-member support staff are deaf
professors cannot receive tenure unless they demonstrate their proficiency in sign language to a panel of students and faculty, and all professors are required to simultaneously speak and sign their own lectures in english
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and vice president george bush cashed in on their new england connections to win rhode island's presidential primary
dukakis was a familiar face to rhode islanders long before he began running for president. he campaigned here several times and quickly gained support from most of rhode island's democratic hierarchy
a year ago, no one was going to say that mike dukakis would be the next president,'' lt. gov. richard a. licht said tuesday night
dukakis had 34,159 votes or 70 percent; jesse jackson had 7,369 votes or 15.2 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 2,013 votes or 4.1 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 1,932 votes or 4 percent, and illinois sen. paul simon had 1,392 votes or 2.9 percent
among republicans, bush won 10,403 votes or 65 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 3,637 votes or 22.6 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 921 votes or 5.8 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 783 votes or 4.9 percent
based on those results, dukakis likely would capture 19 democratic delegates and jackson 3, while bush would gain 15 gop delegates and dole 6
jackson supporters broke out champagne to celebrate their candidate's strong showing in a state that is only 2 percent black
given $2 million in tv advertising by dukakis and $100,000 by jackson nationally, it shows good management,'' said jackson's state campaign chairman, walter r. stone. tactics'</head> hemophilia and to show that study referred to transmission of aids virus, not hemophilia, which is herditary.</note>
surgeon general c. everett koop on wednesday attacked conclusions about aids by sex researchers dr. william masters and virginia johnson, saying their new book uses ``scare tactics'' and is irresponsible and unscientfic
koop said the sex experts have no scientific evidence to back up claims that aids among heterosexuals is ``rampant,'' that the disease can be spread by casual non-sexual contact or that the nation's blood supply is unsafe
the surgeon general was reacting to findings from a masters and johnson book co-authored by dr. robert kolodny, ``crisis: heterosexual behavior in the age of aids.'' excerpts from th book appeared in this week's newsweek magazine
koop, interviewed from london on abc-tv's ``good morning america,'' noted that masters and johnson did not submit their findings to scientific review or have them published in a recognized medical journal
i think it (the book) is irresponsible. it is scare tactics,'' koop said
he said the risk of aids-contaminated blood in medical blood supplies ranges from one in 40,000 to one in 250,000. masters and johnson claim it is one in 5,000, but koop said there is no evidence to support such a statistic
koop said he feared the book would cause ``hysteria'' but added that he hopes americans would ``stick to their usual habit of listening to the facts, sorting them out and doing what's right.''
masters and johnson were pioneers in sex therapy and sex research and run a sex therapy institute in st. louis
their new book calls for widespread mandatory testing for acquired immune deficiency syndrome infections, and estimates there are 3 million or more aids carriers in the united states. the government estimates that between 1 million and 1.5 million people are infected
koop acknowledged that there is an explosion of aids among heterosexuals in africa but said ``the united states is not like africa. ... that's not going to happen here.''
heterosexuals make up only 4 percent of aids cases, and this is expected to increase to 5 percent by 1991, he said
scientists say the disease is spread most often through homosexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from infected pregnant women to their offspring
if there were any truth to the possibility of aids being spread through other means, koop said, the government would be warning against it. ``we have never gotten ahead of our scientific base, and that's something the american people can rely on,'' he said
he said that among more than 50,000 aids cases so far in the united states, ``not one single one was proven to be transmitted by casual non-sexual contact.''
he said americans can take comfort from a survey of families of people with the heriditory disease hemophilia, who were also aids victims, mostly from blood transfusions. he said of 2,400 people studied, there was not one case of the aids virus being passed to another member of the family except between spouses due to sexual contact. he said 7 percent of those in the study even shared a toothbrush with the victim
aids is very hard to catch,'' koop said
a state appeals panel has unanimously upheld the conviction of a defendant in the botched 1981 brink's robbery that resulted in the deaths of two policemen and a guard
the state appellate division in brooklyn rejected the appeal by sam brown, 46, who is serving a 75-year to life sentence for his murder and robbery conviction
the charges stemmed from the $1.6 million holdup of a brink's truck in nanuet, north of new york city
kathy boudin, a former weather underground activist, pleaded guilty to the charges and is serving a prison term of 20 years to life. three other defendants were convicted
among the many arguments raised by brown's lawyer and rejected by the appeals panel was that the indictment should have been dismissed because his rights were violated when he was beaten by prison officials after his arrest and that government officials interfered with his right to counsel
the michelin guide, france's supreme arbiter of culinary excellence, promoted one restaurant to the three-star pinnacle wednesday but elsewhere went on a star-shearing rampage
the coveted third star, which in michelin parlance means ``exceptional cuisine, worth a special journey,'' went to bernard pacaud, the 40-year-old chef of paris' l'ambroisie restaurant
the auberge du pere bise in the alpine town of talloires was demoted to two stars, signifying ``excellent cooking, worth a detour.'' another three-star restaurant was lost when louis outhier retired and closed la napoule near cannes
the 1988 red guide, which went on sale wednesday at $17, reduced the number of stars it awarded from 656 last year to 635. the number of three-star restaurants fell from 19 to 18, two-star establishments declined from 92 to 88 and one-star eateries, meaning ``very good cooking in its class,'' fell from 545 to 529
the addition of a star, actually a squiggle with six round bumps, means fame for a chef and his restaurant and money in his pocket. loss of the symbol can mean anguish and despair, particularly in a country that considers cooking an art form
pacaud, of breton origin, established his restaurant in 1986 after a long apprenticeship in top kitchens, including la mere brazier in lyon and under marc meneau at vezelay and claude peyrot in paris
the red book, first published in france in 1900 by andre michelin, the tire manufacturer, is a complete tourist guide and basically is aimed at helping the motorist
though many tend to think of the guide in terms of gastronomy, it also contains a wealth of maps, information on hotels, repair services, sights, distances between towns, telephone numbers, prices and thousands of other useful tidbits for the traveler
keeping up with the times, this year's guide notes hotels and restaurants that have special rooms or a dining room specially reserved for non-smokers
the auberge du pere bise lost its third star once before, between 1983 and 1985, when the owner became ill. it was promoted again when his daughter took over, but appears to have run into trouble again. the michelin folk are typically vague
it's part of the life of an establishment,'' said bernard naugellen, director of the guide. ``people sometimes reproach us for not taking away enough stars. when a house goes down, we take measures.''
naugellen had nothing but praise for pacaud, whose specialities include creme de homard and florentine raviolis, turbot braised in spices and braised ox-tail
he is a young chef who is doing a classic cuisine, a traditional cuisine, but very intelligent, full of finesse and character,'' he said
the chef himself refused comment
chunks missing from a titan 4 motor after a recent ground test could mean a delay in the first scheduled launch of the rocket in october, the san jose mercury news reported wednesday
the test was conducted feb. 14 at the san jose research facilities of united technologies corp., whose engineers, along with air force specialists, are trying to find out if a flaw might require retesting or redesign, the newspaper said
u.s. space officials have been counting on the titan 4 to carry into orbit dozens of satellites
there are some chunks missing, not terribly large,'' spokesman rick huling of the el segundo air force unit said. ``i think in one particular case the burn was down fairly close to the metal on the outside of the (nozzle) casing. if the flames had burned through the remaining insulation and ruptured the metal nozzle case, then you've had it.''
a smaller titan 34d rocket exploded april 18, 1986, during launch at vandenberg air force base when some insulation broke loose inside the motor. the heat burned through the rocket's outer wall
the titan 4 launch, scheduled for october from the kennedy space center at cape canaveral, fla., would take up a classified military payload that analysts have said is a satellite equipped with a heat-sensitive infrared telescope to spot nuclear missile attacks
we have a backlog of space shuttle-size loads,'' said huling. ``the titan 4 is, in fact, going to be the substitute for anything that doesn't need a man up there in space. i would say we need to get up there as quickly as possible.''
the manned shuttle program was put on hold after the challenger explosion, with the target date for the next launch set for aug. 4. today; picks up 6th graf pvs, `the ntsb report...'; subs grafs 15, ``one survivor xxx, and 19th graf, ``two flight 1713 ^^^^, to correct, only one passenger saw ice</note>
the effort to save victims of a continental airlines crash went extremely well even though radio batteries failed, pens wouldn't write and rescuers weren't dressed for the cold, the rescue coordinator testified today
continental flight 1713 crashed while taking off from stapleton international airport last nov. 15 in a snowstorm and left 28 people dead and 54 injured
we feel fortunate we had that many survivors,'' said dr. michael brunko of denver general hospital, who was in charge of the rescue operation at the crash. he was testifying on the second day of a national transportation safety board hearing
obviously, there were people trapped in the wreckage who we could not do anything for. and to this day, i do not know what else could have been done,'' he said. the overall operation ``went very, very well,'' he said
among the problems, brunko said, were the fact that there were too many rescue workers and vehicles on the scene and that continental employees were questioning survivors at the site, even though the employees role had been part of an earlier crash rehearsal at the airport
we survived by adrenaline,'' he said of the cold and snow
brunko said there were so many emergency vehicles that he had to run 10 to 15 feet away to escape background noise so he could communicate with the airport command post
the four-day ntsb hearing is expected to lead to a report detailing factors that may have contributed to the crash
brunko's testimony this morning jibed with investigation reports released tuesday by the ntsb that quoted one firefighter as saying rescue personnel at the crash site were ``10 deep and waiting to get in to help.''
we had more personnel than we needed,'' brunko said
rescue workers also said that ``the continental people got in the way of medical treatment of the passengers,'' according to the report
brunko said that at one point at least 15 continental employees arrived at the crash site, many of them heading for the nose of the aircraft, which had flipped upside down on the runway and broken into three pieces
he said he had identified about 20 patients needing treatment before the continental employees arrived, and their presence made him suddenly uncertain who were patients and who were airline employees
the ntsb report outlined several problems found by a review team, including the lack of a staging area for rescue vehicles that caused ambulances to arrive an estimated 45 minutes after the crash
i was shocked at the number of people running around who were not firemen,'' ron fano, director of airport operations, testified tuesday
fano, who headed the rescue command post, said some operations were delayed because of two seriously injured passengers inside the post
he said buses to transport the injured did not show up until about an hour after the accident and ambulances did not show up for 45 minutes
the report also said firefighters were trained to extinguish fires on older models of aircraft, and had difficulty rescuing survivors
the ntsb team did not directly criticize the rescue effort. denver fire chief richard gonzales said he believed the work ``went rather smothly.''
the report said continental employees may have interfered with medical treatment of passengers by trying to interview them at a nearby fire station
however, continental spokesman bruce hicks said airline employees routinely are involved in rescue efforts, and he noted that continental workers participated in a crash drill at stapleton two months before the crash
de-icing and the pilots' experience flying dc-9s were the other chief issues raised during testimony tuesday, although government officials have said their inquiry is not focusing on a single possible cause
one survivor told investigators he saw ice and snow on one of the wings, but another survivor who also was concerned about ice said the wings only were wet. a pilot on another plane said the continental jet looked clear
wes zimmerman, a continental pilot whose 727-300 aircraft was on the runway at the same time as the continental jetliner, testified he saw no ice or snow buildup on flight 1713
i felt good about how my de-icing was holding up,'' he said, explaining that he looked at nearby aircraft to gauge the condition of his own plane. but he acknowledged that his plane did not sit as long between de-icing and takeoff as flight 1713 did
robert benzon, charge of the ntsb inquiry, said during his opening statement that officials want to know why 24 minutes elapsed between de-icing and takeoff when other planes on the runway took off within 15 minutes
two flight 1713 passengers, dr. fred helpenstell, 56, of nampa, idaho, and gregory wadsworth, 22, an airman stationed in idaho, testified they were concerned there might have been ice on the wings before takeoff
i wondered at one point, `is that ice?''' helpenstell recalled, ``but i decided it was just wet.''
wadsworth, who is stationed at mountain home air force base, said he had a clear view of the left wing
it had started to snow a lot harder, and it made me real nervous. it was like the snow was starting to pike up (on the wings),'' he said. ``i was very concerned, but i said it under my breath.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who called delegate-rich florida a bellwether state because of its diversity, swept aside his democratic opponents in the presidential primary
his well-financed campaign used heavy television advertising to spread from a liberal base in southeast florida to win 15 of the state 19 congressional districts. jesse jackson won three and tennessee sen. al gore jr. won only the conservative panhandle
this is a diverse group of voters in florida,'' dukakis campaign field director paul pezzella said. ``if we can win here, we can win anywhere.''
with all 4,459 precincts reporting, dukakis had 509,248 votes or 41 percent; jackson 250,579 votes or 20 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt 179,400 votes or 14 percent, and gore had 158,833 votes or 13 percent
vice president george bush crushed his republican rivals, winning 545,668 votes or 62 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 185,179 votes or 21 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 93,752 votes or 11 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 40,545 votes or 5 percent
based on those results, bush was expected to win all 82 of florida's gop delegates; dukakis would win 90 of the 136 democratic delegates at stake; jackson would get 33 delegates; gephardt 7 and gore 6
florida offered the second-largest batch of delegates on super tuesday, behind only texas, which bush and dukakis also carried
bush capitalized on president reagan's popularity and his own familiarity to floridians. he has visited often on official business such as heading the south florida task force on drugs, and for personal visits to his mother in palm beach and to his son, jeb, now florida's commerce secretary
the bush campaign had five full-time paid staffers compared to 16 for dukakis, and both were bankrolled for a strong television push to reach the diverse florida electorate on the final weekend preceding tuesday's vote
gephardt's poor showing was the biggest surprise in the democratic race. endorsed by rep. claude pepper and using a last-minute media campaign, gephardt had concerned the dukakis campaign most. he failed to carry a single district
kurt georg kiesinger, who served as west germany's third federal chancellor from 1966 to 1969 despite controversy over his nazi past, died wednesday of heart failure. he was 83
kiesinger spent 18 months in a u.s. postwar internment camp with other nazi party members, but he staunchly denied any wrongdoing during adolf hitler's third reich and never was charged with any crimes
in a widely publicized incident, kiesinger was slapped in the face by nazi hunter beate klarsfeld at a conference in west berlin on nov. 7, 1968
mrs. klarsfeld was convicted of causing bodily injury and insulting kiesinger, and after receiving and appealing a one-year prison sentence, was given four months' probation. she continued her bitter public criticism of kiesinger
during his three years at the helm of the nation's grand coalition of conservatives and leftist-leaning social democrats, kiesinger improved contacts with the east
the christian democratic chancellor also overcame a troubling recession with a series of economic measures during his term
known as ``king silver tongue'' because of his powerful speaking style, kiesinger retained his heavy swabian accent. he was a roman catholic, born april 6, 1904, in ebingen in baden-wuerttemburg
as a 29-year-old lawyer, kiesinger joined the nazi party in 1933, the year hitler came to power. he said he became disillusioned with the party a year later because of the bloody purge of storm trooper leader ernst roehm and his associates
during world war ii, kiesinger worked in the radio propaganda section of the nazi foreign ministry and served as department head for part of the war
after the war, u.s. forces rounded up thousands of germans pending investigations of their membership in the nazi party. he spent 18 months in an internment camp in ludwigsburg
a german court fined him 50 marks, then $12.50, for being a party member. the fine was returned when the court ruled later that he had risked his life to get a student out of a nazi prison
kiesinger's nazi past brought him much unfavorable publicity when he became a candidate for chancellor, and the sharp, public debate continued during his term
he always denied any wrongdoing and declared: ``i have clean hands. i know what i did and what i did not do.''
kiesinger was a party member for the full 12 years of the nazi regime from 1933 to 1945
in 1966, kiesinger succeeded fellow christian democrat chancellor ludwig erhard, forming the only grand coalition of conservatives and social democrats
kiesinger sought more contact with the communist states of eastern europe, breaking with past policy. he established diplomatic relations with romania and yugoslavia, but his overtures suffered a setback when the soviets invaded czechoslovakia in 1968
kiesinger's government remained a resolute ally of the united states, but he feuded with president lyndon johnson in 1967 and complained that he had not been adequately consulted on a u.s.-soviet nuclear weapons treaty
he was a symbol of reconciliation, grouping the conservative christian democrats and their bavarian counterparts with the social democrats
six years ago, a small-town minnesota girl left home for hollywood. but her dreams of stardom turned into an x-rated nightmare of porn movies and cocaine addiction, and two years later, she committed suicide
her mother, karen applegate, is still searching for answers in the march 21, 1984, death of her 20-year-old daughter, colleen. she and her family cooperated with hollywood in a television movie based on colleen's life in hopes that it might prevent similar tragedies
shattered innocence,'' wednesday night on cbs, depicts the final years of miss applegate, who left her farmington home in march 1982, posed nude for magazine photos and soon became porn movie star shauna grant
her name and hometown were changed in the film, but her mother said: ``the whole mess is true. the basic story is true. and why? i don't know.''
while the mother said she was generally satisfied with the film, she felt the horror of the worlds of pornography and cocaine addiction were soft-pedaled
at the peak of her career, shauna grant made 30 x-rated movies in one year and had film sex with about 40 men. the movie, however, gave the impression that grant made only a few films
the producers originally had a dramatization closer to the gritty details, but it had to be softened because of prime-time television,'' production representative karen ocamb said in a telephone interview from los angeles
you get the idea of what the world of pornography is all about, what it does to the individual is that it kills her.''
shattered innocence'' tells of a high school cheerleader who is bored and restless with her life in banning, kan., and after graduation heads for the bright lights and glitter of hollywood
dazzled by the quick money to be made in nude modeling, up to $2,000 a session for national magazines, she soon went for even bigger purses offered by porn films. she then started using cocaine to lose weight
throughout the film, she maintains contact with her family. her mother loves her but doesn't excuse or condone her behavior
it is very difficult for the family. they try to intervene but she wants the family to love her on her terms, not theirs,'' ocamb said
after briefly giving up her pornographic movie career, but being unable to kick the cocaine addiction, the young woman portrayed by actress jonna lee is about to re-enter the world of pornography when she kills herself
the mother asks, `why did this happen?' that's basically what the film asks,'' said ocamb. ``there are no answers. everyone in every family needs to ask this question. how did a cheerleader become a porno star and commit suicide?''
the movie was made because colleen applegate's story is representative of so many young people, ocamb said
there are a lot of kids who come from farmington, minnesota, or banning, kansas. they're just immature and irresponsible and they think they can come to hollywood and become a star overnight or they'll just `find something
as we know, they wind up on the streets,'' ocamb said
the applegates _ colleen had three younger sisters and one younger brother _ cooperated with the producers in hopes the movie might help someone else, said the mother, who is portrayed by actress melinda dillon
for people out there who think that it's exploiting her and exploiting ourselves, then they should be very grateful because then they can't relate to it,'' she said
there are many out there who can relate to it, and those are the ones i hope it helps.''
a court on wednesday sentenced an activist to two months in prison because of a ``street happening'' that poked fun at the government, an opposition spokesman said
waldemar frydrych, 34, head of the opposition cultural group orange alternative, was arrested by police with five other people on tuesday, said jacek kuron, a warsaw opposition activist
he said about 50 orange alternative supporters, some of whom carried a banner reading ``missiles _ no, sanitary pads _ yes,'' handed out cotton pads to women in downtown wroclaw. police moved in quickly and halted the demonstration
feminie hygiene products are in short supply in poland. tuesday was international women's day
the sentence marked one of the few times since a september 1986 amnesty for political prisoners that a misdemeanor court has sentenced someone to prison for a politically motivated offense. in almost all cases, people were held up to 48 hours and released after being fined
kuron said frydrych was sentenced on a charge of causing public unrest
two other orange alternative supporters, pawel kasprzak and krzysztof albin, were each fined the equivalent of $79 by the misdemeanor court, kuron said
he said the orange alternative members joked with the court by arguing that karl marx, the founder of communism, was actually a bearded lady
frydrych has been detained at least half a dozen times since september for organizing various orange alternative ``happenings'' in wroclaw in which demonstrators have dressed up as santa claus, lenten penitents and even secret policemen to satirize government policies
a convicted marijuana smuggler testified in the cocaine-smuggling trial of carlos lehder rivas that the colombian had helped finance terry knight, identified as a former auto racing partner of actor paul newman
the brief mention of newman came tuesday as defense attorney ed shohat questioned witness charles gregory von eberstein
knight lived on the bahamian island of norman's cay. von eberstein testified that he had seen a picture of knight's car with the insignia of the norman's cay yacht club on it
when shohat asked if newman, the actor, was in the picture, von eberstein answered, ``i knew terry was his racing partner. i knew (lehder) had put some money in it.''
the witness said he didn't believe knight was aware of the smuggling going on at the island
lehder, 38, is accused of conspiring with others to smuggle some 3.3 tons of cocaine into the united states from colombia from 1978 to 1980 via norman's cay in the bahamas
newman has long taken part in auto races as a sideline to his acting career. his last partner, jim fitzgerald, died last november when he crashed his car during the st. petersburg grand prix. there was no elaboration on knight's career in tuesday's testimony
von eberstein testified tuesday that he had decided not to return to the united states after knight played an audio tape which indicated von eberstein and his associate ed ward had been indicted. the source of the tape and how knight got it were not disclosed in testimony
von eberstein, a friend and neighbor of ward, a convicted smuggler, testified that he and ward made several cocaine flights for lehder in 1979 and 1980. he said one was into colombia and several were from norman's cay, lehder's private bahamian island, to prison airport near reidsville, ga
von eberstein, who was sentenced to 18 years in prison in 1981 after pleading guilty to three marijuana charges and one count of income-tax evasion, eventually had his sentence reduced to 15 years and was released after four years in prison
lehder, reputed to be one of the leaders in the violent colombian medellin cartel, is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
a woman who works in the records department of the sports car club of america in englewood, colo., said the club keeps listings for racers registered in the last three years and had no listing for a terry knight
the woman, who declined to give her name, said there was no way to be certain who newman's partner was
michael dukakis went from the triumph of his seven super tuesday victories to the scrap-strewn wasteland of chicago's southeast corner on wednesday, seeking votes in the democrats' next major campaign test
the massachusetts governor talked to steel workers _ some laid off, some on the job _ in his first full day of campaigning for next tuesday's illinois primary, when 173 delegates will be at stake
gone were the condominiums and strawberry festivals of the florida primary campaign. now dukakis was campaigning for votes among steel mills, scrap heaps, refineries and belching smokestacks
dukakis did only slightly better on tuesday than rivals albert gore jr. and jesse jackson. but he quickly tried to stake out a claim as the only national candidate in the race capable of winning in the south and the industrial midwest
he said of gore, the tennessee senator, ``i'm not so sure he's a major contender. a guy from massachusetts beat him in texas, beat him in florida. he wasn't willing to go into the early primaries. but i still take everyone seriously.''
with two illinois residents in the race _ jackson and sen. paul simon _ ``obviously it's going to be an uphill battle,'' dukakis said. ``i hope when the people of illinois cast their votes they'll do so for someone who can clearly win the presidency.''
in a dig at another rival, he said the failure of missouri rep. richard gephardt to win any but his home state on super tuesday proved the futility of negative campaigning. dukakis, who had countered with an anti-gephardt ad of his own, said, ``i think that what happened to congressman gephardt yesterday demonstrates pretty clearly that when you engage in that kind of campaigning, you're going to get hurt.''
dukakis opened the day at a breakfast meeting at the lion's den restaurant on chicago's east side where he met with laid-off steel workers. ``i don't know a great deal about the steel industry as such,'' dukakis told the group. but he said he did have experience in massachusetts getting labor, management and government working together
later the governor and his wife kitty donned hard hats as they toured the metron steel factory in chicago's hard-hit calumet industrial section
aware of walter mondale's disastrous showing in 1984, dukakis has avoided appearing to be too strong a union democrat. rather, he said he wanted to be ``a full-employment democrat.''
jack corrigan, dukakis' campaign operations director, said there would be no change in the candidate's message now that he is in the nation's industrial section
we haven't gotten the afl-cio endorsement. we've gotten some union support and we're proud of it. i don't see it as a problem.''
despite the cash drain of super tuesday with its emphasis on television advertising, the dukakis campaign remains in good financial condition, aides said. campaign finance chief robert farmer said dukakis is raising half a million dollars a week. coming out of super tuesday, he said, dukakis has $2 million in the bank and $1 million on the way in federal matching funds. ``we're going to be in very good shape,'' farmer said
dukakis made it clear in a speech to about 1,000 cheering supporters tuesday night in chicago that his greek immigrant heritage will provide a key ingredient of his campaign in illinois. the chicago area is among the most ethnically diverse in the nation with its heavy population of first- and second-generation eastern europeans
many of your families, like my parents, came to this land in search of opportunity,'' dukakis told the cheering supporters. ``they didn't have much money in their pockets; they couldn't speak the language, but they believed in the american dream... it was their broad shoulders and strong arms and keen minds that built the mightiest industrial machine in the world.''
it was their hard work that built the steel mills and the auto plants and the foundries and the factories that carried our nation through two world wars,'' dukakis said. the phrases were new to an otherwise standard campaign stump speech
former gov. charles robb was recovering wednesday from what he described as ``a very physical encounter with a glass door.''
robb was knocked unconscious tuesday night when he walked into the closed door in his washington, d.c., office. robb said he ``blacked out for a few moments'' but did not require medical attention
i haven't had a sensation like that since the last time i played in a football game,'' robb said
robb, one of the architects of the super tuesday presidential primaries, said he was talking to a television cameraman as he was leaving his office. ``i had a pretty good head of steam because i had a lot of news interviews scheduled,'' robb said
the door normally is open, he said. the glass did not break
minutes later, robb cut short an appearance on the cable news network. ``i couldn't remember why i was there for a few minutes,'' he said. ``finally, i said on the air that i wouldn't be doing the viewers a service by continuing.''
robb said he was interviewed by other news organizations throughout the night, but he asked that the interviews be kept brief
people kept trying to get me to go to the hospital, but i was hard-headed,'' he said
the people's consultative assembly gathers thursday to elect president suharto, the only candidate, to his fifth five-year term
the 1,000-member assembly, which meets every five years, began a session last week to choose the president and vice president and issue new guidelines for state policy
suharto has led the nation of 170 million people since 1967
for vice president, the moslem united development party has nominated its chairman, jailani naro, to run against state secretary sudharmono, chairman of the governing golkar party and suharto's most trusted aide. the vice president is to be elected on friday
naro said that despite advice from several senior assembly members to drop his candidacy, it was his democratic right to run for election and ``we will fight 'til the end.''
sudharmono was nominated by golkar and supported by the military, provincial and indonesian democratic party factions in the assembly
all five factions, including the moslem united development party, nominated suharto for president
the five factions also approved suharto's 35-page report on the state of the nation under his administration in the last five years
in his report last week, suharto said his administration had been able to overcome unpredictable challenges and difficulties, including a recession and a sharp drop in the price of oil, a major foreign exchange earner for indonesia
he said indonesia's economy was expected to grow by an annual average of 3.6 percent during the five-year economic period ending in march 1989. the original target had been 5 percent
in elections last april, golkar won 299 seats in parliament, which also has 100 government-nominated members from the military. the moslem united development party has 63 seats and the indonesian democratic party 38 seats
the 500-member parliament and 500 provincial and district officials make up the people's consultative assembly, the highest policy-making body in the country
seats in provincial and district legislatures were decided by proportional representation based on the total votes each party received
in the assembly, golkar has 548 seats as well as 151 government-nominated members from the military and 147 from the provinces. the moslem united development party has 93 and the indonesian democratic party 61
hawaii's democratic caucuses came down to a test of strength between party leaders' support for michael dukakis and grassroots organizing by followers of jesse jackson. the massachusetts governor won, but jackson performed impressively
dukakis received 2,026 votes in the presidential preference poll, compared with jackson's 1,470 votes, according to incomplete returns wednesday
this is the first time we've really had a race,'' said gov. john waihee, a dukakis supporter. ``i don't ever remember this much excitement.''
dukakis was expected to get 12 of the 20 pledged delegates that were up for grabs, with jackson getting the rest
it's incredible,'' said jackson's state coordinator richard port. ``jackson showed his appeal to hawaii's multi-cultural voters. that's the real story here.''
much of jackson's support was thought to have come from the 2,000 new party members his organization signed in recent months
missouri rep. richard gephardt received 83 votes, illinois sen. paul simon 46, tennessee sen. albert gore jr. 41, and former colorado sen. gary hart 83. there were 183 votes for ``uncommitted.''
a sick and hungry panda cub that a farmer found tangled in tree branches has bounced back to health, boosting efforts to save the increasingly scarce animal, it was reported wednesday
cun cun _ or ``spring spring'' _ was found in the mountains of tianquan county in sichuan province and rushed to a zoo in the sichuan capital of chengdu, the china news service said
when this panda arrived at the zoo, he was in very bad shape. he had contracted an intestinal virus, was severely dehydrated and very weak,'' a zoo official was quoted as saying
the giant panda, native only to china, has become an endangered species. the number in china has dropped below 1,000 and scientists have had limited success breeding them in captivity
about 200 pandas are in chinese zoos, but some experts have called for a halt their capture, arguing that they live longer and reproduce better in the wild
truckloads of police and cars with wailing sirens patrolled the tibetan capital of lhasa through the night in an apparent show of force after an anti-chinese uprising by thousands of tibetans, a western source said wednesday
the westerner, a tourist who reached chengdu from lhasa, said the trucks drove past the lhasa hotel where he was staying after midnight
a tibetan source in lhasa reported similar police movement both day and night since the saturday uprising, in which buddhist monks and thousands of tibetans stoned police and built bonfires across the city
asked if she was frightened, the source said, ``no, i'm not frightened because _ ,'' but the telephone line was broken in midsentence
the panchen lama, tibetan buddhism's second-highest leader, denounced those who participated in the all-day violence
i represent the tibetan comrades here and myself in expressing my indignation ... at the violence committed by the small numbers of separatists during the riot,'' the panchen lama, a loyal supporter of the beijing government, said at a special meeting of tibetan leaders in beijing on wednesday
the panchen lama called for severe punishment for the rioters, saying, ``as a tibetan and a devout buddhist, i cannot condone this kind of crime.''
the evening news devoted nearly five minutes to the panchen lama's remarks and briefly showed footage of saturday's rioting
doje cering, chairman of tibet's regional government, said official policy toward tibet would not change because of the rioting, the official xinhua news agency reported
lhasa tv said one tibetan and a chinese policeman were killed, but western sources in lhasa said as many as five tibetans and three police may have died
western tourists arriving in katmandu, nepal, on wednesday reported seeing five people dead, including a 10-year-old tibetan monk, two tibetans and two chinese
the western tourist in chengdu, in southwestern china, reported being allowed to visit sera monastery on the southern edge of the city, one of lhasa's leading monasteries
speaking on condition of anonymity, he said a truck carrying about 20 armed police was parked along the road to the monastery and two police officers watched the entrance
by contrast, sera and other leading monasteries were cut off by police blockades after the last tibetan protest against chinese rule on oct. 1. at least 14 people died then
china sent troops into tibet in 1950, but it has claimed sovereignty over the himalayan region since the 13th century
many tibetans maintain they were effectively independent for centuries under the dalai lama, their temporal and religious leader. the current dalai lama fled to india in 1959 after an abortive anti-chinese uprising
thursday is the 29th anniversary of the uprising
there were unconfirmed reports from lhasa of widespread arrests in the city. officials released no figures, however
the western source said police set up two checkpoints along the road from the lhasa airport to the city and were stopping vehicles and asking passengers to get out for a check of their identity
saturday's violence was followed by a small confrontation sunday in which tibetans built barricades and threw stones at police in lhasa's central market square
saturday was the final day of the ``moinlam qenmo'' prayer festival, a more than 500-year-old annual event that is one of the most important in the tibetan buddhist calender
chinese authorities had feared pro-independence tibetans would take advantage of the gathering of hundreds of monks and pilgrims to stage a protest
one source said chinese police in tibet were put on orders during the festival to exercise restraint. the source said tibet's communist party secretary wu jinghua ordered police to retreat from any confrontation. reports from several western sources indicated police initially did so, then fired tear gas to control the crowd
xinhua reported earlier that no police officers carried arms while on duty saturday
one western source reported gunshots being fired after nightfall saturday after more than 12 hours of violence. none of the western witnesses reported seeing police open fire
in the next few weeks, al gore needs to prove what mike dukakis demonstrated on super tuesday _ that he can win outside his home region, that he's not just another favorite son
and now dukakis has something new to prove _ that he can win primary after primary across the country, become the front-runner and build the momentum to clinch the democratic nomination before the convention opens in august
no one is conceding an inch to the massachusetts governor, who now sports a lead in delegates and wins in the mega-states of florida and texas on tuesday
the calendar should now give dukakis a little edge, shifting from the southern accents of super tuesday to some of the nation's toughest political battlegrounds _ the big industrial states of illinois, michigan, wisconsin, new york and pennsylvania
as the governor of a major northeastern industrial state with a strong ethnic background, dukakis should have less trouble speaking the voters' language in the upcoming states than he did in the south
gore has exactly the opposite problem _ he just had the contests in his best region and is now moving to less familiar ground
what state is al gore going to win in the north?'' is how dukakis aide leslie dach posed the problem
the tennessee senator and jesse jackson each won a goodly share of the states and the delegates available tuesday, splintering the standings among the democratic hopefuls with dukakis
that proved both are winners, essential to continuing in the race, even though the victories were on home turf
but dukakis proved more _ he won at home but also in the south, a region critical to the democrats' hopes of regaining the white house. he showed he could win in a variety of regions of the country _ from texas to washington
one big advantage dukakis now has is his bank account
we've got $2 million in the bank and $1 million more coming in federal matching money,'' dach said wednesday
that, plus a well-regarded campaign organization, is a major advantage in big states where television advertising is expensive
organization will be an asset in the major behind-the-scenes battle over the next two months that could be the key to the nomination. dukakis is working hard to convince the 645 super-delegates _ governors, members of congress, senators and democratic national committee members _ that he will be the nominee and that they should join his effort
in contrast, gore had to borrow a $1 million to finish his southern media advertising. but gore said he has $500,000 to $1 million on hand to fight on
gore's campaign has had its share of organizational problems over the past few months, as it struggled, for example, with the question of how much effort to put into the new hampshire primary
the next battleground is illinois with two favorite sons on the ballot _ jackson and sen. paul simon
simon, saying no candidate will have enough delegates to win going into the democratic convention in august, hopes to restart his stalled campaign with a homestate victory next tuesday. but even he concedes that is not enough
nobody's going to have that first-ballot nomination,'' simon said wednesday. ``but i also have to win in wisconsin or ohio or pennsylvania or new york.''
dukakis was already in chicago on tuesday night, working for a good showing
gore said wednesday, ``we're going to be competing vigorously there.''
the big loser among the democrats on tuesday will not even be in illinois. rep. richard gephardt could could only manage a super tuesday win in his home state of missouri. he is heading to michigan for the march 26 caucuses there
illinois could turn out to be a crucial state for the democrats _ just as it may be for the republicans
if neither simon nor jackson wins at home, the candidate who does win would get an enormous boost. and simon's hopes would dwindle away
in contrast, a favorite-son victory would not be an equally important boost for the victor, since such wins tend to be expected
editors' note: evans witt is a washington-based political writer who has written about each presidential election since 1976
the growing number of private businesses spawned by mikhail s. gorbachev's economic reforms may soon face an enemy long familiar to their capitalist counterparts: higher taxes
the draft of a new law on private enterprises, published in the government newspaper izvestia, outlines plans to tax the profits of the new ventures as well as the incomes of their workers
while the law remains in draft form, it is likely to earn approval from the nation's nominal parliament, the supreme soviet, at its next session expected in late spring
gorbachev last week cited the taxation plan in an apparent effort to assure workers in state-run businesses that they should not feel their private counterparts are getting off easy
it's understood that we need industrious and honest initiative, but not of the kind of some cooperatives which exploit a deficit and engage in outright money-grabbing,'' the soviet leader told workers at a moscow factory
many cooperatives charge higher prices than state-run industries and services, and complaints about this have appeared in the soviet press. many soviets say, for instance, that while food quality and selection are better in cooperative restaurants, the prices are out of their reach
the government, while proposing broader opportunities for cooperatives, also apparently felt the need to tap the businesses' wealth, calling this approach ``social fairness.''
the law does not specify at what rate cooperatives will be taxed, saying this will depend on the kind of business. it said the tax rate will be fixed for five-year periods. cooperatives can deduct from their taxes contributions to charities, and the government may give some businesses tax breaks for producing certain high-demand items, according to the law
personal income taxes will be progressive, the law said. currently, a social security tax is deducted from the pay of workers in state-run enterprises
the law on private business that took effect may 1 already provided for a heavy individual tax structure that gave the government claim to 70 percent of incomes in excess of 600 rubles, or $1,000, per month
president reagan said today he sees ``a will to succeed evident in our land'' reminiscent of the spirit of legendary football coach knute rockne, who led notre dame to five undefeated seasons
reagan, unveiling a commemorative stamp to mark the 100th anniversary of rockne's birth, reminisced both about rockne's storied career and his own role in hollywood's portrayal of it
and the president used the occasion to predict a rosy future for u.s. business
american industry is lean and mean and ready to meet the competition head-on,'' he said. ``i predict that, as this year progresses, we will see american manufacturing re-emerge as the leading force in the world marketplace. exports will, in fact, race ahead and lead our domestic economy.''
reagan said the rockne legend ``stood for fair play and honor, but you know, it was thorougly american in another way. it was practical; it placed a value on devastating quickness and agility and on confounding the opposition with good old american cleverness. but most of all, the rockne legend meant this ... that on or off the field, it is faith that makes the difference, it is faith that makes great things happen.''
reagan said rockne recognized ``the fundamental element of the american character that no tyranny and few of our competitors can ever hope to match. knute rockne knew and appreciated it: the creative genius and omnipresent optimism of our people.''
reagan also reminisced about his own heyday in hollywood, when he convinced a producer to allow him to play the part of george gipp in the movie ``knute rockne: all american.'' gipp was the notre dame football player whose deathbed request to rockne _ ``win just one for the gipper'' _ inspired the team to a 12-6 victory over army in 1928
reagan called the part ``a young actor's dream'' and he said the movie still has a message for americans:
there's a will to succeed evident in our land. i happen to have always believed in the american people. don't ever sell them short. given the proper tools and a level playing ground, our workers can out-produce and out-compete anyone, anywhere.''
he added that ``there are those who see a dark side to our technological progress'' with the development of more deadly weapons
however, the president said, ``technology is pointing a way out of this dilemma'' and cited his ``star wars'' space-based missile defense system
the crowd in joyce athletic center was treated to several minutes of the rockne film on a giant screen showing the young reagan as he portrayed gipp throwing the ball and hustling with his teammates
at the end of reagan's speech, he was handed a football which he hurled toward a group of players seated in the crowd. heisman trophy winner tim brown caught the pigskin as the crowd roared its approval
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said ``the gipper goes back'' as he announced the trip. during his presidency, reagan's supporters have seized upon his movie-inspired nickname to help build support for his political programs
the president himself recalled the emotional movie during his first visit to notre dame's south bend campus, when he delivered the commencement address on may 17, 1981
rockne, a graduate of the men's college, was its head football coach from 1918 to 1931 and compiled a record of 108 wins, 12 defeats and five ties. during his tenure, the ``fighting irish'' were undefeated in five seasons and won six national championships
an innovator of the forward pass and the ``box formation,'' rockne taught his players to excel in the classroom as well as the playing field
rockne was killed in a plane crash on march 31, 1931, an accident that stunned the nation. his funeral mass was broadcast across the nation on radio
he won a place in the college football hall of fame's first group of inductees in 1951
the 22-cent stamp produced in his honor bears a portrait of the smiling, balding coach holding a football. rockne's name is emblazoned in blue and gold, the colors of the ``fighting irish.''
it is the sixth in the american sports series, which has honored babe didrikson zaharias, bobby jones, babe ruth, jim thorpe and roberto clemente
the stamp was a joint effort of designer peter cocci and engraver tom hipschen, both of the bureau of engraving and printing, the white house said
the new stamp goes on sale nationally tomorrow
queen mother elizabeth has expressed dismay at the closure of a welsh geriatric ward she officially opened less than a year ago, her office said wednesday
it said the 87-year-old mother of queen elizabeth ii, the reigning monarch, was expected to write to the government querying the cost-cutting closure at st. tydfil's hospital in merthyr tydfil
the merthyr and cynon valley health council said the comptroller at clarence house, the queen mother's official residence, had written to say she heard of the closure ``with much distress.''
she visited merthyr tydfil last april to reopen the refurbished hospital, including a six-bed dependency ward that was closed eight months later as part of a budget-cutting program
health council secretary bryn williams said his staff was ``delighted that the queen mother should feel so strongly about the closure. it shows there is a genuine concern among royalty.''
larry king, whose interest in politics produced the long-running ``best little whorehouse in texas,'' has turned to louisiana and ``the kingfish.''
the show loosely based on huey p. long's term as governor, opens thursday in thibodaux, a cajun town of 17,500 people
king, who wrote ``whorehouse'' with peter masterson, collaborated with former texas legislator ben grant on ``the kingfish.'' it incorporates many of long's speeches and a slideshow which lets the audience see how much comedian john mcconnell resembles the man whose part he plays
the play is to remain at the thibodaux civic center through sunday, then move to in winnfield, long's home town, as the start of a statewide tour
three cuddly koalas upstaged joan rivers, showing that star power is no match for outback charm
miss rivers shared a flight from san diego with the koalas when they arrived tuesday en route to metrozoo. she graciously accepted second billing
they were terrific,'' said the comedian, who was on her way to san juan, puerto rico. ``they didn't eat, they didn't smoke and they didn't smell.''
miss rivers walked all but unnoticed through a crowd of metrozoo volunteers, onlookers, reporters and photographers intent on getting a glimpse of the furry creatures
all most got was a view of three animal carrying cases. the koalas were described as ``stressed out'' after their early morning flight
eddie ``the eagle'' edwards, the myopic, bespectacled ski jump star of the winter olympics, has recovered the lucky pair of skis that launched him to fame
the unlikely hero of the british team, who won international recognition when he finished last in the 90-meter and 70-meter jumps in calgary, disclosed wednesday he mislaid his favorite pair of skis after his final jump at the games, and has only just found them
edwards said a ski company had picked up the skis and taken them back to west germany. he said he hoped they would be forwarded to finland in time for a weekend meet there
i am taking up a spare pair just in case,'' edwards said
he also said he wanted to to get down to serious business after all the ballyhoo in calgary
it will be nice to get back to my sport. i have enjoyed the promotion work but i haven't had much sleep over the past couple of days.''
edwards said his new-found fame could pose problems
his family, he said, is ``enjoying it at the moment but i think there will come a time when they find it tiring. and it's worse for my girlfriend, but we are just going to have to see how things go.''
the socialist workers party announced wednesday that its candidate for president will be james macwarren, 36, a black rights activist from jersey city, n.j
the party's vice presidential candidate will be kathy mickells, 37, a coal miner from westover, w.va
the candidates were chosen by the 70-member socialist workers national committee, said nancy rosenstock, speaking for the party
the party has fielded a presidential ticket for 40 years and in recent elections has been on the ballot in about 20 states. it pulled about 25,000 votes nationally in 1984
a party statement said the candidates will oppose use of american military power in central america and the persian gulf and seek to unify working people to meet a coming economic and social crisis signaled by the october stock market plunge
louisiana's super tuesday primaries won by george bush and jesse jackson drew mixed reviews wednesday from state republican and democratic leaders
we think super tuesday was wonderful,'' said carolyn blue-mikell, a spokeswoman for state democrats. ``there was much, much more attention paid to the voters, particularly here in louisiana.''
in 1984, the democratic candidates virtually ignored the state, while in the months leading up to tuesday's voting, the top hopefuls came to louisiana more than 100 times, she said
but state gop chairman donald bollinger questioned whether the big event would be repeated
the democrats thought they'd come out of the south with a conservative democrat that would make the republicans look silly. where's their conservative?'' he said. ``i think in four years, they won't want another super tuesday.''
with reports in from 99 percent of the precincts, bush had 83,585 votes, or 58 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 26,227, or 18 percent; kansas sen. bob dole tallied 25,602, or 18 percent; and new york rep. jack kemp had 7,818, or 5 percent
jackson had 219,960 votes, or 35 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 174,458, or 28 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 95,310, or 15 percent; and missouri rep. richard gephardt tallied 66,894, or 11 percent
the results translated into 32 delegates for jackson, 23 for gore, six for dukakis and two for gephardt. on the republican side, bush nabbed 34 delegates with 7 uncommitted
jackson, who aimed at expanding his ``rainbow coalition'' of support across racial and ethnic lines, captured his second straight victory in the louisiana democratic primary
we think he's been able to take his message to the people of louisiana,'' said new orleans mayor sidney barthelemy, a key jackson supporter. ``his base of support has grown.''
but bud courson, gore's state coordinator, said that jackson should be worried about the tennessee lawmaker's performance
we feel that a turnaround has come, and again looking further down the road we feel that sen. gore can pull the democratic party back together,'' said courson
in the 4th congressional district race to replace gov.-elect buddy roemer in the u.s. house, former roemer aide jim mccrery, a republican, and democratic state sen. foster campbell claimed spots in an april 16 runoff
roemer gave his backing to stan tiner, former editor of the shreveport journal, who finished third
a bid to forge a united opposition to the government of president roh tae-woo collapsed wednesday, with one faction accusing the other of sacrificing unity for power
kim dae-jung, head of the party for peace and democracy, told a news conference a merger with the rival reunification democratic party wasn't possible in time for the general assembly elections, expected to be held in april
kim said he would not follow the lead of his counterpart, former reunification democratic party chief kim young-sam, and step down from his party's leadership
the (reunification democratic party) made unreasonable demands, including my resignation,'' he said
opposition supporters split ranks last year when both kims ran for president, dividing the anti-government vote and allowing roh to win the presidency without a plurality
since then, public pressure has been on both to step down. kim young-sam resigned from his party's leadership in february. the resignation of both were seen as the key to merging the parties
kim dae-jung vowed to continue wednesday as supporters shouted ``no resignation!'' but he offered a compromise, saying that the parties should jointly support national assembly candidates as an interim measure
the reunification democratic party rejected the proposal, saying a merger is possible only if kim dae-jung resigns
this is a real betrayal of the people and democratic forces. at this point, the only and largest obstacle to reunification is kim dae-jung,'' the reunification democratic party said in a statement following kim dae-jung's news conference
kim dae-jung formed his party just prior to the presidential elections when he and his supporters bolted from the larger reunification democratic party
at stake in the elections are 299 seats. under a law adopted tuesday, 224 lawmakers must be picked in as many districts by popular vote and 75 others under a proportional representation system based on the total votes each party gets
roh was elected on dec. 16 in the first direct presidential elections in korea in 16 years
more than 250,000 people chanting ``rajiv must go!'' crowded outside parliament house on wednesday and demanded the resignation of prime minister rajiv gandhi and midterm parliamentary elections
the rally and a day-long strike in the indian capital were sponsored by the right-wing bharatiya janata party and the lok dal, a rural-based party
most shops in new delhi were closed, but government offices, banks and schools remained open. traffic was normal
the capital's 35,000-strong police force and another 5,000 paramilitary troops were deployed to maintain peace. police spokesman ravi pawar said no violence was reported
police said at least 250,000 people gathered for the rally. organizers claimed there were more than 500,000 participants
this mammoth gathering ... declares the congress (party) government at the center to be anti-laborers, anti-farmers and anti-rural,'' said a resolution adopted at the rally. both parties called upon opposition groups to unite and form a government in the next general elections
gandhi's congress party also faces a rally and strike sponsored by two communist parties and leftist opposition groups on march 15
the next general elections are not due until december 1989, although gandhi could call them earlier. gandhi's party holds 410 of the 544 seats in the governing lower house of parliament
the opposition has blamed gandhi's adminstration for failing to control inflation and impose law and order in northern punjab state, where at least 400 people have died this year in violent attacks by sikh separatists
gandhi's government also has been accused of corruption in its arms purchases from foreign companies
heigh-ho, heigh-ho, it's off to the barber we must go
workers at the disneyland hotel are now subject to a 31-year-old dress code established for employees at the amusement park across the street
facial hair is a no-no, so even the late walt disney would have had to shave his mustache to work at the hotel recently acquired by disney co
six of the seven dwarfs, uncle remus, captain hook and pinocchio toymaker gepetto would all be renegades working in the real-life world of disney
and men aren't the only ones bound to conform with the company's desire for a uniform ``wholesome'' look among employees
women will have to abandon slacks, heavy makeup, gaudy jewelry and wild hairdos. men will have to get haircuts, shave, and cover any tattoos

when disney co. assumed control of the hotel, its 1,600 employees fell under the dress code established for the magic kingdom in 1957. workers who rebel will be terminated
the reason that we are doing this is because the disneyland hotel is becoming part of disneyland attractions, and we have an appearance standard. ... it is associated with disney and is expected by our guests,'' said disneyland spokesman bob roth
disney officials are explaining the dress code to employees this week, with compliance expected virtually immediately
but some hotel employees said they'll rebel, including engineer mike searles, 40, who wears a handlebar mustache. ``i don't think it's right, and i'm not going to compromise,'' he said
high school students cooked up what they hope was the world's largest burrito to feed some of the city's needy and maybe earn a spot in the guinness book of world records
creating the 1,492-foot mexican specialty consumed 1,200 tortillas, 461 pounds of meat, 3,400 olives, 32 pounds of tomatoes, 14 pounds of onions, and 71 pounds each of salsa, sour cream and lettuce, said betty swan, cafeteria manager at lincoln high school
it took 400 students all of tuesday morning to put together the big burrito, she said
two members of the portland school board measured the burrito as it wound around the school's gym. ``i consider this a very solemn responsibility,'' said steve griffth, one of the board members
after the burrito was measured, it was divided among representatives of various social service agencies to be given to their clients
afghanistan on wednesday rejected a u.s. demand that the soviet union halt military aid to the afghan government as soon as the united states stops aiding the moslem insurgency
the dispute could become a major snag in u.n.-sponsored talks aimed at ending nine years of fighting in afghanistan and securing the withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 soviet troops
foreign minister abdul wakil of afghanistan flatly opposed the u.s. position, explained at a state department briefing friday, that there must be a ``symmetrical cessation'' of u.s. and soviet military aid
wakil said at a news conference that soviet assistance could not be compared to western aid to ``terrorist groups.''
he said afghanistan had received soviet assistance for ``68 years'' and would continue to do so ``even after the withdrawal of soviet troops.'' but he did not specify what kind of soviet aid afghanistan expected to receive
soviet troops entered afghanistan in december 1979 and are helping the marxist government battle the moslem resistance
the united states is the main supplier of arms to the guerrillas. aid reportedly totaled about $700 million in 1987, including the shoulder-fired ground-to-air stinger missiles said to have downed at least 200 soviet and afghan aircraft
wakil said the u.s. demand was bringing a new issue into the talks. he said another was pakistan's attempt to link a geneva settlement to the formation of a broad-based transitional government replacing the present soviet-backed one in kabul, the afghan capital
he said there had been no important developments in the talks since ``concessions'' by moscow and kabul led to an agreement friday on the timetable and logistics of a soviet withdrawal. u.n. mediator diego cordovez said this completed the main elements of a settlement
wakil accused pakistan of ``trying to kill time'' and maneuvering to ``push the geneva negotiations toward a stalemate'' by holding out for an interim government. he said the chief pakistani representative, acting foreign minister zain noorani, had returned ``empty-handed'' from weekend consultations in islamabad with the country's opposition leaders
noorani said early last week that pakistan would decide after those consultations whether it was prepared to sign a settlement with the afghan government under president najib, which it does not recognize
wakil, speaking as the latest round of the nearly 6-year-old talks entered its second week, said the afghan government would continue to push for a speedy settlement. he also stressed that his country was not setting a deadline after which it would leave geneva
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said last month moscow would bring home its troops starting may 15 if the settlement was signed by march 15. wakil said the start of the withdrawal depended on the date of the signing and suggested the 60-day time span would be retained
the navy on wednesday defended the pentagon's planned seawolf submarine, promising congress that the latest generation of attack subs would maintain u.s. undersea superiority far into the 21st century
vice adm. bruce demars, assistant chief of naval operations for undersea warfare, said the ssn-21 seawolf will have double the fire power and be faster, quieter and more survivable than the ssn-688 los angeles class sub, which the seawolf is expected to replace as the nation's chief attack submarine
the ssn-21 seawolf, which has been in the research and design stage for six years, has been criticized by some lawmakers who fear the sub is not advanced enough for the soviet's planned successor to their akula attack sub
but demars dismissed that notion, telling the house armed services sea power subcommittee that the seawolf is ``the foundation for far-term submarine superiority.''
repeated, objective analyses have concluded that seawolf and her sister ships will have three times the mission effectiveness of the improved ssn-688 and will restore the commanding technological and tactical margin which historically we have enjoyed over the soviets,'' demars said
last year, a house subcommittee tried to delay funds for the project, but congress restored the money. navy officials have warned that such a delay could severely damage the seawolf program and cause massive cost overruns
demars said the project now is on schedule and on budget
general dynamics corp.'s electric boat division and the newport news (va.) shipbuilding and drydock co., rival sub makers who traditionally have split scan-688 contracts, have been researching and designing the seawolf for the navy
peter yeo, an aide to rep. sam gejdenson, d-conn., whose district includes the electric boat shipyard at groton, conn., said seawolf proponents do not expect intense opposition again this year
opponents ``made their case last year and it didn't fly,'' yeo said
the first ssn-21 contract is expected to be awarded later this year, demars said. delivery is planned for late 1994
the first seawolf will cost $1.6 billion, and following subs will be about $1 billion, the navy estimates
demars said the seawolf costs about 25 percent more than the ssn-688, but predicted it would only be about 10 percent more over its 30-year life span because it has much lower operating and support costs
demars dismissed suggestions that the ssn-688 could be improved significantly. he said since the program began in 1976, the navy has ordered 4,600 improvements, and there is simply no more room left on the sub for new systems
he said a lack of room on the new ssn-688s has forced the navy to put bunks in the torpedo room and line some floors with canned goods
suggestions that the sub could be modified further are made by ``people who have obviously never been on these subs,'' demars said
meanwhile, demars dismissed a scenario posed rep. charles e. bennett, d-fla., chairman of the subcommittee, under which funds for a trident submarine would be delayed for a year and the savings would go towards building more ships
to delay the trident, which is our most survivable sub and best deterrent, would be the wrong signal to send to both the country and the soviets,'' demars said
the tridents, which carry long-range nuclear missiles, are made by electric boat. the government orders one a year
writers and editors of a dissident publication met the ambassador to afghanistan on wednesday to protest the jailing of a french journalist in afghanistan on spying charges, one of the dissidents said
alexander podrabinek, chief editor of the weekly express-chronicle said in an interview with the associated press that ambassador mohammadulah subhani safi met with six writers and editors for about 30 minutes
the dissidents were protesting the conviction of french journalist alain guillo, who on jan. 4 was sentenced in kabul to 10 years in prison
reading from a copy of the statement handed to the ambassador, podrabinek said, ``incarceration for fulfilling his (guillo's) journalistic duty is possible only in a barbaric country that does not value citizens' or human rights.''
the group demanded the release of guillo, 45, and said afghan authorities should allow him to leave the country
the ambassador accepted the group's statement but told its members their reliance on western media reports was giving them an inaccurate picture of the situation in afghanistan, podrabinek said
guillo, a filmmaker, was captured sept. 12, 1987, after he entered afghanistan with guerrillas of the afghan national front
state-run kabul radio said in announcing the sentence that guillo had entered afghanistan nine times since 1980 ``to prepare video films and cassettes, to carry out spying activities and to stengthen relations with armed opposition groups.'' trade</head>
rep. richard gephardt on wednesday acknowledged his dismal super tuesday showing but insisted ``the race is still on'' as he attacked two of his democratic presidential rivals on the trade issue central to his campaign
standing outside a textile mill threatened with closure, gephardt said of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and sen. albert gore jr. of tennesse, ``the bottom line is are they really for new policies.''
the fact is that gov. dukakis and sen. gore talk tough about trade,'' gephardt said, but they don't support policies that would reduce the nation's trade deficit
aides said gephardt's comments were a signal that he's sticking with trade as the central theme of his campaign
in the super tuesday polling, gephardt won only his home state of missouri. dukakis, gore and jesse jackson shared the spoils in the other super tuesday contests
still, gephardt vowed to stay in the race until the democratic national convention in july, and said he had enough money to do just that
the race is on,'' gephardt said. ``i'm not where i'd like to be but i think i have ample opportunity to make up lost ground and get back in the middle of this race and to win.''
mike nelson, a gephardt aide, said campaign is less than $100,000 in debt. ``our fund-raising has not let up at any of the dry points in the campaign,'' he said
we did not borrow, as others did, to run on super tuesday,'' gephardt said. ``maybe in retrospect we should have.''
gephardt made his comments at the first of a series of stops in south carolina, where he was campaigning for that state's caucuses on saturday. deputy campaign manager joe trippi said gephardt hopes for a second place showing behind jackson, who was born in south carolina
gephardt planned a farm rally later in the day before flying to michigan and illinois on thursday
illinois holds its primary tuesday, and the michigan democratic caucuses are march 26
but gephardt's aides said the results in illinois will be muddled because of two favorite sons, sen. paul simon and jackson. as a result, gephardt has characterized the michigan contest as the next major democratic showdown
he challenged gore to a contest outside his rival's native south
sen. gore has to show he can win outside of his region,'' gephardt said. ``he's going to have to go and show he can do well in illinois and michigan and the other states in the north and northeast
obviously it is clear i need to do well in michigan,'' gephardt said. ``when i get my message out to the voter i win.''
the missouri congressmen blamed his fourth place super tuesday showing on a lack of money. gephardt said he was only able to spend $1 million on television, less than one-third of what was spent by his rivals
voters, he said, ``didn't hear what i had to say. that was the problem.''
the cutting question is can i get my message to the voters.''
the textile plant where gephardt spoke employs about 500 people, and officials there said as many as 420 of those jobs could be lost by next month
plant manager harold simmons cited foreign competition and the depressed local economy as reasons for the potential closure
pat robertson won round 1, but republican leaders cautioned wednesday that the results of precinct caucuses could change at county-level meetings and the state convention
grassroots organizing in washington helped the former television evangelist prevent vice president george bush from repeating here the victories he recorded in the 16 states holding gop primaries on super tuesday
a sample of precincts taken by the democrats showed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with a slight lead over jesse jackson, 40 percent to 38 percent
with 71 percent of the state's gop precinct caucuses reporting, robertson led the republicans with 39 percent, kansas sen. bob dole had 26 percent and bush was third with 24 percent
but ``no candidate won a clear majority of delegates statewide,'' noted john meyers, executive director of the state republican party. ``this is a three-tiered system, and super tuesday was just the first step
now some coalitions will form. people have to start coming together to get votes for the next two steps. nobody has 50 percent of the votes by themselves,'' he said
state democratic chair karen marchioro was blunter, saying she would be ``very surprised if robertson came out of this state with any delegates.''
but if the proportions held during the later steps of delegate selection, robertson would get 16 delegates, dole 11, bush 10, kemp 3 and one delegate would attend the national convention uncommitted
of jackson's surprisingly strong showing behind dukakis, marchioro said, ``obviously, it's an organizational effort ... i think also that people like his message _ and that's everywhere in the state.''
official returns for the democrats won't be known until next week, after precinct leaders mail in their results. debt</head>
vice chairman manuel h. johnson of the federal reserve board told congressmen wednesday he opposes their plan for an international body to lift some of the debt burden from third world countries
he praised mexico's effort to exchange old debt for new bonds, saying it was based on the market and gave creditor banks a chance to adjust their holdings. critics have called the results disappointing
the mexican plan has resulted in a reduction of mexico's debt by $1.1 billion, said rodney wagner, vice chairman of the credit poliy committee at morgan guaranty bank. his bank sponsored the plan
mexico's debt is estimated at over $100 billion. total third world debt is expected to reach $1.45 trillion by the end of this year
johnson was sharply challenged by both democrats and republicans on the house banking committee. two of its subcommittees sponsored wednesday's hearing
rep. bruce a. morrison, d-conn., told johnson to ``stop setting up straw men and start working with us.'' rep. jim bunning, r-ky., asked how johnson could say that the debt situation has improved when the price of third world debt has been dropping on the world market
bunning cited quotations that indicated mexico's debt was selling at 57 to 60 cents on the dollar last may and 48 to 52 cents in november
johnson replied that the market is thin, easily influenced by relatively small deals. he said he expects it to turn upwards as a result of willingness by brazil and argentina to come to agreements with the international monetary fund. with mexico, they are the biggest third world debtors
bunning told morrison he does not believe that putting public money into a new international institution would solve the debt problem, and that public money is already going into the third world through the fund and the world bank. they are owned by 151 governments
morrison was influential in getting a plan for a new world body into the trade bill passed by the house. the proposed institution would buy up third world debt and package it for resale, giving debtor countries at least some of the benefit of the discount
police on wednesday identified a murder victim whose dismembered body was found in a freezer as a woman with a record of prostitution arrests
the body of kimberly hanlon, 30, a native of east liverpool, ohio, was discovered sunday by two teen-agers, police said. it was not known when she died, said detective maj. tom depolis
identification was made tuesday afternoon based on fingerprints from the woman's arrest record, which included several prostitution-related charges, depolis said. the last arrest was in august 1983, he said
ms. hanlon was last seen alive in early 1984 by a sister who lives in north tampa, depolis said. the sister told police she reported ms. hanlon missing in april 1984, depolis said, but police have been unable to find such a report
depolis said ms. hanlon was dead when her body was dismembered and placed in the freezer at the home of james warren bailey, who has been charged by police with first-degree murder. assistant state attorney michael benito said the state will seek a murder indictment when the grand jury meets next week
bailey was being held in the hillsborough county jail without bond
homicide capt. buzz sawyer said police don't know exactly when the woman was killed, but it apparently was between early 1984 and mid-1985, when james jr., 18, son of the suspect, said he first saw the body in the freezer but told no one about it
two teen-agers, the daughter of the suspect and a son of the suspect's girlfriend, ignored admonishments to stay away from the locked freezer on their back porch and pried it open sunday. they notified police
depolis said the cause of ms. hanlon's death was being withheld because of the investigation
while bailey remains the prime suspect, depolis said, ``we're not positive who caused her death.''
a man has been charged with criminally negligent homicide after he allegedly suffered a seizure while driving and struck and killed a pedestrian
bevis b. barker, 30, of albany, pleaded innocent tuesday to charges of criminally negligent homicide and offering a false instrument for filing. he was being held in lieu $25,000 bail
barker allegedly suffered an epileptic seizure and lost control of his car dec. 7. the car struck and killed 85-year-old christine towle
the seizure resulted from barker's failure to take medication, said chief assistant district attorney daniel dwyer. barker was on the way to a pharmacy to refill his prescription when the accident happened, according to his lawyer, joseph zumbo
dwyer noted that the state's highest court, the court of appeals, has ruled that if someone knows they have a disabling disease and fails to take required medication to control it, ``they are responsible for their actions under the theory of criminal negligence.''
the false instrument charge alleges that barker did not disclose that he has epilepsy when he applied for a driver's license in 1986
president reagan has nominated two air force generals for promotions and new assignments, the pentagon said wednesday
maj. gen. jimmie v. adams has been nominated for a third star and the rank of lieutenant general and elevation to the post of vice commander of the tactical air command, the pentagon said
adams, 51, is a native of prichard, ala., who is currently serving as the commander of tac's 1st air force. he will replace lt. gen. james r. brown, whom the pentagon said wednesday would retire on aug. 1 after more than 34 years of active service
brown, 57, is a native of bozeman, mont., who has served as tac's vice commander since september 1986
the president also nominated maj. gen. monte b. miller to receive his third star and to become the surgeon general of the air force. miller, 57, is a native of independence, mo., who is currently serving as the command surgeon for the u.s. european command
miller will replace lt. gen. murphy a. chesney as the air force's top medical officer
the 60-year-old chesney is retiring on aug. 1 after more than 33 years of active service, the pentagon said. chesney is a native of knoxville, tenn., who has served as surgeon general since august 1985
early models of the baby buddy clip-on pacifier holder are being recalled because of a potential choking hazard, the consumer product safety commission announced wednesday
about 9,000 of the holders were distributed nationwide in 1986 and 1987, officials said. they sold for about $3.95 each
while no injuries have been reported involving the holders, parents were urged to return them to the store where purchased for a free replacement. when tested, the small bear figure separated from the holder and thus could pose a choking hazard, officials said
new model holders can be distinguished by the two round holes in the back of the clip. there are no holes in the clip of the holders being recalled
recalled pacifier holders include those with a pink ribbon and white bear, blue ribbon and bear, yellow ribbon and brown bear, red ribbon and white bear and red ribbon and brown bear
persons needing more information can contact baby buddies inc., 615 jasmine avenue north, suite i, tarpon springs, fla., at 1-813-934-3359 or the safety commission at 1-800-638-2772
the state department expressed grave concern wednesday that northern ethiopia could face widespread starvation because of fighting between government and insurgent forces
spokesman charles redman said insecure conditions along roadways in tigray province caused an 8,000-ton shortfall last month in deliveries of emergency food supplies to the people in that area. the goal was 20,000 tons
we are gravely concerned that expanded fighting will prolong road insecurity, further complicating transportation difficulties and leading to depletion of food stocks and widespread starvation,'' redman said
he attributed the insecure conditions to insurgent activity and the inability by the ethiopian government to control it
we deplore the militarization of roads in northern ethiopia and the politicization of the famine precisely at a time when the people of the area are most vulnerable,'' he said
he said truck convoys are prepared to move when circumstances permit. food airlift operations sponsored by the united nations will continue, he said
tigray province is one of a number of regions in ethiopia facing severe food shortages which were partly caused by a drought last summer
according to u.s. estimates, the lives of between 6.7 million and 7.2 million people are at risk. the u.s. contribution to an international food relief effort is about 267,000 tons of food valued at approximately $108 million
vice president george bush never campaigned in the state, but ``the bush steamroller leveled maryland'' anyway on its way to a 16-state sweep of kansas sen. bob dole in the republican presidential race
in super tuesday's democratic primary, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis exploited a superb organization and the backing of sens. barbara mikulski and paul sarbanes to leave jesse jackson a distant second
sarbanes easily won nomination for a third term with 86 percent of the democratic vote. he will face millionaire republican businessman thomas blair, a newcomer to politics who drew 46 percent of the gop vote
bush's tally of 53 percent or 103,899 votes was stronger than the 48 percent ronald reagan polled in the 1980 gop primary here, when bush had 41 percent, according to republican officials
with all 1,574 precincts reporting, dole finished with 32 percent or 62,721 votes, former tv evangelist pat robertson was third with 12,891 votes or 7 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp tallied 11,581 votes or 7 percent
the bush steamroller leveled maryland like the rest of the south,'' maryland gop executive director nelson warfield said. ``i think bush did a little better than expected. the dole camp had great hopes.''
dukakis took 46 percent of the democratic ballots with 237,389 votes, while jackson had 150,129 votes or 29 percent
the voting was likely to give dukakis 47 delegates and jackson 20 delegates. bush was expected to receive all 41 republican convention delegates
dukakis was the best organized. it was a maryland-oriented campaign that used maryland people to organize maryland,'' said john willis, vice chairman of the maryland democratic party
willis said jackson maintained his base from 1984, improving his showing from 129,387 votes in 1984 to 150,129 votes in 1988
tennessee sen. albert gore, with 45,138 votes or 9 percent, finished third among democrats, followed by missouri rep. richard gephardt, 41,268 votes or 8 percent
aids may be causing an upsurge in tuberculosis in many countries, a world health organization researcher said wednesday
dr. gary slutkin said cases of tuberculosis have increased in regions worst hit by aids, including the united states, where the number of people with tuberculosis rose in 1986 for the first time in modern history
about 1,000 health specialists from 20 countries are attending the three-day first international conference on the global impact of aids. the meeting opened tuesday
slutkin, an epidemiologist with who's global program on aids, said acquired immune deficiency syndrome might trigger symptoms of tuberculosis in people already infected with the lung disease
the aids virus attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers. it is most often transmitted through sexual contact. other means of transmission include the sharing of contaminated hypodermic needles
in normal circumstances, 95 percent of ``people who are infected with the tuberculosis organism will go through life and never come down with tuberculosis,'' the researcher told reporters later
we know that immunosuppression can bring tuberculosis out into overt disease,'' he added
i think we should certainly expect to see increases in the number of cases of tuberculosis in the next five years,'' slutkin said. ``in fact, it's almost certainly already occurring in many countries.''
tuberculosis, or tb, is a contagious airborne infection that mainly attacks the lungs, causing coughs that can produce blood
once a worldwide scourge, tb is now relatively rare in industrialized countries and easily treatable with antibiotics. but the disease, known for centuries, is still rampant in developing regions such as southeast asia and central africa, which are poorly equipped to deal it
slutkin said an estimated 8 million to 10 million new cases of tb occur worldwide each year and about 3 million people die of it
he did not identify all the countries where there has been a rise in aids-related tb. but he said there were many, including the united states and central african nations
but he said there has been no rise in tb in southeast asia, where aids is not yet prevalent
as of feb. 29, the centers for disease control in atlanta had received reports of 54,723 americans with aids, 30,715 of whom had died
slutkin said the number of reported tb cases in the united states rose from 22,201 in 1985 to 22,768 in 1986 for the first increase in u.s. records
he said the largest increases in tb in the united states occurred in new york city, where the rate jumped by 50 percent to about 2,200 between 1981 and 1986. he said there also have been increases in tb rates in 25 states and in washington
he said that in africa, where aids is prevalent, 20 percent to 50 percent of tb patients tested positively for the aids virus. that rate is three to 20 times higher than the rest of the population
asked if tb programs in africa are adequate to cope with a surge in cases due to aids, slutkin said, ``no way.''
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. poured money into a television blitz and won nearly double the number of votes cast for his closest democratic opponent in oklahoma's presidential primary
with all 2,439 precincts reporting, gore had 162,511 votes or 41 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 82,565 votes or 21 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 66,226 votes or 17 percent, and jesse jackson had 52,431 votes or 13 percent
vice president george bush had 78,273 votes or 38 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 72,991 votes or 35 percent; robertson had 44,146 votes or 21 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 11,414 votes or 5 percent
based on those results, gore would win 23 of 46 delegates, gephardt would get 13, dukakis 7, and jackson 3. bush would get 33 of the state's 36 gop delegates, and dole would get the remaining 3
gephardt won the endorsement of three of oklahoma's four democratic congressmen, and was locked in a virtual tie with gore in pre-election polls
but the missouri congressman was outspent 3-1 by gore in oklahoma, with much of the money going for television advertising, said lt. gov. robert s. kerr, gephardt's campaign co-chairman
gore's biggest victory was in the 3rd congressional district, where he campaigned in a stop at muskogee in the final week of the campaign. the nearby town of gore is named for thomas p. gore, a former oklahoma senator who was a distant cousin of the candidate
super tuesday has proven that al gore is the candidate for mainstream democrats,'' said state sen. stratton taylor, co-chairman of the gore drive in oklahoma
bush emphasized his texas oil business background and visited the state a day before the primary. dole made five stops in oklahoma in the final week of the campaign, vising oklahoma city and tulsa twice
the army chief of staff was considering ordering israeli officers to carry weapons at all times following a bus hijacking by terrorists who first overpowered four unarmed officers, it was reported wednesday
in budapest, hungary, a plo official said the bus attack was not aimed at taking hostages but at entering the dimona nuclear facility in israel's negev desert
three israeli civilians were killed in the monday hijacking, which was later claimed by the palestine liberation organization
the three guerrillas were killed when israeli police stormed the bus, which was filled with workers headed to the dimona plant
the military command confirmed that lt. gen. dan shomron, the army chief of staff, was investigating the hijacking, but it refused to provide any details
before commandeering the bus, the guerrillas managed to seize a car containing four unarmed army officers, drive past police setting up a roadblock, keep ahead of a police van during an eight-mile chase, shoot at passing cars and hijack the bus while police looked on helplessly
shomron said monday that if the officers had been armed, they might have prevented the attack. their commander, col. zeev zachrin, sentenced each of the officers to 35 days in jail for ignoring orders to carry their weapons outside the base
the daily davar reported that shomron was considering ordering all officers to carry their weapons at all times anywhere in israel
police minister chaim bar lev defended police conduct in the hijacking. the israeli news agency itim quoted him as saying officers chasing the guerrillas could not fire at will because there were passenger cars on the highway
the daily haaretz said the police, who carried israeli-made uzi submachine guns, were outgunned by the guerrillas who used karl gustav and soviet-designed kalashnikov rifles which have a longer range
the police managed to shoot a hole in the tire of the seized car, haaretz reported. the police parked their van 20 yards away from the abandoned car and rushed for cover while the guerrillas kept firing in all directions
nearby, the driver of a bus carrying workers to the nuclear plant heard the shooting and opened his doors to let the passengers get away. police stopped shooting as the passengers rushed out, haaretz reported
the guerrillas took over the bus, where 11 passengers remained trapped. survivors later testified the guerrillas killed at least two of the hostages. the army is still investigating whether police or guerrillas shot the third victim
hekmat zaid, chief of the plo mission in budapest, told reporters wednesday, ``the aim of the palestinian commando action ... was not to take hostages, the plan of the plo's armed men was to enter the strictly guarded complex by overpowering the bus that carried the workers of the dimona nuclear center.''
zaid said the attack was ``only aimed against workers in a military establishment, an action against the israeli enemy,'' adding ``the fact is israel refuses international supervision over its negev nuclear station.''
we will increase our military action against israel,'' he said. corps; picks up 3rd graf pvs, for years</note>
china has agreed in principle to accept peace corps volunteers, foreign minister wu xueqian said today
in a speech at the national press club, wu said details of the program are still to be worked out, but that ``china has adopted a positive attitude on this matter.''
he called it ``an agreement in principle.''
there was no immediate public comment from the peace corps, the 27-year-old volunteer agency operating grass-roots aid programs in 64 of countries
an agency official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the corps had ``been interested for some time in seeing this. china could benefit from our programs.''
wu's announcement came during a question-answer session after a speech at the national press club. he also welcomed a reagan administration decision to lift sanctions on sales of new high technology to china because it is satisfied that country is not selling silkworm anti-ship missiles to iran
secretary of state george p. shultz informed wu during a meeting tuesday afternoon that the restrictions would no longer apply
for years, the united states has continuously increased the types of high technology products china could purchase from american companies. to protest the missile sales, however, the administration froze that process last autumn
we are encouraged by chinese statements and actions regarding iran's acquisition of chinese anti-ship missiles, silkworms,'' state department spokesman charles e. redman said
we have therefore decided to resume the export control liberalization process for china,'' he said
during a 40-minute meeting with president reagan on tuesday, wu also said his country would not stand in the way of a united nations resolution calling for an arms embargo against iran, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said
the united states has been trying for months to line up support on the u.n. security council for an arms embargo against iran designed to stop the 7-year-old iran-iraq war. the ban on weapons sales would be the second installment of a u.n. resolution last july calling for a truce in the war
u.s. officials who estimated in recent weeks that china sold $1 billion in weapons to iran in 1987 said they did not expect china _ a permanent member of the u.n. body _ to veto the arms ban. fitzwater's report on wu's meeting with reagan appeared to solidify that view
the spokesman quoted wu as saying ``if the overwhelming majority of the security council believed it should be adopted, including the arms embargo, that they are in favor, that there was no difficulty on their part in terms of that second resolution.''
the final step in the resolution would be soviet support. u.s. officials have said moscow appears willing to lift its objections to an arms embargo if it is accompanied by a short period of further diplomacy _ one last effort to get iran to agree to a cease-fire
fitzwater said of wu's assurances, ``it was our reaction, the president's reaction, that this was a very positive sign, a very strong expression of support and one, frankly, one we hope the soviet union would emulate.''
of all the weapons china has sold to iran, silkworm anti-ship missiles used in attacks on tankers in the persian gulf have caused the most consternation to neutral countries
the united states repeatedly protested to china about the sales last year, but since last autumn, u.s. officials have said they believe the chinese are o longer sending the missiles to iran
to the best of our information, they have not delivered any missiles since then,'' fitzwater said. ``they have indicated they are not sending missiles to the gulf, and we don't have any information to the contrary.''
while noting that china still remains a major supplier of conventional arms, he said, ``we think the fact that we have not detected any new missile shipments and their general attitude toward the iran-iraq war and the u.n. resolution _ that those are very hopeful signs.''
when iowa voters spoke they gave their blessing and momentum to presidential candidacies of bob dole and richard gephardt, but the day after super tuesday it looked like the rest of country wasn't listening
the big iowa winners were big super tuesday losers, while two of the biggest iowa losers _ vice president george bush and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee _ were riding high
gore had denounced the iowa caucuses as ``sort of like a roulette game _ it's not democracy in action.''
iowa caucus-goers responded in kind, giving the tennessee senator less than 1 percent of their votes. they gave more support to gov. mario cuomo of new york, who was insisting he was not a candidate
iowans weren't much kinder to bush. he finished third in the republican caucuses, not only far behind dole, but trailing an embarrassing distance behind former television evangelist pat robertson
exactly a month later, super tuesday weighed in and bush beat dole and robertson in 16 out of 16 republican primaries. on the democratic side, gephardt carried only his home state of missouri, while gore carried six states. paul simon, the other democrat treated well by iowans, was waiting for one last shot at survival in his home state of illinois
so, the question arises, is this it for iowa?
al gore may have demolished the theory that you've got to run in iowa and new hampshire,'' said white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. ``he is a very credible candidate and he did not make a major effort in iowa and new hampshire.''
it looks like the allure of the land of corn wears off by the time you get to the hominy grits,'' said john buckley, press secretary to rep. jack kemp, who failed to excite iowa voters _ or those anywhere else
but iowa still has its defenders
phil roeder, spokesman for the iowa democratic party, said the super tuesday results simply ``addressed one of the biggest criticisms a lot of people had of iowa, that it had too much influence.''
we learned last night that iowa certainly is not the beginning and the end of the campaign, it's just the beginning and a lot can change once things get rolling,'' said roeder
nelson polesby, a professor of political science at the university of california at berkeley and an expert on the nominating process, was another dissenter from the theory that iowa's importance was diminished by the super tuesday vote
it seems to me they (iowa and new hampshire) framed the alternatives for super tuesday quite successfully,'' said polesby. ``i think what it demonstrates is that front-loading is terribly important, having money ahead of time is terribly important.''
polesby said one might as well write off super tuesday since that southern-generated event did not produce the desired result of a conservative front-runner
as well as gore did on his home ground, the strong dose of southern events proved just as beneficial to two liberals _ massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson
david keene, who was a dole political adviser until he had a falling out with campaign chairman william brock, said having a small state or two at the start of the process is a good thing
guys without as much money who are not as well known can test and break through against a front-runner,'' he said. ``it gives you a ticket to the game. it doesn't necessarily and shouldn't necessarily mean you're going to win the game.''
soldiers shot three arabs dead and wounded 13 in the occupied lands wednesday, which the plo named ``martyrs day'' for the scores of palestinians killed by israeli bullets or beatings, army and arab reports said
arabs paralyzed commerce in the west bank and gaza strip with a general strike. protesters pelted soldiers with rocks, bottles and firebombs. the outlawed palestinian flag flew in dozens of locations
israel's divided coalition government refused to vote on whether to endorse a u.s. peace plan designed to end the violence that began dec. 8 in the territories israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967
many missed opportunities may be forgiven but a missed peace is unforgiveable,'' foreign minister shimon peres said in parliament after prime minister yitzhak shamir, his conservative rival, headed off a vote in the 10-member inner cabinet
wednesday's deaths brought to 87 the number of arabs confirmed killed by israeli gunfire or beatings in three months of violence. u.n. figures put the toll at 91, including five who died of tear gas inhalation
martyrs day'' was called in a palestine liberation orgnization leaflet distributed last week. the strike closed shops, halted public transport and kept most of the 110,000 arabs who work in israel away from their jobs, the army reported
in clashes near qalqilya, a west bank village 35 miles northwest of jerusalem, armored personnel carriers fired pebbles at protesters with a newly developed riot-control device, israel radio reported. it said the gravel-firing gun was used this week for the first time
associated press photographer anat givon saw five soldiers grab an arab teen-ager by the neck and drag him down the street after a clash in al amari refugee camp near ramallah on the west bank. troopers slammed a woman who tried to intervene into a wall
at silwad, 10 miles northeast of ramallah, troops opened fire on about 200 protesters who built street barricades, surrounded soldiers and stoned a passing israeli car, an army spokesman said
he said mohammed othman farris, 18, died of a bullet wound in the back and another palestinian was wounded in the leg
villagers told an ap reporter that a car taking farris to a hospital was held up at an army checkpoint for half an hour and soldiers took the wounded man away. they said he was bleeding from the mouth and they later were told farris had died
jamil hijazi, 19, was killed by gunshots to the chest in nearby turmas ayya villlage, the army and ramallah hospital officials said
bassem al badarin, 25, was shot in the heart in samu village near hebron, the palestine press service and arabic daily al quds said
ramallah hospital officials said they treated two other arabs from samu and nearby yatta for serious chest wounds and a palestinian from bir zeit, near ramallah, was admitted with a leg wound, the officials said
in the fara refugee camp near nablus, soldiers fired on hundreds of arabs who were throwing stones, bottles and metal pipes, wounding seven, the army reported. most were wounded in the legs, hands and rib area, said officials at al ittihad hospital said
they said a palestinian from masha, a village 15 miles west of nablus, was treated for a gunshot wound in the left leg. officials at rafidiyeh hospital in nablus said a palestinian from jenin, 20 miles north, was shot in the shoulder
peres and his center-left labor party had tried to force a vote in the decision-making inner cabinet on the u.s. peace plan
why did we reject the outstretched hand of peace because of imaginary fears?'' he asked in parliament after the attempt was defeated by shamir and his right-wing likud bloc
shamir said on army radio: ``i think we are forbidden to give in to pressure and accept this initiative. we are also forbidden to give up by not fighting, by withdrawing from this battlefield without presenting our position.''
secretary of state george p. shultz, presented the plan to arab and israeli leaders on a trip last week, and asked shamir to bring israel's response to washington for talks with president reagan on march 14. labor had hoped to commit shamir to accept it before he left
shamir's spokesman, yossi ahimeir, said the prime minister ``opposed most of the ideas'' in the u.s. plan and would try to get it changed
in ``lavalava'' sarongs, beneath the thatched roofs of a south seas hotel, and hours behind the rest of the electorate, samoans gathered for their moment in the super tuesday sun
no negative ads filled the airwaves. no tv anchorman or presidential candidate descended. and no exit pollster tapped the wisdom of the voters, all 36 of them. but an upset was in the making
the local democratic chairman had urged those attending the party caucus, choosing a three-member delegation to the democrats' convention, to vote ``uncommitted.''
we would rather wait to see where the trend is going ... who doesn't make the cut,'' said chairman utu r.m. sinagege
but american samoa gov. a.p. lutali hailed masschusetts gov. michael dukakis for his virtues as a fiscal manager, and american samoa's congressional delegate, fofo i.f. sunia, endorsed another presidential hopeful, rep. richard gephardt of missouri. by the time the party faithful left the rainmaker hotel, at the foot of lushly green rainmaker mountain, dukakis had one delegate, gephardt another, and ``uncommitted'' the third
the local party chiefs had scheduled the caucus for super tuesday to gain national attention for their pacific island territory, which in republican eyes does not even rate convention delegates
polls were already closed in most of the 20 super tuesday states when the three dozen democrats, many clad in traditional, brightly hued ``lavalavas,'' assembled here in pago pago, six time zones behind the u.s. east coast and 2,300 miles southwest of hawaii
it was a light turnout _ only one-tenth of those eligible. national committeeman glenn jones blamed it on the fact that the territory of 37,500 people has no electoral votes in november's presidential election
but samoans are deeply interested, nonetheless, in what goes on in washington
most of their local budget comes from the u.s. treasury, and government welfare payments, made to samoans on the u.s. mainland, often find their way here to the home islands, where few jobs are available beyond the government and two tuna canneries
the samoans' interest apparently is not reciprocated. party officials said tennessee sen. albert gore had pledged to call, but didn't. jesse jackson sent a box of campaign buttons, but sinagege said his son sold them to classmates for about 50 cents _ total
the lapel strategy may have had an impact, however. fourteen of the 36 votes went to dukakis, eight to gephardt, 12 were uncommitted, and the final two went to the man on the buttons. killed</head>
south african troops are moving farther north into angola to support rebel forces pounded in a three-day battle this week, government officials said this week
the officials said troops loyal to the marxist government killed 180 unita rebels and captured large quantities of south african-supplied equipment in the battle near cuemba in central bie province
this was a major battle and we expect more fighting in the area,'' said one of the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. he said the battle ``shows the south african incursion into angola is still moving north in conjunction with rebel forces.''
angolan government radio said government troops destroyed two south african-built armored personnel carriers and captured another along with south african arms and ammunition
unita, the national union for the total independence of angola, also is backed by the united states
the action was the farthest north unita has engaged government troops since it began driving them out of their southeastern strongholds when south african troops entered the area in october to help the rebels repulse a government offensive
cuemba is 375 miles north of angola's border with south african-ruled south-west africa, also known as namibia
in a statement in lisbon on wednesday, unita said rebels were enagaged in heavy fighting around cuemba. it said guerrillas killed 11 angolan soldiers and four cubans on monday in an attack on the nearby town of catabola
three weeks earlier, unita overran munhango, 40 miles east of cuemba
both cuemba and munhango are along the east-west benguela railroad, southern angola's vital transport link to landlocked zaire and zambia. unita has targeted the railroad during its 12-year bush war to press president jose eduardo dos santos' government for a power-sharing accord
our troops are holding cuemba,'' the official said
angolan defense minster gen. pedro maria tonha said monday in lubango, capital of the southern province of huila, that to take the strategic city of cuito cuanavale, south african forces fighting with unita ``have resorted to bombardment of our positions with long-range artillery because of the failure of their air attacks on the city.''
angolan authorities announced last month their forces fought off the third major south african-unita offensive against the garrison city of cuito cuanavale in three months
dos santos said an estimated 7,000 south african troops were in position around the city, with another 2,000 south african soldiers scattered around south-central cunene province
south africa acknowledged in november it was sending troops into angola to aid unita and has reported casualties among its forces in angola in the past two weeks
in december and january, the u.n. security council called for a total withdrawal of south african forces from angolan territory
the angolan officials confirmed cuban support troops are in place in the southern war zone but remain behind angolan front line positions. ``they are there if needed,'' one official said
cuba has said its has 40,000 troops in angola and has agreed with the government to withdraw the cubans from angola when south africa pulls out of the country, stops aiding unita and begins implementing a u.n. plan for namibian independence
south africa has demanded a cuban withdrawal first
the navy said wednesday it would launch a new guided-missile cruiser later this month in bath, maine
the uss normandy, a so-called aegis cruiser, will be launched during ceremonies on march 19 at the bath iron works, the service said in a statement
retired army brig. gen. john s.d. eisenhower will deliver the principal speech
the normandy, named after the massive allied landings in france that led to the defeat of germany in world war ii, is 567 feet long, 55 feet wide and displaces 9,500 tons
the aegis cruisers are considered the most advanced air-defense ships in the world, carrying a variety of missiles and gun systems for use against enemy aircraft and a wraparound radar system that allows them to ``see'' in all directions at once
michael dukakis won the lion's share of delegates at idaho's democratic caucuses, but jesse jackson did surprisingly well in what gov. cecil andrus saw as a protest vote
there are a lot of people who are turned off by the so-called establishment in any way,'' said andrus, who remains an uncommitted delegate and urged others to remain uncommitted
in this case, that is to his (jackson's) benefit,'' andrus said
in a state with only a tiny minority population, jackson waged a limited campaign but captured four of the state's 18 uncommitted delegates to the national convention. the massachusetts governor won eight delegates, and six will go to the convention uncommitted
party officials were pleased with the turnout, which in most cases was sharply higher than four years ago when the county caucus process was used for the first time
in ada county, two caucuses that drew less than 800 people between them four years ago attracted about 1,700 tuesday night
former governor john evans, who was state chairman for dukakis, said he felt dukakis was gaining recognition for his accomplishments, including the economic revitalization of his state
that's the message: it can be done,'' said evans
glenda jackson and christopher plummer have avoided broken legs and other major disasters traditionally associated with the staging of ``macbeth.''
but their broadway-bound production of shakespeare's blood-soaked tragedy hasn't been without problems
five weeks before the play arrives at the mark hellinger theater in new york for a 12-week run, the original director, kenneth frankel, has been dismissed and new sets and costumes at a cost of $250,000
we decided we had to make some moves,'' said co-producer garth drabinsky of toronto, owner of the cineplex odeon movie theater chain
the new director, robin phillips of canada's stratford festival, agreed to rescue the production but doesn't want his name on the program
there also are rumors of strife between the two stars _ although they appeared amiable enough upon arrival march 8 in toronto for 16 performances at the o'keefe center, where $1 million in advance sales set a box office record
when we found robin was free, it was a miracle,'' said plummer, a toronto native and hollywood veteran who earned critical acclaim for his iago in a 1982 broadway production of ``othello.''
it saved our necks,'' he added
we have been working almo  critics said frankel, an off-broadway obie award winner, lacked a cohesive vision of what ``macbeth'' was all about
miss jackson is tackling lady macbeth for the first time and finds passionate, erotic bonds between the murdering king and his ambitious wife
undoubtedly part of the attraction each has for the other is they both have largish sexual appetites. i've never thought that lady macbeth breathed life into a man of straw _ what would be attractive to her in a man like that?
it was a time when people were infinitely more passionate than they are now ... they see no alternative to what they are doing,'' she added
the challenge always is to make it clear to an audience that shakespeare is about real people. he's probably the most contemporary dramatist there is. i'm sure there's a mr. and mrs. macbeth walking around now.''
working with plummer for the first time, miss jackson repeated her old saw that it's not necessary to like fellow actors in order to put on a play
asked if he had done anything to make his co-star dislike him, plummer smiled and said: ``i constantly do.''
she chimed in: ``this is true.''
the production will be seen at boston's colonial theater from march 22 to april 3 and the shubert theater in new haven april 5-10 before one week of previews in new york. opening night is april 21
michael dukakis was a big winner on super tuesday and a hit in his ancestral country on wednesday, picking up the sort of television and newspaper coverage reserved for a native son
dukakis triumphs, all consider him a certain president,'' screamed a second edition banner headline in messimvrini, a conservative daily newspaper
dukakis, the massachusetts governor, won democratic primary victories in his home state, florida, texas, rhode island and maryland and caucuses in idaho and hawaii
the name dukakis has a great deal of recognition and the fact that he is a greek-american draws intense interest here,'' said messimvrini's chief editor, giorgos bertsos
dukakis' showing also was one of the top items on the state-run tv news
the conservative afternoon daily 24 hours, a national tabloid, ran a large color picture of a smiling dukakis on its front page. the left-wing eleftherotipia said he was ``the main winner among the democrats.''
the dukakis campaign has been closely followed by the greek press and many newspapers have run long interviews with the candidate
on tuesday, messimvrini ran four pages on the super tuesday contest under the headline ``the test of victory,'' with color pictures of dukakis taking up two pages in the middle of the newspaper
wednesday's left-wing newspapers also had in-depth reporting of the democratic and republican campaigns
dukakis and bush advancing steadily,'' headlined the left-wing afternoon daily proti above a half-page story
many newspapers played down the fact that dukakis had split the vote with sen. albert gore jr. and jesse jackson in the south. instead, they highlighted the governor's big wins in texas and florida
a bill revising the clean air act most likely would cost the economy $32 billion and 300,000 to 600,000 manufacturing jobs, a business group told congress on wednesday
in the worst case the cost could reach $73 billion and a million jobs, about 5 percent of the nation's manufacturing payrolls, the group said. the minimum cost was put at $14 billion, without a jobs estimate
we can't afford to be exposing ourselves to 30 to 70 billion (dollars) a year and expect to be part of the solution to the trade problem'' characterized by a $170 billion annual trade deficit, said david m. roderick, chairman of usx corp., in presenting a study of the air pollution bill approved by the senate environment and public works committee
the bill would require tighter pollution controls in several areas, including new controls on the precursors of acid rain from old power plants, and stricter requirements for motor vehicles. passage is by no means certain
roderick, who is chairman of the environment committee of the business roundtable, an organization of chief executives of large companies, told a news conference, ``a very high proportion of the money wouldn't do anything
... it would be the least cost-effective of all our nation's environmental laws'' as well as the most costly
he said congress should design measures targeted to areas of the country that don't meet clean-air standards
roderick used an example from his company's steel-making subsidiary, u.s. steel corp., saying the bill would ``go after your coke ovens in a horrendous way, it would go after your blast furnaces in a horrendous way ... you could not justify retrofitting some of those plants.''
though the company would have to spend $1.5 billion to $2 billion on compliance, some ovens and furnaces would be closed and ``we would import more semi-finished product.'' one of the company's most efficient plants found it would have to raise prices $25 to $40 a ton or roughly 6 percent to 8 percent
the company only recently resumed exports, which earn profits of 5 percent to 8 percent on sales. ``this would just wipe that out,'' roderick said
as for weaker steel companies, some of them operating under protection of the bankruptcy laws, ``they're dead; they're history,'' roderick said
manufacturing industry spending of $6 billion a year on air pollution control would rise to $26 billion, the study said
the study by r.m. dowd &amp; co., a washington consulting firm, pulled together findings from trade association and government agency studies. no estimates were possible for 22 of 43 provisions in the bill, roderick said
those omitted costs included costs to auto makers and their customers, already paying by some estimates $1,600 a car for pollution control equipment. ``the technology doesn't exist'' to go further. ``how are you going to estimate the costs?'' roderick said
richard ayres, chairman of the clean air coalition of environmental and other groups, said roderick's study was ``an elaborate, thick stack of back-of-the-envelope calculations ... probably two to four times too high.''
there is no estimate given here of the benefits'' of the bill, ayres said, adding that in his opinion a cleaner environment and less respiratory disease would be worth $32 billion a year
among estimates from the study of spending requirements:
_by industry as a whole except utilities, $10.4 billion on new controls of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, raw materials for transformation into acid rain, and on compounds that help form ozone
_by utilities, $9 billion on additional control of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides
_by industry, another $3.7 billion limiting emissions of highly toxic chemicals
_by petroleum refiners, $4.3 billion in changing fuel characteristics
_by local governments, $1.3 billion in auto pollution inspections
some expenditures like inspections would be necessary even if congress does nothing. the environmental protection agency has estimated its plans for ozone control could cost $8 billion a year
the study's $32 billion estimate was not out of line with earlier studies, which made different assumptions and omitted some provisions included by dowd
epa estimated the bill would cost $16 billion to $24 billion in addition to the $8 billion the agency's plan would require. the congressional research service estimated $14 billion to $28 billion. the senate committee report estimated costs at $16.87 billion
the 50th anniversary of austria's annexation to nazi germany finds austria's youth beginning to question the country's past, the validity of democratic institutions today and prospects for the future
political leaders, analysts and historians have called on members of the world war ii generation to teach austria's youth about the events that led up to the anschluss on march 11, 1938, and austria's involvement in the war and the holocaust
over the two years since the first disclosures that president kurt waldheim had covered up his service with the nazi army, a nationwide debate has raised political awareness among austria's youth and often pitted young against old
in a strongly hierarchical society that has traditionally ducked conflict, youth began in the late 1970s to question the maxims they inherited from their parents
these included the silent consensus of postwar generations to keep quiet about the war and not to provoke open conflict
for some young people, the waldheim debate has sharpened their growing political awareness and unwillingness to accept things just as they are
many young austrians who voted for waldheim in 1986 now say they made a mistake in voting for him and in failing to inform themselves about the candidates
a panel of historians appointed by the austrian government issued a report last month that said waldheim was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities when he was a lieutenant in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt to prevent them. it left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime
whole generations were not taught about the 1930s and 1940s in school. even many austrians under 30 say that by the time they finished school their history teachers had reached only the end of world war i
by contrast, many teen-agers today receive comprehensive and objective lessons on the events that led to world war ii and the holocaust from teachers young enough to be distant from those events
socialist chancellor franz vranitzky told foreign journalists recently that his teen-age children ``do not find it embarrassing or painful'' to discuss the war years because they are not preoccupied with their own involvement
austria's youth ``has read more, traveled more, is more open, more liberal and more tolerant'' than earlier generations, said josef figl, head of an 11,000-member catholic student group
sociologist silvio lehmann said the level of education rose tremendously in the 1970s and 1980s, increasing interest in politics. he cited protests against the zwentendorf nuclear facility, which led to a 1978 referendum in which austrians voted against nuclear power
in december 1984, demonstrators clashed with police in hainburg on the danube to protest a planned hydroelectric plant environmentalists say would destroy a unique natural landscape
the clash shocked and outraged many austrians in a country where confrontations with authorities have been rare since the street battles between socialists and conservatives in the 1930s
memories of that violence prompted all political parties to bury their differences after world war ii in public consensus and reconciliation
psychologist erwin ringel, author of ``the austrian soul,'' said that after the war austrians ``threw themselves into rebuilding the country to avoid rebuilding the soul.'' he said waldheim symbolizes that suppression of the past
robert koschin, 27, of innsbruck, said the younger generations' growing interest in the past has reversed the parent-child role
the children are giving their parents their experiences and knowledge,'' making older generations more willing to discuss the ``blocking'' of the past, he said
many austrians perceive their country as adolf hitler's first victim, but many leading nazis were austrians
as in west germany, austria's parents have struggled to shelter their children from the deprivation they knew immediately after the war, showering them with the benefits of a rebuilt consumer society
now the economy and an extensive social welfare system are beginning to falter, with 6.7 percent of youth unemployed and much of the state-owned industry running heavy deficits
it is depressing for a generation that was born into having everything to have to fight for things that were taken for granted,'' koschin said. ``it is the first time people are confronted with having to do something themselves.''
the alleged chief of a smuggling ring that imported cocaine through cuba was ordered held without bond wednesday after prosecutors played a tape of the defendant saying ``the money went in fidel's drawer.''
reinaldo ruiz, 50, a cuban-born u.s. citizen, was indicted along with 16 others last month on charges of flying drugs from colombia through cuba and other caribbean islands
it was the third miami drug indictment involving alleged cuban connections since october
on a secretly recorded videotape played for u.s. magistrate william turnoff during a pre-trial detention hearing, ruiz is heard telling an informant, ``i am the only one that has connections'' in cuba
then, apparently referring to payoffs, ruiz states, ``the money went in fidel's drawer.''
ruiz never identified cuban president fidel castro as the ``fidel'' he was referring to, and prosecutors refused to comment on the statement
castro has strenuously denied any involvement in drug smuggling
but last month's indictment of panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega here alleges the cuban leader mediated a drug payoff dispute between the general and the medellin cartel, a colombian ring responsible for up to 80 percent of u.s. cocaine imports
and an indictment in october charged that another drug ring routinely used cuba as a waystation for cocaine shipments
no cuban officials were indicted in the most recent case. but prosecutors say the conspirators used a cuban military base to ship drugs, and promised an informant an escort of cuban coast guard vessels for a cocaine shipment
the indictment accuses ruiz of heading the smuggling ring which allegedly imported cocaine from colombia through cuba, haiti and the bahamas to mexico and the united states
assistant u.s. attorney thomas mulvihill asked that ruiz be held until trial, contending he is a danger to the community and may flee. ruiz faces trafficking charges and a continuing criminal enterprise count that carries a maximum life sentence
turnoff agreed to hold ruiz, over objections of defense attorny alvin entin
the government appears to have a very strong case,'' said turnoff
besides ruiz, the tapes showed a woman named rosa and ruiz's son rubin, who is also a defendant in the case. a cooperating informant was out of camera during the part of the tape shown in court
the elder ruiz has not entered a plea in the case
italian designers are coming on strong at the fall-winter collections, scoring with new ideas that include waist-skimming jackets, pants and skirts
the mood is buoyant as store buyers jostle to place their orders
before the shows started, there was fear that the low buying power of the dollar would adversely affect orders. and there were also considerable jitters regarding all the publicity given recently to the fantasy fashions of paris-based designer christian lacroix
the italians were worried that the success of their more sober type of elegance would be compromised. but their fear of this two-headed bogeyman appears to have been unjustified. and what's more, the sun has shone from a cloudless blue sky throughout, putting everybody in a good mood
laura biagiotti, the designer who lives and works out of a medieval castle nestling in the countryside outside rome, showed styles that were perfect for an elegant castle dweller
there were soft cashmere ``horse blankets,'' ideal for keeping out the chill along the ramparts. they wrapped up comfy sweater-dresses, over-size twinsets or slim-fitting pants, all in flat knit
daytime colors were rustic: oatmeal, moss-green and maize. and there was moderation in the details with a more natural shoulderline, flat-heeled footwear and skirt-lengths just a fraction above the knee
biagiotti took paisley-patterned fringed head scarves in fine wool and fashioned them into wraparound skirts and did an attractive series of that fashion indispensable, the ever-popular little black dress in velvet or silk crepe
on a completely different wavelength was the baby doll look of the collection designed by muriel grateau for complice. models, with elfin hairdos, wore short, high-waisted styles with tight-fitting bodices and jauntily gathered skirts
a brand-new girlish look for coats in double wool crepe featured a shoulder-framing cape collar and a broad martingale belt that tied tightly in a bow at the waist in back
party dresses came in the same style with waist gathers transferred to just under the bust while mini-skirts were decorated with frills and ribbon cockades
almost all the clothes at complice came in a rich titian red, lace-up shoes and stockings included
there is a certain style that the italian designers have always done beautifully: understated but elegant tailored blazers, well-cut pants and loose top coats in men's-type smooth woolens
it is a look that is timeless and unbeatable, and the women of milan love it. basile did it for them again, tucking pants into the newly fashionable winter boots and putting velvet on collars for an even more well-bred air
six men were arrested wednesday on the new york state thruway after a downtown shooting that left one man dead and two others seriously injured, police said
the three men were shot shortly after 8 a.m. in a second-floor apartment, said police sgt. bob wolfgang. one victim, who was critically injured, managed to flee the apartment and call police, wolfgang said
the wounded men, both in their 20s, underwent surgery at albany medical center hospital, said hospital spokesman greg mcgarry. their identities were not released
the man who was in critical condition suffered multiple wounds to the head and neck, mcgarry said
wolfgang would not say if the shootings were drug-related, but said a drug raid had taken place earlier in the morning at a nearby residence. automatic weapons and a shotgun were apparently used in the shootings, he said
about two hours after the shooting, state police stopped a sedan about 70 miles south of albany, said state police sgt. william nolan. the car was carrying six men who were taken into custody, said maj. wayne bennett. they were taken to the loudonville state police barracks and were being questioned, but no names were immediately released
a woman who apparently was at the apartment at the time of the shooting was also taken to the hospital for observation, authorities said. she had not been shot
a british transport plane headed to the falkland islands for military exercises had engine trouble and made an emergency landing in uruguay after reportedly being denied permission to land in brazil
in neighboring argentina, the government news agency telam reported the emergency landing and said the aircraft contained ``a shipment of bombs and explosives.'' it did not elaborate
both telam and radio montecarlo in uruguay reported that the plane landed at montevideo's carrasco international airport on tuesday night after brazil refused to let it land there
british officials said only that the aircraft encountered engine troubles while heading to the islands and requested emergency authorization to land
the hercules c-130 aircraft, carrying a crew of seven, was en route to the falkland islands for military exercises that have been denounced by argentina, which has claimed the islands since 1833
argentina calls the islands the malvinas and fought a 74-day war with britain over them in 1982 before surrendering
telam said without elaboration that argentine foreign minister dante caputo was ``in telephone communications with his uruguayan counterpart, luis barrios tassano.''
the aircraft was in protective custody of uruguayan soldiers at carrasco airport, said an air control tower spokesman who would not give his name
the british exercises, which simulate an argentine attack on the islands, are scheduled to last until march 31
pat robertson was humiliated by a third-place finish in his southern backyard, while a strong black showing boosted jesse jackson to victory as many white voters shunned virginia's primaries
robertson lagged far behind super tuesday's super winner, vice president george bush, who captured the republican primary with 103,743 votes or 53 percent to kansas sen. bob dole's 50,191 votes or 25 percent, with 93 percent of the 1,986 precincts reporting
jackson's easy win in the democratic primary with 162,355 votes or 45 percent was based on a large turnout by black voters, who cast 40 percent of the ballots in the democratic primary, said larry sabato, a political scientist at the university of virginia
whites virtually boycotted the democratic primary,'' he said wednesday
tennessee sen. albert gore was next with 80,650 votes or 22 percent, followed closely by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with 78,141 votes or 22 percent. missouri rep. richard gephardt was fourth with 16,082 votes or 4 percent
jackson captured 38 delegates, gore had 22 and dukakis won 15
sabato said the ``abysmal'' voter turnout _ about 21.5 percent of the 2.6 million virginians eligible _ should have helped robertson. the former virginia beach television evangelist was believed to have the most committed followers of all the gop candidates, but their impact was not felt at the polls
no one thought robertson would do so poorly,'' he said. ``this is a real humiliation for him.''
robertson captured only 29,556 votes or 15 percent. new york rep. jack kemp was next with 8,696 or 4 percent. no delegates were selected in the non-binding republican primary. another missile into tehran and u.s. convoy; adds 2 grafs at end with more on convoy.</note>
missiles exploded in baghdad and tehran on wednesday and artillerymen shelled border cities in the 10th day of random attacks on civilian targets that have killed or maimed hundreds of people
iran said 35 were killed in tehran and iraq reported deaths in baghdad, but did not give figures. the missile duel that began feb. 29 is the latest round in the ``war of the cities,'' which has cost thousands of lives since the iran-iraq conflict began in september 1980
a kremlin official acknowledged wednesday that the soviet union furnished short-range missiles to iraq, but said modifying them so they could reach tehran was not part of the deal. iran had accused the soviets of providing the weapons, and a mob tried to storm the soviet embassy in tehran on sunday
in the persian gulf, shipping officials confirmed a raid by iraqi warplanes tuesday on the 101,977-ton felicity, a cypriot-flag tanker under charter to iran. they said the ship sustained minor damage
the raid ended a three-week lull in attacks on commercial shipping by both sides that have damaged more than 400 vessels
american warships escorted the u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tanker sea isle city down the gulf wednesday. it was the tanker's first trip since being hit by a silkworm missile iran fired into the kuwaiti anchorage in october
iraq said it fired three surface-to-surface missiles into tehran on wednesday. iran said 35 people were killed and 120 wounded by those rockets and another that fell on the city the night before
it said iranian gunners fired two missiles at baghdad. dispatches from the official iraqi news agency said only one hit baghdad but it demolished houses and stores, ``killing or wounding numbers of civilians.''
iran claims to have fired 25 missiles into baghdad and several at other iraqi cities. iraq has reported 47 missiles launched, all but five at tehran
casualties in tehran totaled 157 dead and more than 420 wounded through wednesday, according to official iranian reports. iraq has reported ``many'' civilians killed or wounded, but has not given figures
reports from iraq said iranian artillery pounded the southern port of basra during the night, killing ``many civilians,'' and later poured shells into qurnah and zubair, to the north and south of basra respectively
it said the shells hit densely populated residential areas of basra and the dead included four children buried in the rubble of their home
the iraqis said their warplanes raided military and economic installations in several towns or cities of western iran
gennady i. gerasimov, spokesman for the soviet foreign ministry, said in moscow: ``the soviet union previously delivered a limited shipment of short-range missiles'' to iraq. ``we never gave our permission to modify those missiles to increase their range, and modernization was not foreseen by that agreement.''
western military analysts had said the missiles were soviet-built scud-b weapons provided by other countries, possibly north korea, to which the iraqis attached boosters enabling them to reach tehran
both sides have scud-bs, which have a range of 190 miles. western experts say iran's missiles are supplied by its arab allies syria and libya
baghdad is within easy range 80 miles from the border but tehran and the iranian holy city of qom, which also has been rocketed, are nearly 300 miles from the frontier
a u.s. navy official, who could not be identified under navy rules, said the 81,283-ton sea isle city and 79,999-ton chesapeake city were part of the 16th convoy of reflagged kuwaiti tankers this year. he said the missile frigate uss simpson was accompanying them
eleven kuwaiti tankers have been given u.s. flags and registration so the navy can protect them. convoys began in july
incineration of obsolete chemical weapons will resume this week at this remote desert installation, where disposal operations were shut down after a nerve gas leak 13 months ago
work began tuesday to prepare equipment for renewed destruction of m-55 nerve gas rockets at the chemical agent munitions disposal system, said depot spokesman w. allen kenitzer. disposal operations were to begin by week's end, he said
the army is using the facility to test equipment and procedures it eventually will use to destroy the nation's aging chemical agent stockpile. the size of the chemical arsenal is classified but has been estimated at 30,000 tons
on jan. 28, 1987, a small quantity of deadly liquid nerve agent leaked from an incinerator. no injuries were reported, but the army closed the plant pending an inspection and review of management problems that allowed the leak to occur
corrective actions included increased quality control, tougher requirements on plant filter units and stricter emphasis on monitoring and maintenance, kenitzer said
the tooele facility has disposed of 38,000 missiles, shells or bombs filled with nerve or mustard agent since operations began in 1979
the depot is one of nine chemical storage sites officials plan to use for incineration of old chemical arsenals using the tooele model
the splintered results of the south's regional primary gave both its architects and its detractors room to claim they were right about super tuesday
super tuesday succeeded,'' said one who was present at its creation, former gov. charles robb of virginia. he saw his state go to jesse jackson but his own candidate, albert gore, establish his candidacy in much of the rest of dixie
super tuesday is not what i hoped it would be,'' said florida's state democratic chairman, charles whitehead. his state and texas, the two big delegate prizes of the south, went to northerner michael dukakis
the sharp, three-way division of democratic winners means no one will likely clinch the nomination before the convention in atlanta, former president jimmy carter said
i was surprised at how well gore did,'' carter said. ``i thought (richard) gephardt would do better in the south.''
twenty states held democratic primaries on super tuesday, including the 14 southern and border states and six others, including dukakis' own massachusetts
in total popular vote, the result was a near-equal division among the three winners. jackson, the black candidate, won the most votes with 2.54 million, or 27 percent. dukakis got 2.51 million, or 26 percent, and gore got 2.46 million, also 26 percent
super tuesday pretty much guarantees a protracted struggle for the democrats,'' said merle black, political science professor at the university of north carolina. none of the candidates, he said, displayed the strength needed to defeat the republicans in november
super tuesday was largely a democratic creation, led by southern democratic legislators. but it was the republicans who got the decisive winner, george bush
the great republican fear was that pat robertson would emerge as a strong, divisive force,'' black said. ``that possibility has pretty well dissipated.''
texas state sen. chet edwards, one of the sponsors of the bill that created texas' entry into regional primary, declared the day ``a real success story.''
i think the biggest myth that non-southerners have about super tuesday was that it was set up to assure the nomination of a conservative anglo southerner,'' said edwards
instead, he argued, super tuesday had wide support among hispanic and black minorities in texas. the goal, he said, was not to nominate a conservative or a southern candidate but to give the south a voice early in the nominating process, before the choices had been too narrowed
it speaks well for the south and for michael dukakis that the governor of massachusetts can come to the south and address the issues and win,'' said edwards
but even some of its boosters acknowledged super tuesday may have been a bit of overkill, with 20 states voting. if the idea survives, some say there may at least be a reduction in the number of states holding primaries on the same day
the wide battleground, coming just three weeks after new hampshire's primary, put a premium on television advertising and the money it takes to buy it
candidates fell back on the one proven method of moving large numbers of voters in a short time span: negative advertising. dukakis and gore blistered richard gephardt with tough negative ads that took their toll
each of the other three beat expectations,'' said former party chairman robert strauss. ``it came out of dick gephardt's hide.''
and super tuesday also said something about the hoopla surrounding iowa's caucuses, the first event of the season and the one that seemed to get the most attention. its winner was gephardt, the big loser of super tuesday
south africa may have aided canoe-borne raiders who staged an abortive coup attempt in the west african island nation of sao tome and principe, it was reported wednesday
officials said security forces captured 43 armed men who landed in fishing canoes before dawn tuesday on beaches near sao tome, the capital of the marxist nation 100 miles west of gabon
president manuel pinto da costa said in a national radio broadcast that soldiers, police and militiamen were searching for two remaining members of the assault force. he appealed for calm and vigilance against renewed attacks
the portuguese news agency lusa said celestino da costa, prime minister of the two-island nation, identified one of the captured assailants as afonso santos. it said he was leader of an opposition group that sought asylum two years ago in south african-ruled south-west africa, also known as namibia
lusa said 76 sao tome exiles arrived by boat in south africa-ruled namibia in may 1986 and sought south african aid to overthrow the government of pinto da costa
the agency said a south african foreign ministry spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, acknowledged the south african government had granted asylum to the refugees. but he denied reports that it trained about 100 refugees from sao tome and principe to overthrow the government, lusa said
da costa, whose sao tome and principe liberation movement has governed since independence from portugal in 1975, blamed the opposition national resistance front. the front is based in libreville, the capital of pro-western gabon
the lisbon-based secretary-general of the front, quintiliano amado, denied it was behind the attack. but he said it may have been carried out by dissidents within his movement
earlier wednesday, informed sources in sao tome and principe told the associated press that government opponents, possibly based in gabon or south africa, were suspected in the raid, which left two attackers dead and one assailant and a policeman wounded
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said investigators would seek information about sao tome exiles expelled from gabon to south africa two years ago
they said the attackers were armed only with light weapons and that angolan troops stationed on the islands were not called to assist in capturing the raiders. they said the army was no longer securing key facilities and life had returned to normal
the two volcanic islands of 110,000 people are known chiefly for their white sand beaches, coffee and cocoa plantations, and brightly colored tropical birds
but attention was focused on their strategic position in the gulf of guinea in 1978 when rumors of an imminent invasion swept the country. cuba, angola and guinea-bissau sent troops to help defend the islands
the invasion never happened, but the country since has strengthened its ties with angola, cuba and the soviet union. news reports in 1984 said about 2,000 soviet and cuban troops were operating two radio stations and a submarine port in the area
an estimated 1,000 angolan troops also are stationed in sao tome and principe to support the regular army. counties</head>
long-distance telephone service for more than a quarter-million customers in santa barbara and part of san luis obispo counties was cut off wednesday after a cave-in at an excavation project damaged a major phone line, officials said
gte california co. said it has 196,000 residential and 68,000 business customers in the affected area
the excavation accident in los angeles kinked the only major long-distance line into the affected region, said american telephone &amp; telegraph co. spokeswoman kelly williams. at&amp;t owns the line, but rival long-distance carriers mci and sprint lease space on it, she said
telephone customers in the affected area could not call out to or receive calls from other areas of california or out of state, officials said. calls within the affected area weren't affected
ms. williams said the line was expected to be repaired by mid-afternoon. the accident occurred about 9:30 a.m
the nation's industrial heartland will prosper in the next few years, but lagging population growth threatens the region's political clout and share of federal programs, a public policy group said wednesday
the hemorrhage of jobs from the region was another point of weakness in the 18 northern states stretching from minnesota to new england, the northeast-midwest institute said in its study, ``the state of the region.''
the short-term economic outlook for the entire region is positive,'' the report said. the region shared in the national return to prosperity from 1983 to late 1986, with new england benefiting the most and the midwest the least
however, the study warned that the region's well-being is endangered by the failure of its population growth to keep pace with the rest of the nation's
the trend is expected to continue through the turn of the century,'' the study said. ``government researchers expect population in the northeast and midwest to grow at only 3.8 percent throughout the 1990s, about half the national average.''
the sunbelt states in the south and west will show population increases of 10 percent in the 1990s, the study said
the lagging population gains in the northeast and midwest result both from lower birth rates and migration to southern and western states, the study said
slower population growth translates into less clout in congress, with the region expected to lose 14 house seats after the 1990 census. the region lost 15 seats after the 1980 census, for a total projected loss in representation of 13 percent in the 1970s and 1980s, the study said
political influence, from the selection of the president in the electoral college to appropriation fights in the house of representatives, will shift further to the south and west,'' the study said. ``moreover, because billions of dollars are allocated by formulas based on population, the northeast-midwest region can expect reductions in its share of federal funding.''
although unemployment dropped below the national average in parts of the region, it was unlikely to regain many of the 1.3 million manufacturing jobs lost between 1980 and 1986, the study said
the south and west for the first time topped the northeast and midwest in manufacturing employment in 1986. the sunbelt had 9,542,500 employees on manufacturing payrolls, compared with 9,394,000 in the northeast and midwest
other points made by the study were:
_per capita personal income increased faster in the northeast and midwest than in the south and west
_the northeast and midwest invested more in public school education than did other regions
_the trend toward an older population was more evident in the northeast and midwest than in the rest of the country
the study covered these states: connecticut, delaware, illinois, indiana, iowa, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, ohio, pennsylvania, rhode island, vermont and wisconsin
the privately funded northeast-midwest institute was formed in 1977 at the request of members of the house and senate from the region. the study was also sponsored by two legislative groups: the northeast-midwest congressional coalition and the northeast-midwest senate coalition
sen. albert gore jr. swamped his fellow democrats in his home state and on wednesday predicted that his victory in five presidential primaries proved his campaign can survive a national contest
two or three days ago, the conventional wisdom ... through the country was that super tuesday was going to see the end of al gore's campaign. the conventional wisdom was wrong,'' gore said. ``sooner or later, it's going to stop being a surprise.''
with all 2,391 precincts reporting, gore had 414,569 votes or 72 percent; jesse jackson received 118,615 votes or 21 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 19,268 votes or 3 percent and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 8,657 votes or 2 percent
in the republican race, vice president george bush had 151,130 votes or 60 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 54,493 votes or 22 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 31,402 votes or 12 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 10,871 votes or 4 percent
based on those results, gore would take 56 democratic delegates and jackson would get 14. bush would capture 29 of tennessee's 45 gop delegates, dole 10 and 6 would go to the national convention uncommitted
gore predicted his super tuesday showing would propel him to the democratic nomination to face bush in november and ``bring the party back to the grass roots and make a fresh start for america.''
gore, who will be 40 on march 31, likened himself to the late john f. kennedy
in 1960, we replaced the oldest president then to serve with the youngest to be elected,'' he said. ``we have a chance to do it again.''
about 150 jackson supporters cheered as they watched election returns tuesday night in nashville
i think it's a victory,'' said jackson's tennessee chairman, state rep. lois deberry. jackson would have carried tennessee if gore hadn't been in the race, she said. routs dole</head>
white voters who joined ranks with jesse jackson in a state once known as a bastion of segregation helped put him over the top in alabama's democratic primary
in the republican contest, vice president george bush swept to victory atop a record turnout on super tuesday. bush picked up an estimated 35 of the state's 38 gop delegates, with kansas sen. robert dole apparently getting the other three
among democrats, jackson gained an estimated 30 delegates, but tennessee sen. albert gore jr. ran stronger than expected in his neighbor state and appeared to be pulling the remaining 26 delegates
for the jackson forces, the victory was particularly sweet in the cradle of the confederacy, where blacks were routinely denied the right to vote before the 1965 voting rights act
jesse jackson's message has touched the hearts of many in the south,'' said his state coordinator, youlanda curtis. the victory ``shows that alabama is progressing. alabamians should be proud, both black and white.''
al lapierre, executive director of the alabama democratic party, estimated that jackson received as much as 5 percent of the white vote in addition to overwhelming black support, helping to give the former minister the margin of victory
with 3,788 of 4,304 precincts or 88 percent reporting wednesday, jackson had 165,570 votes or 44 percent to gore's 139,892 votes or 37 percent. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis was next with 28,949 votes or 8 percent and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 27,997 or 7 percent
the gop turnout appeared headed toward 230,000, defeating the 1980 record of 211,000 for a republican presidential primary in the state
with 3,713 of 4,304 precincts or 86 percent reporting, bush had 127,937 votes or 64 percent, dole followed with 32,274 or 16 percent, pat robertson was third with 28,174 or 14 percent and new york rep. jack kemp had 9,739 or 5 percent
democrat bob kerrey burst onto the political scene in 1982 by winning the governorship in a state dominated by republicans, then made the gossip columns with his romance with actress debra winger
the free-wheeling style that carried him to the governor's mansion in his first political campaign won't change much as he seeks election to the u.s. senate, kerry said
unopposed for the democratic nomination in the may primary, kerrey has been campaigning for several months but planned to formally announce his candidacy thursday
two republicans, incumbent sen. david karnes and rep. hal daub, are battling for the gop nod. karnes was appointed by gov. kay orr to fill the seat after the death last year of incumbent democrat edward zorinsky
despite his frequent assertions when he left the governor's mansion in 1986 that he didn't know if he would again seek public office, kerrey was regarded by political observers as a possible senate candidate. when zorinsky died of a heart attack, kerrey was seen as his party's best hope
i had to decide if i would enjoy this, if i wanted to serve and whether i wanted a public or private life,'' kerrey said
a war hero who earned the medal of honor and lost part of a leg as a navy commando in vietnam, kerrey became a successful entrepreneur who owns several restaurants and then a successful politician
he became an intregral part of the democratic scene when he worked for gary hart in 1984, and was instrumental in hart's victory in the nebraska primary
part of his personal notoriety came from his relationship with winger, who married actor timothy hutton a few years ago
kerrey, 44, is ready and willing to discuss his campaign, but he usually deflects questions about winger
we are friends,'' he said recently. ``i don't know that there is anything else to be said.''
he is divorced and the father of two children. ben, 13 and lindsey, 11, live in texas with their mother
an interview with kerrey is often peppered with off-the-record asides, some self-deprecating and some reflecting that he doesn't appear to take himself too seriously
kerrey chose not to seek a second term as governor, saying it was time to seek other challenges
the former governor admits he doesn't have a list of proposals and solutions
i learned as governor you don't solve problems from the top, down. what you do is engage the citizens in an effort to find out what we are willing to do about a problem
my sense is that we are afraid sometimes to try something different, to get in there and say, `hey, we're going to try to make a difference here.'''
part of the political process, he says, is to ``select that part of the status quo we want to hold on to, and that part which we want to change and that's where the fun of it is.''
the cost of campaigning keeps many out of the political arena, according to kerrey. the nebraska senate race could cost each candidate as much as $6 million, he said
if you don't conclude after this race that campaign spending restraints are needed, you've got a pretty warped sense about how democracy should operate.''
in kerrey's first political outing, he defeated incumbent republican gov. charles thone
during that campaign, he often spoke of the ``hopes and dreams'' of nebraskans and his vision of the future, and to some, he seemed a living symbol of determination. despite the loss of his right leg below the knee, he runs five miles every day
a troubled farm economy led to four years of tight budgets, and kerrey's readiness to trim state spending didn't endear him to some democrats or to state employees
no one tells you that everything will go your way just because you have good plans and good intentions,'' kerrey said. ``that's because things don't always go your way. so you do the best you can by facing the realities of the problems.''
the european parliament on wednesday rejected a european economic community financial aid package for israel in a protest of the nation's treatment of palestinians in the occupied territories
by a 205-143 vote, the parliament rejected the eec's agreement to provide israel with low-interest development loans of up to $76.9 million in the next four years
in separate votes, the parliament turned down two minor accords updating the eec's treaties on the sale of israeli farm produce in europe
this is the first time the parliament has rejected eec agreements since it was given the power last year to ratify foreign treaties
all three documents will have to go back to the 12 common market capitals for renegotiation, which could delay implementation for several months
the vote represents a sharp rebuke to israel for its policy in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
many deputies also criticized israel for breaching an unrelated pledge to allow palestinians to export their farm produce directly to europe. instead, all palestinian exports must be channeled through israeli authorities
sen. albert gore jr., looking for a new win to follow up his super tuesday successes, faced potential problems wednesday in both of the next two states on the democratic schedule
gore traveled to chicago with a recognition that illinois poses large obstacles to his candidacy, with two favorite sons _ jesse jackson and paul simon _ running hard for next tuesday's primary
south carolina democrats select delegates in caucuses on saturday, and gore had planned to fly to that state for campaigning on wednesday and thursday. but with jackson favored to win a lion's share of delegates in the state he was born in, gore postponed his visit until at least friday, campaign spokesman paul risley said
faced with the task of proving he has a truly national campaign, gore said he would compete head to head with simon, jackson and michael dukakis in illinois
it's true that there are two favorite sons in illinois,'' gore said as he flew to chicago from nashville, tenn. ``both of them have substantial support. we're going to be competing vigorously there.''
dukakis, also campaigning in illinois, taunted gore with his victories in the big southern states of texas and florida and questioned whether gore had in fact vaulted to the top tier of democratic contenders
i'm not so sure he's a major contender,'' dukakis said. ``a guy from massachusetts beat him in texas, beat him in florida. he wasn't willing to go into the early primaries. but i still take everyone seriously.''
gore also sought to parlay his strong showing on super tuesday into fund-raising strength. gore won six states: north carolina, kentucky, tennessee, arkansas, oklahoma and nevada
they've got a full press going,'' risley said of gore's campaign finance office, where at least ten fund-raisers were working the telephones all day wednesday
gore, too, was making phone calls to potential contributors and trying to strengthen his illinois campaign. the campaign expected to reach 10,000 people by telephone over 48 hours to ask them for contributions
in the past five days, we have raised $500,000. this victory caused tremendous response,'' gore said
the gore campaign took out a $1 million line of credit to air more television commercials in the final days of the southern campaign. officials said there was $500,000 and $1 million on hand
gore said the outcome of super tuesday, with wins for himself, jackson and dukakis, narrowed the field, and he suggested richard gephardt would be knocked from the race
it's a three-person race between gore and dukakis and jackson,'' he said
illinois' primary next tuesday offered only a week for gore to establish his credentials in a northern state. while he was campaigning there, his campaign considered how much money to invest in that state, regarding a large investment there as a high-risk strategy
beyond illinois on the democratic presidential calender are a series of big, northern states, including michigan on march 26
two or three days ago, the conventional wisdom ... was that super tuesday was going to spell the end of al gore's campaign. the conventional wisdom was wrong,'' gore said. ``sooner or later, it's going to stop being a surprise.''
the gore campaign suggested dukakis was not an electable candidate, with gore depicting both dukakis and jackson as representative of the democrats' debacles of 1984 and 1972. gore contended he was attracting the independent voters that democrats will need in november
they both offer a defense and foreign policy that has been rejected by the american people many times,'' gore said. ``i think the people are asking for more.'' israeli financial regulations.</note>
arab tax collectors resigned this week, giving impetus to a campaign by leaders of the palestinian uprising to cripple israel's occupation government in the west bank and gaza strip
israeli officials have fought to keep the resignations from taking place, warning those who quit they won't get severence pay and telling community leaders they may lose basic services
the resignations threaten to add to the financial burden of occupation and deprive israel of a potent symbol of cooperation and coexistence
you can't go against 600,000 people in gaza,'' said eid akram sharif, former head of the income tax department who led all 40 employes in a mass resignation
sharif, a plump, well-dressed man who nervously twirled his car keys as he spoke, drew nods of agreement from a half-dozen other ex-taxmen
they sat on chairs in a semi-circle on a dirt street in the relatively well-to-do ramali quarter. children on the corner erected a barricade. graffiti on a wall nearby declared the taxmen to be ``honorable brothers.''
before we were collaborators. now, we are nationalists,'' said sharif
but the taxmen were less than enthusiastic about their new roles as heroes of the three-month uprising. they felt trapped between the threats of arab militants and the pressure from israeli authorities who refused to accept the resignations
one of the resigned taxmen said israeli authorities warned him not to speak with the press or palestinian activists, saying they could get up to six months in jail for inciting violence
hafez al borno, a gray-haired man in his mid-40s, later drove a reporter downtown to point out a wall where graffiti demanded the tax department's resignation on palestinian flag day
arab employes of the income tax and value-added tax department must resign otherwise we will _'' said the graffiti, which ominously left unsaid what the punishment would be
as part of their three-month strike, palestinians in gaza and the west bank have refused to pay taxes. israeli authorities decline to give figures on the non-payment
israel imposed new rules last month on the occupied territories as a way to pressure the palestinians to end the activism. they require palestinians to prove they paid their taxes before they can travel abroad or import or export goods. they must also register when they bring $1,000 or more into the country. the previous limit was $5,000
the striking groups will have no mercy on anyone paying taxes. this money funds the occupation and is a tool of oppression,'' said a leaflet circulating in the west bank last week
new graffiti targeted police officers as the next to be called on to abandon their posts. ``yes to the resignation of police,'' one said
in a chilling warning this week in the west bank city of jericho, an arab policeman suspected of collaborating was stabbed to death. his body was wrapped in a palestinian flag and left on his mother's doorstep
in response to the plo campaign, a group of west bank police officers issued a statement stressing they were not involved in suppressing the riots
lt. mustafa adawi, spokesman for the group, was quoted by the daily al quds newspaper as saying before the killing that police limited their jobs to fighting ordinary crime and directing traffic
it is not their business to arrest protesters, prevent demonstration or inform on those who participate,'' he said. ``policemen are an integral part of the palestinian people and share their political aspirations for the future.''
palestinians claim that more than 20 of the estimated 300 police in gaza already have resigned
shmuel goren, government coordinator for the occupied territories, said the civil administration had 18,000 employes, about 11,000 of them teachers who were exempted from the strike call
we are today witnessing brutal plo threats against public officials and notables in the territories,'' goren was quoted a saying by the daily al hamishmar
a goren aide warned that life would only become more difficult for the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip if israel had to assume the whole burden of administering the areas
public services will be damaged if they are to resign, and the only ones to suffer from these resignations, if they occur, will be the palestinians themselves,'' he said
the government provides electricity, water, road maintenance, garbage collection, health care and education
countering palestinian claims that israel profited financially from the occupation, a former military administrator said $160 million was in taxes was collected from the west bank last year and all of it was poured back into services for the 850,000 arab residents. figures for gaza were not available
the ex-official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said another $24 million in income and sales taxes was collected from the 110,000 palestinians working in israel and went to israel's treasury
leaflets last week called for collaborators to go to mosques and declare their repentence and for employees of israeli-appointed municipal councils to resign
in an apparent effort to win good will, the municipal authorities in the west bank towns of jenin and al bireh took out advertisements in newspapers to announce a 25 percent reduction for 1988-89 in property taxes and al bireh said it was eliminating city fees
gov. michael dukakis beat jesse jackson by a nearly 3-1 margin to win on home turf in massachusetts' democratic presidential primary, but fell short of the victory margin predicted in pre-election polls
it just goes to show you the only polls that count are the ones on election day,'' said steve akey, a dukakis spokesman. ``we are very pleased with the landslide victory here in massachusetts.''
with 2,114 of the 2,140 precincts or 99 percent reporting, dukakis had 413,806 votes or 59 percent; jackson had 130,643 votes or 19 percent; missouri rep. richard gephardt had 72,053 votes or 10 percent, and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 31,575 votes or 4 percent
vice president george bush had 137,639 votes or 59 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 61,266 votes or 26 percent; new york rep. jack kemp had 16,331 votes or 7 percent, and former television evangeleist pat robertson had 10,779 votes or 5 percent
based on those results, bush would get 30 of massachusetts' 52 gop delegates to the national convention; dole would get 13; kemp 3; robertson 2, and 4 would be uncommitted. dukakis would get 79 of the state's 98 democratic delegates, and jackson would get 19
u.s. rep. chester atkins, the state democratic party chairman, said he had hoped dukakis would win at least 60 percent of the vote, but added, ``59 is close enough.''
dukakis may have been hurt by some of the ``tough positions (he has taken) over the years on things that were important for the state,'' atkins said
i also think that it's really a factor that in massachusetts, politics is a favorite contact sport and we're probably tougher on elected officials in massachusetts than any other state in the country,'' he said. ``we are the most critical electorate i think there is in america, which i think is positive.''
there were a lot of reasons why some voters didn't bother to make super tuesday a super turnout day. some of the best came from massachusetts and american samoa
the biggest primary-caucus day in history had been billed as a battle ``south of the mason-dixon line and the drive to dixie,'' according rep. chester atkins of massachusetts, the state democratic chairman
people in massachusetts,'' he observed, ``just don't think of themselves as part of the drive to dixie.''
in american samoa, where 300 democrats were eligible to take part in the caucuses, only 36 bothered to do so. national committeeman glenn jones provided a reason: residents of the u.s. territory can't vote in presidential elections
in many states, officials were jubilant over the numbers who cast ballots in primary elections, which traditionally get a far lower voter turnout than do the general elections in november. this year the turnout was higher because there was spice in the contested elections of both parties
the voting in florida fell short of the 50 to 55 percent predictions made last week, but still came to a respectable 42 percent of eligible democrats and 43 percent eligible republicans
i would presume a lot of the (george) bush supporters felt it was not necessary to go to the polls because he was leading by such a majority anyway,'' said dot joyce, state supervisor of the division of elections
it was that certainty for the outcome that also held down the turnout in massachusetts, said susan pye, a spokeswoman for the secretary of state
the biggest reason why people don't turn out and vote is because they feel that their vote doesn't matter,'' she said. only about a third of massachusetts' 2.9 million registered voters cast ballots, and ms. pye said it was confidence among democrats that gov. michael dukakis was a shoo-in in his home state. republicans assumed bush would win
taking a nose count in some of the 20 super tuesday states:
maryland: higher than predicted, but less than the 48 percent in the 1976 jimmy carter-jerry brown contest. of 1.3 million democrats, more than 500,000 or 38 percent cast ballots. of 520,000 registered republicans, 195,000 or 37.5 percent voted
hawaii: ``this is the first time we've really had a race; i don't remember this much excitement,'' said gov. john waihee, delighted that jesse jackson put up a strong challenge to dukakis, whom waihee supported. around 4,000 party members _ double the usual turnout _ attended democratic caucuses
texas: ``it's very clear super tuesday has been super for texas,'' said secretary of state jack rains. ``when i stop and think about the potential for this fall, i can get very excited.'' the turnout in texas was 35 percent of the 7.9 million registered voters _ more than 1 million republicans and 1.75 million democrats
wouldn't it be wonderful if we could bump our registration totals up to 8.5 million and get 50 percent of those or better to the polls, which would mean 4.25 million plus in november,'' rains said. ``i believe that's an achievable goal.''
arkansas: state auditor julia hughes jones had predicted a turnout of 514,000. it was 50,000 higher
georgia: the jimmy carter primary in 1976 had set a state record, but the mark was broken tuesday when 1 million of the state's 2.5 million registered voters cast ballots ``i love it when a plan comes together,'' said georgia secretary of state max cleland, one of the architects of super tuesday. ``this shows that a regional primary can focus time, attention, money and organizational talent on one particular goal.''
rhode island: ``some people might have thought it was a fait accompli _ that the vice president was going to win and that governor dukakis was going to win,'' said gop chairman j. michael levesque. the turnout was was 12.6 percent, best since the 14 percent in 1976
oklahoma: lee slater, secretary of the election board, had said anything over 500,000 would be a good turnout. by unofficial count, more than 600,00 voted. ``it's a wonderful turnout, it's a super turnout,'' slater says now
an alleged rapist whose genes match those of a rape victim's fetus may as well have left ``a full set of fingerprints, social security number and a signature'' at the scene of a crime, a medical expert testified
circuit judge marvin mounts is presiding in a hearing to determine whether genetic tests should be admitted in the trial of george forrest, charged with raping eight women between december 1986 and october 1987
four genetic tests on dna molecules from forrest's blood, a rape victim's blood and tissue from the fetus she aborted indicate that the fetus shared common genes
the tests showed a 99.99 percent probability that forrest fathered the child, said michael baird, laboratory manager of lifecodes corp., the elmsford, n.y., company that performed the tests
mounts has not ruled if the tests described tuesday will be used during forrest's trial
that's a narrow possibility, albeit a possibility,'' he said of the test results
forrest, 34, of boynton beach, is being held in the palm beach county jail. he was arrested as police sought a man they dubbed ``the congress avenue rapist,'' after the area in which the attacks occurred
he was charged with eight counts of sexual battery with a deadly weapon, six counts of sexual battery with force likely to cause serious personal injury, 4 counts of kidnapping, two counts of attempted sexual battery and one count of burglary while committing assault or battery
dr. karl muench, a professor of medicine at the university of miami, testified that dna tests are revolutionizing legal proceedings across the country. he said the results were as convincing as ``a full set of fingerprints, social security number and a signature'' left at a crime scene
the tests use blood, semen or human tissue and semen in a 200-step process that determines whether the genes of an alleged father match those of a child
dna, deoxyribonucleic acid, is the protein that carries an organism's genetic information. each dna molecule consists of four amino acids arranged in a code that is unique to each person
forrest's genetic code was determined through a blood sample and compared with that of a fetus aborted by a white woman he is accused of raping
the genetic code of the fetal material is so similar to that of forrest, who is black, that 533,790 other blacks would have to be chosen at random before one would be found with almost identical coding, baird said
asked by forrest's attorney, james cassidy, whether two brothers could produce the same test results because of similar genetic blueprints, baird said the possibility was remote unless they were identical twins
test results have been used in new york, california and virginia courts to link defendants to crimes, and lifecodes is working with the fbi to develop dna testing at its laboratories, baird said
in other cases, when dna tests have indicated that a defendant is not linked to a crime, the charges have been dropped, he said
federal tax refunds are averaging 6.2 percent more than last year, the internal revenue service said wednesday
through march 4, said spokesman wilson fadely, 12.66 million refunds had been certified, up slightly from the 12.6 million at this time a year ago. refunds averaged $802, up from $755 for the same period of 1987
the irs has processed 22.1 million of the 36.7 million returns received so far. the number of returns filed was 2.4 percent below last year's pace, although the gap was considerably less than four weeks ago
the irs has processed about 1 percent fewer returns than at this time last year. the backlog of unprocessed returns totals 14.6 million, down from 15.3 million last year
the filing deadline is april 15
a man apparently bent on revenge against a deputy city attorney who had successfully prosecuted him a day earlier opened fire wednesday in a courtroom, wounding a bailiff before he was killed, officials said
jeremy sigmond, 35, of woodland hills was killed in the shootout at los angeles municipal court in suburban van nuys at 10:15 a.m., said ted goldstein, a spokesman for the city attorney's office
the bailiff, county deputy marshal cliff wooford, 30, of palmdale, was shot in the abdomen and was undergoing surgery at st. joseph's medical center in burbank, said hospital spokeswoman linda roberts
the prosecutor, jessica silvers, 48, was ``shaken'' but unharmed, goldstein said
sigmond ``came looking for her today,'' goldstein said
i heard one shot, and then all the doors flew open and people started streaming outside,'' said becker mubani, who was outside the courtroom
sigmond was convicted in the same courtroom 24 hours earlier of four misdemeanor counts stemming from an oct. 22 chase by california highway patrol officers, goldstein said. he was eventually arrested in front of his woodland hills home, goldstein said
goldstein said he did not know what on charges sigmond was convicted or the sentences he received, but he said ms. silvers had not been threatened
he walked into the courtroom and (later) opened fire,'' said marshal's cmdr. clyde gatlin
mubani said that after the shooting he saw the bailiff running from the courtroom, ``his left hand covering the wound.''
the officer staggered down some steps to the sidewalk as other officers ran to assist him. mubani screamed, ``watch, watch, he's wounded.''
then the wounded officer began shouting, `where is the ambulance, where is the ambulance?''' mubani said
a 19-year-old soldier practicing a parachute jump became entangled in the doorway of an airplane and fell to his death, fort bragg officials and a newspaper said wednesday
the incident happened tuesday afternoon as the soldier was taking part in a training exercise over the base, said base spokeswoman carol jones
officials refused to give details of the accident, but the fayetteville observer quoted unidentified sources wednesday as saying a strap from the soldier's parachute gear begame entangled in the doorway as he exited the aircraft, and he fell out without opening the parachute at the proper time
he was pronounced dead where he landed, said master sgt. michael hartt. the soldier, a member of an airborne infantry regiment of the 82nd airborne division, was not identified pending notification of family
the death is the second fatal parachute accident in six years at the military base, ms. jones said
pat robertson finished poorly in super tuesday primaries because george bush won the votes of the conservative christian community considered most likely to support the former television evangelist, analysts said wednesday
exit polls said robertson failed to win majorities or even many pluralities of the fundamentalist, evangelical or born-again christian vote in the southern states
that's his group, and he didn't get them,'' said cbs news pollster kathleen a. frankovic. ``the core support that robertson expects to get clearly wasn't there.''
robertson finished second in iowa last month by drawing christian supporters to the caucuses. they made up 36 percent of the gop vote there, and he won half of the caucuses. in new hampshire, they made up just 9 percent, but again robertson won half
it was different in the south. in mississippi, where 24 percent of the gop voters said they were fundamentalist or evangelical christians, bush won with 49 percent of the group, to 31 percent for robertson, frankovic said
bush also won the fundamentalist vote in alabama; robertson won it in georgia and the two men split it in north carolina, the cbs-times polls said
other network polls used other gauges but found similar results. abc news said 34 percent of the gop voters in the south said they were born-again christians and 40 percent of them backed bush, to 35 percent for robertson
nbc said the born-again christian vote ranged from 28 percent in alabama to 63 percent in tennessee. bush won it in alabama, louisiana, tennessee and texas and split it with robertson in arkansas, nbc polls said
it's pretty tough to put together a winning coalition if that's his secret army. he's not getting more than a third of them anyplace,'' said sheldon gawiser, an nbc poll analyst
frankovic said overwhelming approval in the south for vice president bush and the reagan administration cut into robertson's support, and he may have been damaged by negative publicity. robertson last week dropped his libel suit over charges that he shirked combat duty in korea, still maintaining that the allegation was untrue
there was something pulling people to support bush and there wasn't something pulling fundamentalists to support robertson,'' frankovic said
but claibourne h. darden jr., a pollster in atlanta, had another view: he said robertson never had support from more than a hard core within the ranks of fundamentalists, who make up a much larger group in the south than elsewhere
so many people consider themselves fundamentalists in the south that it gets out of the core group and becomes the norm,'' darden said. ``he's got the hard core. he doesn't have any more than that and he never did.''
in iowa, where voter turnout is low, and in new hampshire, darden said, the fundamentalist vote was made up largely of the small central core of robertson supporters. ``anywhere you get a large turnout'' _ as in the south _ ``that core shrinks in percentage,'' he said
the robertson campaign took a similar line. ``part of the problem has been the perception that this group is a monolithic group,'' said campaign spokeswoman teresa george. ``we've been telling people they aren't.''
as the race moves north, said george, ``i don't think there's any doubt that pat robertson is going to try to reach those people,'' even he tries to build new support in other groups
the margin of sampling error for the polls was about 5 points
responsibility for the car bomb discovered near the hotel where secretary of state george p. shultz was staying remained a matter of conflict wednesday within the palestine liberation organization
hours after the bomb was found and removed by israeli police on march 5, a spokesman in beirut for yasser arafat's fatah faction of the plo claimed responsibility for the bombing attempt and said shultz was the target
the spokesman is well-known to beirut news organizations and often is in telephone contact with correspondents. the claim was widely reported and the various plo factions did not challenge it immediately or in subsequent days
but when an associated press correspondent contacted another plo spokesman in tunis on march 7, he denied the plo had planted the bomb. ahmed abderrahman, a member of fatah's central committee, blamed mossad, israel's secret service
abderrahman claimed israel was trying to harden anti-palestinian sentiment in washington and prevent the possible acceptance of the plo in any peace talks
the ap then asked bassam abu sharif, a close arafat aide, and he also denied fatah involvement in the bombing attempt
it is nothing to do with palestinians whatsoever,'' he said by telephone from tunis. ``the car bomb was a clear israeli trick to make it look like the palestinians wanted to blow up shultz and to make the israeli security services look good by discovering this so-called bomb.''
it is not unusual to receive several claims by competing palestinian groups. and some palestinian sources say that is done on purpose to confuse israeli and western intelligence services about which group is behind attacks
but on other occasions, plo and fatah officials have denied their fighters were involved when they considered claiming responsibility would harm their cause
on monday, when an israeli bus was hijacked by three palestinian guerrillas there was agreement that fatah had carried out the action that ended with the deaths of the three guerrillas and three passengers on the bus
again, the beirut source issued the initial claim that fatah was responsible. this time, abu sharif confirmed the claim, saying: ``fatah carried out the attack on the bus.''
so did azam al-ahmad, the plo representative in baghdad, where arafat has his military headquarters. al-ahmad, who also is a senior fatah official, said the guerrillas hijacked the bus carrying workers from israel's top-secret dimona nuclear power plant in the negev with the aim of holding them hostage
on wednesday, however, hekmat zaid, chief of the plo mission in budapest, told reporters: ``the aim of the palestinian commando action ... was not to take hostages, the plan of the plo's armed men was to enter the strictly guarded complex by overpowering the bus that carried the workers of the dimona nuclear center.''
the president of the national association of evangelicals said wednesday colleges have undergone such a radical transformation from their religious beginnings that many are now systematically undermining christian values
many institutions of higher learning have surrendered the ethical and moral sanctions upon which they were built,'' ray h. hughes told delegates attending the group's convention here
they have been cut off from their ``deep roots in the christian faith'' and offer up a wide range of ideologies, ``cafeteria-style,'' he said
however, he said, the evangelical schools that were founded as a defense to materialism and secular teachings are themselves moving away from their basic religious foundations and are in danger of becoming ``pale carbon copies'' of those secular colleges
evangelical colleges have to return to the principles of spiritual commitment, hughes said, because the nation faces ``a generation of students for whom much in life has lost its meaning, for whom morality has lost its moorings.''
the organization, which represents more than 50,000 churches from 72 protestant denominations, is holding a series of workshops and seminars on the theme ``go teach.''
among the speakers is the rev. jerry falwell, whose thursday speech will address television evangelism and its problems
u.s. education secretary william j. bennett told the group earlier that he was angry about the well-publicized scandals involving television preachers
it doesn't help my cause to teach moral values when those who speak the loudest cannot live up to their own beliefs,'' bennett said tuesday
another speaker, m. wayne benson, senior pastor of the first assembly of god church in grand rapids, mich., warned his audience to be careful during these ``perilous days.''
it's a deception of satan to think that any ministry is above human frailty,'' benson said
benson, bennett, hughes and others named no names and avoided any discussion of the latest scandal in evangelism broadcasting. famed tv evangelist jimmy swaggart stepped down from his pulpit last month after tearfully telling his congregation he had sinned; published reports said he paid a prostitute to pose naked for him
falwell, who is not a member of the national association of evangelicals, will speak to the organization for the first time. he accepted an invitation from the national religious broadcasters, a member group of the nae which last month adopted a stringent code of ethics for its 1,350 member organizations
several hundred voting delegates of the nae approved a number of resolutions of faith, including one on illegal drugs that supports efforts of the president and mrs. reagan in calling for ``an all-out war to end this travesty.''
the national assembly has approved unanimously a new constitution that will do away with the concept of ``president for life.''
the new constitution, approved tuesday night on its first reading, will take effect after its approval by two-thirds of the national assembly. the vote is expected later this year
former president-for-life habib bourguiba, who ruled tunisia without interruption for 32 years following the end of french colonial rule in 1956, was ousted nov. 7 by his prime minister, zine el abidine ben ali
ben ali justified the bloodless coup on grounds that the 84-year-old bourguiba had become senile and unable to exercise his duties and that tunisia needed to revert to genuine democratic rule
bourguiba, who formerly controlled 100 percent of the national assembly, had himself named president-for-life by assembly members in march 1975
the former leader has remained confined in his chateau near tunis since the coup. all mention of his name has been banished from the media in this north african arab nation
but the former leader, whose photograph for years was featured prominently in every television broadcast and on the front page of every newspaper, remains an unspoken factor in tunisian politics
tunisian sources said he has steadfastly resisted pressure from the government to issue a public endorsement of ben ali as tunisia's president
yet no voice was raised in tribute to him when the national assembly, exclusively composed of members of the ruling constitutional democratic rally, debated the new constitution
the constitutional democratic rally is the new name of bourguiba's ruling destourian socialist party. the name change was approved feb. 28
under the new constitution, the president will be elected for five-year terms. the president can be reelected but must face voters every five years
a man authorities said used his own paycheck stub to write a holdup note at a bank was indicted wednesday on federal robbery charges
kevin d. thompson, 26, was accused in the robbery of $8,000 from a bloomfield branch of midlantic national bank on june 22. he was being held in lieu of $75,000 bail at the metropolitan correctional center
according to a criminal complaint, the money was handed over after a teller received a note saying, ``this is a stickup, keep clam i have a gun give me some $100, 50, &amp; 20 keep clam and no won will get harm. thank you.''
the note was written on a stub from systems maintenance corp. of fairfield, where thompson had worked and was absent on june 22, the complaint said. the stub had no names on it, but listed specific pay figures
the government's complaint said an anonymous caller last month described the getaway car, identified thompson, gave thompson's address and gave other details
but the defendant's attorney, lawrence lustberg, said his client was innocent
he has no idea how his stub came to be used and was ``educated enough to know to spell not like the note is spelled,'' lustberg said
a new daily newspaper debuts monday when the south west news-sun, a weekly newspaper for 96 years, begins publishing six days a week
the news-sun will report community news and sports in libertyville, mundelein and vernon hills, as well as state and national news, said publisher glenn pfeil
the south west news-sun is affiliated with copley press, whose illinois holdings also include the aurora beacon-news, elgin courier news, joliet herald-news, lincoln courier, springfield journal-register, wheaton daily journal and its sister newspaper, the news-sun of waukegan
to accommodate the changes, the newspaper has added five new editorial positions, three advertising representatives, and additional office and circulation department personnel, said jan gehrig, managing editor
a soviet opera singer who defected to sweden was reunited with his wife wednesday after almost seven years, auguring improved swedish-soviet relations
during all these years, the hope never left me,'' vera morozov told swedish radio after arriving by ship at a stockholm harbor
alex morozov, who was living in leningrad, defected in june 1981 during a concert stop in goteborg
in january, he protested to press for his wife's visa during an official visit of soviet premier nikolai ryzhkov to goteborg
soviet approval of her visa resolved the last of 21 human rights cases raised by prime minister ingvar carlsson on a visit to moscow in 1986
we have ... noted a pronounced thaw in the ice, a change, from before'' in the soviet attitude, said a spokeswoman for the swedish foreign ministry
the two countries have resolved three other asylum issues since carlsson's 1986 visit. the foreign ministry spokeswoman was unsure if other cases were pending
two cousins who hadn't seen each other in 60 years had an unexpected reunion in a hospital waiting room, where one had gone to have a shoulder injury examined and the other was seeking treatment of lung congestion
elmer gnau, 73, on vacation from la grange, ky., wound up sitting just one seat away from kenneth gnau, 63, of margate, at hca university hospital on tuesday
when the nurse came out and called `gnau,' both men stood up
i looked at him and asked him his name,'' said elmer gnau, a retired tool and dye maker. ``i knew if he said kenneth, he would be my cousin. not many people are named gnau.''
the chance meeting was emotional for the first cousins, who last saw each other when they were children in louisville, ky
i never thought i would have recognized him,'' said kenneth gnau. ``but i looked up, and my stomach came right up to my throat. he has the face of my father. i almost cried.''
elmer gnau was in florida to visit his son, jerry gnau, in north lauderdale. still suffering from congested lungs after a bout with pneumonia a month ago, he went to the doctor for a prescription to clear up the infection
kenneth gnau, who retired to margate with his wife, was waiting to have an x-ray taken of a shoulder injury
jerry gnau's daughter, teresa, said her family had tried to find kenneth gnau three years ago when they saw a picture of his motorboat in a newspaper. the boat had exploded in a canal in margate, but kenneth gnau's phone number wasn't listed
the cousins planned to visit each other later this week after kenneth gnau undergoes an operation for his injured shoulder
the only effective way to prevent the spread of aids is to halt sex outside marriage and to end intravenous drug abuse, the vatican newspaper said wednesday in a major statement on the disease
the prevention of aids has moral implications of a reach greater than what it seemed at first,'' said the unsigned editorial on the front page of l'osservatore romano, the vatican's daily newspaper
the responsibility for the battle against the evil does not fall only on the shoulders of some doctors and researchers, but, on the contrary, must be shared by everybody,'' it said
the vatican newspaper said the defeat of aids ``requires an effort extended to modify and to overcome ethically aberrant behaviors.''
the only really effective measure is prevention ... avoiding the causes of contagion, which means, in 95 percent of the cases, abstaining from sexual practice outside marriage and from consuming drugs,'' the editorial said
it said medical and ethical prescriptions have coincided before, such as the campaign against smoking and calls for moderation in diet
the newspaper said trying to prevent aids ``by promoting the use of condoms ... is not only scarcely trustworthy from the technical point of view, but also and above all inacceptable from the moral point of view.''
in december, a report by the administrative board of the united states catholic conference said instruction about condoms in aids education programs could be permitted in the context of church teaching advocating ``abstinence outside of marriage and fidelity within marriage.''
cardinal john j. o'connor of new york called the report a ``very grave mistake'' and said he will not allow such instruction
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primaries on tuesday
3,885 of 4,304 precincts reporting - 90 percent
babbitt, 2,157 - 1 percent
dukakis, 29,372 - 8 percent
gephardt, 28,444 - 7 percent
gore, 141,581 - 37 percent
hart, 6,878 - 2 percent
jackson, 166,460 - 44 percent
simon, 2,716 - 1 percent
uncommitted, 2,030 - 1 percent
larouche, 743 - 0 percent
2,762 of 2,762 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 2,621 - 1 percent
dukakis, 93,532 - 19 percent
gephardt, 59,471 - 12 percent
gore, 184,729 - 37 percent
hart, 18,598 - 4 percent
jackson, 85,047 - 17 percent
simon, 8,908 - 2 percent
uncommitted, 35,376 - 7 percent
dennerll, 513 - 0 percent
duke, 4,911 - 1 percent
larouche, 2,380 - 0 percent
4,459 of 4,459 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 9,893 - 1 percent
dukakis, 509,251 - 41 percent
gephardt, 179,408 - 14 percent
gore, 158,838 - 13 percent
hart, 35,342 - 3 percent
jackson, 250,580 - 20 percent
simon, 26,773 - 2 percent
undecided, 76,708 - 6 percent
2,571 of 2,571 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 3,287 - 1 percent
dukakis, 97,007 - 16 percent
gephardt, 41,701 - 7 percent
gore, 201,022 - 32 percent
hart, 15,844 - 3 percent
jackson, 246,757 - 40 percent
simon, 8,458 - 1 percent
uncommitted, 7,227 - 1 percent
3,243 of 3,243 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 1,330 - 0 percent
dukakis, 59,424 - 19 percent
gephardt, 28,999 - 9 percent
gore, 145,201 - 46 percent
hart, 11,807 - 4 percent
jackson, 49,659 - 16 percent
simon, 9,392 - 3 percent
uncommitted, 10,427 - 3 percent
kay, 514 - 0 percent
larouche, 680 - 0 percent
martin-trigona, 535 - 0 percent
3,264 of 3,272 precincts reporting - 99 percent
babbitt, 3,080 - 0 percent
dukakis, 95,315 - 15 percent
gephardt, 69,875 - 11 percent
gore, 174,106 - 28 percent
hart, 26,669 - 4 percent
jackson, 220,305 - 35 percent
simon, 5,121 - 1 percent
ahern, 3,740 - 1 percent
dennerll, 1,746 - 0 percent
duke, 23,415 - 4 percent
kay, 881 - 0 percent
larouche, 1,686 - 0 percent
1,574 of 1,574 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 4,597 - 1 percent
dukakis, 237,047 - 46 percent
gephardt, 41,062 - 8 percent
gore, 45,025 - 9 percent
hart, 9,436 - 2 percent
jackson, 149,946 - 29 percent
simon, 15,653 - 3 percent
uncommitted, 14,337 - 3 percent
larouche, 2,138 - 0 percent
2,140 of 2,140 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 4,939 - 1 percent
dukakis, 416,802 - 59 percent
gephardt, 72,678 - 10 percent
gore, 31,991 - 4 percent
hart, 11,199 - 2 percent
jackson, 132,507 - 19 percent
simon, 26,064 - 4 percent
no preference, 11,681 - 2 percent
di donato, 2,225 - 0 percent
larouche, 1,445 - 0 percent
2,340 of 2,340 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 2,137 - 1 percent
dukakis, 31,318 - 9 percent
gephardt, 19,683 - 6 percent
gore, 120,166 - 34 percent
hart, 13,790 - 4 percent
jackson, 157,530 - 44 percent
simon, 2,123 - 1 percent
uncommitted, 9,474 - 3 percent
larouche, 1,285 - 0 percent
3,954 of 3,954 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 1,405 - 0 percent
dukakis, 61,557 - 12 percent
gephardt, 305,123 - 58 percent
gore, 14,557 - 3 percent
hart, 7,594 - 1 percent
jackson, 106,287 - 20 percent
simon, 21,424 - 4 percent
uncommitted, 6,609 - 1 percent
dennerll, 211 - 0 percent
duke, 1,766 - 0 percent
kay, 394 - 0 percent
koczak, 264 - 0 percent
larouche, 692 - 0 percent
2,387 of 2,387 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 3,921 - 1 percent
dukakis, 137,755 - 20 percent
gephardt, 37,483 - 6 percent
gore, 235,345 - 35 percent
hart, 16,450 - 2 percent
jackson, 223,207 - 33 percent
simon, 8,072 - 1 percent
no preference, 16,247 - 2 percent
2,439 of 2,439 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 1,599 - 0 percent
dukakis, 66,229 - 17 percent
gephardt, 82,566 - 21 percent
gore, 162,513 - 41 percent
hart, 14,328 - 4 percent
jackson, 52,431 - 13 percent
simon, 6,894 - 2 percent
dennerll, 475 - 0 percent
doty, 1,000 - 0 percent
duke, 2,402 - 1 percent
koczak, 1,064 - 0 percent
larouche, 1,080 - 0 percent
320 of 320 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 402 - 1 percent
duakis, 34,159 - 70 percent
gephardt, 2,013 - 4 percent
gore, 1,932 - 4 percent
hart, 738 - 2 percent
jackson, 7,369 - 15 percent
simon, 1,392 - 3 percent
uncommitted, 818 - 2 percent
2,391 of 2,391 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 1,982 - 0 percent
dukakis, 19,268 - 3 percent
gephardt, 8,657 - 2 percent
gore, 414,569 - 72 percent
hart, 4,693 - 1 percent
jackson, 118,615 - 21 percent
simon, 2,641 - 0 percent
uncommitted, 2,939 - 1 percent
6,829 of 6,933 precincts reporting - 98 percent
babbitt, 15,073 - 1 percent
dukakis, 553,006 - 32 percent
gephardt, 232,814 - 14 percent
gore, 349,505 - 20 percent
hart, 79,235 - 5 percent
jackson, 418,057 - 24 percent
simon, 34,269 - 2 percent
dennerll, 3,566 - 0 percent
duke, 8,683 - 1 percent
larouche, 9,054 - 1 percent
williams, 6,215 - 0 percent
1,982 of 1,986 precincts reporting - 99 percent
babbitt, 2,465 - 1 percent
dukakis, 78,637 - 22 percent
gephardt, 16,179 - 4 percent
gore, 81,064 - 22 percent
hart, 6,241 - 2 percent
jackson, 162,545 - 45 percent
simon, 6,921 - 2 percent
uncommitted, 6,086 - 2 percent
larouche, 796 - 0 percent graf pvs, ``his strength</note>
george bush paused briefly wednesday to savor the fruits of his stunning super tuesday success while his aides toted up the vice president's advantages in next week's illinois primary
campaign manager lee atwater cautioned against overconfidence following bush's 16-state primary sweep. but the vice president enters his illinois campaign with the support of gov. james thompson and most other state party officials, as well as the lead in public and private polls
the vice president's aides also have mapped their largest single-state television advertising effort of the campaign in the days before illinois votes
bush's super tuesday showing left him with roughly 700 of the 1,139 delegates needed to win the nomination, and illinois offers the possibility of another 92
aides agreed that his close identification with president reagan helped bush on super tuesday. but a key strategist said it would be ``clearly an oversimplification'' to credit bush's lopsided victory to reagan's popularity
bush himself rested wednesday before plunging into his campaign in illinois on thursday. his aides tried to avoid sounding overconfident the day after his string of victories
i'd rather be more like ronald reagan and be cautiously optimistic,'' said deputy campaign manager rich bond. ``it's a marathon and we've got to play this thing through until we're mathematically certain that we're going to win the nomination.''
atwater had said late tuesday, ``the second in this business you start resting on laurels ... is the second you start getting in trouble.''
the vice president's aides said they could not quarrel with exit polls showing bush benefited handsomely from his association with reagan. but lanny griffith, who was bush's southern regional political director, said he thought the coattail effect was exaggerated

his strength was the work that was done in the 14 months leading up to super tuesday,'' griffith said in an interview. ``the real heroes were the people that put this thing together.''
griffith said that bush's ties to reagan helped, ``but that's clearly an oversimplification. the vice president has shown that he is as strong on the issues as any candidate.''
a cbs-new york times exit poll said that in some states, as many as four out of five republican voters approved of reagan and that three out of five of them backed bush
he stayed away from political rhetoric as usual. he stayed away from name-calling,'' atwater said. and he said bush's association with ``a very successful administration'' played a big role in his victories
rep. lynn martin, r-ill., co-chairman of bush's illinois campaign, attributed at least part of bush's super tuesday success to mistakes by sen. bob dole of kansas
i think he's terrific. i think he's funny. i think a lot of him,'' she said of dole. ``but bob dole did himself in'' by seeming too ingracious after losing the new hampshire primary to bush, she said
in a telehone interview, she said bush is being perceived as sending a more positive message
i don't think it's because george bush suddenly became so charismatic that you couldn't take your eyes off him,'' she said
bush carried all but the state of washington tuesday, winning around 600 delegates, the largest one-day collection in the history of presidential nomination politics
by refusing to meet dole in one-on-one debates in illinois, and by hewing closely to a campaign regimen that has bush mixing frequently with people and posing for pictures, the vice president's strategists signaled they plan no change in campaign style
the vice president is going to go and do in illinois what he did in new hampshire and in south carolina, and that is, go through all corners of the state, campaign directly and forthrightly and get his message out,'' atwater said
bush is scheduled to campaign nonstop in illinois from thursday through monday, including a one-day flying tour of the state
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primaries on tuesday
3,831 of 4,304 precincts reporting - 89 percent
bush, 128,243 - 64 percent
dole, 32,336 - 16 percent
du pont, 386 - 0 percent
haig, 292 - 0 percent
kemp, 9,756 - 5 percent
robertson, 28,248 - 14 percent
2,719 of 2,762 precincts reporting - 98 percent
bush, 31,584 - 47 percent
dole, 17,512 - 26 percent
du pont, 368 - 1 percent
haig, 427 - 1 percent
kemp, 3,445 - 5 percent
robertson, 12,744 - 19 percent
uncommitted, 1,374 - 2 percent
4,459 of 4,459 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 545,992 - 62 percent
dole, 185,352 - 21 percent
du pont, 6,396 - 1 percent
haig, 5,460 - 1 percent
kemp, 40,578 - 5 percent
robertson, 93,843 - 11 percent
2,571 of 2,571 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 214,214 - 54 percent
dole, 94,311 - 24 percent
du pont, 1,422 - 0 percent
haig, 821 - 0 percent
kemp, 23,409 - 6 percent
robertson, 65,439 - 16 percent
3,237 of 3,237 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 71,954 - 59 percent
dole, 27,845 - 23 percent
du pont, 494 - 0 percent
haig, 527 - 0 percent
kemp, 4,041 - 3 percent
robertson, 13,526 - 11 percent
uncommitted, 2,263 - 2 percent
stassen, 887 - 1 percent
3,264 of 3,272 precincts reporting - 99 percent
bush, 83,489 - 58 percent
dole, 25,601 - 18 percent
du pont, 871 - 1 percent
haig, 597 - 0 percent
kemp, 7,738 - 5 percent
robertson, 26,231 - 18 percent
1,564 of 1,574 precincts reporting - 99 percent
bush, 104,485 - 53 percent
dole, 62,986 - 32 percent
du pont, 2,566 - 1 percent
haig, 1,410 - 1 percent
kemp, 11,582 - 6 percent
robertson, 12,444 - 6 percent
2,140 of 2,140 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 140,757 - 59 percent
dole, 63,049 - 26 percent
du pont, 3,555 - 1 percent
haig, 1,806 - 1 percent
kemp, 16,793 - 7 percent
robertson, 10,933 - 5 percent
no preference, 3,388 - 1 percent
2,340 of 2,340 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 105,510 - 66 percent
dole, 26,778 - 17 percent
haig, 346 - 0 percent
kemp, 5,810 - 4 percent
robertson, 20,835 - 13 percent
3,954 of 3,954 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 168,850 - 42 percent
dole, 164,452 - 41 percent
du pont, 1,787 - 0 percent
haig, 856 - 0 percent
kemp, 14,165 - 4 percent
robertson, 44,687 - 11 percent
uncommitted, 5,542 - 1 percent
2,387 of 2,387 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 124,028 - 45 percent
dole, 109,999 - 40 percent
du pont, 1,093 - 0 percent
haig, 557 - 0 percent
kemp, 11,364 - 4 percent
robertson, 26,747 - 10 percent
no preference, 2,818 - 1 percent
2,439 of 2,439 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 78,200 - 37 percent
dole, 72,947 - 35 percent
du pont, 940 - 0 percent
haig, 717 - 0 percent
kemp, 11,417 - 5 percent
robertson, 44,057 - 21 percent
masters, 540 - 0 percent
320 of 320 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 10,414 - 65 percent
dole, 3,639 - 23 percent
du pont, 84 - 1 percent
haig, 49 - 0 percent
kemp, 783 - 5 percent
robertson, 921 - 6 percent
uncommitted, 167 - 1 percent
2,391 of 2,391 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 151,130 - 60 percent
dole, 54,493 - 22 percent
du pont, 682 - 0 percent
haig, 827 - 0 percent
kemp, 10,871 - 4 percent
robertson, 31,402 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 2,207 - 1 percent
5,421 of 5,616 precincts reporting - 97 percent
bush, 630,378 - 64 percent
dole, 137,109 - 14 percent
du pont, 4,218 - 0 percent
haig, 3,048 - 0 percent
kemp, 49,302 - 5 percent
robertson, 150,061 - 15 percent
uncommitted, 12,302 - 1 percent
1,982 of 1,986 precincts reporting - 99 percent
bush, 125,073 - 53 percent
dole, 60,928 - 26 percent
du pont, 1,402 - 1 percent
haig, 682 - 0 percent
kemp, 10,839 - 5 percent
robertson, 32,073 - 14 percent
uncommitted, 3,739 - 2 percent   - here is the current breakdown of all the votes cast in the primaries on march 8. for each candidate, the total is calculated by adding together the votes the candidate received in each of the primaries

46,540 of 47,075 precincts reporting - 99 percent

babbitt, 60,888 - 1 percent
dukakis, 2,519,679 - 26 percent
gephardt, 1,226,156 - 13 percent
gore, 2,462,144 - 26 percent
hart, 278,842 - 3 percent
jackson, 2,547,302 - 27 percent
simon, 186,821 - 2 percent
uncommitted, 95,323 - 1 percent
no preference, 27,928 - 0 percent
other, 163,207 - 2 percent

total states with primaries - 16

45,019 of 45,752 precincts reporting - 98 percent

bush, 2,714,301 - 57 percent
dole, 1,139,337 - 24 percent
du pont, 26,264 - 1 percent
haig, 18,422 - 0 percent
kemp, 231,893 - 5 percent
robertson, 614,191 - 13 percent
uncommitted, 27,594 - 1 percent
no preference, 6,206 - 0 percent
other, 1,427 - 0 percent

total states with primaries - 16
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses tuesday. the votes in each jurisdiction may differ in meaning, depending on state rules and level of caucus
1 of 1 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 0 - 0 percent
dukakis, 1 - 33 percent
gephardt, 1 - 33 percent
gore, 0 - 0 percent
hart, 0 - 0 percent
jackson, 0 - 0 percent
simon, 0 - 0 percent
uncommitted, 1 - 33 percent
274 of 284 precincts reporting - 96 percent
dukakis, 2,716 - 55 percent
gephardt, 98 - 2 percent
gore, 58 - 1 percent
hart, 57 - 1 percent
jackson, 1,739 - 35 percent
simon, 46 - 1 percent
uncommitted, 259 - 5 percent
larouche, 2 - 0 percent
45 of 45 precincts reporting - 100 percent
babbitt, 1 - 0 percent
dukakis, 1,516 - 38 percent
gephardt, 44 - 1 percent
gore, 333 - 8 percent
hart, 1 - 0 percent
jackson, 882 - 22 percent
simon, 280 - 7 percent
uncommitted, 972 - 24 percent
526 of 830 precincts reporting - 63 percent
babbitt, 0 - 0 percent
dukakis, 427 - 26 percent
gephardt, 33 - 2 percent
gore, 491 - 30 percent
hart, 1 - 0 percent
jackson, 382 - 23 percent
simon, 20 - 1 percent
uncommitted, 284 - 17 percent
opponents of vice president george bush credited his huge kentucky win to president reagan's popularity, while tennessee sen. albert gore jr. got help in the democratic primary from the state's governor
bush's 16-state primary sweep over kansas sen. bob dole in the south and elsewhere on super tuesday ``will practically cinch the bush nomination,'' said u.s. rep. harold ``hal'' rogers, who led bush's state campaign
george bush is not just whistling dixie, he's got the full orchestra behind him,'' rogers said wednesday
gore emerged from kentucky's primary with less than half the popular vote, but with the backing of gov. wallace wilkinson he could control more than two-thirds of the state's 62 delegates
with all of the 3,243 democratic precincts reporting, gore had 145,201 votes or 46 percent, followed by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with 59,424 votes or 19 percent and jesse jackson with 49,659 votes or 16 percent
gore won 37 of the 55 pledged delegates, dukakis had 12 and jackson, six. wilkinson, however, will be able to control at least four of the party's unpledged official delegates, giving gore a solid two-thirds of the total delegation
al gore is right for kentucky; he's right for america. we're just now starting the momentum in this campaign,'' wilkinson said tuesday
in the republican race, with 100 percent of the vote counted, bush had 71,954 votes or 59 percent, to 27,845 votes or 23 percent for dole
state sen. john rogers, of the dole campaign in kentucky, said there had been hopes of getting up to 40 percent of the vote for the senator, but ``a security vote'' brought the republicans out for bush
he was just more closely associated with reagan and the majority of people _ republicans anyway _ liked what reagan's done for the last eight years,'' rogers said
bush won 27 of the state's 38 delegates and dole captured the other 11
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential caucuses tuesday. the votes in each jurisdiction may differ in meaning, depending on state rules and level of caucus
4,658 of 6,594 precincts reporting - 71 percent
bush, 3,694 - 24 percent
dole, 3,955 - 26 percent
du pont, 33 - 0 percent
haig, 6 - 0 percent
kemp, 1,144 - 8 percent
robertson, 5,934 - 39 percent
uncommitted, 444 - 3 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic races for the u.s senate
1,574 of 1,574 precincts reporting - 100 percent
kaufman, 25,021 - 7 percent
sarbanes, (i) 300,489 - 86 percent
sweatt, 25,633 - 7 percent
2,340 of 2,340 precincts reporting - 100 percent
dowdy, 189,203 - 54 percent
fountain, 13,244 - 4 percent
molpus, 148,951 - 42 percent
6,787 of 6,902 precincts reporting - 98 percent
bentsen, (i) 1,325,818 - 84 percent
sullivan, 244,553 - 16 percent
a continental jetliner that had two tires blow out while landing at newark international airport was flying without a special braking device that prevents such incidents, authorities said
the federal aviation administration is investigating the trouble with the landing monday of dc9 flight 612 from rochester, n.y., said faa spokeswoman kathleen bergen
legally the airline could fly the jet without the braking device for three days before fixing it, ms. bergen said
none of the 29 passengers or crew was hurt when both tires on the main landing gear under the left wing failed, ms. bergen said
passengers were taken to the terminal by bus, said rick scott, a continental spokesman
the device is called an ``anti-skid'' braking system, which is supposed to prevent pilots from applying the brakes too hard, officials said. if the brakes are applied too hard they can lock and cause blowouts, officials said
scott said the inoperable braking device had nothing to do with the tire blowouts. he said the pilot reported the tires blew ``immediately upon landing'' and before the brakes could be applied
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican races for the u.s senate
1,574 of 1,574 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bennett, 19,217 - 13 percent
blair, 66,575 - 46 percent
ceccone, 9,316 - 6 percent
cornish, 3,356 - 2 percent
mcdonough, 15,742 - 11 percent
rich, 7,668 - 5 percent
rosenberg, 5,204 - 4 percent
webb, 8,100 - 6 percent
zarwell, 10,260 - 7 percent
5,456 of 5,600 precincts reporting - 97 percent
boulter, 212,427 - 30 percent
fox, 134,627 - 19 percent
gilbreath, 264,844 - 37 percent
snead, 106,789 - 15 percent
the united states is considering ways to help merchant ships which aren't flying the u.s. flag in the war-torn persian gulf, defense secretary frank c. carlucci said wednesday
we are examining a number of options in this regard, but serious policy, legal, economic and force level issues remain,'' carlucci told the house foreign affairs committee
since last july 22, the navy has been protecting 11 kuwaiti-owned tankers which were reflagged with the star and stripes. the large-scale convoy operation increased the number of navy ships in the area from six to about 30
the kuwaiti ships are being protected against attack by iran, which has been at war for seven and one-half year with iraq, an ally of kuwait
the reagan administration has been asked for aid by u.s. shipowners using so-called flags of convenience, such as panama and liberia. the navy has consistently refused, citing u.s. policies of helping only american-flagged ships
u.s. shipowners ``continue to ask us to provide protection to their non-u.s. flag vessels,'' carlucci said. ``despite our humanitarian desire to be helpful, our longstanding requirement for ships to be flying the u.s. flag remains very persuasive.''
absent a u.s. flag, we believe a substantial foreign force operational commitment would be mandatory,'' he noted
carlucci did not explain, nor was he asked, what other measures are being considered
however, some shipowners have pushed to have the u.s. navy freed to protect shipping under attack if the navy warships are in the vicinity. there have been a number of incidents where navy warships were nearby when non-u.s.-flagged vessels were under attack
the navy has actually decreased the number of ships in the gulf area, carlucci noted, after the battleship iowa and helicopter carrier okinawa were withdrawn earlier this year
the withdrawal ``does not represent any change in our policy or any weakening of our capability,'' carlucci noted. ``the numbers will continue to fluctuate somewhat, but our steadfast commitment along with our capabilities will remain a constant as long as our presence is required.''
american allies in europe are providing a wide range of help for the navy in the persian gulf, carlucci noted
most of that aid comes from allied minesweepers, which were sent into the region after the first of the reflagged kuwaiti tankers hit a mine last july 24 and other mines were found in the following months
japan is also providing financial help, carlucci noted, but is prohibited by its u.s.-written laws from sending ships to the region
carlucci said the pentagon is considering the sale of four aegis defense systems to japan for use in the japanese navy. each would cost about $1 billion
the aegis, with its sophisticated electronics, is considered the world's most advanced air defense system and plays a key role in navy plans to defend american ships in wartime
rep. olympia snowe, r-maine, noted that the sale could be ``a serious problem'' if any of aegis equipment were resold to american enenies. she noted that a japanese company, toshiba, reported helped sell sophisticated equipment to the soviet union which the soviets then used to make much quieter submarines
there has never been a compromise by the japanese government,'' said carlucci, noting that the previous incident involved a private company
but snowe noted that ``even though the japanese government was not involved in the toshiba case, there have been a series of problems with other nations.''
carlucci said, ``we have no reason to question the sincerity of the japanese government.''
adm. william crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, noted calls in congress for japan to do more in its own defense. selling the aegi systems to japan ``would buttress our position in the northwest pacific'' and improve the navy's ability to operate with the japanese navy, he noted
treasury secretary james a. baker iii said wednesday that the need for an independent federal reserve did not mean the central bank should be ``totally sheltered from outside advice or criticism.''
baker defended the administration against charges that it had sought to bring undue political pressure on the central bank to insure that the economy continues growing without a recession during this presidential election year
testifying before the joint economic committee of congress, baker was asked specifically about a letter that assistant treasury secretary michael darby sent to the central bank on jan. 28 in which darby warned that slow growth of the money supply was threatening a recession
darby's letter was sent to every member of the federal open market committee two weeks before a crucial meeting in which the group was to set monetary growth targets for this year. the central bank seeks to provide enough money to the banking system to promote healthy economic growth while guarding against supplying so much money that it threatens higher inflation
sen. william proxmire, d-wis., said that in 30 years in congress he had never seen such ``overt, direct interference with the independent federal reserve.'' proxmire, chairman of the senate banking committee, asked whether darby faced any disciplinary action for his letter
baker said the darby letter had been sent without his knowledge and when he learned about it, he told darby not to do it again. but baker denied that darby's letter, which he characterized as raising academic questions about monetary growth, was an example of administration pressure
on feb. 24, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan issued a rare public warning to the administration to stop pressing the fed to lower interest rates, contending that further pressure might force the central bank to demonstrate its independence by doing exactly the opposite
greenspan specifically cited the darby letter, saying he had objected to the letter strongly with an administration official, later identified as baker
administration critics charged that the darby letter was just one example of administration pressure on the federal reserve to keep the economy expanding as a way of boosting republican chances of holding onto the white house
baker denied these accusations and said he had never engaged in ``fed bashing'' since becoming treasury secretary in 1985. he said he had worked closely with both greenspan and former fed chairman paul volcker in an effort to coordinate policies on a whole range of economic issues including international debt, currency exchange rates, the government's tax and budget policies and monetary policy
the federal reserve ought to be independent, but that does not mean that they should be totally sheltered from outside advice or criticism,'' he said. ``it is my view that the administration has a right and a responsibility to advise the federal reserve on all elements of economy policy, just as we welcome their advice to us on all elements of economic policy.''
baker added, ``the federal reserve is independent and it ought to remain independent, but it is independent within this government and it is not independent of this government.''
on another matter, baker said he did not view the big rise in the value of the british pound in recent days as a breach of the currency stabilization agreement between the united states, britain and five other top industrial countries reached last december
baker said british prime minister margaret thatcher had not informed the united states beforehand of her government's decision not to intervene in currency markets to stop the rise of the pound against the u.s. dollar and other currencies
baker said he did not see the rise in the pound as jeopardizing the dec. 22 accord between the united states and other top industrialized countries to stabilize the value of the dollar around current exchange rates
we don't see this as in any way running counter to that agreement or being somehow a repudiation of it,'' he said, adding that the recent increase in the british pound had more to do with british interest rates and monetary policy decisions in that country. mississippi</head>
acknowledging that he won't match his opponent dollar-for-dollar, u.s. rep. beau boulter on wednesday challenged millionaire wes gilbreath to a series of joint appearances in the runoff for the republican senate nomination in texas
in mississippi, republican rep. trent lott promised an issue-based campaign against rep. wayne dowdy, who won the democratic nomination tuesday for the seat being vacated by sen. john stennis
we're not running against anybody,'' lott said
in other super tuesday primaries, democratic sen. paul sarbanes won renomination in maryland and will face political newcomer thomas blair in november. in louisiana, a republican led the pack but still faces a runoff for the 4th district seat in congress
it will take a united democratic party to beat him (lott),'' dowdy said. ``it can be won, and things are ripe for the democrats to win in november. mississippi should have at least one democrat in the u.s. senate.''
sen. thad cochran, a republican, holds the state's other seat
dowdy polled 189,203 votes or 54 percent to defeat secretary of state dick molpus, who had 148,051 or 42 percent. pipefitter gilbert fountain had 13,244 votes or 4 percent
both parties will have runoffs march 29 to choose nominees to succeed dowdy, who won his seat in 1981, and lott, who was elected in 1972
boulter, 44, who is giving up the house seat he has held for two terms to run for senate, finished second to gilbreath tuesday
with 89 percent of the vote counted, gilbreath had 252,213 or 36 percent and boulter had 202,326 or 29 percent. former state rep. milton fox of austin had 132,787 or 19 percent and businessman ned snead of georgetown had 103,979 or 15 percent
gilbreath, a millionaire from houston, spent $500,000 on the race while boulter's campaign cost an estimated $130,000
we want to force mr. gilbreath out from behind his own personal money, and billboards and television,'' boulter said
gilbreath, the only candidate to use television ads in the senate primary, acknowledged that he was not well-known when he entered the race and was delighted to finish first on tuesday
i think it's unheard of in texas politics to accomplish that,'' said gilbreath, 59
boulter estimated the campaign for the april 12 runoff would cost ``a few hundred thousand dollars,'' but added, ``i don't think we need to compete with him (gilbreath) dollar-for-dollar.''
democratic sen. lloyd bentsen easily won the democratic nomination for a fourth term and expressed no interest in who the republicans choose to oppose him
i don't look on anyone as unbeatable. i'm going to work very hard as i always do,'' said bentsen, 66
thomas blair, a millionaire businessman who captured 46 percent of the vote in a nine-man republican senate primary in maryland, celebrated his victory by accusing sarbanes of being an absentee senator
i predict this summer mr. sarbanes, who we have not seen for years, will come out,'' blair said, comparing the senator to a cicada, the insect which turns up every 17 years
picking up an issue from the republican primary, sarbanes said: ``the republican nominee hasn't even bothered to vote over the last six years, and was taken off the election rolls, which i think tells you something about his commitment to the political process.''
in louisiana, republican jim mccrery finished ahead of nine democrats in a non-partisan election for the the 4th district house seat, which will be vacated monday by mccrery's old boss, democratic governor-elect buddy roemer
mccrery will meet state sen. foster campbell in a runoff on april 16
rep. bill alexander of arkansas won re-election to an 11th term on tuesday by defeating political consultant darrell glascock by 2-1 in the democratic primary. alexander is unopposed in the general election. ``that left'' ^associated press writer</note>
tennesseee sen. albert gore jr.'s victory in nevada's democratic caucuses was important because it showed he could win outside the south, according to sen. harry reid. but most of the state's top democrats said they were impressed with jesse jackson's third-place finish
the good news is how well we've (gore's campaign) done all over the country,'' reid said
with all but a handful of precincts uncounted wednesday, state party leaders said gore won with 33 percent or 693 of the 2,101 delegates, followed by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis with 548 or 26 percent, and jackson with 460 or 22 percent
fifteen percent or 329 of the delegates were uncommitted, 2 percent or 39 were for rep. richard gephardt of missouri, and 2 percent was divided between sen. paul simon of illinois and former sen. gary hart of colorado
that left gore leading for 7 delegates, dukakis for 5 and jackson for 3 with 1 uncommitted
bill wasserman, dukakis' state coordinator, said he was pleased with the results but called support for jackson was ``stunning. it has got to be a phenomenon that makes any democratic candidate think seriously about his campaign effort.''
jackson spokesman joe neal, a state senator, said the turnout of jackson supporters at the caucuses exceeded expectations. ``the people we contacted went to the caucuses.''
state democratic chairman beecher avants agreed that jackson's showing was a surprise, adding that he didn't think jackson had been doing the pre-caucus mailing and telephone work that supporters of gore and dukakis had. update with government figures on detentions; subs 3rd graf, ``on tuesday ... with 1 graf to conform.</note>
solidarity leader lech walesa criticized police on wednesday for using force to break up student demonstrations in warsaw and krakow
walesa made his remarks one day after club-wielding riot police clashed with youths demonstrating for more academic freedom on the 20th anniversary of student protests against censorship and political repression
on tuesday, police charged into hundreds of demonstrators in warsaw and krakow and made scores of arrests
the leader of the outlawed labor federation said he expected authorities eventually to admit error in using force against students this year
i don't have a detailed account of what happened, but i think that in a few years' time there shall be great efforts to disavow all that took place,'' walesa said before meeting with austrian foreign minister alois mock in warsaw
the authorities use ``such a method of disavowing things that should not have taken place at all,'' he said
a commentary by the official polish news agency pap said that in warsaw and krakow ``attempts were made to take advantage'' of anniversary observances to hold illegal demonstrations
the attempts were abortive owing to the lack of wider support and thanks to the determined attitude of the forces of law and order,'' pap said
the students were calling for restoration of academic freedoms won during the 1980-81 solidarity labor upheaval and for legalization of the independent students union, which was outlawed under martial law was imposed in 1982
zygmunt lenyk, a krakow opposition spokesman, said at least 64 people were detained in the southern polish city, but everyone was released later tuesday. an aide to government spokesman jerzy urban said a total of 83 people were detained in tuesday's demonstrations but less than 15 people remained in custody, awaiting appearances in misdemeanor courts
the student protests of 20 years ago were violently broken up by police and worker activists. but the communist polish united workers party recently disavowed repressive measures used against reform-oriented intellectuals 20 years ago. pvs., ``vice president ...''</note>
president reagan renewed his vow of neutrality in the republican presidential race wednesday, while white house chief of staff howard baker said ``it would take a major event'' to deny george bush the nomination
i will remain neutral,'' reagan told inquiring reporters as he returned to the white house from a trip to notre dame university in south bend, ind. he seemed bouyant, dribbling a basketball he got at notre dame and passing it back and forth with a woman well-wisher
baker, talking with reporters earlier, said, ``the president is still neutral and i expect will continue that way for the foreseeable future.''
vice president bush scored a sweep of the super tuesday primaries, moving within reach of the gop presidential nomination
he was the front-runner before and clearly is the front-runner now,'' said baker. ``i think it would take a major event to deny him the nomination. he's certainly got the momentum.''
baker, who dropped out of the presidential race a year ago to lead reagan's staff, said the last word he had from reagan was that as the titular head of the republican party, he intended to remain neutral
and whether he would re-address that in light of other circumstances, we'll have to wait and see but i have no indication of it,'' the former senator said
baker said reagan was ``awful pleased with the exit polls,'' which showed an 84 percent approval rating for the president among republican voters in the south
i told him this morning ... he was really the one who swept the south,'' baker said. ``i think that was a matter of pride for the president.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater, traveling with reagan aboard air force one to south bend, ind., also described the president as ``very impressed with the republican turnout.''
we have a strong movement toward the republican party in the south,'' fitzwater said. he called it a ``strong indication of the realignment that's taken place'' in the region
citing texas as an example, fitzwater said that 500,000 persons voted on the gop side during the primary season in 1980 and 900,000 voted in the gop ranks in 1988
baker said the overall republican voter turnout was about 44 percent of the total vote cast tuesday
so that's a far cry from the old democratic solid south and that may be the most significant single aspect of super tuesday,'' baker said
he said the gop turnout ``indicates that the reagan revolution and the republican growth in the south is not a transient phenomenon but is a permanent fixture in the american political system
commenting on the outcome on the democratic side, baker singled out the success of fellow tennessean albert gore jr., who won his own state and four other souther primaries
al gore may have demolished the theory that you've got to run in iowa and new hampshire. he is a very credible candidate and he did not make a major effort in iowa and new hampshire,'' baker said. groups</head>
fbi files declassified wednesday quoted three intelligence operatives as saying they had been directed by high-level fbi and cia officials to infiltrate the political organizations of lyndon larouche
excerpts from the files, surrendered to defense lawyers in the fraud and conspiracy trial of larouche, six aides and five of his political groups, showed that one of the three refused to discuss his larouche-related dealings with low-level fbi officials, saying he had been instructed by ranking officials at the agencies not to do so
that man, retired army sgt. maj. fred lewis, also was referred to in a memo from retired air force maj. gen. richard secord to marine lt. col. oliver north in which secord indicated lewis had collected evidence against larouche
both the declassified fbi material and the secord memo were dated in may 1986 and refer to giving lewis a polygraph to determine if his information was valid
lawyers for larouche, a political extremist who has accused such international figures as queen elizabeth ii of drug trafficking, have obtained growing evidence in recent weeks of infiltration of larouche groups by the fbi and cia. they contend the effort was directed by north, the former national security council aide fired for his role in the iran-contra scandal. secord worked with north to set up a private network to aid the contra rebels in nicaragua
the defense lawyers, who have requested thousands of other documents from the fbi, cia and nsc, contend the records will prove their claim that charges of credit card fraud and conspiracy against larouche and his followers were concocted as part of a government plot to ruin larouche because he refused to support aid to the contras
this was an activity that was headed up by oliver north and mr. secord in a political attempt to stop the larouche people,'' defense attorney michael reilly said wednesday
the defense lawyers also have said they believe they have grounds for dismissal of the case because of prosecutorial misconduct, contending the government has deliberately withheld evidence of fbi and cia penetration of larouche groups
the three men referred to in the declassified fbi material are lewis, gary s. howard and ron tucker
lewis, tucker and howard indicated they have a very high level source in the federal government who advises them regularly concerning cooperation or lack thereof between lewis and his associates and the federal government,'' the document said
when asked about their possible ties to larouche, they claimed to have been previously been requested by the fbi and cia to penetrate the larouche organization,'' said the document, which was excerpted from an unidentified fbi file
according to the material, lewis said he had been instructed by contacts in cia and fbi headquarters not to discuss his larouche ties without authorization from top officials at the agencies
defense attorney daniel alchorn, who represents larouche aide paul goldstein, said during wednesday's hearing that lewis was a principal in a dallas-based group known as peregrine international, which he said was tied to secord and helped carry out covert activities for the u.s. government
in the north-secord memo, there is a reference by secord to ``our man.'' the defense lawyers said they have been informed by the government that the reference is to oliver revell, an fbi assistant director invovled in counterintelligence
tucker, a former texas department of public safety narcotics agent, and howard, a former border patrol agent, claim in a suit against the customs service that they have been government informants since 1979
in the suit, filed in washington in august, tucker and howard say the government owes them $1.4 million for their expenses in a sting operation that led to the arrest of a man allegedly buying arms for iran. they claim the government lost interest in prosecuting the case because it would have revealed the reagan administration's arms shipments to iran and the diversion of profits from the sales to the contras
the fbi document also said that during interviews with fbi agents in texas, tucker and howard said they had approached family and friends of soviet dissidents andrei sakharov and his wife, yelena bonner, claiming they could free the couple from the soviet union for $2 million. ``no further information was available concerning this matter,'' the document said
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. narrowly defeated jesse jackson in a north carolina presidential primary that observers said showed the changing face of southern democratic politics
it shows there are many souths _ no solid south,'' said merle black, political science professor at the university of north carolina. ``it's too diverse.''
meanwhile, vice president george bush's lopsided victory in the republican primary showed his links with president reagan were stronger than kansas sen. bob dole's ties to north carolina. dole's wife, elizabeth, is a native of salisbury, n.c
what george bush has shown is that he is strong in the south,'' said jack hawke, state gop chairman. ``people are associating him with the president.''
bush held off a late surge by dole, who targeted north carolina in his effort to avoid a southern shutout. bush had said he was worried because polls had indicated the contest was neck-and-neck
with all 2,387 precincts reporting, gore had 235,345 votes or 35 percent; jackson had 223,207 votes or 33 percent; massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 137,755 votes or 20 percent, and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 37,483 votes or 6 percent
in the republican race, bush had 124,028 votes or 45 percent; dole had 109,999 votes or 40 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 26,747 votes or 10 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 11,364 votes or 4 percent
based on those results, bush was expected to win 29 gop delegates and dole 25. gore would capture 34 democratic delegates, jackson 31 and dukakis 17
gore carried north carolina becuse he ``has a lot of appeal to middle-of-the road, common sense democrats,'' said former gov. jim hunt, who with sen. terry sanford endorsed gore in january
black, however, said the closeness of the race indicated many conservative democrats had not voted
i don't think gore would have made any showing if jim hunt and terry sanford had not gotten active in his campaign like they did,'' said dan blue, a black state representative who was state chairman for jackson
republican pat robertson said wednesday that super tuesday showed the ``mantle of ronald reagan has passed to george bush'' but he refused to write off his own presidential try, saying his political agenda now extended beyond 1988
in the south, where i thought i would be strong, ronald reagan and his mantle was a lot stronger, but there are other parts of the country that maybe don't feel this way,'' said robertson, who took a drubbing at the hands of george bush
most of tuesday's contests were in the south, where robertson had expected to do well. but he won only nine of the 712 delegates at stake, losing all 16 primaries and winning only the caucuses in the state of washington. bush won all the primaries
none of us could have dreamed that (bush) could be so strong,'' robertson said. ``the mantle of ronald reagan has passed to george bush.''
exit polls showed bush picked up more votes from conservative christians than the former television evangelist, and robertson blamed himself
i talked too much up in south carolina,'' he said, referring to statements there which seemed to suggest bush's campaign was responsible for revelations about questionable sexual practices by television evangelist jimmy swaggart
some of the things i said, unfortunately, were misinterpreted by the press, at least spun in a different way than what i intended,'' he said
robertson also stood by a controversial statement he made during the new hampshire campaign. ``i still think there are (nuclear) missiles in cuba,'' he said, restating a claim denied by the reagan administration
robertson, who also finished behind bob dole, said he would continue the race until the new orleans nominating convention as ``a rallying point for conservatives.''
i will probably go into the convention with a number of delegates that are at least mine in heart,'' robertson said at a morning news conference in atlanta, where he watched election returns tuesday night
he said he would take a day off before continuing to illinois to campaign for next week's primary there
it isn't over yet. there're still half of the delegates left to be selected,'' he said. ``my goal this year is to win the presidency. i haven't given that goal up. i am in for principle.''
robertson said his candidacy has helped expand the republican party and that will leave him with a reservoir of support he could tap later, perhaps in 1992
i will have people favorable to me in key party positions ... in a lot of (state parties),'' he said, estimating as much as 40 percent of the gop structure in some states is loyal to him
that would be a significant base for something in the future,'' he said
if he doesn't win this year, robertson said, ``my role (in 1990) will be what george bush's role was in '86. he went to many, many congressional districts, helped raise ... about $17 million for party candidates during that cycle
i could help a number of good men and women be elected,'' he said. ``i want to build the republican party and make it the majority party.''
the children's defense fund urged its supporters on wednesday to press the presidental candidates to increase funding for children's welfare and education programs
it is now time to reverse course and invest in the future, to invest in our children, if we as a nation are going to save ourselves,'' the fund's president marian wright edelman said at a news conference at the organization's annual meeting
edelman called on supporters to ``urge those seeking and holding public office this year to commit themselves to making preventive investment in our children and families the cornerstone of national domestic policy in the coming political era.''
the fund will press for immediate enactment of legislation providing safe daycare and establishing minimum health care coverage for poverty-level mothers and children, she said. the group's long-term priorities include five-year incremental increases in the minimum wage and in funding for educational programs for poor and handicapped chldren
the fund, a non-profit lobbying group for children's issues, has produced briefing books and a list of questions for its members to quiz the candidates and eventually elicit support for its legislative agenda
edelman said she was optimistic about the success of the agenda because of the ``new and powerful allies'' it has found in corporate leaders, who want to ensure an educated work force
what we see now is a new coalition of those who worry about the health and social welfare of children and those in the business community who recognize the economic connection in investing in children who are at risk in this society,'' said donna shelala, the fund's board chairman
she referred to the committee for economic development's report for 1987 in which the business community spoke ``in terms of investing in children early on, in prenatal care, in early childhood programs, and head start programs, as ways of ensuring the economic future of the country.''
this is the eighth year the fund has produced a children's budget and provided analysis of the administration's fiscal proposal. as in the past, the organization criticized the reagan administration's emphasis on defense spending over funding for social programs
a mountain lion was shot dead wednesday after he was spotted stalking a residential area where children were waiting for school buses and adults were leaving their homes for work, officials said
the 120-pound male mountain lion was spotted in this northwest orange county community below the chino hills, said patrick moore, spokesman for the state fish and game department in long beach
police cornered the lion outside a house, and a fish and game warden shot it, moore said
these animals are extremely shy and normally don't come in residential areas,'' moore said. ``we like to remove the animal permanently from those situations.''
moore said the animal was killed rather than tranquilized because the drug takes 10 to 20 minutes to take affect and animals sometimes have a violent reaction to it
there was fear that he would run amok in the area and threaten children,'' he said
the cat's body was taken to the fish and game laboratory in victorville for a necropsy
mountain lions are common to the hillside areas of southern california but rarely attack humans. peace corps</head>
relations between the united states and china brightened wednesday with a u.s. decision to liberalize the sale of high technology to the chinese and beijing's agreement in principle to accept peace corps volunteers
the reagan administration announced that it lifted a five-month suspension on the transfer of new technologies after receiving assurances from chinese foreign minister wu xueqian that his country was not sending silkworm anti-ship missiles to iran
this removed a major irritant in the relationship
then, during a question-answer session at the national press club after three days of talks with u.s. officials, wu said of the peace corps that ``china has adopted a positive attitude on this matter,'' though many details still need to be resolved
the agency, established in 1961 by president kennedy to put a grassroots and people-to-people stamp on u.s. overseas aid, currently has programs in 64 countries
alexander sinclair, a peace corps spokesman, said representatives from the two countries will discuss china's development needs and how the agency can help
as for how large the program will be, when it will start and how many volunteers will go to china, ``it's too early to tell,'' sinclair said
we welcome the opportunity to enter in discussions with the people's republic of china about a future peace corps program there,'' sinclair said. ``we expect to have more information about such a program in the weeks ahead.''
the presence of peace corps volunteers in a country has for many years been a significant measure of the warmth of its ties to the united states. the most populated country that has ever accepted the peace corps was india, which invited volunteers from 1962 until 1976, when it shut down the program
after more than two decades of years of emnity, including several years of war in korea, the united states and china normalized relations in the late 1970s and have steadily increased trade and defense ties
there have been some rough spots in the relationship recently, however, and one of the major ones appears to have been smoothed during wu's three days of talks with u.s. officials, including a 40-minute session with president reagan on tuesday
last autumn, to protest what it said was continuing chinese sale of silkworm anti-ship missiles to iran, the administration froze a decade-old process of liberalizing the list of high technology items china is permitted by buy from u.s. companies
china denounced the decision and in his press club remarks, wu reiterated chinese denials of ``direct'' arms sales to iran. he also said that since july, beijing has made efforts to stop the flow of chinese weapons sent through other countries
he said that in his talks with secretary of stte george p. shultz and other administration figures, complaints about chinese arms sales to iran were voiced ``20 times.''
without commenting on the truth of wu's denials about arms sales, administration officials said after meeting the foreign minister they had no reason to believe chinese arms are now flowing from china to iran
we are encouraged by chinese statements and actions regarding iran's acquisition of chinese anti-ship missiles, silkworms,'' state department spokesman charles e. redman said
we have therefore decided to resume the export control liberalization process for china,'' he said
the administration also announced during wu's visit that he assured reagan his country would not stand in the way of a united nations resolution calling for an arms embargo against iran
the united states has been trying for months to line up support on the u.n. security council for an arms embargo against iran designed to stop the 7-year-old iran-iraq war. the ban on weapons sales would be the second installment of a u.n. resolution last july calling for a truce in the war
the nation's orange harvest for the 1987-88 crop season is estimated at 199.6 million boxes, 3 percent more than forecast in february and 10 percent more than last year, the agriculture department said wednesday
florida production, based on march 1 indications, was estimated at 140 million boxes, up 4 percent from february and 17 percent more than last season's crop
the california harvest was estimated at 55 million boxes, up 2 percent from february's forecast but 6 percent less than in 1986-87. the arizona crop was indicated at 3.05 million boxes, unchanged from february and down 3 percent from last season
texas production, at 1.55 million boxes, was unchanged from last month's forecast but was up 77 percent from 1986-87's harvest of 875,000 boxes
the u.s. labor department has rejected arguments from south carolina and north carolina officials who are trying to keep 17-year-old school bus drivers on the road through the end of the school year
south carolina gov. carroll campbell on wednesday repeated his state's plea to allow the drivers to remain behind the wheel
representatives of each state argued unsuccessfully for a stay of the department's revocation of waivers, effective april 1, that had allowed the use of the young drivers if they had clean driving records, labor department spokeswoman linda tavlin said tuesday
the two states won waivers last year of a federal law prohibiting school bus drivers under 18, but the department revoked the waivers in late february. in an investigation following the death of a west columbia child hit by a 17-year-old driver with a bad driving record, the department said it found many of the 17-year-olds had bad records
campbell, in a letter to labor secretary ann mclaughlin, said he understands the department's decision and does not intend to seek a waiver for next year. but he said firing drivers before the end of the school year would not serve the department's purpose
the state superintendent of education assures me that he has on file a letter from each of the 91 district superintendents certifying that all 17-year-olds currently driving school buses meet all ... conditions outlined in the letters of exemption,'' the governor wrote
replacing these drivers with slighly older, inexperienced drivers for two months could potentially lead to a less safe transportation system,'' he wrote
a spokesman for campbell said wednesday the governor's office will continue working with south carolina's senators, ernest hollings and strom thurmond, to get legislative relief from the labor department's action
the u.s. house already has approved a bill that would allow both states to use the drivers through the school year, and the senate is expected to take up the measure next week
carl garris, deputy state superintendent of schools, said the state has about 950 17-year-old drivers now, down from 2,250 at the beginning of the school year
a passenger bus overturned on a mountain road in the southwestern state of guerrero, killing 23 people and injuring 12 others, authorities said wednesday
emma camelo, a spokeswoman for the district attorney's office in guerrero state, said the accident occurred tuesday outside chilpancingo, the state capital 180 miles south of mexico city
the bus was carrying residents of nearby villages
the government news agency notimex said the bus was traveling between the villages of chilapa and colotlipa. the injured were brought to chilpancingo hospitals, it said
a nearly blind glaucoma victim whose doctors vainly sought legal permission for her to use marijuana to help her see now faces up to a year in prison for allegedly growing her own
elvy musikka, 43, was arrested friday and charged with felony possession of almost a pound of marijuana. she was freed on $1,000 bail
ms. musikka is sightless in her right eye and retains little vision in the other
i don't think i'm above the law,'' she said tuesday. ``i've always resented being a criminal to protect my sight. it's a scary situation.''
born with cataracts, she was diagnosed as suffering from glaucoma in 1976. by 1980 she had to retire from her job as a bank switchboard operator because of poor vision
glaucoma is characterized by increased pressure inside and hardening of the eyeball. it can gradually lead to blindness
dr. paul palmberg of the bascom palmer eye institute of the university of miami medical school said 80 percent of glaucoma patients responded to legal drugs
ms. musikka, however, did not, and pamberg said he neither recommended nor discouraged her use of marijuana to help her see
in ms. musikka's case, marijuana lowered the pressure of fluid in her eye while not lowering her blood pressure, allowing the optic nerve to be nourished with blood, palmberg said
dr. richard parrish, also of the eye institute, said he did not recommend marijuana, either, but had tried to obtain it legally for her when he realized it was helping
norman kent, counsel to the florida chapter of the national organization for the reformation of marijuana laws, said it was extremely difficult to legally obtain marijuana for medical reasons
to secure that right, you need a scientist, engineer, physician, lawyer and magician on your side,'' he said
police spokesman jim rabbitt said officers did ``what they had to do.''
we had a violation,'' he said. ``she's going to have her day in court.''
a man who rented a room at her home turned her in for growing four marijuana plants after the two argued, police reports said
missouri voters dealt bob dole a narrow but embarrassing loss blamed on a tidal wave of southern support for george bush, while rep. richard gephardt tolled his only super tuesday win in his home state
supporters of dole, a senator from neighboring kansas, said polls that showed the vice president with commanding leads in the southern states prior to tuesday prompted missouri's uncommitted voters to side with the vice president
everything in the past two weeks has been bush is sweeping the south, bush is going to win the nomination, bush is the next president,'' roberta capps, dole's missouri campaign chairman, said wednesday
with all precincts reporting, the vice president had 168,823 votes or 42 percent and dole had 164,452 votes or 41 percent
on the democratic side, gephardt garnered 305,159 votes or 58 percent. jesse jackson trailed with 106,287 votes or 20 percent. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had 61,557 votes or 12 percent
results showed gephardt with 68 delegates, jackson with 14 and dukakis with one
i don't think we have done as well as we'd hoped.'' gephardt said in st. louis after finishing poorly in the 19 other super tuesday states
bill macon of the missouri bush campaign said the victory, along with the vice president's triumph in oklahoma, was especially gratifying because it showed dole could be beaten in states neighboring his own
i'm certainly not trying to humiliate any good republican but i think this shows he ought to go back to being the senate minority leader and quit cluttering up the race,'' macon said
bush was expected to capture 22 delegates and dole 18. pat robertson and new york rep. jack kemp failed to attract enough missouri republican votes to receive any delegates
the first b-1b bomber to be strengthened against damage by birds was cleared for flight training wednesday, allowing the air force to fly a low-altitude training mission with the plane for the first time in more than five months
lt. col. fred harrop, a spokesman for the strategic air command, said a b-1b based at dyess air force base, texas, had flown low-level bombing runs on a practice range after the rockwell international corp. completed a series of modifications to reduce vulnerability to birdstrikes
we're back in business,'' harrop said
the modifications were ordered for all of the air force's b-1bs after one of the bombers crashed last sept. 28 in colorado during a low-level training flight, killing three of the six crewmen aboard. an air force inquiry determined the plane went down after slamming into a large pelican, whose body ripped through the underside of a wing and severed key hydraulic systems
the modifications involve strengthening an area between the wings and engines, which are attached to the underside of the wings; another area around the so-called pivot pin on which the wings swing back and forth, and an area around the base of the tail fin
in each case, the service is toughening or shielding the internal electrical and hydraulic lines that run through those sections of the plane. the modifications are not visible from the outside
harrop said the air force hoped to have all of the b-1b modified by late fall
before the crash, the air force was allowing b-1b crews to practice low-level attack runs at an altitude of 500 feet. ultimately, the service intends to allow training down to 200 feet
harrop said wednesday the b-1b with the completed modifications had flown its training mission at 500 feet
the b-1b, the nation's first new heavy strategic bomber in 25 years, is designed to fly just below the speed of sound at altitudes as low as 200 feet to evade detection. the air force has purchased 100 of the bombers, but will be left with 99 because of the sept. 28 crash
a group of catholic nuns resigned as managers of the hospital in this small minnesota town after nearly 1,500 people gathered to protest suspension of the hospital's obstetrics services and the resignation of a respected doctor
at a joint meeting of the jackson municipal hospital board and the city council on tuesday night, hospital board president steve handke read letters of resignation by the hospital's chief administrator, sister maureen mcdonald, and the assistant administrator and nursing director, sister patricia glowski
the nuns are members of the alma, mich.-based religious sisters of mercy, which has run the 22-bed jackson hospital since 1981. two members of a newly formed citizens committee were nominated tuesday to help the hospital board find replacements for the nuns
the resignations cited a desire to calm tensions that have risen in the southern minnesota community of 3,800 people since obstetrics services were suspended feb. 26 following a stillbirth at the hospital
it's a relief,'' said lance edlin, a pharmacist and leader of a citizens' group that had been trying to remove the nuns from hospital management. ``i'm not surprised. we had 1,000 signatures on a petition. we hope to get back to a harmonious relationship now.''
the nuns did not return a telephone call seeking comment
meanwhile, dr. gumersindo alvero, who was one of the hospital's two staff doctors, announced wednesday he was withdrawing his resignation because of support from the community. the resignation by the nuns means the hospital has been brought ``back to the people, where it belongs,'' he said
alvero, who has practiced here for 10 years, said the woman involved in the stillbirth was not a patient of his, and said the cause of the stillbirth remains confidential. but he maintained that was not the key issue in the dispute
the issue was how they (hospital administration) discriminated against me. they investigated without giving me a chance to talk with the doctor who investigated the case,'' he said
the board said monday that it had been informed that a ``serious medical incident concerning patient treatment had arisen'' on feb. 16
in such a case, normal hospital procedure requires a review, the board's statement said. after the board and alvero were advised, the statement said, complete medical records were forwarded to dr. robert a. diamond, an officer of the governing board of the minnesota obstetrical and gynecological society in minneapolis, who serves as consultant to the hospital
according to the report from diamond, the mother was ``poorly managed'' during her labor
diamond said the mother should have been transferred to a hospital in nearby worthington when, according to the medical records, she started exhibiting severe pregnancy-induced hypertension four days prior to delivery. he also said the use of fetal heart monitoring at jackson municipal hospital had to be improved
edlin and others said there is no quarrel in jackson with the quality of health care. in fact, the hospital board released a statement tuesday night saying the sisters' management of the hospital had been ``superior.''
residents at the tuesday night meeting voiced concerns about high staff turnover and an air of secrecy about the nuns
it's a mystique of secretiveness that's really got everyone in town wondering who the heck they are and what got them coming here,'' said john sathe, owner of a funeral home in jackson
a state department official said wednesday the administration would talk to the soviet union about reports of japanese vessels fishing illegally in waters off alaska, but a house committee chairman demanded more action
ed wolfe, the state department's ambassador for oceans and fisheries, told a congressional hearing that the reagan administration was still pressing the government of japan for an official explanation of an incident in which japanese trawlers were videotaped apparently fishing in american waters in the bering sea
i am personally disappointed that i am not able to provide the subcommittee with a full report of the japanese investigation,'' wolfe said
wolfe said an interagency task force was developing a ``u.s. government position to help avoid a recurrence of this problem in the future.''
he said the united states will be holding bilateral talks with the soviet union, which has its eastern-most tip on the bering sea, later this month to discuss fisheries problems in the area
it's a good exercise,'' said wolfe
it's a good exercise mr. ambassador,'' replied rep. don bonker, d-wash.. ``but good grief, we want more than an exercise
it's been three months since the alleged illegal activity took place and i'm wondering how long we will have to wait before something is forthcoming.''
bonker, chairman of the subcommittee on international economic policy and trade of the house foreign affairs committee, called on the state department to ``greatly accelerate it's actions
i can promise you, if you don't do something we will.''
american fishermen and the u.s. coast guard have suspected for more than a year that foreign trawlers were entering the 200-mile u.s. fishing zone under cover of darkness or in stormy weather to fish illegally
seven foreign trawlers, most of them thought to be japanese, were videotaped with their nets down 38 miles inside the u.s. zone off alaska. the tapes were taken from a private plane chartered by a fishing industry group in early january
bonker said he was considering legislation that would require that foreign fishing vessels inform u.s. authorities before they enter american waters
wolfe said the administration would probably finish formulating a policy within a month, but said the best deterrent to illegal foreign fishing might be increased surveillance and enforcement by the coast guard
president reagan signed an executive order wednesday allowing continued cooperation with european nations on peaceful nuclear energy matters
the document extends more than two decades of cooperation between the united states and the european atomic energy community (euratom). rockne</head> reagan mispronounced `gipper' and edits 12th graf pvs, after his, to conform; picks up 13th graf pvs, reagan then</note>
president reagan revisited the university of notre dame on wednesday and dedicated a new 22-cent stamp in honor of knute rockne, telling students that the legendary football coach's life exemplified ``the faith that makes things happen.''
it was reagan's second visit as president to the notre dame campus. on his earlier visit in 1981, he was reunited with pat o'brien, who played the title role in the 1940 movie, ``knute rockne, all-american,'' in which reagan enjoyed one of the first big successes of his hollywood career
but reagan first went to notre dame as a young sports announcer, to broadcast a football game. later, he returned with o'brien and other stars for the premiere of the rockne film
clips from the black and white picture, in which reagan played notre dame football star george gipp, were played for the audience in the joyce athletic and convocation center before reagan's arrival on wednesday
the clips showed o'brien, as rockne, giving a pep talk to his players at halftime of a 1928 game against army, with the score tied 0-0. gipp had died eight years earlier, but the coach tells his charges that on his deathbed the young athlete said, ``some time when the team is up against it and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go out there with all they got and win just one for the gipper.''
in fact, army went ahead in the third quarter, 6-0, but notre dame went on to win the game, 12-6. army was on the 1-yard line with the tying touchdown as time ran out
reagan told his audience that the role of gipp ``was a young actor's dream'' but that playing in a film about rockne ``was more than that'' to him
i know that, to many of you today, rockne is a revered name, a symbol of greatness and, yes, a face on a postage stamp,'' he said
but my generation, well, we actually knew the legend as it happened _ we saw it unfold. and we felt it was saying something important about us as a people and a nation.''
most of all, the rockne legend meant this ... that on or off the field, it is faith that makes the difference, it is faith that makes great things happen.''
rockne, a graduate of the men's college at notre dame, was its head football coach from 1918 to 1931 and compiled a record of 108 victories, 12 losses and five ties. during his tenure, the ``fighting irish'' were undefeated in five seasons and won six national championships
at the end of his speech, reagan repeated the line from gipp's deathbed scene in the movie, saying, ``win just one for the gipper.'' but he actully pronounced it ``gippet,'' although few in the crowd noticed the mistake because they already had begun their applause
afterward, reagan was handed a football, which he hurled toward a group of football players seated in the crowd. heisman trophy winner tim brown caught the pigskin as the crowd roared its approval
reagan then unveiled a replica of the new postage stamp, which shows rockne in a jersey holding a football. as a 22-cent stamp, it is unlikely to be widely used for long, since first-class letter postage is due to go up to 25 cents next month
the ceremony ended when reagan, a graduate of eureka college in illinois and the holder of an honorary degree from notre dame, was given a plaque bearing the words of the school song, ``notre dame, our mother.'' he sang along softly as the song echoed through the athletic center
in his speech, the president coupled his reminiscences about rockne with praise for the american economy, saying, ``there's a will to succeed evident in our land.''
it is a far different picture than the agonizing sight of a decade ago, when many were counting out american workers and american industry,'' he said
we were told americans would no longer go the extra mile, no longer had the drive to excel; that our country was in decline; and that we, as a people, should lower our expectations.''
today, we see an america ready to compete, anxious to compete,'' reagan said
i predict that as this year progresses, we will see american manufacturing re-emerge as the leading force in the world marketplace.''
reagan also used the occasion to renew his claim, disputed by some, that his administration, abetted by first lady nancy reagan's ``just say no'' campaign, is making significant inroads into drug use among young people
we still have a long way to go, and when nancy and i see stories saying just that in the story, we welcome them,'' he said
but let's also remember that the shock of recognition is not a sign of defeat, it's the beginning of victory.''
the president tempered his customary optimism with the observations that ``there are those who see a dark side to our technological progress. ... it is pointed out that, regretfully, as man has advanced into this new age, so has his capability to kill and destroy.''
but, he said, ``technology is pointing toward a way out of this dilemma'' with research on the space-based missile defense system. the system, informally called ``star wars,'' is a cornerstone of the reagan national security policy
as he boarded air force one in south bend for the trip back to washington, reagan was carrying an autographed basketball presented to him by notre dame basketball coach digger phelps
reporters shouted at reagan to toss the ball toward them, which he did. nbc-tv reporter chris wallace caught it, lobbed a pass to a member of the white house staff, who then presented it to reagan
reagan laughed as he reached the top platform of the stairs, bounced the basketball once, grinned then entered the plane
the president arrived at andrews air force base, on the outskirts of washington, shortly before 4 p.m. est and then returned to the white house
eleven democrats on the house judiciary committee asked attorney general edwin meese iii on wednesday to step down temporarily until independent counsel investigations into his conduct are completed
meese spokesman terry eastland said the attorney general would not comply because, ``no one should be urged to step down from a government position simply because that person is under investigation.''
the lawmakers made their request in a letter to meese, and five of them held a news conference to elaborate on their remarks
rep. barney frank of massachusetts, one of the signers, denied that the signers had a political motive, saying, ``ed meese is the best thing to happen to the democratic party.''
another signer, rep. bruce morrison of connecticut, said the standard meese is setting for ethical conduct is ``not in the slammer.''
meese has been under criminal investigation by independent counsel james mckay since last may 11. mckay has been examining meese's involvement with scandal-plagued wedtech corp., and with a $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline project
mckay also has been examining the attorney general's involvement with the regional bell telephone companies at a time when he owned $14,000 in phone stock
in addition independent counsel lawrence e. walsh, investigating the iran-contra arms and money affair, has called meese before a grand jury numerous times
we strongly believe that your increasing inability to spend time on the day-to-day demands of your job, the deteriorating morale at the department of justice and the continuing cloud over your office are undermining your ability to act effectively as the nation's chief law enforcement officer,'' the democrats said in the letter
the letter said the pending investigations ``detract from the time required to properly administer the department of justice
the pervasive perception that you have allowed personal considerations to encroach on your constitutional responsibilities threatens to breed contempt for your office, your administration and the rule of law itself,'' the lawmakers said
eastland responded, ``this is an old idea, a politically partisan idea and a thoroughly bad idea.''
he said meese ``has every intention of serving to the end of this term. he has spent some time with his lawyers on the investigation, but there has been no serious subtraction of his time or effort from leadership of the department of justice.''
rep. howard berman, d-calif., told the news conference that the pipeline project may have involved an attempt by a u.s. company _ with meese's knowledge _ to bribe foreign officials. such bribes would violate the foreign corrupt practices act
at this moment, some business groups are conducting a major drive to weaken the (act),'' berman said. ``in that effort, they have consistently been supported by this administration and by this justice department.''
the letter was signed by reps. dan glickman, kansas; edward feighan, ohio; berman; frank; morrison; lawrence smith, florida; harley staggers jr., west virginia; john conyers, michigan; george crockett jr., michigan; mike synar, oklahoma and patricia schroeder, colorado
police in three states interviewed witnesses wednesday as they tried to identify two men sought in a cold-blooded rampage that left four people dead, including a woman whose throat was slit while she struggled with her assailants
another victim, an 85-year-old man, was shot in the back of the head, and his son was shot in the face. the fourth victim was shot three times and then dumped by the side of an arkansas road after he gave two men a ride, authorities said
by all indications, it was overkill,'' said cooke county sheriff john aston, where the first of the victims, a 23-year-old woman, was found in her gainesville mobile home
vehicles stolen from the victims turned up in lakes in oklahoma and arkansas, authorities said, and items found with vehicles linked the four killings
we do not have a motive at all,'' aston said
we don't know where they are, not now,'' said sgt. anthony hancock of the collin county sheriff's office. ``i would not say a search is under way because we don't know where to look. we're trying to compile information, compile artists' sketches. we're trying to make an identification on these guys. we just don't know which way to go.''
deana andrews woodard was killed monday morning in her home in gainesville, just south of the texas-oklahoma line. aston described the slaying as cold-blooded
these people were there the whole time she was bleeding to death,'' he said. ``there are indications there had been a struggle. she was hit in the head.''
her infant son was in the home but was not harmed. the suspects stole her gun and apparently drove her car to the collin county community of farmersville, north of dallas. there, the bodies of cecil floyd morrison and his son, cecil leonard morrison, 62, were found monday night in their home, hancock said
they had been brutally beaten with a tire iron or other tool, and shot in the head or face, hancock said
the men are believed to have abandonded mrs. woodard's car near farmersville and to have stolen the morrisons' pickup truck. mrs. woodard's car has not been recovered
they then drove the pickup truck to the hope-saratoga, ark., area and drove it into a lake, hancock said
the men went to a home in the area to ask for assistance after dark monday, and the fourth victim offered them a ride, hancock said
the body of kenneth olden, 34, of arkansas, was found about 9 a.m. tuesday on a rural road outside saratoga, authorities said
they left him on a roadside and drove his vehicle back to marietta, oklahoma, where that vehcile was discovered somewhere before noon tuesday,'' hancock said. marietta is just north of the texas-oklahoma line
a checkbook taken from the men in farmersville, two gold necklaces and a prescription bottle with mrs. woodard's name on it were found with the vehicle in arkansas, hancock said
authorities said they were trying to determine whether the killings were linked to the robbery by three men of a seminole, okla., bank monday. the fbi recovered most of the stolen cash in muskogee, okla
the chairman of the house energy and commerce committee says congress will not enact a bill to define insider trading, although the securities industry is seeking such legislation
the definition that has developed in case law is clear,'' rep. john dingell, d-mich., said in a speech this week to the securities industry association
reporters were not invited to the lobby group's meeting in washington on monday, but dingell's office released a copy of his remarks on wednesday
the offense of insider trading has developed over the years through court and regulatory interpretations of fraud and securities laws
the securities industry has been pushing congress to write a definition into the law, arguing that traders need to know beforehand what constitutes insider trading in order to avoid violating the law
sens. donald w. riegle jr., d-mich., and alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., in june introduced a bill with a definition. they have been working with the securities and exchange commission, which favors legislation but has suggested changes in the senate bill to broaden the definition
however, in the house, dingell told the lobby group flatly, ``there will be no definition of insider trading.''
he said his committee is drafting a bill that would ``implement needed reforms'' and promised ``we will work toward passage this year.''
he did not elaborate what reforms would be in the bill, beyond advising the association that ``you will probably dislike some of them.''
dennis fitzgibbons, a spokesman for dingell, said the chairman favors additional penalties for insider trading. he also wants harsher treatment for violations of internal ``chinese wall'' barriers designed to prevent executives in a securities firm involved in mergers and aquisitions from communicating with traders in the same firm, fitzgibbons said
fitzgibbons said dingell is not philosophically opposed to legislating a definition, but recognizes the difficulty of getting congress to agree on one and is comfortable with the definition developed by the courts
donald j. crawford, a senior vice president for the securities association, said the group has endorsed a statutory definition but believes there is some validity to dingell's arguments
in a related matter, dingell critized a bill passed last week by the senate banking committee that would permit banks to underwrite most securities, except corporate stocks
dingell said the bill provided insufficient safeguards against conflicts between banks' role as lenders and what would become their new role as a securities underwriters
the bill ``has emerged ... with firewalls as thin as rice paper,'' he said. that izvestia is soviet newspaper. subs 20th graf ``but the . .. this way:'' to show that le monde is french newspaper.</head>
george bush grabbed the lion's share of the overseas headlines after his string of super tuesday victories, with much of the press portraying him as a low-key reagan loyalist with one foot in the white house door
why is bush so popular? the answer comes easily,'' said the independent tabloid expressen, sweden's largest-circulation paper. ``party people see him as ronald reagan's loyal aid _ loyal to the grave _ and therefore his natural successor.''
the vice president's republican primary victories in 16 states grabbed more media coverage than the more muddled outcomes on the democratic side, although massachusetts gov. michael dukakis got huge display in his ancestral country, greece, and jesse jackson drew strong coverage
jesse jackson, the one-time `leftist radical,' has become a ... kingmaker with a strong influence on the democratic program and on the ultimate choice of the presidential candidate,'' the independent amsterdam newspaper, het parool, noted in an editorial
poland's state-run radio, in a commentary read during the midday news, drew parallels between bush and sen. albert gore, d-tenn
gore, it said, ``originates from a well-to-do family, graduated from elite universities, and his life, including the political one, has been happy,'' it said
this moderate conservative from the south describes himself as the toughest among the democrats as far as military issues are concerned. his political profile therefore offers no contrast to bush's...''
prevailing foreign sentiment attributed bush's big day to president reagan. the british papers seemed ready to announce an inauguration
white house here i come,'' shouted the the banner headline in the standard of london, which ran a photo of an exhilarated bush waving to supporters
senate minority leader bob dole was shown rubbing his brow in a photograph captioned ``feeling the pain.''
by a stunning series of triumphs, grinding his rivals to dust beneath his chariot wheels in the super tuesday primaries, george bush emerged almost invincible as the next presidential candidate of the republican party,'' the standard rhapsodized
in west germany, the bonn-based newspaper die welt said: ``george bush's impressive victory is without doubt the most important event of the primary elections
this was not just a victory for george bush, it was a triumph for ronald reagan.''
in greece, where the dukakis campaign has been followed closely, the media trumpeted his victories in five democratic primaries. ``dukakis triumphs, all consider him a certain president,'' said a banner headline in the conservative daily messimvrini
a front-page article in the soviet-government newspaper izvestia in moscow said super tuesday appears to have decided the republican contest, but only raised more questions about who will emerge as the democratic contender in november
dukakis, jackson and gore ``practically split up among themselves the states where elections were held,'' the newspaper said
izvestia quoted ``a prominent democratic figure who didn't want his name used'' in speculating that his party might run a ticket pairing dukakis with jackson
in contrast with past coverage, reports issued this week by the official tass news agency were notable for their balance and clarity
both tass and izvestia noted the poor showings by republicans jack kemp and pat robertson, ``who had been conducting their campaigns from extreme right positions.''
but the leftist french daily le monde of paris, in an editorial, summed up the whole process this way:
it will take hundreds of millions of dollars, thousands of kilometers, countless hours of television, to realize (that) hopes have been disappointed, careers destroyed and contestants hopelessly plunged into debt before there is the slightest idea or the vaguest program'' put forward by the candidates
le monde said there was an ideological vacuum on the democratic side, with the exception of jackson and his ``out-of-date liberalism.''
rome's moderate il messsaggero, said in its headline: ``bush did it. beating dole, he has become the political heir of reagan.''
state-run rai-tv spent nearly five minutes explaining the process before giving the results wednesday morning
buoyed by a heavy vote in claiborne county, ed pittman was within reach of winning the democratic nomination in a mississippi supreme court race
problem was, elections officials had forgotten that claiborne county wasn't part of the district any longer
i would have loved to win the first time, but as a matter of fact when you have three worthy opponents you don't anticipate winning the first day,'' the former attorney general said wednesday
he will face attorney john swartzfager in the march 29 runoff
swartzfager said he was shocked by the snafu, and blamed it partly on pittman
pittman was the state attorney general when the redistricting plan was approved in december, swartzfager said, ``and he should have notified the secretary of state and the democratic party.''
final but unofficial returns without claiborne county showed pittman with 49 percent of the vote in the supreme court's southern district and swartzfager with 21 percent
including claiborne county, where pittman won by 1,554 to 107, his unofficial total was about 50 percent. a runoff is required if a candidate receives less than 50 percent
the bottom line is they may have voted in the southern district but they are not in that district,'' said john emfinger of the attorney general's office. ``the next step will be up to the party.''
emfinger said the legislature had moved the county as part of a redistricting plan last year
brian martin, executive director of the mississippi democratic party, said the mistake would have no impact on the central district, where claiborne county belongs and where two incumbent justices had no opposition tuesday
we received the sample ballot from the (state) party and our democratic executive committee had the ballot made up exactly as it was sent to us,'' said sammie good, the claiborne county circuit clerk. ``we are very disappointed our votes will not count and i'm sure ed pittman is disappointed.''
an absorbent material called super slurper is helping tiny worms to kill root weevils that threaten citrus trees, the agriculture department said wednesday
william j. schroeder, an entomolgist in the department's agricultural research service, said the super slurper keeps soil moist so that the microscopic worms, or nematodes, can survive and kill weevils which chew the tree roots
in tests, 60 percent of the weevils were killed, compared with only 25 percent without the help of the worms. schroeder said that weevils can kill up to 30 percent of the trees in a grove if not controlled
the nematodes haven't been used before as a natural weevil control because they die quickly if soil dries out, schoeder said
other agency scientists are looking into the use of super slurper and nematodes to see if they can control pests of corn and vegetables
agency scientists in peoria, ill., invented the cornstarch-based super slurper 14 years ago. it has been successfully used in dozens of commercial products, including body powder, medical dressings and many other items
schroeder, who works at the department's horticultural research laboratory in orlando, fla., said he thought of super slurper in 1985 when he observed nematodes dying in dry soil
companies could mass-produce nematodes and ``package billions of them alive'' for sale to growers, who then could mix the worms with super slurper for application on tree roots before planting, he said
for citrus groves already inhabited by the beneficial nematodes, schroeder said he is looking into the possibility of injecting super slurper into the soil with a nozzle
the tiny worms, which survive as long as the soil is kept moist, penetrate the weevils and release lethal bacteria, which don't harm plants or other organisms, schroeder said
ss writer=
chicago (ap) _ jesse jackson returned to his home base on wednesday, fresh from his strong showing on super tuesday, and predicted a ``hotly contested race'' in next week's illinois primary
i will do well in illinois,'' he told reporters. but he also said he anticipated a tough fight with illinois sen. paul simon, who sat out the super tuesday primaries and caucuses across 20 states
jackson reaped more than 300 delegates, coming in second overall to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
jackson placed first in the popular vote for the day, with 27 percent to 26 percent each for dukakis and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee
but that was a total for all the states. the delegates are alloted state-by-state depending on the votes each candidate wins in each state, not how many they win regionwide
jackson's campaign staff pointed to exit polls showing he had won the hispanic vote, the women's vote and the 18-to-21 age group
the exit polls indicated jackson won about 95 percent of the black vote and about 10 percent of the white vote across the super tuesday states
jackson came in third in texas, and to put the best face on that showing in a state where he campaigned vigorously, his aides said he had spent only $30,000 on tv there, a fraction of what was spent by his opponents
campaign official steve cobble said polling showed that jackson did well in the places that he appeared personally, as in the case of beaumont, texas, where he went to show solidarity with striking oil workers
jackson talked repeatedly wednesday about how he was outspent by the multi-million dollar tv campaigns of dukakis, gore and rep. richard gephardt of missouri
my opponents have money, and money is powerful, but we the people are more powerful,'' he told a rally of plant workers in the chicago suburb of cicero. ``we get stronger every day.''
his campaign manager, gerald austin, said the jackson campaign will be buying tv ads as new money comes in. jackson spent $100,000 on tv in the super tuesday contests
in south carolina, jackson's boyhood state where voting occurs saturday, austin said the tv budget is about $20,000. in illinois, austin anticipates a total budget of $200,000, with about $30,000 for television
jackson has been a political force in chicago for many years starting when he worked with the rev. martin luther king jr. for open housing and other civil rights causes. jackson makes his home here, and his operation push, people united to serve humanity, is based here
upon arriving home wednesday, jackson went to cicero to speak at an outdoor rally of about 150 general electric workers who are upset because of plans to close down a refrigerator plant where more than 1,000 people work
jesse, help us save our jobs,'' their placards read
jackson said he was challenging ge to meet with workers and him to discuss ways of converting the plant to other uses
earlier, at a news conference in houston, he said the primary elections are muting democratic party establishment doubts about the viability of his campaign
but he said many white democratic politicians who were elected with support from black voters he helped bring into the party had failed to endorse him
it would be fair to say that many of them had reasonable doubts about the success of our campaign,'' he said. ``in these elections we are removing those doubts. ... our coalition represents the future of the democratic party.''
he said white officials must assess not only who can win, but which candidate ``can help them.''
he decried the negative ads his opponents ran against one another, and said the democrats must not ``self-destruct'' their chances for winning the white house in november
although jackson so far has not been attacked by his rivals, austin said the jackson camp is prepared to face ``slings and arrows'' now that he is amassing delegates. prevails</head>
michael dukakis organized early and spent big to tell texas voters that the economic program dubbed the ``massachusetts miracle'' could mean jobs and tax breaks for them. he succeeded, convincingly
supporters of vice president george bush, meanwhile, said they hoped the former texas resident's sweep of all 111 state republican delegates on super tuesday dispelled the ``wimp'' issue
he's the best of what texas is,'' said margaret wolf, who served as bush's secretary in 1977-78. bush, a massachusetts native who keeps a voting address at a houston hotel, was ``gutsy'' for starting his own oil business in texas in 1953, she said
dukakis, who says he helped spur his state's economic revival as governor, ``ran a good campaign'' to defeat jesse jackson by 33 percent to 24 percent of the primary vote, said george christian, a former press secretary to lyndon johnson and an austin political consultant
he had the strategy of finding his constituency and organizing it. his constituency was the hispanics and liberals. that was a sufficient number to put him at the top,'' christian said
in contrast to a dukakis advertising blitz that cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, jackson spent about $20,000 on texas ads but used volunteers to build his no. 2 spot among democrats, said his campaign secretary, steve coble
with 6,534 of 6,933 precincts or 94 percent reporting, dukakis had 533,076 votes, jackson had 387,440, tennessee sen. albert gore received 334,365 or 14 percent and missouri rep. richard gephardt finished with 225,770 or 14 percent
dukakis earned an estimated 45 delegates and jesse jackson was expected to capture 44. gore had 26 delegates and gephardt tallied 9
in the republican primary, with 5,238 of 5,616 precincts or 93 percent reporting, bush amassed 588,081 votes or 64 percent.former tv evangelist pat robertson was a distant second with 141,444 votes and kansas sen. bob dole had 125,702 or 14 percent
in other races, democratic sen. lloyd bentsen easily won renomination in his bid for a fourth term. top republican challengers beau boulter, who gave up his congressional seat for the senate race, and wes gilbreath, a houston investor making his first race for a political office, will meet in a runoff on april 12
a slow-moving cold front set off showers wednesday through the ohio and tennessee valleys and along the gulf coast, where more than 3 inches of rain drenched central louisiana in 24 hours
heavy rain also fell in the pacific northwest, and up to 5 inches of snow were expected in washington's cascade and olympic mountains
temperatures climbed to record highs in north dakota, while much of texas had readings in the 60s and 70s
rainshowers were scattered from western new england into the upper ohio valley and from virginia through the eastern carolinas into northern florida
northeast michigan got a dusting of snow
in louisiana, more than an 3 inches of rain were measured in 24 hours at oakdale, bunkie, eunice and alexandria. lake charles got more than an inch
more than 3 inches were recorded in 24 hours in washington at spada lake and verlot
snow and blowing dust hindered travel across northwest nevada, reducing visibility to less than a mile. winds gusted to 36 mph at tonopah, nev
heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 0.70 inch at mccomb, miss., 0.65 inch at gainesville, fla., and charleston, s.c., 0.49 inch at crescent city, calif
temperatures at 2 p.m. est ranged from 26 degrees at limestone, maine, gunnison, colo., and elko, nev., to 83 degrees at avon park, fla. the morning low for the nation was 5 degrees below zero at gunnison, colo
record high temperatures included 58 in bismarck, n.d., 60 in dickinson, n.d., and 56 at williston, n.d
thursday's forecast called for rainshowers along the middle and southern atlantic coast, with showers and a few thunderstorms across the florida peninsula; rain across the northeast plains and the central intermountain region; snow across the northern rockies and high plains into the colorado rockies, and gusty wind from the desert southwest into the southern rockies and from the carolinas into northern florida
high temperatures were expected to reach the 50s or 60s across much of the nation, with readings in the 30s and 40s from the northern plateau and central intermountain region through the northern rockies, the northern plains, the great lakes and upper ohio valley into new england; in the 70s across the southern coast of california, the southern plateau, the southern plains and the lower mississippi valley as well as much of florida, and in the low to mid-80s across western and southern texas
the world's cities must be more than simply places to do business: they must strive to meet the higher human aspirations of their citizens, experts attending an international conference on cities agreed wednesday
it's more than a tax base. it's more than buildings. it's aiming to make the city enjoyable for those citizens who have the least,'' charleston mayor joseph p. riley jr. told the international conference on making cities liveable
about 300 experts from around the globe are attending the conference which runs through this weekend. social policy and values as they apply to cities were the topics of the opening session
if we can give homes rather than housing projects, if we can create types of beauty everyone can enjoy ... then we are on our way to making cities liveable,'' said riley, who showed slides of rehabilitation and restoration projects he said has given charleston an international reputation
eduardo salzano, a professor at the university of venice in italy, said modern cities are confronted with ``a cluttered mass of individual interests.''
he suggested planning should be in the hands of local boards that have adequate citizen input, and residents of cities must agree ownership of urban land does not automatically give the owner the right to build anything he wants
a sense of place is a human hunger'' which many modern cities don't satisfy, said don robert johnson, a new york scholar. he added that ``individuals without a sense of history are incapable of planning the present and the future in an informed manner.''
the mayor of erlangen, west germany, dietmar hahlweg, said cities need strong planning authority and the right to take land when needed for public purposes
cities also need enlightened leadership and ``people who have the necessary knowledge and have a feeling for the wishes, needs and problems of the people,'' he said
planners must also consider the needs of the elderly and children, said suzanne lennard, one of the organizers of the conference
she said liveable cities have some sort of unity. cities in the united states ``have grown cancerously'' with a wide separation of shopping areas and neighborhoods and ``a lack of order or reason in the sequence of streets and places,'' she said
a community cannot be said to exist in a series of pockets of persons wishing to know only those in their own group and shunning contact with others,'' she said
william whyte of the american conservation association in new york suggested many american cities fear ``undesirables'' and ``bustle with distrust'' of some of their citizens
he noted that in some cities, park benches are cut short to make it hard for people to sleep on them. in other metropolitan areas, it's virtually impossible to find a public rest room in the center of the city, he said
in some large downtown development projects featuring hotels or shopping arcades, benches are omitted to discourage ``undesirables,'' he said
many such projects are financed in part through tax money, he said
these things the public has an equity in and it should be mandatory they can be used by the public,'' he said. season</head>
the democratic presidential candidates on wednesday found themselves stuck in a logjam of delegates in which nobody was likely to lock up the party's nomination when the primaries end in june
mathematically and politically this process is in gridlock,'' said terry michael, spokesman for illinois sen. paul simon, who suffered a shutout in super tuesday's round of primaries and caucuses
simon, who held just 35.5 delegates both before and after tuesday's balloting, is banking on nobody being able to gain the 2,082 delegates needed to win the democratic presidential nomination when the primaries conclude on june 7, with california and new jersey, two of the largest states with a total of 423 delegates at stake
the person or persons with the greatest potential to negotiate his way to a first-ballot victory will be the candidate who is hottest at the end,'' michael said
the odds are growing longer that any candidate can come up with the magic number needed to win on the first ballot at the democratic convention in atlanta
the democrats have yet to allocate 2,524 of their national convention delegates, and another 258.65 delegates list themselves as uncommitted. thus the available pool of delegates to be won between now and early june would be 2,782.65
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who was leading the field of democratic candidates with 456.5 delegates, needs to win another 1625.5 delegates to wrap up the presidential nomionation. or, put another way, he has to win more than 58 percent of all the delegates that are still left to be won _ roughly twice as well as he's done so far
dukakis was followed in the delegate count by rev. jesse jackson with 395.55 and tennessee sen. albert gore with 346.8
the three-way tie in the democratic race prompted former president jimmy carter to observe that ``i think it's accurate to say the chances are less likely that one of the candidates will arrive in atlanta with a clear majority.''
new york gov. mario cuomo said wednesday he wanted to see his party hold a ``quiet convention,'' although he conceded it would be difficult for any of the current candidates to secure a first-ballot victory based on results of the primaries and caucuses
cuomo said he had talked to democratic national committee chairman paul kirk about the problem last week
i believe what you, paul kirk, should do is try, right after california and new jersey, the last primaries, to take whoever is ahead and make that person the concensus choice,'' cuomo said as he recalled the conversation
michael said if no candidate holds a majority by the time the primaries conclude, the rule of conscience that binds delegates to the candidates will begin to bend and break
however, jude barry, an aide to missouri rep. richard gephardt's presidential campaign, disagreed, saying, ``i think there's going to be loyalty and commitment. we're prepared to protect what we have, as i'm sure the other candidates will as well.''
gephardt, who had 143 delegates after super tuesday, is hoping to hang on with a strong showing in the michigan caucuses on march 26 and the congressional democratic caucuses on april 19 and 20. gephardt is planning on winning big when his house colleagues pick 210 of their own to be national convention delegates. another 43 delegates will be picked by senate democrats
our hand certainly will not be weak with that wild card,'' barry said
simon, meanwhile, is hoping to score a victory next tuesday in his home state of illinois. trial including mafia claim, other detail. corrects spelling of wounded bailiff's name to wofford sted wooford. corrects gunman's first name to jeremey sted jeremy and hometown to sepulveda sted woodland hills. no pickup</note>
a ``violently crazy'' man bent on revenge after being convicted of reckless driving and weapons violations returned to the courtroom wednesday and opened fire, wounding a bailiff before being slain, officials said
jeremey sigmond, 35, a decertified chiropractor who had claimed during his trial that he thought the mafia was following him, died in a shootout at municipal court in suburban van nuys, said ted goldstein, a spokesman for the city attorney's office
sigmond had held a gun to the head of the deputy city attorney who prosecuted the case, jessica perrin silvers, 48. she broke loose when he was momentarily distracted and was unharmed, goldstein said
i realized he now apparently regarded me as part of the same conspiracy that involves the mafia, the governor, the governor's cousin, the district attorney, the city attorney's office, and all the rest,'' ms. silvers said. ``i know that makes me start sounding like the crazy one when i say it.''
he's just, in layman's terms, violently crazy, and i knew it,'' she said
the wounded bailiff, county deputy marshal cliff wofford, 30, of palmdale, was in stable condition at st. joseph's medical center in burbank, said hospital spokeswoman linda roberts. he was shot in the abdomen
sigmond, of sepulveda, was convicted in the same courtroom tuesday of four misdemeanors _ reckless driving, evading police, carrying a loaded weapon and carrying a concealed weapon _ stemming from a chase, goldstein said. he was awaiting sentencing
when sigmond was arrested in october, he was wearing two bulletproof vests and a crash helmet and carrying a .38-caliber revolver loaded with five rounds of armor-piercing ammunition, officers said
he testified he thought he was being chased by the mafia instead of the california highway patrol. he claimed the mafia was harassing him in retaliation for a suit he filed against the board of chiropractors, alleging price-fixing and restraint of trade
sigmond was also appealing the revocation of his state license to practice as a chiropractor
sigmond accosted ms. silvers on wednesday minutes after she arrived at the courthouse. she said he commandeered her into the courtroom
a bailiff pulled a gun on sigmond, but he countered: ``drop or i'll kill both of you,'' said jim epstein, a lawyer and friend of the prosecutor
the bailiff threw her gun behind sigmond, and as he reached for the weapon, ms. silvers broke loose and locked herself in a restroom, epstein said
the man, waving both guns, then went toward municipal judge michael b. harwin, screaming ``something like `i want my new day in court,''' said george schell, a deputy city attorney in the courtroom
the judge started wrestling with the gunman, trying to disarm him. a second bailiff, wofford, then rushed into the room and both he and sigmond were wounded in the ensuing shootout, officials said
though fatally wounded, sigmond continued to struggle with the judge and a bailiff who were trying to handcuff him, schell said. ms. silvers said 13 casings were found around the judge's bench
at his sentencing, which was scheduled for may, sigmond could have been sent to jail for up to 18 months
one witness outside the courtroom, becker mubani, said that after the shooting he saw wofford running from the courtroom, ``his left hand covering the wound.''
the officer staggered down some steps to the sidewalk as other officers ran to assist him. mubani screamed, ``watch! watch! he's wounded!''
then the wounded officer began shouting, `where is the ambulance? where is the ambulance?''' mubani said. report of meeting in yerevan.</note>
mikhail s. gorbachev and other kremlin officials met wednesday with leaders of the republics of armenia and azerbaijan to discuss how to resolve ethnic unrest that has killed at least 32 people, tass said
the report said party leaders kyamran bagirov of azerbaijan and karen demirchyan of armenia met with the soviet leader, soviet president andrei a. gromyko, premier nikolai i. ryzhkov and two other influential politburo members, yegor k. ligachev and alexander n. yakovlev
the conference involving the party's top echelon illustrated the kremlin's concern over the ethnic strife that has cracked the facade of cohesion among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
in its report on the meeting at the party's central committee headquarters, tass said the situation in the republics ``is returning to normal, although it continues to have its difficulties.''
meanwhile, an armenian who described himself as a city official loyal to the soviet government called the associated press from the armenian capital of yerevan to report that city officials from throughout the republic had gathered wednesday to appeal to authorities in moscow for support
this is not a nationalist or an extremist action,'' said gamlet kocharyan, who said he was a member of the governing council of the city of kafan. he said the armenians' effort to annex a section of the neighboring republic of azerbaijan was legal and deserved the central government's attention
he said the appeal was adopted unanimously by 1,500 delegates at the meeting in yerevan and would be sent to moscow. it also asked the national party central committee to reprimand soviet media for inaccurate and incomplete reporting on the ethnic disturbances, he said
the tass report on the kremlin meeting, which was the top item on the national news program ``vremya,'' said public order was being observed and that schools and businesses were open in azerbaijan and armenia
tass said the officials discussed ``the situation taking shape in these republics in connection with the events in nagorno-karabakh.''
nagorno-karabakh is an armenian-dominated region of azerbaijan that armenians want to be annexed to their republic
tensions between armenians and azeris erupted in violence feb. 28 in the azerbaijani city of sumgait. foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said 32 people were killed in the rioting
at a news briefing, gerasimov said ``the situation is normal, but passions are still running high since people still remember what happened.''
the soviet government has blamed the killings on ``hooligans'' provoked by rumors of ethnic turmoil elsewhere. but some armenian activists claim the death toll is much higher and that the violence was instigated by azeris out of ethnic hatred
gorbachev issued an appeal last month to both ethnic groups to cease fighting and work together to resolve the territorial dispute
tass said the armenian and azeri officials who met with gorbachev declared their peoples' support for an orderly approach to determining the fate of nagorno-karabakh
earlier, armenian nationalists called on the politburo to protect their countrymen from attacks by azeris and said they plan a general strike later this week
hovik vassilian, a nationalist in yerevan, said armenians fear their azeri neighbors will resort to violence during a march 18-23 holiday observed by shiite moslems
azeris are predominantly shiite moslem, while most armenians are christian
vassilian also said that hundreds of thousands of armenians staged a demonstration tuesday in yerevan to mourn countrymen killed in the ethnic turmoil
gerasimov confirmed that a demonstration took place at yerevan's memorial to armenian victims of the 1915 turkish invasion, but said he did not know how many people participated
inspectors at 11 u.s. international airports who guard against agricultural pests and diseases are being equipped with x-ray machines to detect illegal sausages, mangoes and other contraband, the agriculture department said wednesday
imported meats can carry exotic diseases that could devastate american livestock,'' said james w. glosser, head of the department's animal and plant health inpection service. ``fruits and vegetable coming into the country can carry pests that could seriously damage american crops.''
agency inspectors have used x-ray equipment in puerto rico and hawaii for departures for several years, with interceptions of prohibited agricultural items doubling, he said
the new systems for arrivals were recently installed at international airports in miami, honolulu, luis munoz international in puerto rico, houson and chicago
additional equipment soon will be installed at international airports in atlanta, new york, boston, los angeles, san francisco and washington d.c
the usda agency also is installing large signs at the 11 airports telling travelers that x-rays are being used to check their baggage
although most people willingly declare their agricultural products, we do come across some intentional violators,'' glosser said. ``that's only natural, considering that we encountered an estimated 43 million air travelers in 1987. some ignore the regulations and others are not even aware of them, despite all our information efforts.''
glosser said the agency uses several methods to find smuggled agricultural items, including trained beagles to sniff out illegal imports
finally, we rely on the deterrent effect of penalties,'' he said. ``we fine violators $25 to $50, payable on the spot. we currently collect about $30,000 per month, and we have collected nearly $1.8 million since 1984. fines are deposited in the u.s. treasury.''
bowing to a british demand, the panamanian ambassador agreed to waive his diplomatic immunity wednesday and be questioned by police over a raid he authorized on his country's consulate, the embassy said
we haven't done anything wrong,'' embassy spokesman geronimo de obaldia said of the monday night raid, in which british security guards hired by the embassy crashed a land rover through the glass doors of panama's london consulate and occupied it
no one was hurt, there was some glass broken and that's it,'' de obaldia told the associated press
an embassy statement said ambassador guillermo vega told the foreign office in a letter wednesday he ``and relevant members of his staff ... are ready to be interviewed by the authorities in respect of the events of march 7 at the consulate.''
the foreign office, however, considered vega's response ``unclear and inadequate,'' summoned him for the third time in two days and gave him 24 hours to provide a ``definite response,'' said a spokesman, who under british procedure declined to be identified
vega supports panamanian military leader gen. manuel antonio noriega, who arranged the ouster of president eric delvalle on feb. 26. consul eduardo arango, whose fleet street offices were seized, is loyal to delvalle
the foreign office had set a deadline for the panamanians to waive diplomatic immunity and hinted that vega might be expelled if he refused
de obaldia told the ap the embassy announcement meant the ambassador waived diplomatic immunity for himself and other diplomats
under international law, diplomats cannot be charged with criminal offenses or questioned by police unless they waive immunity
besides vega, the foreign office said police want to question embassy counselor jorge e. constantino, who allegedly accompanied the raiders or was nearby, and any other diplomats involved
seven britons employed by the security firm which vega hired for the raid were arrested and charged with public order offenses. they have no diplomatic protection
panama's ambassador to the european economic community, angel. e. riera, also a delvalle loyalist, meanwhile said noriega supporters broke into his office in strasbourg, france, on wednesday
riera said the raiders, led by a panamanian colonel, smashed the office door, searched for money and left when they found none
the tough british response to the london raid underlined conservative government insistence that london streets not be turned into battlegrounds for internal disputes in foreign countries
control of panamana's washington embassy is also in dispute following noriega's takeover
delvalle was ousted hours after demanding that noriega resign following his february indictment in florida on drug trafficking charges. reference to shultz.</note>
a top state department official headed for moscow wednesday to explain to soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze what the united states is doing to get peace talks started in the middle east
the state department said that assistant secretary of state richard murphy left washington tuesday night headed for moscow, with a brief stopover in brussels to brief the u.s. nato allies on the american mideast peace plan
murphy's talks in moscow are designed to prepare shevardnadze for his visit to washington on march 22, when he and secretary of state george p. shultz will discuss how best to advance the mideast initiative
the two men already discussed the mideast situation when shultz visited moscow last month prior to undertaking a shuttle between jordan, egypt and israel to present his plan
the plan reportedly calls for israel and its arab neighbors to launch talks by may 1 on a three-year autonomy period for the 1.5 million palestinians living under israeli occupation. the sides would begin talks on a long-term solution to the occupied west bank and gaza strip in december
the united states is seeking soviet support for the plan in an effort to enlist the backing of the arabs, especially those closely allied with the kremlin like syria
the shultz plan calls for the soviets to join england, france, china and the united states in overseeing the talks
murphy is also scheduled to stop in rome, paris and bonn as part of the u.s. effort to ensure a broad base of support for the initiative which was sparked by three months of israeli-palestinian clashes which have left more than 80 arabs dead
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir is due in washington next week, but he is not expected to bring an israeli response to his plan, despite such a demand from shultz
shamir, leader of the right-wing likud bloc, objects to an international conference out of concern that such a forum will pressure israel into giving up occupied lands
instead, shamir will propose an agreement with jordan on a step-by-step plan for implementing self-rule quickly in a limited area of the west bank or gaza. no indication of mechanical failure in crash. pick up 6th graf pvs, `schoel said ...'; inserts two grafs after 10th pvs, `we have ...' to add weather conditions, number of servicemen in each helicopter.</note>
army crews wednesday retrieved the last eight bodies of 17 soldiers killed when two helicopters on a night training mission collided, then plunged 250 feet to the ground and caught fire
the uh-60 blackhawk helicopters from fort campbell spewed wreckage for hundreds of yards and charred the partially wooded, gently rolling site six miles from the choppers' air field tuesday night
one aircraft is located in the trees. one aircraft is right on the edge of a clearing,'' said maj. randy schoel, fort campbell spokesman
it was the worst army aviation disaster since 248 soldiers based at fort campbell were killed in 1985 in the crash of a chartered plane in gander, newfoundland, schoel said
the blackhawk, one of the newer helicopters used by the army, air force and marine corps, has been grounded four times in three years. last summer officials said about 40 people had been killed in crashes of the helicopter since 1978
i would say now there is no indication of any mechanical factor'' in the crash, said chief warrant officer joe adams of the investigation team from the army safety center at fort rucker, ala. ``we are looking at human and environmental factors. the human factors might include some restriction of vision.''
four bodies were taken from the wreckage of each helicopter wednesday, schoel said
schoel said the crash occurred on the western kentucky-tennessee border during a ``routine night mission,'' and left no survivors
obviously, there's an element of risk in everything we do. we train up to a standard that reduces that risk to an absolute minimum,'' schoel said. ``yes it can be, but it's not necessarily, more dangerous to fly at night.''
the helicopters were flying at 92 mph air speed and about 250 feet from the ground when they collided, schoel said. one of three helicopters flying in formation was hit by a fourth, said william harralson, deputy public affairs officer at the fort
there were three aircraft in formation, if you want to say ducks in a row, headed east, and another who was flying solo, hit one of those,'' said harralson. ``there can be 10 or 12 battalion-sized groups working at fort campbell at one time.''
we have been told by the tower that the weather was good,'' he said
the solo helicopter carried four servicemen; the 13 others were in the other aircraft
adams said the weather was good, which in military terms means visibility of better than a mile and a cloud ceiling of at least 500 feet
one helicopter crashed on the tennessee side of the border, the other in kentucky. although the soldiers were carrying personal weapons, such as m-16 rifles, the helicopters were not armed, schoel said
one of the other blackhawk helicopters returned to the air field; the other landed at the crash site
they witnessed the accident. they were providing statements to the investigators, and the decision was made not to make them fly it back,'' schoel said
a team from the army safety center at fort rucker, ala., was called to investigate. a safety expert from sikorsky aircraft in stratford, conn., the helicopter's manufacturer, also sent a safety expert
the army identified three of the dead as staff sgt. charles l. shirley, 21, of arkansas; sgt. dennis sabot, 28, of iowa; and spec. 4 samuel a. hintz, 23, of ohio, all from the 2nd battalion, 502nd infantry. home towns were not provided. names of the other victims were withheld pending notification of relatives
the army's fleet of 820 uh-60s was grounded twice in may 1987, once for inspection and once because of a design flaw. the entire fleet also was grounded in april 1985 and march 1986 after fatal crashes. in 1985, the army identified a defect in the main rotor assembly and ordered it corrected
army undersecretary james r. ambrose said in november he had confidence in the blackhawk. noting news reports that radio and microwave towers on the ground can interfere with the aircraft's electronic control systems, he said no safety hazard had been found
the blackhawk has a safety record at least four times better than the aircraft it replaced,'' said bob stangarone, a spokesman for sikorsky, a division of united technologies
stangarone noted the army has shown its confidence in the blackhawk by awarding sikorsky multiyear contracts for the helicopter
the blackhawk is designed primarily as a utility and assault aircraft and is used in air assault, air cavalry and medical evacuation, said maj. phil soucy, a spokesman for the army in washington
soucy said there had been no move by safety investigators to ground the blackhawk fleet as a result of the accident
the helicopter normally is operated with a crew of three and can carry 11 combat-equipped soldiers
fort campbell was the home base of 248 soldiers killed dec. 12, 1985, when a chartered jet bringing them home for christmas from peacekeeping duties in the sinai peninsula crashed in gander, newfoundland. 10th graf pvs, bgng: dole contended</note>
republican presidential candidate bob dole, conceding he must win in illinois, renewed his call for a series of one-on-one debates in the state with vice president george bush. but bush rebuffed the request, saying it was time to look ahead to the general election
i respectfully decline your invitation to debate in illinois,'' bush said in a telegram to dole, reminding his rival that the two have already been in six gop debates together. ``i believe it is now time to look ahead to the issues which distinguish us from the democrats.''
good luck,'' added the vice president, who trounced dole in the big round of super tuesday contests. dole was all to mindful of that as he kicked off his illinois effort on wednesday
i've got to win illinois,'' he said. ``and if i can do that then ... i think people will pause to reflect.''
dole spoke outside a hospital where he had surgery 40 years ago for crippling wounds suffered in world war ii. he said he came to visit wesley hospital, now part of the northwestern memorial hospital complex, because ``i walked out of these doors and started back on the road to recovery.''
after taking a bath yesterday, i've got to start down that road again,'' dole said
bush won 16 of 17 republican contests on tuesday, while dole won none
the kansas senator said ``it would not be easy'' to overtake bush but he maintained that he could do it ``the hard way _ one state at a time.''
at northwestern law school, dole renewed his call for bush to participate in a round of lincoln-douglas style debates without moderators
i just appeal to george bush. here's a chance, george, to finish me off right here in illinois,'' dole said
dole contended that past debates featured too many candidates and prevented a clear comparison of his record with the vice president's
he also began airing a tv commercial in which he links bush to u.s. arms sales to iran
dole projected a confident, come-from-behind theme and repeatedly told audiences that he was a ``strong person'' who had overcome past personal difficulties
i'm here after a rather difficult day,'' dole told the law students. ``i feel like i've just taken the finals, and i didn't flunk but i didn't do too well either.''
dole aides contend that the senator can survive if he wins a large share of the 82 republican delegates at stake in the march 15 illinois primary. but even if he does well in illinois, he would face an uphill fight with bush all the way to the nominating convention in august
asked if illinois is a do-or-die contest for dole, thomas rath, a senior campaign strategist, said: ``if it's not, it'll do until the real thing comes along. we have to view this campaign in short bursts, and clearly the next burst for us is illinois.''
assessing the impact of tuesday's defeats, william brock, dole's campaign chairman, would only say: ``that causes a lot of problems for us.''
rath said the dole campaign will begin to step up its attacks on bush with television ads to start running on thursday in some areas, drawing a comparisons between bush and dole's records. similar ads were used in the super tuesday states
in addition, rath said the campaign is considering a new tv spot to raise the ``electability issue.'' dole frequently cites polls that he says show him the strongest gop nominee against any democrat in the general election
by focusing on issues, the dole campaign can ``cut the umbilical cord'' that links bush to president reagan and gives him a popularity boost among republicans who favor the administration, rath said
dole campaigned in the chicago area on wednesday beneath leaden skies and in a damp chill _ weather that seemed to match the gloomy aftermath of super tuesday for his campaign
but in contrast to his defeat in new hampshire, when dole angrily lashed out at bush, the kansas senator tried to project an upbeat image and repeatedly declared that he was ``on the road to recovery'' in illinois
at a suburban commuter train station, dole shook hands with a few people as they hurried off to work
one man, who identified himself as a dole supporter but declined to give his name, summed up the political landscape for a reporter: ``i guess it's all over for him unless he wins illinois. that's too bad.''
the world court on wednesday ordered hearings on a united nations attempt to block the united states from shutting down the plo's office in new york
anti-terrorism legislation passed by the u.s. congress on dec. 22 calls for the palestine liberation organization u.n. observer mission to be closed by march 21
the united states defied a 143-1 u.n. vote last month that called for the dispute to be submitted to an independent arbitration panel
u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar last week asked the court for a ruling on whether the united states has a right to refuse arbitration, which is called for in the 1947 headquarters treaty
on wednesday, the 15-member world court ordered hearings april 11 in the case
the court also ordered the united nations and the united states to submit written arguments by march 25. other u.n. members are also entitled to file arguments, a court statement said
the world court, formally known as the international court of justice, has no enforcement powers and depends on voluntary adherence to its rulings
the plo was granted non-voting observer status at the united nations in 1974 and has maintained an office in new york ever since
the u.s. state department and the united nations say the united states is obliged by the 1947 headquarters treaty to allow the observer mission to remain. but attorney general edwin meese iii reportedly said he plans to enforce the measure anyway. he is expected to announce his decision later this month. for the day; picks up 2nd graf pvs, `the prosecution...'</note>
a jury wednesday began deliberating whether a 15-year-old who admitted bludgeoning a classmate with a baseball bat was a cold-blooded thrill killer or a troubled teen-ager whose cries for help had been ignored
the panel deliberated for four hours wednesday before recessing until thursday morning
the prosecution in its closing argument portrayed rod matthews of canton as a calculating murderer who lured 14-year-old shaun ouillette into the woods in november 1986 just ``to find out what it was like to kill somebody.''
he did that because he doesn't care about anybody,'' said norfolk county district attorney peter casey, who repeatedly jabbed an accusatory finger at matthews. ``what did it feel like? it was deliberate. ... he really wound up and hit him about the head.''
defense attorney john philip white urged the jury to deliver a verdict of innocent by reason of insanity, characterizing matthews as a ``diseased intellect'' unable to act rationally. white also said attempts by matthews, 14 at the time of the slaying, to seek help from teachers prior to the nov. 20, 1986, slaying were ignored
matthews, whose eyes were downcast during the two hours of closing arguments wednesday, the seventh day of the trial, admitted to clubbing ouillette, also of canton. he had told friends he wanted to kill someone and had chosen ouillette. after the slaying, he showed them ouillette's body
had they said, `no, don't kill shaun ouillette,' in all likelihood shaun ouillette would not have been harmed,'' said white, as matthews' mother, janice, sobbed quietly and shook throughout his statement
matthews faces a mandatory sentence of life imprisonment without parole if convicted of first-degree murder. if found guilty of second-degree murder, the maximum would be life imprisonment with a chance of parole. a manslaughter conviction would bring a maximum prison term of 20 years
white said if matthews is found innocent by reason of insanity, he will be evaluated by the state department of mental health and is likely to be hospitalized for at least ``14 to 15 years.''
casey said the defense's contention that the drug ritalin had affected matthews adversely was a ``smoke screen.'' casey noted testimony from several medical experts that ritalin does not permanently alter behavior or trigger violence or hallucinations in normal doses
white depicted matthews as a highly unstable youth whose use of ritalin to control hyperactivity may have triggered his violent behavior
dr. bernard yudowitz of belmont's mclean hospital testified monday that ritalin may have made it harder for matthews to control his behavior. matthews first decided to kill someone after viewing the controversial videotape ``faces of death,'' which shows animal and human executions and tortures, said yudowitz
matthews said he had plotted the slaying for a month to experience what killing someone was like, according to testimony from two classmates who were shown the body by matthews prior to a pre-thanksgiving pep rally
ouillette's body was discovered in december 1986 after one of the youths sent police an anonymous letter. the youths testified that matthews, who is being tried as an adult, selected ouillette because he did not feel he would be missed
none of the teen-agers who knew of the slaying faces prosecution
the trial was attended each day by several dozen residents of canton, a middle-class community of 17,000 people about 15 miles south of boston
it's been long and hard but it's been worth it. anytime you have to fight for your child it's worth it,'' said jeanne quinn, ouillette's mother
the case has been compared to the trial of anthony broussard, 18, sentenced 25 years to life dec. 3, 1982, in san jose, calif., for killing his girlfriend the year before. broussard, who was tried as an adult, took at least 13 schoolmates to see the victim's body. the movie ``the river's edge'' was based on that case
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said he had sent telegrams wednesday congratulating all the democratic candidates who won delegates on super tuesday and asking them to eschew negative ads from now on in the campaign
candidates with viable ideas and strong ideals do not need to rely on negative campaigning which only tarnishes and muddles the processes of democracy,'' wright said
wright said the use of negative ads had become a ``vogue,'' intensified by the short time between the new hampshire primaries and tuesday's 20-state extravaganza
the rush left ``no time to make a sensible ... appeal,'' wright said, and led candidates to ``succumb to the wicked blandishments of those in the advertising fraternity'' who specialize in attack ads
super tuesday, wright said, ``put a great premium on having an enormous amount of money to spend in little quickie tv spots'' and denied candidates the chance to be evaluated by voters on the merits of their ideas
he said rep. richard gephardt, who was strongly supported by a long list of his house democratic colleagues ``basically ran out of money'' but had not been eliminated from the race
house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash., agreed that the idea of a large regional primary could use at least some fine-tuning
it might be better if super tuesday were a little smaller and not quite so soon after new hampshire,'' foley said
gallaudet university faculty on wednesday overwhelmingly sided with students calling for the resignations of the deaf school's board chairwoman and newly named president
the selection of elisabeth zinser, a hearing woman, as president of the nation's only school for the deaf kicked off a protest that has virtually paralyzed the campus since monday
this is the selma of the deaf,'' said kathy karcher, a 29-year-old graduate student, comparing the desire by deaf students to be led by a deaf president to the demands in 1963 by blacks in selma, ala. to participate in elections
in the 11 years i've been here, i've never seen such support for an issue,'' said frank zieziula, chairman of gallaudet's counseling department
more than half of the school's 274-member faculty supported replacing board chairwoman jane bassett spilman and zinser
they also joined the students' call for a deaf majority on the school's 20-member board of trustees. the board now has four deaf members
the faculty vote came after spilman introduced zinser at a press conference by saying the school's 12-member presidential search committee had been looking for ``the best qualified candidate, not necessarily a deaf candidate.''
i do not feel that i made a mistake, and the majority of the board of trustees do not feel that they made a mistake,'' spilman said
zinser, an administrator at the university of north carolina at greensboro, does not know sign language, and students have claimed that her selection is another indication that the trustees do not understand how important a deaf role model is
spilman said she once tried to learn sign language herself, but had difficulties practicing it off campus
i do not have a great deal of interaction with deaf people,'' the trustees' chairwoman said. ``therefore, i do not know how to sign.''
zinser's decision to stay on surprised students and faculty, since protests that started after her appointment sunday night have stopped most instruction on the the campus
the only way in which i would step aside is if the board of trustees asked me to,'' said zinser, who prevailed over two deaf finalists
zinser has more experience, but this is the point no one is mentioning: deaf people just haven't been given the chance,'' zieziula said. ``how can they be expected to compete, academically or otherwise, if they don't have the same opportunities?''
gallaudet, founded in 1864 by an act of congress, receives three-quarters of its $76 million budget in federal funds. spilman and zinser met late wednesday with reps. steve gunderson, r-wis., and david bonior, d-mich, who serve on the board of trustees
earlier in the day, the congressman met with gallaudet alumni, students, faculty and staff
neither they nor sen. daniel inouye, d-hawaii, the third member of congress on the board, participated in the selection of zinser as the new president
gunderson said traditionally the congressional role in the operation of the university has been inactive
but that is going to change,'' he said
tom thieding, gunderson's press secretary, said the congressmen's intent was to hear all sides and make a decision ``that is best for the university.''
students say they will keep up the protest, despite zinser's determination to take her post
peaceful but well-attended protests on monday forced officials to cancel classes for the day, and a boycott of classes on tuesday and wednesday left most classrooms virtually empty
a professor at west germany's max planck institute said wednesday a japanese colleague may have solved a mathematical puzzle that has beguiled scientists and researchers since the 17th century
professor don zagier, an american working as a researcher at the institute, said in a telephone interview that mathematician yoichi miyaoka may finally have proven fermat's last theorem
the theorem was developed by french mathematician and magistrate pierre de fermat, who lived from 1601 to 1665 and was a founder of modern number theory and probability
it states: x to the nth power, plus y to the nth power, equals z to the nth power, where x, y, and z are nonzero integers, has no solutions for n when n is an integer _ or whole number _ greater than the number two
zagier said wednesday, ``many important developments in number theory have resulted from unsuccessful attempts to prove fermat's last theorem.''
he said miyaoka, who also works at the max planck institute for mathematics in bonn, now may have succeeded
zagier, who is also a professor at the university of maryland, said, ``this whole thing is of course in the preliminary stages, but miyaoka, who gave a presentation on his solution 10 days ago, believes he has proven the theory and it is certainly serious and very exciting.''
zagier replied when asked if miyaoka was available to discuss his solution that miyaoka was ``too busy rechecking his work ... he wants to be sure the manuscript is accurate before it goes out.''
the american added, ``i've been more or less answering the telephone for him since word of this leaked out.''
zagier said he jotted down notes at miyaoka's presentation and sent them to gerd faltings at princeton, mathematicians barry mazur and christophe soule in paris, and other experts
of course the notes alone are not sufficient, and miyaoka has been preparing and checking his manuscript on the solution for the past week, and that will also be sent to the experts to check,'' said zagier
zagier said he hoped results from the experts would come in the next 10 days, but it could take months. resignation of envoy to mexico; picks up 6th graf pvs bgng: they said ..., editing to conform.</note>
a nephew of omar torrijos, national hero in panama for negotiating the panama canal treaties, disclosed wednesday he has broken with his country's military-dominated government, accusing it of plunging panama into a political crisis
meanwhile, the panamanian embassy made public the copy of a letter by panama's ambassador to mexico, emilia arosemena vallarino, in which she announced her resignation because she was ``in disagreement with political events'' in her country. she had served in mexico for 18 years and was dean of the diplomatic corps there
santiago torrijos, about 40 years old, left his post tuesday as chief of panama's consulate in los angeles and flew to an undisclosed location in washington to join forces loyal to ousted president eric arturo delvalle
telephone calls to the consulate wednesday afternoon were not answered
santiago torrijos is the son of a brother of omar torrijos, the former head of the panamanian national guard, now known as the panamanian defense forces
he said in a type-written statement distributed to news organizations wednesday night the defense forces have not lived up to a pledge made by omar torrijos to establish constitutional democracy in panama
the political, financial, moral and social crisis in panama must be rectified,'' he said
diplomatic sources, insisting on anonymity, said santiago torrijos is the first member of the torrijos family to break ranks with gen. manuel antonio noriega, the commander of the defense forces who orchestrated delvalle's ouster two weeks ago
they said the defection is considered significant because of the close identification of the torrijos family with the defense forces
word of the defection came as the reagan administration prepared for a high-level inter-agency meeting thursday at which a series of economic sanctions against panama will be considered
u.s. officials, who asked not to be identified, said that it is almost certain that the united states will withhold a $6.5 million payment due to panama on march 15 for canal-related operations
also being considered are measures that will have the effect of making some panamanian products less competitive in u.s. markets. state department figures show that panama's u.s. exports totaled $342 million last year, but commerce department statistics list that category at $388 million
meanwhile, white house chief of staff howard baker denied wednesday that the united states is planning an invasion of panama, saying american troops there are merely holding regularly scheduled training exercises
panama is the site of national guard training exercises and has been for years,'' baker said. ``and as i understand it, the rhode island national guard is now holding regularly scheduled exercises in panama
and certainly if the united states was going to invade panama, it wouldn't be with the rhode island national guard. so it simply is not so. it has no connection at all,'' baker said, talking with reporters at the white house after seeing president reagan off on a trip to indiana
jorge abadia, panama's foreign minister, on tuesday accused the united states of conducting ``the prelude of an armed invasion'' by staging military exercises along the panama canal
as part of his effort to survive mounting protests in panama against the new government, noriega from time to time has invoked omar torrijos' name
omar torrijos was killed in a plane crash in july 1981. a former deputy of noriega, col. roberto diaz herrera, caused a political stir in panama last june by alleging that noriega was responsible for torrijos' death by arranging to place a bomb aboard the aircraft
torrijos, the key figure in panamanian politics from 1968 until his death, is a revered figure in panama for persuading president jimmy carter to agree to a treaty that will revert the panama canal to panamanian control at the end of 1999
santiago torrijos is said to be an engineer who headed a government-owned cement plant in panama before becoming consul general in los angeles about four years ago
delvalle attempted to fire noriega on feb. 25 but was fired himself hours later by the national assembly, which is dominated by noriega loyalists
the reagan administration has refused to recognize the successor government, nominally headed by president manuel solis palma, and instead continues to recognize delvalle as the constitutional authority in panama. noriega has been indicted by two federal grand juries on drug smuggling charges
a federal appeals court wednesday upheld an order requiring nbc to surrender outtakes of an interview with a former consultant for lyndon larouche who said a top larouche aide discussed killing henry kissinger
the 1st u.s. circuit court of appeals, which also affirmed a contempt citation against the network, said videotape of the entire interview should be given to the judge at the trial of larouche, six aides and five political organizations
larouche, a candidate for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination, is charged with conspiring to obstruct a federal grand jury investigation into an alleged scheme to finance his 1984 campaign through loan and credit-card fraud
floyd abrams, an attorney for nbc, said no decision had been made on whether to appeal. he said the ruling ``does not sufficient recognize the first amendment rights of broadcasters.''
nbc had contended that surrendering outtakes, or portions of the interview not broadcast, violated a first amendment right against judicial intrusion into newsgathering and editorial decisions
u.s. district judge robert e. keeton ruled in december that the rights of the defendants to access to the interview with forrest lee fick outweighed nbc's rights
at stake in the defendants' side of the equation are their constitutional rights to a fair trial,'' the appeals court wrote in concurring with keeton, who planned to review the tape and determine which portions, if any, were relevant to the case
keeton had issued a similar order requiring cbs to surrender outtakes of an interview with another larouche aide. cbs complied
fick, of reading, pa., worked as a larouche security consultant and is expected to be called as a witness at the trial
nbc interviewed fick for 100 minutes and in april 1986 aired a one-minute portion in which fick said he and larouche aide paul goldstein discussed a plot to assassinate kissinger, the former secretary of state
goldstein is a defendant in the case now on trial
defense lawyers argued for access to the entire nbc interview. they contend fick was among scores of operatives planted in larouche organizations by the fbi and cia to gather information and cripple larouche's fund-raising network
the contempt citation against nbc carried with it a $500-a-day fine, which keeton had stayed pending the appeal
larouche has attended most of the trial since in began in december. he was allowed to travel last week to west germany, where his wife lives, to have surgery for glaucoma
he is accused of ordering fund-raisers to flee the country and destroy records to stymie the grand jury investigation
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. ran strongly throughout arkansas to rack up nearly double the number of votes cast for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the democratic presidential primary
with all 2,762 precincts reporting, gore had 184,729 votes or 37 percent; dukakis had 93,532 votes or 19 percent; jesse jackson had 85,047 votes or 17 percent, and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 59,471 votes or 12 percent
in the republican race, vice president george bush had 31,327 votes or 47 percent; kansas sen. bob dole had 17,359 votes or 26 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson had 12,232 votes or 18 percent, and new york rep. jack kemp had 3,405 votes or 5 percent
based on those results, gore would capture 19 democratic delegates, dukakis 10 and jackson 9. bush would get 15 gop delegates, dole 7, robertson 5 and kemp 1
also on the ballot, u.s. rep. bill alexander crushed the bid of political consultant darrell glascock in the race for the democratic nomination for congress in the 1st district. alexander won by a 2-1 margin. there is no republican nominee
dukakis was the choice of much of the state's democratic establishment, but gore had strong support that ranged from farm districts to cities throughout the state. jackson wiped out his democratic opposition in areas where blacks were in the majority, but finished third or worse in most other places
arkansas had a large voter turnout for the primary election; more than 55,000 people cast ballots, roughly double the state's norm
premier howard pawley of manitoba, head of the only socialist government in north america, resigned as leader of his party and called a provincial election wednesday after losing a vote of confidence
pawley, 53, leader of the new democratic party, had ruled with a one-seat majority until the unexpected defeat in a budget vote tuesday night
when renegade new democrat jim walding sided with the opposition, the government fell by 28 votes to 27
pawley, elected to a second five-year term in 1986, waited overnight before meeting with his party and announcing his decision to call an april 26 election in manitoba, a large central province with just over 1 million people
an election was expected, in accordance with canadian parliamentary tradition following defeat on a budget vote
but pawley stunned colleagues by also announcing his plan to step down after nine years as leader. a leadership convention will select a successor who will be thrust immediately into the election campaign
this would not have been a time of my choosing,'' said the premier
there was speculation pawley might switch to federal politics by running for the new democrats in the next national election, due within 18 months
ed broadbent, national leader of the new democratic party, said in ottawa wednesday he would welcome pawley aboard
the upheaval in winnipeg has other national ramifications
latest polls indicate the conservative party in manitoba is twice as popular as the new democrats, with a good chance of winning the provincial election
that would please conservative prime minister brian mulroney's federal government because pawley was the most outspoken provincial opponent of the free-trade agreement mulroney negotiated last year with the united states
pawley also has reservations about the meech lake constitutional accord fashioned last year to recognize french-majority quebec as ``a distinct society'' and to share federal powers with the 10 provinces
national opinion surveys put the new democrats in a dead heat with the conservatives and opposition liberal party. pawley could help broadbent convert that popularity into seats
the new democratic party has its origins in the cooperative commonwealth federation, a socialist political group founded in the canadian prairies in the depression 1930s. it introduced unemployment benefit and socialized medicine to canada
walding, a former speaker of the manitoba legislature who felt overlooked by pawley, explained his defection by saying he was under too much strain keeping the government afloat with his one vote
it is time for the people of manitoba to decide whether this government still has a mandate,'' he said
a group that opposes a peace accord with minority tamils killed six people from the sinhalese ethnic majority, including a government official and two family members, military officers said wednesday
the officers blamed the outlawed people's liberation front, a sinhalese group, for the killings near beliatta, 85 miles southeast of colombo
they said the official, p.k. dissanayake, and two members of his family were abducted tuesday night by men wearing police uniforms and their bodies were found early early wednesday. three other sinhalese were shot dead wednesday, the officers said, speaking on condition of anonymity
authorities blame the sinhalese group for more than 150 killings since july 1987 in its campaign against a peace agreement designed to end a 4-year-old tamil separatist war that has taken more than 8,000 lives. the front claims the july 29 agreement grants tamils too many concessions
tamils, most of whom are hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people and claim discrimination by the majority sinhalese, a predominantly buddhist ethnic group that controls government and military. testimony</head> first count, senate refusing to drop charge, mecham interview shown, editing to tighten. picks up 19th graf pvs, `however, she...'</note>
a former aide to gov. evan mecham testified wednesday at mecham's impeachment trial that an official accused of threatening her enjoyed special status because of his fund-raising for mecham
donna carlson, mecham's former special assistant for legislative affairs, said that when she once complained about lee watkins' position in the governor's inner circle, she was told by mecham's then chief of staff: ``we have to take care of lee. he raised a lot of money for the campaign.''
the former chief of staff, jim colter, did not immediately return a telephone message left by the associated press
mecham is accused of obstructing the state attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat by watkins on ms. carlson's life in november as she was about to testify before a grand jury investigating mecham's campaign finances
after ms. carlson's testimony wednesdsay and the showing of videotaped comments by mecham, the prosecution rested its case on the obstruction charge, and the senate voted down, 25-4, a defense motion to dismiss the count
the presiding officer directed the defense to begin presenting its case
the governor also is accused concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 in state money by loaning it to his car dealership
mecham has not attended the proceedings, but senators wednesday were shown a nov. 16 tv interview in which mecham denied knowledge of the alleged death threat
prosecution witnesses have testified that mecham had been told of the alleged threat and had directed an aide to investigate several days before the interview
mecham, a 63-year-old first-term republican, is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades
it would take a two-thirds vote of the senate to convict him. the senators could then take another vote to bar him from holding state office again
mecham also faces a criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan and a recall election may 17. on wednesday the trial was rescheduled, from march 22 to april 21
ms. carlson, who said she took the reported threat on her life seriously because watkins has a criminal record, told the senate that neither mecham nor any of his close aides ever called to inquire about her safety in light of the threat
i felt very alone,'' she said
she said she believed her only protection then was to go to the news media with word of the threat and ``let the world know about it.'' she said she was the source of an arizona republic story that first reported the alleged threat on her life
watkins, who previously denied threatening ms. carlson, last week refused to testify, citing his fifth amendment rights against self-incrimination. the former chief of prison construction resigned in january after it was disclosed that he did not report a 1966 assault conviction to the state
on friday, corrections director sam lewis testified that watkins told him in june 1987 the mecham administration owed watkins a job because ``the more that you raise for the campaign, the higher level job you received in state government.''
lewis also testified watkins told him ``he had enough (information) that he could bring the entire administration down.''
ms. carlson worked for mecham's election and became one of his closest advisers before resigning in a dispute over official policies and appointments
she said her emnity with watkins dated back to the early days of mecham's administration when she warned the governor to ``be very careful'' of associating himself with watkins, who had been the subject of negative newspaper articles
however, she said she didn't learn until last september of watkins' criminal record. in 1959, he was convicted at age 19 of the robbery of a post office and served time in a federal youth offender correctional facility. he was convicted of assault in 1966
she said she was upset that the information had come to the governor's staff so late and complained to department of public safety director ralph milstead
he said the information had been sent to the governor in january or february,'' she testified
ms. carlson said it was milstead who informed her of the threat on her life three days after it allegedly was made in november
the justice department filed a notice wednesday that it would appeal a federal judge's decision to suppress the confession of a former lebanese shiite amal militiaman accused of leading an airline hijacking
the government's move to appeal the ruling by u.s. district judge barrington d. parker stays the march 22 trial of fawaz younis pending a ruling by the u.s. circuit court of appeals here
parker ruled last month that the fbi illegally obtained a confession from younis when he was arrested in the mediterranean after being lured into an fbi-chartered yacht
the judge ruled that prosecutors could not use the confession as evidence that younis led four other hijackers who seized a royal jordanian airliner on june 11, 1985 at beirut international airport
the plane was destroyed a day later after the passengers and crew were taken off the aircraft
parker criticized the fbi's four-day interrogation of younis aboard a navy munitions ship following his arrest last sept. 13 in international waters off cyprus
younis, whose wrists were broken when two fbi agents slammed him to the deck of the yacht, suffered throbbing pain and seasickness that left him in no condition to rationally waive his constitutional right to remain silent, the judge said
parker said the four-day cruise aboard the navy ship was conducted solely for the purpose of obtaining a confession
the notice of appeal was filed even though prosecutors have not received permission from solicitor general charles fried to take the case to the appellate court. it can be withdrawn if fried decides the government has no ground to appeal parker's decision
the notice was filed as a protective measure to preserve the prosecution's right to appeal, according to government sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
although they want to use the confession, federal prosecutors have other evidence, including a videotape of younis reading a statement to reporters before the plane was blown up in the background. in addition, two americans who were aboard the plane when it was seized by heavily armed hijackers have identified younis as being one of their captors
the son of two former south vietnamese diplomats, on trial for their murder, was calm and under control the morning he found his parents dead in their bedroom, the family's physician testified wednesday
he struck me as controlled throughout the entire period,'' dr. philip james told a district of columbia superior court jury hearing the prosecution's case against tran van khiem
prosecutors presented medical evidence during the trial's second day to show that tran van chuong, 88, and his wife, nam tran chuong, 82, were murdered in the bedroom of their washington home the morning of july 24, 1986
tran van chuong was ambassador to the united states and his wife was south vietnam's observer to the united nations during the vietnamese war. the family was part of their nation's ruling hierarchy in the early 1960s, when one of their daughters, madame nhu, was married to the brother of then-president ngo dinh diem
a rift within the family dates back to the war period, when madame nhu became known as the ``dragon lady'' because of her support for diem's brutal policies
assistant u.s. attorney g. paul howes contends khiem, 62, killed his parents in anger after they disinherited him in their wills
medical examiner dr. carol mcmahon testified wednesday that she determined shortly after examining the bodies that they had been smothered and ``this was a double homicide.''
the wife was sprawled across her husband's body in a way that showed they died in an ``unnatural'' way, mcmahon said
james, the chuongs' family doctor for several years, told jurors khiem called the physician at his nearby office shortly after khiem has said he and a family butler discovered his parents' bodies
he said, `my parents are very old, my parents are very ill. they're in a coma,''' james said. ``he seemed calm. there was no great urgency or hysteria in his voice.''
the doctor said he came to the house immediately, examined the wife's body briefly and told khiem, ``they're gone ... i said, `i think they've been gone a long time.'''
dr. james said he had seen mrs. chuong the day before her death and that she appeared healthy and did not have any of the scratches and bruises later found on her body
the doctor said he immediately called police and that khiem then called one of his sisters, lecchi oggeri
that sister has said in police statements that her mother called her several times the night before the deaths and told her they were having an argument over khiem's inheritance. however, a judge has not allowed prosecutors to present evidence on what mrs. oggeri said her mother told her
riot police closed a technical school in the mainly moslem north wednesday after students there destroyed a christian chapel, newspapers reported
ten pupils were hurt when more than 10,000 students fled the campus of kaduna polytechnic school because of the arrival of the armed police, the lagos newspapers reported
christian students demonstrated wednesday in the streets of kaduna, where riot police were out in force. there were several violent incidents and one injury, the reports said without elaborating
kaduna is about 375 miles northeast of the nigerian capital of lagos
on tuesday, a group of moslem students marched on a christian chapel under construction at the technical school. the students smashed the walls, causing the structure to collapse, the newspaper reports said
christian students had been asking authorities to build the chapel for more than 10 years. there are five moslem mosques at the school
southern nigeria, where the capital city of lagos is located, is primarily christian
rosa l. parks, whose refusal to give up her seat to a white man on a segregated alabama bus sparked the 1955 montgomery bus boycott, was in satisfactory condition wednesday after receiving a pacemaker
mrs. parks, 75, of detroit, entered johns hopkins hospital on sunday and the procedure was performed tuesday, said hospital spokeswoman ghita levine. mrs. parks is expected to be discharged within a couple days, ms. levine said
mrs. parks in baltimore for medical tests and to help plan a birthday tribute to her in june, said spokeswoman ghita levine
nearly 33 years ago, mrs. parks was arrested for refusing to give up her bus seat. the black community retaliated by boycotting the buses
buses in montgomery and other southern cities ultimately were desegregated. her action was heralded as a watershed in the mounting civil rights movement
bavarian radio on wednesday banned a song that links the roman catholic church's opposition to birth control to the plight of millions suffering starvation in the world
udo reiter, director of bavarian rundfunk's radio division, said in a statement the song by popular west german entertainer udo juergens would not be broadcast because its lyrics ``would offend religious feelings.''
a station official said station managers concluded that the lyrics ``simply go too far.''
he spoke on condition of anonymity
the song ``go forth and multiply,'' which plays on a well-known bible passage, attacks church prohibitions against using artificial birth control
referring to problems caused by overpopulation, juergens wrote: ``the creator will become the destroyer if he continues on this way.''
bild newspaper on wednesday quoted juergens as saying, ``i don't want to offend anyone's religious beliefs, but the 50 million starving people in the world deserve a forthright voice.''
bild quoted a spokesman for augsburg bishop josef stimpfle as saying the lyrics contained ``hateful filth.''
conservative bavaria state has a large roman catholic population
peru extended a state of emergency wednesday in parts of two states in the eastern jungles, where leftist guerrillas are reported to be collaborating with drug traffickers
the government says that for the past year, mao-inspired shining path rebels have offered traffickers protection from police in exchange for money
a decree published in the official gazette and signed by president alan garcia prolonged emergency measures for two months across most of san martin state and two adjoining counties in huanuco state
the region lies on the eastern slopes of the andes, where most of the coca leaf, the raw ingredient of cocaine, is harvested. the drug is partially processed and then smuggled into colombia for refining
a state of emergency suspends constitutional rights to travel and meet freely. it permits government forces to conduct searches without warrants and hold suspects for long periods without filing charges
since the acts of violence continue ... it is necessary to maintain measures aimed at re-establishing public order,'' said the decree wednesday
the tupac amaru revolutionary movement, a smaller leftist guerrilla band considered less violent than shining path, expanded its urban insurgency to northern san martin state late last year
the government responded by declaring a state of emergency
parts of seven states, home to more than half of peru's 20 million people, are under states of emergency to fight guerrillas. anyone; deletes graf 10 pvs, bgng: rep. jack; minor editing to conform. also restores material from a1037, which dropped from last writethru. note a1104, with hart said ready to quit, should have been slugged a 2nd ld-writethru</note>
republican resistance to george bush's bid for the white house began crumbling wednesday as the impact of his fabulous super tuesday showing sank in. democrats michael dukakis, albert gore and jesse jackson savored their own successes while aiming for next week's showdown in illinois
massachusetts gov. dukakis and sen. gore of tennessee agreed the nomination struggle would last until the convention next summer. but they quarreled long-distance over which one of them could attract the most voters to the democratic banner in a campaign against the republicans
bush spent the day in houston savoring his 16-state primary sweep and the roughly 600 delegates they brought. the outlook for illinois wasn't bad either, as gov. james thompson was backing the vice president and sen. bob dole's own campaign polls gave bush the lead
dole, meanwhile, said rep. jack kemp had telephoned him to say he would drop out of the race thursday, without endorsing either of his republican rivals. kemp, who has scheduled a morning news conference in washington, had been expected to bow out after weak finishes in all the contests so far
he (kemp) wanted me to know he was going to get out tomorrow...he's not going to endorse anybody...he's going to stay neutral,'' dole told reporters in chicago
the vice president, for his part, sounded like he was trying to nudge dole from the race. he declined his rival's challenge to debate him in illinois in a telegram that said the time had come to ``look ahead to the issues which distinguish us from the democrats.''
good luck,'' he wrote
dole awoke to a campaign in shambles after losing all 17 super tuesday states and conceded, ``i've got to win illinois'' to save his candidacy. the kansas senator visited the hospital in chicago where he was treated 40 years ago for his crippling world war ii wounds, while his senior aides met to discuss wholesale staff reductions
republican pat robertson signaled he knew the game was all but over, although he said he would stay in contention
none of us could have dreamed that he (bush) could be so strong,'' said robertson. he said the vice president had run a ``fabulous race,'' and added, ``the mantle of ronald reagan has passed to george bush.'' the former television evangelist said he would remain in the race, but talked in terms of expanding his support for a campaign rerun in 1992
on the democratic side, gary hart was apparently poised to quit. he put travel plans on hold and scheduled a news conference on friday in denver. a denver tv station, kusa, said he had told his staff he would abandon his bid for the nomination
the former colorado senator, who has garnered few votes in any contest since re-entering the race in december, failed to win a single delegate on tuesday, and home state gov. roy romer endorsed dukakis. hart had dropped out of the race in may amid reports of his relationship with a miami model
at the white house, chief of staff howard baker said reagan would remain neutral in the race for a while longer. but then he added that it would take a ``major event'' to deny bush the nomination. ``he's certainly got the momentum,'' said baker, who once harbored white house ambitions of his own
if anything, the democratic race looked like it was just beginning. delegate leader dukakis stood only about a quarter of the way toward the 2,082 convention votes needed to be nominated
jackson was the early favorite to win the south carolina caucuses on saturday, while he and sen. paul simon looked like favorite son front-runners for next tuesday's illinois primary
jackson said he was ``overcome with a sense of history and joy'' after winning primaries in alabama, georgia, louisiana, mississippi and virginia and second-place finishes in massachusetts, rhode island, maryland and elsewhere
gore said dukakis was the embodiment of ``the same old formula'' that has led democrats to 49-state defeats in two of the last five presidential elections, and said he was the man to gain the allegiance of independent voters. ``this is a battle for the future of the democratic party,'' said gore, who won his home state of tennessee as well as arkansas, kentucky, north carolina and oklahoma and nevada's caucuses
dukakis, the leader in national convention delegates with 455, said polls show him running ahead of bush in florida and texas. the massachusetts governor said he had won a ``national victory,'' and pointed to wins in every corner of the country as evidence
he won primaries tuesday in texas, florida, maryland, rhode island and at home in massachusetts, and was the winner in the idaho caucuses and the leader in hawaii's caucuses
al hasn't won a primary outside the south,'' he said of gore
dukakis said he was the man with the message for the voters in the industrial state voters yet ahead. ``i'm a chief executive. i've balanced budgets, i took a state that was in desperate shape 12 years ago and today it's one of the great success stories,'' he said
simon, who sat out super tuesday, waited for his rivals in his home state. he said he fully expects to win both the popular vote and the plurality of the state's 187 national convention delegates, even though he won't be advertising on television. if he fails to win, he said, he will be reassessing his campaign
rep. richard gephardt, who won only his home state of missouri on tuesday, insisted the ``race is on'' as he attacked dukakis and gore on trade issues during a campaign stop in south carolina
despite his vow, aides said geophardt would make a minimal effort in illinois and hoped to conserve his resources for a major battle in the michigan caucuses on march 26
a formerly homeless woman who successfully fought her forced hospitalization by the city said wednesday she went back to the streets to panhandle for money over the weekend because she was broke
i'm not insane for having panhandled,'' said joyce brown, who has been living at a halfway house for women since her release from a psychiatric ward jan. 19. ``it's not a sign of insanity _ it's a sign of trying to survive.''
the 40-year-old miss brown, who called herself billie boggs on the street, said she won't panhandle again because she had just received social security checks mailed to her sister's new jersey home
the checks, totaling $7,000, were turned over to miss brown on tuesday, said her lawyer, norman siegel of the new york civil liberties union. miss brown said she needed $10 over the weekend for cigarettes and food
miss brown also acknowledged shouting obscenities at passers-by outside her hotel sunday, but only at those who taunted her
because i am known as a figure, people were being smart and sarcastic: `billie, didn't i see you on tv?' so i did use profanity to make them leave me alone, and it worked,'' she said, calmly answering questions
miss brown, after her release, had worked as a temporary receptionist at the aclu's office, and had given several interviews and made talk show appearances and speaking engagements, including one at harvard law school
she lived for months over a hot-air grate on manhattan's east side and was the first homeless person picked up and forcibly hospitalized when the city began clearing mentally ill people from the streets oct. 28
she was released after a judge ruled she could not be forced to take medication
dr. robert gould, whom miss brown visits weekly for psychotherapy, said she eventually will return to work but needs time to adjust to her freedom
her celebrity status in the last couple of months is not an easy thing to handle,'' he said
mayor edward i. koch said wednesday, ``she left the hospital against the will of the doctors. had she stayed there, she might have received medical treatment that might have stabilized her.'' quit</head> he'll quit, won't make endorsement</note>
in the wake of poor super tuesday showings, pat robertson declared himself ``in for the long haul,'' but rep. jack kemp and former sen. gary hart appeared poised to abandon their presidential hopes
hart, whose reconstituted presidential campaign has attracted few votes, has scheduled a news conference in denver on friday, and one report said he has told his staff he'll call it quits
sen. bob dole, campaigning in chicago, said kemp had telephoned him to say he would drop out of the race thursday, without endorsing another republican. kemp has scheduled a morning news conference in washington on thursday
he (kemp) wanted me to know he was going to get out tomorrow...he's not going to endorse anybody...he's going to stay neutral,'' dole told reporters
democrat hart, who re-entered the race in december saying ``let the people decide'' but who got less than 5 percent of the vote in all primary states, canceled a wednesday night speech in chicago
hart watched the returns tuesday night with his family in his home in suburban denver and made no public comment on the outcome. the next day he put travel plans on hold, and denver tv station kusa said he told his staff he would be quitting
kemp, a former pro football quarterback, who had portrayed himself as a consensus conservative who could carry on the reagan ``revolution,'' was not expected to continue his cash-short candidacy any further
kemp, who met with advisers on wednesday, had been reported ready to pull out of the race this week anyway, even before tuesday's results were known
but robertson, who did only slightly better than kemp in the gop primaries, struck a defiant note, vowing to carry his challenge all the way to the republican convention this summer in new orleans
it isn't over yet,'' robertson said at a news conference in atlanta. ``still half of the delegates are to be selected.''
although the former television evangelist earlier had looked to the south as his base of support, he dismissed the importance of tuesday's primaries, held mostly in southern and border states
i was running against the ghost of ronald reagan,'' robertson said of the 16-state sweep by vice president george bush
i'm in it for the long haul, for this time, for 1990, the congressional races, and who knows what will happen in 1992,'' said robertson
robertson did chalk up one victory on tuesday, winning the washington state caucuses. but in other states, he was far outdistanced by both front-runner bush and sen. bob dole
democratic sen. paul simon, who sat out the super tuesday primaries but did poorly in states where his name appeared on the ballot, called next week's primary in his home state of illinois the ``super tuesday of the industrial states.''
if i don't do well here, i'll have to reassess my campaign _ but i'll do well,'' simon said. ``we'll win the beauty contest and the delegates. we'll win more delegates than anybody else.''
simon said he was not going to buy television ads in his home state
i offer illinois 30 years of service rather than a 30-second commercial,'' simon said at a morning news conference in chicago
meanwhile, democrat rep. richard gephardt and dole sought to shrug off their big losses and pressed on with their campaigns
it's up to illinois now to turn it around,'' dole, the senate republican leader, told voters in a chicago suburb after he was shut out in all 17 tuesday gop primaries and caucuses
and gephardt, who like dole picked up only a handful of delegates and won only in his home state of missouri, campaigned wednesday in south carolina, where democratic caucuses are to be held on saturday
his campaign also was to focus on the march 26 voting in michigan, after all but conceding illinois to the two home state candidates, simon and jesse jackson, whose home is in chicago. 03-09 0663</first> correct first name to richard, caliber of gun to .25 sted .22 and add suspect's id; a version moving on sports wires.</note>
officials blamed gang members and non-students wednesday for violence at high school basketball games in new jersey, where a 16-year-old boy was fatally shot after one contest and another match was played in secret to avoid threatened trouble
parents shouldn't have to worry about their kids being beaten up or stabbed or shot at a basketball game,'' said richard luttrell, former past president of the state athletic directors association
on tuesday, a former student at paterson's kennedy high school was fatally shot following a regional championship contest at hackensack high school between kennedy and passaic county technical and vocational high school of wayne
a 19-year-old hackensack man was charged with the slaying, police said
the shooting followed a disagreement in the school parking lot between boys from paterson and hackensack over a girl, said hackensack police lt. anthony leggieri
richard lindsey of paterson, who was stranded with three other youths after the game without a ride back to paterson, was killed by one shot in the face from a .25-caliber gun as he walked along the street five blocks from the school, leggieri said
the suspect, troy frazier, an unemployed dropout of hackensack high school, was charged with homicide and jailed on $250,000 bail, mcclure said
also on tuesday, the threat of gang violence forced officials to move a game between longtime rivals atlantic city high school and camden high school to a location 30 miles away
luttrell, who also is athletic director for willingboro schools, said authorities moved the game from willingboro high school after receiving word that non-students from atlantic city and camden planned a fight with automatic weapons over a shooting several months ago
the game was played under police guard at overbrook high school. coaches learned of the location only as they boarded team buses and were handed envelopes with directions to the school
on dec. 27, a woman was shot and four men were slashed or stabbed during a fight in the crowd at a tournament in absecon, disrupting a game and forcing cancellation of the last two days of the tournament
holy spirit high school refused to play host to the tournament again. next year it moves to st. joseph's university in philadelphia
a month later, a game between atlantic city and egg harbor township high school was postponed when a freshman on the atlantic city team was arrested for having a weapon in his locker
in willingboro, teen-age girls from rival gangs started a fight following a game earlier this season between willingboro high and crosstown rival john f. kennedy high school, lutrell said
the fight could have been worse had school authorities not used metal detectors to scan the crowd, luttrell said
such security precautions have helped reduce troubles at willingboro schools, luttrell said
tensions could be further reduced by keeping non-students away from the matches, he said
let's have the games be good wholesome fun by limiting the spectators to the student body and their immediate family. the hangers-on, the dropouts, the gang members, they don't get in,'' luttrell said
kennedy high principal william toole said details of the tuesday's fatal melee remained unclear. the victim was a dropout, he said
there were no incidents during the game, which 2,000 spectators attended, said hackensack high principal harold bloom
but bloom said he planned to re-evaluate whether more championship games would be played this season at hackensack high school
robert kanaby, the director of the new jersey state interscholastic athletic association, was out of town and unavailable for comment wednesday. the association oversees boys and girls high school sports in the state. updating with tass account. picks up 7th graf pvs, the team ...</note>
thirteen soviets and canadians trying to ski across the arctic were suffering from frostbitten faces, numb fingers and toes and broken skis, but an organizer said wednesday they were making good progress
there's no dire emergency,'' said tom atkins, the toronto-based communications director for the four canadians on the team, which set off march 3 from cape arctic at the northern tip of the siberian archipelago of severnaya zemlya
atkins said the group had covered 56 miles of the 1,200-mile journey from siberia to northern canada and that the temperature wednesday was 53 degrees below zero, with winds of 15 mph
they say there's frostbite scarring most faces, and toes and fingers are permanently numb and painful even when they're warm,'' atkins said
he said the rev. laurie dexter, an anglican priest from fort smith in canada's northwest territories, had blistered feet and was taking medication
but they're very pleased with the distances they've been making, except for one day when they had to go around open water,'' atkins said
the official soviet news agency tass said wednesday night in moscow that the expedition led by soviet mathematician dmitri shparo traveled only seven kilometers (slightly more than four miles) saturday, when it came across a wide stretch of open water and decided to wait until the next day to ski around it
tass said dexter had to give up carrying his pack for a few days after running into a foot problem from his new soviet ski boots. it said the contents of the pack, which weighed more than 88 pounds when the team left, was distributed among the other skiers
the team hopes to reach cape columbia on the northern tip of canada's ellesmere island within three months
atkins said the condensation and cold made it impossible to dry sweat-drenched clothes at night in tents: ``they freeze as soon as you take them off.''
two of the canadians tried sleeping outside in an igloo tuesday night to avoid the condensation problem
three of the nine soviets have broken their skis and replacements will be dropped to them from planes
the skiers received good-luck telegrams from soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and canadian prime minister brian mulroney, atkins said
the soviets first proposed the expedition as a good-will gesture for peace and to show that it was possible to ski across the arctic. the soviet state sports committee, moscow trade union council and soviet youth newspaper, komsomolskaya pravda, are sponsoring the soviet team, while corporate sponsors have backed the canadian effort
most of spain's 270,000 public school teachers stayed out of the classroom wednesday in the first of two days of strikes to demand pay increases
the strike disrupted classes for more than 6 million students in elementary, secondary and technical schools in most parts of the country, union and education ministry officials said
spain's two largest unions, the socialist-led general workers union and the communist-oriented workers commissions, and three smaller teachers' unions called the strike
workers commissions spokesman javier doz told spanish television the teachers wanted the socialist government to end ``pay discrimination'' against teachers
he said grade school teachers earn an average $930 a month and want $1,170 while secondary and technical school teachers seek to increase their average monthly pay of $1,080 to $1,380
education ministry official joaquin arango told reporters the teachers' demands were ``economically unfeasible'' due to budget constraints. amnesty report; picks up 4th graf pvs, ``the activist ...; subs 4 grafs for 9th pvs: `the government ...' with details.</note>
the chief of the government's human rights watchdog agency said thursday allegations of widespread abuse raised by amnesty international were exaggerated
mary concepcion bautista, chairman of the government's human rights commission, made the statement after two human rights groups criticized the government of president corazon aquino on wednesday for allegedly using torture and terror to stem a 19-year-old insurgency by communist rebels
meanwhile, a former defense minister said the guerrillas were making major gains while the military has become increasingly plagued by infighting and lack of equipment
the activist task force-detainees, a private group supported by the roman catholic church, said that its investigation showed that 7,444 filipino civilians were arrested illegally in 1987, eclipsing the 5,967 arrests in 1985, when ferdinand marcos was president
spokesman noel salazar said his group's investigations showed that 602 of those people arrested illegally were tortured
aquino rose to power when marcos' authoritarian regime collapsed in feburary 1986
the task force-detainees allegations followed a critical report released wednesday in london by amnesty international
the human rights organization called on aquino's government to end killings by military and paramilitary forces, saying they represented the country's most serious human rights problem since mid-1987
it is exaggerated,'' mrs. bautista said of the amnesty report. ``it's a very one-sided story.''
she said the government was investigating about 200 cases of human rights abuses and that civil suits were pending in the courts against offenders
we have ongoing investigations,'' she added. ``they're not all saints in the military ... but there is a serious effort to clean up.''
mrs. bautista said investigations of human rights abuses against the military were often not publicized to avoid demoralizing soldiers fighting the rebels
amnesty praised the aquino government for ``some very real progress'' in human rights, particularly in restoring legal safeguards and in greatly reducing the use of torture. but it called on the government to reaffirm publicly its commitment to protect human rights
in manila, sen. juan ponce enrile told the american chamber of commerce that divisions in the 160,000-strong armed forces and a lack of supplies were hindering the effort against the communist rebels
the situation has become much more delicate than it was before, not only because of the qualitative improvement of the capabilities of the insurgents but also because of the fragmentation in the military organization and the lack of logistics needed to deal with this problem,'' he said
enrile, a former defense minister, said the communist army has between 25,000 and 30,000 fighters and controls more territory than at any time during the rebellion
police captured reputed guerrilla leader nemesio demafiles at a private home in bacolod, about 300 miles south of manila, brig. gen. domingo rio said
rio said police seized three other rebels in the wednesday raid and found a .45-caliber pistol and a map of a nearby philippine constabulary headquarters. rio alleged that demafiles apparently was planning to attack the constabulary
demafiles was believed to be a member of the outlawed communist party of the philippines' central committee and commander of the party's military wing on negros island, said col. oscar florendo, chief military spokesman
the military had offered a $5,000 reward for his capture
rebel sources in manila said demafiles was removed last year as negros commander and expelled from the party over an ideological dispute. they said he had been trying to organize a separate marxist group
elsewhere, the military said troops killed the head of a rebel propaganda unit and captured four other guerrillas tuesday in luzon's nueva ecija province
striking film and tv scriptwriters were active on both coasts wednesday, picketing outside the mgm building in new york and preparing to resume negotiations here under the guidance of a federal mediator
script shortages because of the strike begun monday have forced cbs to shelve indefinitely two programs set to debut this month, ``the dictator'' starring christopher lloyd, and ``the smothers brothers comedy hour.''
the walkout by 9,000 members of the writers guild of america also has forced ``late night with david letterman'' and ``the tonight show'' into reruns
writers have refused to continue working on the script for the academy awards ceremony, scheduled for worldwide broadcast april 11 on abc. soap operas have stockpiled scripts for several weeks and have not been affected
negotiators for the guild and the alliance of motion picture and television producers were scheduled to meet thursday at the producers' headquarters in sherman oaks
it's a mediation session and that's all i can say,'' wga spokeswoman cheryl rhoden said. ``it's important that those topics on the table be kept there rather than be aired in the media.''
the strike began after the scriptwriters rejected a final offer from the producers. main points of contention were writers' demands for higher fees from reruns and greater creative control
about 100 scriptwriters wednesday marched outside the mgm building. three writers of letterman's show, wearing jackets with the program name on the back, walked the picket line with about 125 other strikers and supporters
william peter blatty, who wrote ``the exorcist,'' was on the line, as was screen actors guild member barbara feldon of ``get smart'' fame
carson's show will be in reruns the remainder of the week, but his production company applied for a waiver that would allow the talk show's writers to resume work next week, spokesman jim mahoney said wednesday
the guild was expected to consider the request this weekend. a similar waiver was granted in 1981
the wga strike is the fourth since 1973. the longest, in 1981, lasted three months
the parliament extended emergency rule wednesday in nine provinces where the government has been fighting kurdish guerrillas, including istanbul, the country's largest city
under emergency rule, civilian governors can impose curfews, issue search warrants, halt strikes and ban meetings and rallies
wednesday's vote extends the emergency rule for four months
interior minister mustafa kalemli told parliament that kurdish guerrillas in eight southeastern provinces killed 100 civilians and 30 soldiers over the past six months. he said 53 people believed to be terrorists were killed during the same period and 1,761 others were arrested
in the same period in istanbul, two terrorists were shot dead and 168 terrorist suspects were arrested, he said
the kurdish labor party seeks to set up an independent marxist state in parts of eastern and southeastern turkey. it has been fighting the government since august 1984
about one-fifth of turkey's 52 million population are ethnic kurds
also on wednesday, a parliamentary commission approved a draft bill that would allow individuals to apply for a court order to halt or prevent publication of a story deemed an invasion of privacy
columnist oktay eksi wrote in the liberal daily hurriyet that the bill, introduced by members of the governing motherland party, meant plain censorship
the government disclosed that it has drafted legislation which would penalize the press for reporting false news, permitting fines up to $100,000
queen mother elizabeth made a foray wednesday into the hottest issue in british domestic politics _ the ailing, tax-funded national health service
her office said that in a letter to health minister tony newton, the 87-year-old mother of queen elizabeth ii expressed ``much distress'' at the closure last december of a ward for the elderly in a south wales hospital
she had presided at the reopening of the hospital eight months earlier after its renovation
although i am sure you appreciate the queen mother has no jurisdiction whatsoever over the affairs of the national health service, i have at her majesty's command written,'' the letter said
george boulton, the general manager of the mid-glamorgan health authority, told reporters the royal intervention was unlikely to reopen the six-bed ward at st. tydfil's hospital in merthyr tydfil
no one takes interest from the royal family lightly,'' he said
but we are facing a deficit of about 4 million pounds ($7.3 million) this year because we haven't got enough money from the government and prices are going up all the time. we made cuts to save 1.2 million pounds ($2.2 million).''
boulton said closing the ward would save about $73,000. he said more wards at the hospital may be closed
national opinion polls report that the state of the health service is the biggest worry among britons
nurses are quitting in protest over their pay and conditions, wards are closing and the more than 700,000 patients wait months and sometimes years for operations
the service now costs $39.3 billion a year and critics say it urgently needs another $3.6 billion to $9.2 billion
the royal family traditionally stays out of politics, although prince charles, heir to the throne, has expressed anger at inner-city poverty
robin cook, social services spokesman for the opposition labor party, which has repeatedly condemned the government for not spending more on the national health service, said: ``this is a dramatic intervention by the queen mother which demonstrates the state of the national health service.''
tony wilkins, an official of the national union of public employees in merthyr tydfil, said: ``perhaps the queen mother should be allowed to open every hospital _ it might be a good way of protecting our health service.''
enough snow fell while continental flight 1713 awaited takeoff at denver's airport nov. 15 for ice buildup on the wings to have been a possible factor in the crash, an airplane engineer testified wednesday
ralph brumby, manager of aerodynamics and acoustics for mcdonnell douglas corp., which manufactured the dc-9, said 0.032 inches of precipitation, or about a third of an inch of snow, fell in the 24 minutes between de-icing and takeoff
if all that precipitation had frozen on the wing, it could have caused problems on takeoff, brumby said. ice can change the shape of the wing, affecting lift
continental responded that the plane was going too fast at the time of the crash for ice on the wings to have affected it
testimony about possible icing and its effects, and detail on the efforts to rescue the passengers trapped in the plane after it crashed, dominated the second day of a national transportation safety board hearing on the crash
twenty-eight people were killed and 54 hurt when the dc-9 flipped over and broke apart on the runway at stapleton international airport shortly after takeoff during a snowstorm
brumby, under questioning by continental officials, said that the amount of precipitation that fell between the time the plane was de-iced and takeoff was high enough that the plane could have stalled at about 150 knots, or a little more than 170 mph
but continental officials noted that an ntsb study concluded the craft had reached 168 knots, or about 193 mph, at some point before it crashed. airline spokesman bruce hicks said that based on those findings, ice on the wings could not have caused the crash
continental officials also quizzed brumby about the possibility the de-icing fluid failed to keep ice off the wings. he said that was a possibility but did not elaborate
he said there have been three dc-9 crashes in which ice was a factor during the past 23 years, but in all cases there was no de-icing before takeoff
ntsb investigator robert benzon had said tuesday that officials want to know why 24 minutes elapsed between de-icing and takeoff when other planes on the runway took off within 15 minutes
earlier wednesday, officials testified that rescuers had to cope with frigid weather, confusion and occasional equipment malfunctions, but the operation went as well as could be expected. some victims were trapped in the wreckage for hours
we feel fortunate we had that many survivors,'' dr. michael brunko, the rescue coordinator, testified. ``obviously, there were people trapped in the wreckage who we could not do anything for
brunko said that ``to this day, i do not know what else could have been done.''
there were problems with pens that would not write, radio batteries that failed, confusion created by the number of continental personnel at the scene, and the effects of the cold on rescuers who were not dressed for it, according to brunko
eldon w. buller, denver assistant fire chief, said the upside-down position of the plane delayed the rescue
every time we moved the aircraft on one side, we compromised people on the other side,'' buller said. ``people were starting to get crushed.''
he said firefighters wanted to drain fuel from one of the aircraft's wings, but they did not know how and no other airport officials could explain the procedure
i was afraid it would drown the people trapped underneath'' if the fuel began leaking, buller said
if uncle remus and six of the seven dwarfs applied for jobs at the disneyland hotel, they would be turned down because of a new dress code. not even walt disney's pencil-thin mustache would pass muster
disneyland acquired the hotel in january and expanded its 31-year-old dress code to cover its 1,600 employees
under the code, men will have to get haircuts, shave and cover tattoos. women will have to abandon slacks, heavy makeup, gaudy jewelry and wild hairdos
six of the seven dwarfs, uncle remus, captain hook and ``pinocchio'' toymaker geppetto all would be renegades working in the real-life world of disney
when disney co. assumed control of the hotel, previously managed by the wrather corp., its employees fell under the dress code established for the magic kingdom in 1957
some hotel employees said they won't shave, including engineer mike searles, 40, who wears a handlebar mustache
i don't think it's right, and i'm not going to compromise,'' he said
he and others said they will go to their union to fight the dress code. but workers who rebel may be terminated, said disneyland spokesman bob roth
the reason that we are doing this is because the disneyland hotel is becoming part of disneyland attractions, and we have an appearance standard,'' roth said. ``it is associated with disney and is expected by our guests.''
a white supremacist changed his mind wednesday about pleading guilty to conspiring to overthrow the government
bruce pierce, 34, had said tuesday that he wanted to plead guilty after u.s. district judge morris arnold ruled that a confession given to fbi agents after his 1985 arrest was made voluntarily and is admissible at trial
the judge recommended that pierce wait and discuss the matter with his attorney
in a statement wednesday, pierce said he considered entering the plea ``to avoid further embarrassment over having given a statement to the authorities. upon further review and consideration i have reconsidered.''
pierce is among 10 of the 14 men on trial charged with sedition. five are accused of conspiring to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent, and two are accused of interstate transportation of stolen money
pierce is serving 100 years for racketeering and 150 years for civil rights violations in the slaying in denver of alan berg, a jewish radio talk show
pierce had contended that the confession was not voluntary. he said that he was told that if he did not talk to the fbi, his wife would be arrested and his three children would be placed in foster homes. killings</head> picks up 5th graf pvs, if there ...</note>
police said a bombing attack injured seven officers as roman catholic youths rioted in belfast wednesday for a third straight night over the killing of three unarmed ira guerrillas in gibraltar
a press officer at belfast police headquarters said the officers suffered slight injuries when bombs exploded at the rear of springfield road police station in catholic west belfast
earlier, police said a grenade was thrown at an army patrol but exploded harmlessly and that shots were fired at the new barnsley police station, which was attacked with gasoline bombs on tuesday
youths threw gasoline bombs and set vehicles ablaze but no casualties were reported in those incidents
a police official said earlier wednesday that security forces will not tolerate irish republican army shows of strength at the funerals of three guerrillas, who were shot to death by british commandos last sunday
if there is such a show and ``we move in, we know there is going to be an unseemly fracas but we simply can't allow the law to be blatantly defied,'' said a royal ulster constabulary officer. he spoke anonymously, in accordance with custom
paddy mcgrory, lawyer for the three families, arrived in the british colony on spain's southern coast to arrange for the return of the bodies. the funeral date has not yet been set
british officials said the ira members, two men and a woman, had planned to set off a car bomb tuesday at a military ceremony in the center of gibraltar
spanish police found a car loaded with explosives tuesday in marbella, about 45 miles up the coast from gibraltar. british officials believe it was rented by the three slain ira members
the guerrillas killed were mairead farrell, 31; daniel mccann, 30, and sean savage, 24, all of west belfast. the ira said all were on ``active service'' at the time of their deaths
police in madrid said a woman identified as mary parkin was detected in the gibraltar area in february and was being sought as a possible fourth member of the ira team
felix pizzarello, the gibraltar coroner, said an inquest will not be held until may
the coroner, who also is a lower-court magistrate, said in a telephone interview his court ``is fully booked until may and i can't realisticaly think of having an inquest until then. i don't consider that the matter requires any urgent treatment.''
he said gibraltar police were investigating the shooting and his inquest would be partly based on documents they would provide ``within two to three weeks.''
the mostly roman catholic ira has been fighting since 1969 to unite the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic with british-ruled northern ireland, where protestants form a majority. comment from haitian government, paul, interview request denied, president's comment; adds 2 grafs with background on paul.</note>
a federal grand jury wednesday indicted a top haitian army official who witnesses say allowed drug traffickers to use his private landing strip for u.s.-bound cocaine shipments
the indictment of col. jean-claude paul on narcotics counts was immediately ordered sealed by u.s. magistrate william c. turnoff, sources close to the case told the associated press on condition of anonymity. the charges were expected to be made public thursday
paul heads the feared 700-man dessalines battalion in port-au-prince, which ruthlessly suppressed anti-government demonstrations last year and was accused of protecting the gunmen who disrupted november presidential elections, killing 34 people
paul was considered close to the government council that ruled haiti until a military-supported civilian president took office last month
also indicted wednesday, sources said, were paul's brother, antonio paul, and the colonel's ex-wife, merielle delinois, who is already a fugitive on previous federal drug charges here
the investigation of jean-claude paul has been widely reported for weeks, and the haitian army has already denied the officer's involvement. the haitian government and paul had no comment wednesday
all interviews with army officials must be cleared through gen. carl nicolas, the army chief of staff. nicolas has refused a written request from the associated press to speak with paul
asked during a recent interview at his home about reports of drug smuggling by the army, president leslie manigat said: ``i can't base my judgment on rumors.''
haitian gen. carl nicolas last month denounced reports of ``the so-called involvement of (col. paul) in drug trafficking,'' and called it part of a ``campaign of denigration'' against the military by the foreign press
one witness in the investigation that led to the indictment was businessman osvaldo quintana, 35, of miami who told a news conference last month that paul helped him smuggle cocaine into the united states in december 1986
we flew (the shipment) out of his own personal ranch in haiti,'' about 90 miles outside of port-au-prince, quintana said
quintana has testified for the government at previous drug trials. in january, outside of a federal courtroom, he told reporters he had once seen 9,000 kilograms of cocaine stuffed into duffel bags in the haitian presidential palace during the administration of ousted leader jean-claude duvalier
quintana has said haitian military officials routinely aided drug flights from colombia, allowing them to land and be serviced before proceeding on to the bahamas to drop their loads
the witness said he was originally approached by ms. delinois to take part in the smuggling scheme
ms. delinois was arrested in miami on drug charges in march 1987, but later skipped bond and is believed to be hiding in haiti, according to the u.s. drug enforcement administration
dea affidavits filed in the delinois case say quintana met with paul and his brother antonio at the ranch, and watched a plane carrying 220 pounds of cocaine take off
paul had close ties to the military-dominated junta that replaced dictator jean-claude duvalier after he fled into exile in france in february 1986
paul seldom appeared in public during the junta's two-year rule, which ended when manigat was inaugurated feb. 7. when he did, it often was to serve as bodyguard for two junta members, lt. gen. henri namphy, the junta president and now military chief, and brig. gen. williams regala, now defense minister. with panama-chartered plane searched at miami. picks up 11th graf, the united ...</note>
the government said wednesday that banks can reopen but people still will not be allowed to cash checks or withdraw money. the banks closed last week because of a cash shortage and political turmoil
the national banking commission said banks could accept deposits from clients, conduct interbank operations and transfer money from one account to another
it did not say when withdrawals and check-cashing would be permitted. panama's national currency is the u.s. dollar and the cash supply has been drying up because of the dispute over who should control the government
no banks in the downtown financial district opened for business immediately
depositors began a run on domestic banks when president eric arturo delvalle was ousted feb. 26 after trying to dismiss gen. manuel antonio noriega, the real power in panama, as head of the 15,000-member panamanian defense forces
on wednesday, the nephew of the late omar torrijos, panama's previous strongman, disclosed he broke with the noriega government. he said he left his post as chief of panama's consulate in los angeles and was joining forces loyal to delvalle
diplomatic sources in washington, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the defection of santiago torrijos was considered significant because of the close identification of the his relatives with the defense forces. omar torrijos is still considered a national hero for negotiating the panama canal treaties with the united states
the 12 domestic banks closed march 2 in sympathy with a nationwide general strike called by noriega's opponents. late last week, the government ordered them to remain shut and also closed more than 100 international banks
commerce has been crippled. with no way to process non-cash transactions, most businesses refuse to accept checks or credit cards
panama keeps an estimated $50 million on deposit in american banks and usually receives remittances, but u.s. judges froze panamanian assets in banks in miami and new york after suits were filed to prevent noriega's government from withdrawing funds
u.s. customs service agents in miami detained a boeing 707 chartered by air panama for four hours wednesday to search for u.s. currency, but no money turned up, customs spokesman michael sheehan said
fifteen agents and inspectors searched cargo unloaded from the plane after a tip someone might be trying to illegally take u.s. currency out of the country
the united states recognizes delvalle as panama's legitimate president. it has demanded noriega's removal since he was indicted in florida last month on narcotics and money-laundering charges
delvalle went into hiding in panama after noriega had the national legislature dismiss him
because of the cash crunch, panamanian families have put off non-essentials
rufina escobar, a 55-year-old schoolteacher, said she had oil, noodles and a few eggs _ enough food to make it through the week _ ``but if banks don't open next week i'll have to ask friends for a few dollars just to eat.''
panama city was calm wednesday, unlike a day earlier, when hundreds of burning trash barricades blocked the streets. the demonstrations were the largest since delvalle was dismissed
an editorial in the government-run newspaper critica on tuesday said ``all buildings, all institutions in which americans have any interest'' should be blown up
its 3-inch-high banner headline said ``invasion of panama.'' on tuesday, foreign minister jorge abadia claimed that maneuvers being conducted by the u.s. southern command are ``the prelude to an armed invasion of panama.''
the command, which is based in panama and is responsible for u.s. military operations in latin america, said the maneuvers involved fewer than 700 soldiers and were ``routine training and evaluation exercises.''
the u.s. embassy issued a communique wednesday calling abadia's allegations ``completely false and tendentious.''
it also dismissed as ``absurd'' allegations that u.s. ambassador arthur davis was manipulating funds of the panama canal commission
the government of the united states has reiterated on various occasions its faithful compliance with the panama canal treaties,'' the communique said
baltazar renan alzpurua, columnist for critica, said of the u.s. maneuvers: ``it is time to ... dedicate ourselves to the organization of volunteers who are ready to fight in the cities, the mountains, the streets and fields, rifle and machete in hand.''
real estate salesman alexis alvarez said with a shrug: ``let the gringos invade. we can't be any worse off with them than we are now with this bunch of thieves.''
customs agents detained a plane chartered by air panama to search for any u.s. currency being taken illegally out of the country wednesday but found none and sent the aircraft on its way, a spokesman said
u.s. customs had some information that there might possibly be an outbound currency violation connected with the flight,'' spokesman michael sheehan said
the chartered boeing 707 was scheduled to carry military and police-type uniforms, small machinery and other merchandise to panama city, sheehan said. it was detained for four hours
panama's national currency is the u.s. dollar, and the cash supply has been drying up because of a dispute over control of the panamanian government
panama keeps an estimated $50 million on deposit in american banks, but u.s. judges froze assets in banks in miami and new york to prevent the government of gen. manuel antonio noriega from withdrawing funds. picks up 4th graf pvs, soldiers in ...; subs 10th graf pvs, the strike ... to conform.</note>
organizers called off a strike aimed at protesting the high cost of living wednesday after a first day of protest shaped up as a failure
most businesses, banks and government offices kept their doors open on wednesday, the first day of the planned 2-day walkout, and activity in the city was normal
virtudes alvarez, a spokesman for strike organizers, said the decision was made wednesday night to give ``the government a short time'' to talk with the ``those involved in this movement.'' he did not elaborate
alvarez represents the national conference of popular organizations, a coalition claiming to have the support of about 200 urban neighborhood and small peasant groups
no incidents of violence were reported wednesday
six people died and about 20 were injured in other protests in the last two weeks in the caribbean nation
soldiers in armored personnel carriers and police with automatic weapons patrolled the streets of the capital of 1.5 million on wednesday
bus and taxi drivers stayed home in the early morning and thousands of people were late for work, but by midmorning most drivers were back on the job
public and private schools stayed closed as a precaution in the event of incidents, school authorities said
most labor and church groups and political parties opposed the strike. however, the nation's largest union, the general workers union with an estimated 40,000 members, had said it would support the action
the coalition has led strikes since february that shut down several low-income communities in the capital and resulted in sporadic clashes between residents and police and soldiers
strike organizers demand that the government control the spiraling cost of basic commodities, improve public services and carry out capital improvements in their communities
about 4,000 supporters of the governing reformist party marched to the national palace on tuesday shouting slogans backing president joaquin balaguer and denouncing the strike
tuesday night, the archbishop of santo domingo, nicolas de jesus lopez rodriguez, termed the strike ``senseless'' and called for dialogue among government, business and labor
private economists estimated the inflation rate in the dominican republic at 30 percent last year and said it may reach 50 to 60 percent this year
the u.s. dollar, to which much of the dominican economy is pegged, meanwhile has been rising steadily with respect to the peso. the peso now is valued at around 19 cents, compared to 26 cents late last year
balaguer this week announced price controls on items such as plantains, onions, potatoes, rice, but strike organizers say the measures are insufficient. other commodities expected to be regulated include chicken, sugar and tomato paste
the police chief, maj. gen. fernando aristides sanchez aybar, said tuesday that public disorder would not be tolerated, and the armed forces minister, lt. gen. antonio imbert barrera, said soldiers would help police keep order
some left-wing and labor groups complained their leaders were arrested without warrants and were being held without charges
seventy-year-old joe redington dashed out of this checkpoint wednesday in the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race, declaring, ``i feel like an old fox being chased by 50 young hounds.''
the second-oldest racer in the anchorage-to nome mushing marathon left this kuskokwim river town after staying about four hours to feed and rest his 14 dogs
known as the father of the iditarod, the wasilla resident helped create the race 16 years ago but has never won, even though he has competed nearly every year
redington arrived in mcgrath, 410 miles into the race, at 6:48 a.m. he was followed by herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref at 10:26 a.m. behind them, in order, were jan masek of anchorage and joe garnie of teller
two other mushers _ joe runyan of nenana and ralph ``babe'' anderson of mcgrath _ also arrived in the morning but were not among the leaders because they had not yet taken their mandatory 24-hour layovers
redington, nayokpuk and garnie took their layovers early in the race, which began saturday. that turned out to be a successful strategy, because a pack of about 20 leading mushers later bogged down in new snow. as those mushers took their 24-hour layover in rohn, they watched helplessly as redington, nayokpuk and garnie sailed past on the smooth trail they had packed
one of those was the defending champion, susan butcher of manley, who was in fifth place
some racers said that despite redington's lead, nayokpuk is now the musher to beat because his dogs are stronger
i think it's going to take us quite a while to gain that kind of time back, unless he runs into some kind of situation up ahead,'' four-time iditarod champion rick swenson said in rohn
meanwhile, at the back of the pack, norman vaughan announced wednesday that he was dropping out. vaughan, at 82 the oldest iditarod musher, was the only one left at the puntilla lake checkpoint, 290 miles behind the leaders. another musher also dropped out, leaving the number of competitors at 50
a $30,000 first prize awaits the winner in nome, with the rest of the $150,000 purse to be split among the next 19 finishers
a federal appeals court judge wednesday temporarily halted irs efforts to revoke ptl's tax-exempt status
judge william williams of the 4th u.s. circuit of appeals in richmond, va., said the tv ministry built by jim and tammy bakker would suffer irreparable harm if it were determined later that the irs overstepped its authority
the judge set a march 31 hearing in greenville, s.c., where ptl attorneys are expected to argue that loss of tax-exempt status would be a death blow to ptl, which is trying to reorganize under bankruptcy court protection
on monday, u.s. district judge karen henderson had ruled that the internal revenue service could revoke ptl's tax-exempt status. she overturned a december order by a bankruptcy court judge, saying that court had no authority to stop the irs
as a religious organization, ptl does not have to pay tax on the donations that finance its religious work
ptl is trying to raise about $4 million by may 2 and emerge from bankruptcy court. if it loses its tax-exempt status now, thousands of contributors will be frightened off, the ministry said
the irs wants to revoke its status retroactively to 1981 and seek at least $55.7 million in back taxes. in effect, the irs has suggested that bakker wasn't running a ministry but a profitable business for himself, relatives and friends
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir expressed astonishment wednesday at a letter from 30 senators who said israel should be willing to give up control of occupied land in return for middle east peace
your letter came as a surprise, at a crucial moment in the peace efforts,'' shamir wrote in a three-page response. ``we were astonished by the words of criticism you leveled at us on the formula of `territory for peace.'''
shamir's letter was sent to sens. carl levin, d-mich., and rudy boschwitz, r-minn., said levin administrative assistant gordon kerr. both senators, strong supporters of israel, were out of town and unavailable for comment wednesday night
twenty-three democratic and seven republican senators had sent a letter to shamir last week in which they noted that israel in the past had supported the idea of ``land for peace'' by returning the sinai peninsula to egypt
they noted that shamir had rejected ``this expression of territory for peace'' and expressed hope that the prime minister's statement ``did not indicate that israel is abandoning a policy that offers the best hope for long-term peace.''
shamir, in his response, said israel accepts the u.n. security council resolution that provides for an israeli withdrawal from land captured in the 1967 war but he did not agree to israel's eventual withdrawal from the west bank and gaza
shamir said the occupied territories were a different matter than the sinai peninsula because they ``were occupied militarily and illegally by jordan and egypt.''
shamir also warned against any waning in america's commitment to the camp david accords, saying: ``if we are going to lose faith in solemn american and egyptian commitments under these accords how can we be assured of future commitments that will require us to take even further risks to our security and future?''
shamir is due in washington next week for meetings with president reagan and secretary of state george p. shultz
a former black panther whose conviction in the murders of two prison guards during a 1971 escape attempt was overturned was ordered released on $350,000 bail wednesday after 21 years in prison
u.s. district judge thelton henderson, who previously granted johnny spain a new trial in the san quentin six case, rejected a state to delay the setting of bail
spain, 38, could be released from the california medical facility at vacaville as early as thursday, lawyers said
mr. spain would walk from here to vacaville on hot coals before he would betray'' the people posting bail, said his lawyer, dennis riordan
wednesday's ruling was the second court victory in as many days for spain. he has been behind bars for more than half his life, since his arrest in 1966 for a murder and robbery in los angeles
on tuesday, los angeles superior court judge kathleen parker ordered spain paroled immediately from the sentence he has been serving for the 1966 murder, paving the way for henderson to grant bail for the 1971 case
spain apparently joined the black panther party after entering prison
he became the only prisoner convicted of murder in a bloody escape attempt that took the lives of militant leader george jackson, two other prisoners and three san quentin guards
the other members of the san quentin six were either convicted of lesser charges or acquitted
henderson granted spain a new trial in 1986, saying he had been denied a fair trial by being required to wear heavy shackles for every court appearance during the five years of proceedings. the state is appealing that ruling
parker on tuesday found that spain was eligible for immediate parole in the 1966 case because the parole board had improperly lengthened his sentence six years by applying 1976 regulations to disciplinary violations committed in 1970 and 1971
riordan said spain has been recommended for parole by numerous prison staffers, including a close friend of one of the slain guards, and two congressmen
the lawyer said spain had spent twice as long in prison as the average sentence for a similar crime
vice president george bush stood within reach of the republican presidential nomination today after a clean sweep of super tuesday primaries. albert gore jr. added a southern dynamic to the democratic race, splitting a rich harvest of delegates with michael dukakis and jesse jackson
it exceeded my fondest expectations,'' exulted bush as he surveyed his 16-0 shutout tuesday and looked ahead to an illinois showdown next tuesday, where another victory over kansas sen. bob dole would give his nomination an aura of inevitability
super tuesday spelled disaster for dole, fellow republican pat robertson, and democrat richard gephardt, all three teetering on the verge of elimination after rejection in state after state
mary fishbyrne, a 101-year-old politicial activist who hasn't missed voting since women were given that right, fumed because she couldn't vote for the man of her choice
why can't i vote for bush?'' a snippish voice said from behind the voting machine curtain on super tuesday
because you're registered as a democrat, miss mary,'' precinct commissioner betty shelton said apologetically. ``crossover voting isn't allowed in presidential primaries.''
i'm just miserable,'' came back the curtained voice. ``i'll vote for bush in november.''
panama's military regime could find itself subject to ``a whole panoply'' of economic sanctions by the end of this week, including the withholding of $6.5 million this month for use of the panama canal, u.s. officials say
final decisions on the sanctions are expected at an inter-agency meeting scheduled thursday, said the officials, who insisted on anonymity. a formal announcement is likely either thursday or friday, they added
the economic punishment is intended to aggravate an already acute cash shortage in that country and pressure military strongman manuel antonio noriega out of office
two military helicopters collided during a night training mission, killing up to 17 servicemen, an official said today
the collision of the u-h 60 blackhawk helicopters occurred about 9:45 p.m. tuesday, 6 miles west southwest of fort campbell army air field, said major randy schoel, fort campbell public information officer
the blackhawk is the military's newest helicopter, but has been plagued by design flaws. last summer, officials said that about 40 people had been killed in crashes of the helicopter since 1978
a top aide to gov. evan mecham helped craft a lie-detector test so a subordinate accused of making a death threat could pass, an attorney testified at the governor's impeachment trial
meanwhile, chief justice frank x. gordon jr., presiding over the senate trial, decided tuesday to bar further testimony challenging the credibility of department of public safety director ralph milstead
milstead has accused mecham of ordering him not to cooperate with an investigation of the alleged nov. 12 threat by lee watkins, former head of state prison construction, against a former mecham aide. news digest: undated _ politcal rdp; washington _ the rest of the way; washington _ if he were white; washington _ campaign money; gaza city, occupied west bank _ israel-resign; fort campbell, ky. _ copters collide; dedham, mass. _ thrill killing; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham; bellville, south africa; safrica-university; woodbury, n.j. _ basketball violence; london _ plain english.</note>
soldiers shot three arabs dead and wounded 13 in the occupied lands wednesday, which the plo named ``martyrs day'' for the scores of palestinians killed by israeli bullets or beatings, army and arab reports said
arabs paralyzed commerce in the west bank and gaza strip with a general strike. protesters pelted soldiers with rocks, bottles and firebombs. the outlawed palestinian flag flew in dozens of locations
israel's divided coalition government refused to vote on whether to endorse a u.s. peace plan designed to end the violence that began dec. 8 in the territories israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967
relations between the united states and china brightened wednesday with a u.s. decision to liberalize the sale of high technology to the chinese and beijing's agreement in principle to accept peace corps volunteers
the reagan administration announced that it lifted a five-month suspension on the transfer of new technologies after receiving assurances from chinese foreign minister wu xueqian that his country was not sending silkworm anti-ship missiles to iran
a bill revising the clean air act most likely would cost the economy $32 billion and 300,000 to 600,000 manufacturing jobs, a business group told congress on wednesday
in the worst case the cost could reach $73 billion and a million jobs, about 5 percent of the nation's manufacturing payrolls, the group said. the minimum cost was put at $14 billion, without a jobs estimate
we can't afford to be exposing ourselves to 30 to 70 billion (dollars) a year and expect to be part of the solution to the trade problem'' characterized by a $170 billion annual trade deficit, said david m. roderick, chairman of usx corp., in presenting a study of the air pollution bill approved by the senate environment and public works committee
many prominent panamanians say the nation's entire system needs changing, not just the leader, and even if gen. manuel antonio noriega goes the united states may be backing the wrong replacement
eric arturo delvalle, the ousted president washington supports, tried to dismiss noriega on feb. 25 as commander of the panama defense forces. noriega arranged for the legislature to dismiss delvalle instead, and the political and economic crisis has deepened since
the united states is mistaken in putting so much behind delvalle,'' said luis moreno, former manager of chase manhattan bank's local operations and until january 1987 a member of the government banking commission. moreno, an independent, met regularly with the president and cabinet ministers
the reagan administration continues to recognize delvalle, now in hiding in panama, as the country's legitimate leader and is is applying economic pressure in an effort to get him back in office
truckloads of police and cars with wailing sirens patrolled the tibetan capital of lhasa through the night in an apparent show of force after an anti-chinese uprising by thousands of tibetans, a western source said wednesday
the westerner, a tourist who reached chengdu from lhasa, said the trucks drove past the lhasa hotel where he was staying after midnight
a tibetan source in lhasa reported similar police movement both day and night since the saturday uprising, in which buddhist monks and thousands of tibetans stoned police and built bonfires across the city
president reagan revisited the university of notre dame on wednesday and dedicated a new 22-cent stamp in honor of knute rockne, telling students that the legendary football coach's life exemplified ``the faith that makes things happen.''
reagan told his audience that the role of the young athlete george gipp in the film ``knute rockne, all-american,'' ``was a young actor's dream'' but that playing in a film about rockne meant more than that'to him
i know that, to many of you today, rockne is a revered name, a symbol of greatness and, yes, a face on a postage stamp,'' he said. ``but my generation, well, we actually knew the legend as it happened _ we saw it unfold. and we felt it was saying something important about us as a people and a nation
most of all, the rockne legend meant this ... that on or off the field, it is faith that makes the difference, it is faith that makes great things happen.''
scores of odd break-ins have occurred over a period of four years involving groups opposed to u.s. policies in central america
in many cases, the targets were sanctuary churches providing haven to salvadoran and guatamalan refugees. the burglaries had a strange similarity. files and records were ransacked, or taken. but no valuables were missing
it's never been solved,'' says david lerner, spokesman for the center for constitutional rights, which has documented the puzzling series of cases. ``the smoking gun has not been found.''
a house subcommittee investigated the incidents last year, and determined no perpetrator. church workers had testified that it appeared some federal agency was involved, but that fact was not established
the mystery deepened when the constitutional center, through the freedom of information act, in january obtained more than 1,200 pages of heavily censored fbi files on a five-year investigation of the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador (cispes), that cited about 25 u.s. religious groups
they include protestant, roman catholic and jewish groups, and repeatedly mention the sanctuary movement, several of whose leaders were convicted in 1986 for harboring undocumented aliens
but ``the break-ins are not reflected in the documents,'' lerner said. ``we just don't have the answer yet
that doesn't mean the fbi had not participated. we have good reason to believe there was a connection between the break-in's and this investigation, and we hope to get to the bottom of it.''
he said the center, through its lawsuit, still was to receive other fbi files from regional offices
several of the religious groups mentioned in the fbi reports strongly protested being brought under surveillance
as an example of the references, lerner cited this passage in a april 2, 1984, report from the dallas fbi special agent to headquarters in washington:
investigation has determined cispes is very closely connected with the u.s. catholic church. the church, which agrees with most cispes philosophy, has set aside various sanctuaries to be used to house illegal salvadorans in the united states...''
actually, various protestant churches _ methodist, episcopal, presbyterian, baptist, unitarian-universalist and lutheran _ as well as jewish and catholic congregations, are among the more than 300 offering sanctuary
fbi director william sessions has defended the surveilance of cispes on suspicion the washington-based group was subversively aiding marxist rebels in el salvador, which he termed ``terrorist,'' but no criminal activity was found
he conceded ``mistakes'' may have been made in the investigation's mushrooming to other groups. lerner said about l60 organizations are named in the fbi files, including these religious groups:
u.s. catholic conference, national council of churches, world council of churches, american friends service committee, friends religious society, southern christian leadership conference, new jewish agenda, maryknoll sisters, sisters of bernedict and sisters of mercy
among local religious centers mentioned were:
mennonite church, pittsburgh; corpus christi catholic church, oklahoma city; st. williams roman catholic church, louisville, ky.; st. luke's presbyterian church, minitonka, minn.; walker methodist community and twin-city friends meeting, minneapolis, thomas merton center, pittsburgh, and a milwaukee-based food program run by the society of st. paul
the maryknoll sisters, based in maryknoll, n.y., said in a statement that the fbi actions ``threaten the rights of all u.s. citizens and place in jeopardy the democratic principles upon which this country is founded.''
the rev. arie brouwer, general secretary of the national council of churches, noted the surveillance involved various groups differing with u.s. policy in central america and said:
this sort of abuse of governmental power and authority has occurred in our society almost invariably when the u.s. is involved in what is widely perceived in this country as military adventurism abroad
foreign and domestic human rights abuses often go together.''
the rev. joseph lowery, a united methodist and president of the southern christian leadership conference, said the surveillance ``smacks of the kind of behavior that we accuse the kremlin of performing.''
sister linda rich, a member of the sisters of divine province and staff member of the thomas merton center in pittsburgh, said it had evidence in recent years of ``some fbi surveilance and informants coming to our meetings
we conduct our activities and meetings very openly and feel that simply because we dissent from government policies, that doesn`t warrant them investigating us.''
the u.s. supreme court has turned down a 2-year-old legal effort to overturn an action by a former southern baptist president that voided a convention vote and helped consolidate power of a fundamentalist wing
the disputed parliamentary procedure occurred in 1985 when the rev. charles stanley of atlanta headed the denomination, and a group of opponents have fought it since through district and appeals courts, which held they couldn't interfere in church matters
the supreme court declined to review those lower-court decisions
southern baptist home and foreign mission boards report that contributions to their denomination's program for world hunger relief in 1987 declined for the second year in a row
sums given fell to $8.9 million, a decline of 2.3 percent
presbyterians have ``got to figure out how to respect each other and learn from each other in our differences,'' says the moderator of the presbyterian church (usa)
isabel rogers, who holds the top titular office in the 3 million-member denomination, a merger of southern and northern branches, told a regional meeting, ``my yearning is to identify ways to enable people in congrgations to talk to and listen to each other in trust.''
gideons international, which has supplied bibles to hotels, hospitals, prisons and schools since 1889, was cited for ``outstanding achievements in scripture distribution'' by the layman's national bible association
the interfaith association, which promotes bible reading, said at the gideons state convention that the gideons have distributed more than 400 million bibles in 137 countries
representatives of major u.s. protestant, eastern orthodox and roman catholic bodies have declared their solidarity with 18 organizations effectively silenced by south africa's government for opposing apartheid
officials of the national council of churches, including protestant and eastern orthodox denominations, pledged continued backing of the anti-apartheid efforts, and urged u.s. sanctions against south africa to spur ``peaceful change.''
archbishop john l. may of st. louis, president of the national conference of catholic bishops, called new repressive measures an ``intolerable affront to the dignity'' of south africans, and voiced support of those working for ``a more just and democratic society.'' extraneous k) in 18th graf, ``looking at ... not illogical.''</head>
in less than a generation, japan has slashed its infant death rate to the lowest in the world, thanks to a formula that combines intensive prenatal care with government policy
but japan also has one of the world's highest abortion rates, which could help in keeping figures low for the infant-death rate
the officially reported infant mortality rate, in any case, has fallen from a high of more than 60 deaths per 1,000 in the years after world war ii to 4.9 per 1,000 in 1987 _ meaning that of every 1,000 babies born, 995.1 will live to their first birthdays
no other nation comes close. the united states lags far behind with a rate of 10.6 per 1,000. finland and sweden rank second behind japan, with 6.0, according to 1986 figures
experts list several things that led to japan's low rate:
_a literate society eager for medical advice
_a system of universal health insurance
_a maternal and child health handbook, standard issue for every pregnant woman since world war ii, which has 58 pages of health records and advice on pregnancy and child care from birth to age 6
a typical japanese mother is a married woman in her late 20s _ the safest ages for childbearing _ and she is pregnant with her first or second child. the handbook tells her what to eat, how much milk to drink and when to visit a doctor. by the time labor pains begin she will have undergone about a dozen prenatal checkups, two of them courtesy of the government
a japanese mother is very interested in her own health and the child to be born,'' said dr. kazuaki miyagishima of the health ministry's maternal and child health division. ``she follows intensive prenatal care.''
like virtually all mothers of her generation, she gives birth in a delivery room. her hospital stay lasts a week, giving doctors time to keep watch on the baby. insurance takes care of most of the costs, which usually run about 200,000 yen ($1,560). depending on need, the government will pay the rest, and add 100,000 yen ($780) as a gift
officials provide coupons for free checkups for the baby and send a public health nurse to the home. legions of volunteers pay monthly house calls on rural newborns and report their progress to local officials
but abortions are not figured in the official infant mortality rate; the abortion figures themselves are difficult to establish
japan's registered abortion rate is 17.1 per 1,000 women of childbearing age, near the top among western nations. doctors say, however, the real figure could be two to four times higher, because not all abortions are reported to the government as required by law. adding the doctors' estimates of unreported abortions would put japan well ahead of the united states, which had a 1983 rate of 27.4 per 1,000
officials say the hidden abortions take place among teen-agers. while they accounted for only 5.4 percent of registered abortions in 1986, that number has been rising along with teen pregnancies
babies born to teens and women over 35 are at highest risk for late fetal and early neonatal deaths. women over 35 are almost twice as likely to have infants with congenital defects
in japan, the two groups of high-risk mothers account for 42 percent of registered abortions and only 8.8 percent of live births. they are the only groups among whom abortion is increasing
looking at the national statistics, it seems there could be a link between a high rate of abortion among high-risk mothers and the infant mortality rate,'' said dr. eikichi matsuyama, director of obstetrics and gynecology at tokyo's kosei nenkin hospital, when asked why the figures showed infant mortality at the bottom and abortions near the top. ``it's a connection i've never thought of until now. but it's not illogical.''
japan's eugenic protection law allows abortions even as late as the second trimester of pregnancy to ``prevent the increase of inferior descendants and to protect the life of the mother.''
abortion is quite a big program in japanese family planning,'' said haruo konagai of the japan family planning association. ``one-fourth of japanese women have experienced abortions.''
matsuyama and others say that preventing high-risk births is not the key to lowering infant mortality. they say it's an incidental factor in an already successful program
but the government is pushing programs for telephone counseling and sex education in schools to lower the teen-age abortion rate, miyagishima said
in general, mother and child health is on a high standard already,'' he said. ``it is a very hard task to find a (new) target.''
if you're the sort who puts off planning your weekend until saturday morning, ``great weekend'' is probably just the show you're looking for
this new one-hour show of news and information will help you sort out your weekend by telling you what's happening and where
there's also a small side benefit. it offers adults a saturday morning alternative amid the glut of cartoon shows
i tend to plan my weekend rather spontaneously on saturday mornings,'' said george merlis, the show's executive producer. ``this addresses that need. it tells you what you can do on the weekend. on valentine's day weekend, for instance, we showed the romantic getaways
everything we've done has been reachable by the audience. we don't play voyeur _ our host goes there but you can't. we also offer information on medicine, tips to consumers, and the schedule of sports you can see this weekend.''
great weekend,'' which goes out live by satellite, is currently telecast on 31 stations across the country. it picked up 12 new stations at the recent convention of the national association of television program executives in houston. the co-hosts of the show are dale harimoto and bob goen
before we went on, the opinion was expressed by one station that only a network could do a show like this because we originate from several points,'' said merlis. ``but `great weekend' is produced in association with ustv.''
ustv is the program development arm of hubbard broadcasting co. of minneapolis and has three transponders on a communications satellite. each transponder can handle two signals. hubbard also operates the conus news delivery service and tv direct in partnership with the associated press
we went on the air in january with 16 stations,'' said merlis. ``the first station we picked up was the one that said only a network could do this. for our show on feb. 20 we had our weatherman in savannah, ga., bob goen was in calgary, canada, dale harimoto was in los angles and our news and medical news came out of minneapolis.''
merlis also runs a company that produces video press tours. most recently, elizabeth taylor appeared on talk shows across the country to promote her new diet book without ever having to leave los angeles
merlis developed abc's ``good morning america'' into a hit program. he also has been a producer for ``the cbs morning news,'' ``the dick cavett show'' and ``entertainment tonight.''
stanley hubbard of hubbard broadcasting knew me from `good morning america' and called me up and said he wanted to talk,'' merlis said. ``i flew to minneapolis. he asked me what i thought about a weekend show that would be like `good morning america' but looks at weekend activities. i said i'd like to watch one because i get up early on saturday and was tired of looking at the `road runner
hubbard had already done surveys which showed an overwhelming audience response to such a show. i did a demonstration pilot and we went on the air jan. 2.''
merlis said that every show he's produced has had a consumer outlook. ``if it didn't, i gave it one,'' he said. ``we give out information that's useful to people. i try to keep the audience's viewpoint in mind and see what they can take away from the show. what's useful in terms of enriching their lives
when i took over `entertainment tonight' i felt it was very slickly produced, but it had no point of view. i felt the point of view was that we're consumers of entertainment. we had to give the viewer intelligent choices for his entertainment.''
_greater than
elsewhere in television:
signs for pilot _ candice bergen will star in a half-hour comedy pilot for cbs called ``murphy brown.'' it will be her first series if it's picked up. bergen will play a nationally famous and controversial television personality with a reputation as a tough interviewer
ringo, too _ ringo starr, formerly of the beatles, is also doing a pilot for nbc called ``flip side.'' he plays a rock star who has spent most of his life on the road. he is forced to return home to take care of his three estranged children when his wife leaves. don johnson of ``miami vice'' is executive producer in association with universal television
where can network viewers find unabashed predatory behavior, bizarre courtship rituals, unreconstituted male chauvinism, clever deceptiveness and graphic sex scenes (with closeups)?
ryan's hope?'' ``dallas'' reruns? ``monday night football?'' ``l.a. law?''
perhaps. but this sunday you'll find some of this and much more in an unlikely place: ``great moments from nature,'' where scavenging, cavorting and sex take place almost as naturally as in many network shows. actually, only a fraction of the two-hour special deals with animals' mating habits and anyway it's just an exotic variation on the classic birds and bees routine
great moments'' draws from 30 of the 100 broadcasts in the five years of the pbs series, ``nature,'' that eclectic electronic zoo where animals can be observed closely without being deprived of their freedom
it stars such common predators as the coyote and the osprey, which is the only bird of prey to feed exclusively on live fish. there's also the very small, thieving kleptoparasite spider and the vampire bat, who drinks the blood of sleeping sea lions
courtship scenes feature the exquisite dance of the endangered japanese red-crowned crane and the horn-bashing of the nubian ibex
dishonorable mention for male chauvinism goes to several species, including the polar bear, who takes no part in cub-raising and even attacks his brood
the abalone practices its brand of casual sex called broadcast spawning. we also see a tiny baby octopus coming to life in the baja lagoon and closeups of finned wasps mating in midflight
nothing new if you grew up on a farm, just a bit more exotic. a kind of healthy voyeurism, and a sign that the wildlife genre on tv has come a long way
filmmakers are more astute about how to film certain scenes and when to capture things when they happen,'' said series producer-director fred kaufman. ``we're showing things that people would not normally get a chance to see. we get to see everything that animals do. in earlier films, you wouldn't see the mating sequence or the birthing sequence, they would just talk about it.''
great moments'' is divided into four sections: environments, predators and prey, courtship rituals, and animals and their young. there are other aspects to ``nature,'' but unfortunately, one of the best programs on the subject, ``the volcano watchers,'' was left out of this special, perhaps because it didn't fit the wildlife theme
included are scenes from past shows like ``the flight of the condor,'' ``kingdom of the ice bear'' and ``sexual encounters of the floral kind,'' where the hammer orchid mimics the scent of the female wasp and lures the male to pick up its pollen. the show may be graphic and grisly at times, but it's no ``animal house.''
the audience understands what we're trying to do, that we're not trying to be exploitative by showing a mating scene,'' said narrator and executive editor george page
personally, i think it's the best way in the world for kids to learn about sex,'' said page, who is also director of science and natural history programming for public station wnet-tv in new york
it's the best form of sex education. it's the classic one: the birds and the bees. i think it's a totally harmless way for children to be exposed to the idea of sex, and a lot of parents obviously agree with that because we have a lot of children in the audience,'' page said
much of the show's photography is incredible, mostly because of the contributions by such masters as hugh miles, formerly of the bbc, and wolfgang bayer, based in jackson hole, wyo. the music by broadway show composer stephen schwartz in several of the segments more than makes up for some of the writing, which occasionally smacks of the ``golly gee'' school of journalism
the series is produced in association with the nature conservancy, one of the largest national conservation groups, which buys property in ecologically endangered areas to save them from development. an industry organization, the american gas association, provides a grant, but most of the series' annual budget of $3.4 million comes from public television service stations and public contributions
sponsors of real estate limited partnerships are busy hawking their wares these days as an alternative to the vagaries of the stock and bond markets
their selling job, they confess, isn't an easy one. many savers and investors have the impression that real estate investments, especially in partnership form, have lost a lot of their appeal since tax reform
that is certainly true of the ``tax shelter'' breed of partnerships that were once the mainstay of the business
but partnership sponsors have shifted their sights these days to vehicles emphasizing high yields that can grow over time, and still offer something of a tax break
in fact, they seek to compete directly with such other tax-favored investments as municipal bonds
the income type of venture is as attractive as before, or maybe even more so,'' says william brennan, a valley forge, pa., adviser on tax and investment planning. ``syndicators are now concentrating on economics rather than tax benefits.''
brennan and other analysts caution, however, that real estate partnerships require careful study and evaluation before you commit any money to them
a typical partnership is offered through securities brokers in units of $1,000, with a normal minimum purchase of $5,000. after the offering, the general partner takes the money raised and invests in a variety of properties
for example, w.p. carey &amp; co., a new york-based sponsor of seven partnerships to date, specializes in buying commercial property like warehouses and office buildings from businesses and leasing it back to them
its aim is to realize income from the lease payments and pass it through to the limited partners, with a tax break for depreciation deductions. at the end of the partnership's life _ usually 10 to 12 years _ there is also the hope that the properties can be sold at a profit
as in many other real estate investments, a partnership like this is a long-term proposition. it can be difficult to sell a partnership interest under favorable terms before the end of its scheduled period of operation
the first question to ask is do i have enough liquidity to tie my money up like this,'' brennan says
a second point to consider, he adds, is that while a real estate partnership offers a ``reasonably predictable income stream,'' its prospective yield is not as definite as that of a bond or similar fixed-income security
would-be investors also should inquire about fees and commissions charged at the start and through the years of the partnership's operation, and the reputation and past record of the sponsor
the track record of the sponsor is much more important than up-front fees,'' argues william carey, chairman of the carey firm
brennan cautions that the old investment maxim ``past performance is no guarantee of future results'' applies. but in deals like this, he adds, ``it's all we have to go on.''
fee structures tend to be pretty similar in most partnerships offered to the public, brennan says, but their styles of operation and the degrees of risk they take can vary widely
no real estate partnership is as safe a bet as a government-guaranteed investment such as treasury bills or u.s. savings bonds
if the stock market crash last fall has you worrying about hard times ahead for the national economy, you may sleep better with your money in investments that come with a guarantee
brennan also notes that potential partnership investors should also weigh alternatives that are continuously traded _ so-called master limited partnerships or real estate investment trusts
these have the advantage of an an existing package of properties open to your scrutiny, he says, and may be priced more attractively than a new offering
america's mainline faiths, mostly missing from television's sweeping purview in recent years, are launching a new, unprecedented ecumenical network on the nation's cable tv systems
plans for it were confirmed in interviews this week, with a partial start-up expected in midsummer, expanding to 18 to 20 hours daily in the fall
a fresh, new wind is coming across the country's television screens,'' said the rev. daniel paul matthews, a manhattan episcopalian and board chairman of vision interfaith satellite network
called ``visn,'' it will shun soliciting money, as typifies individual tv religious preachers. but it has financial backing of the industry, and projects sustaining commercial sponsorship
it's an idea whose time has come in market need and consumer need,'' said david ochoa of nashville, tenn., a united methodist and president and chief executive officer of the enterprise
for years, the mainline denominations have been on the sidelines, but they've finally got off their duffs and are doing something.''
ochoa, who owns a cable channel in los angeles and who also is communications chief for united methodism's board of higher education and ministry, added:
it's the first time mainline faith groups, protestant, roman catholic, eastern orthodox and jewish, have worked together to create a new tv programming service for people of faith nationwide.''
religious television in recent times has been dominated by individuals, such as the fallen tv personalities jim bakker and jimmy swaggart, giving a limited impression of religion
we've been getting personal pietism exclusively slanted toward a narrow perspective,'' matthews said. ``this is a valid piece of the pie, but it gave a distorted image of american religious life.''
matthews, with extensive tv experience in knoxville, tenn., and atlanta, before becoming rector of manhattan's trinity church, said the new network would reflect historic faiths that have been the ``backbone of america.''
actively involved are most major protestant and eastern orthodox denominations, plus some evangelical and jewish bodies. officials said roman catholics are expected to join through decisions of bishops late this month
officials emphasized that added participation of evangelical groups was sought, including southern baptists, who already operate their own cable network
several factors largely have pushed mainline faiths off network television, including aversion to soliciting money, plus deregulation of broadcasting, which made public service time unnecessary and mostly unavailable
this combination spurred individual preaching entrepreneurs to take over the field, fervently appealing for donations, raising huge amounts to buy their tv time
a catalyst for the new network was one of the largest cable systems in the country, tele-communications inc. (tci), based in denver. it dropped baker's scandal-linked network, and sought a more broadly based religious component
a key influence was research showing less than 10 percent of americans watched the individual preaching shows, leaving a large segment of religious people concerned with broader faith commitments
tci executives, along with those of about 20 other cable systems, met last year with a recently organized national interfaith cable coalition, and plans for the new network took life and have snowballed since
officials said the cable industry is providing ``bridge financing'' loans to get the network started, with tci leading the way, in costs for facilities, staffing and satellite rental expected to be up to $5 million
programming is to come from the denominations, which already have many highly rated productions available but so far with little outlet for them
some of the most exciting, extraordinarily good television programming simply hasn't had broad distribution, although it has every bit of innovative broadcast quality,'' said william airy, operations consultant for the new network
from a programmers viewpoint, it's like being turned loose in a candy store, with all the fine resources existing there, but which nobody even knows about.'' airy, of albuquerque, n. mex, formerly ran an all-music gospel channel
plans are for prime-time programs to be of a broad value-based nature that will attract commercial advertising revenue
nelson price of new york, head of united methodist communications, and board member for the new network, said 12 to 15 cable companies, besides tci, were moving to help underwrite start of the venture
he said programs would include examinations of social issues, dramas and entertainment faithful to moral-ethical precepts, interfaith films and programs for special audiences such as children, the elderly and single parents
a standards and practicers committee has set these rules for content:
no material that denigrates or maligns any other faith or religion; no programs that proseletyze to gain members at expense of other churches, and no use of time to solicit funds
price said, ``visn is a historic undertaking that brings together a diverse group of religious traditions to create and sustain a positive approach to religious programming.''
here are broadway's new and current shows. ticket supply as of march 11 is indicated as difficult or available. credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling telecharge, teletron or ticketron
telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated. teletron's number is 212-246-0102. ticketron is 212-977-9020
for 24-hour information on theater, dance and music performances, call the theater development fund's new york city@on stage, 212-587-1111
when calling theaters directly, use new york area code 212. advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject to change
_ ``a chorus line,'' the longest-running musical in broadway history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line members. shubert, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``anything goes,'' a revival by the lincoln center theater of the 1934 cole porter musical. vivian beaumont, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``a streetcar named desire,'' blythe danner is blanche du bois and aidan quinn plays stanley kowalski in a revival of the tennessee williams classic. circle in the square, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``a walk in the woods,'' sam waterston and robert prosky star in lee blessing's two character-play about nuclear arms control negotiators in geneva. golden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``breaking the code,'' derek jacobi stars in a play about the man who broke the nazi enigma code during world war ii. neil simon, 757-8646. teletron. available
_ ``broadway bound,'' neil simon's autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers. broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``burn this,'' john malkovich and joan allen star in lanford wilson's contemporary romantic comedy. plymouth, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``cabaret,'' joel grey stars in a revival of the landmark harold prince musical set in berlin of the 1920s. minskoff, 869-0550. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``cats,'' musical based on t.s. eliot's cat poems, music by andrew lloyd webber of ``evita'' fame. winter garden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``fences,'' billy dee williams stars in a black family drama by august wilson. winner of the 1987 tony award for best play and the pulitzer prize for drama. 46th street, 221-1211. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``42nd street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical classic. st. james, 398-0280. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``into the woods,'' bernadette peters stars in a stephen sondheim musical about what happens to several fairy tale characters after they live happily ever after. martin beck, 246-6363. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``les miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic victor hugo novel. winner of the 1987 tony award as best musical. broadway, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``m. butterfly,'' john lithgow stars in a play by david henry hwang about the love affair between a former french diplomat and a chinese opera star. eugene o'neill, 246-0220. now in previews, opens march 20. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``me and my girl,'' jim dale stars in the 1930s english musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society. marquis, 382-0100. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``oh! calcutta!,'' long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex and swinging and such. edison, 302-2302. available
_ ``penn &amp; teller,'' hip vaudeville and magic tricks from two comedians. ritz, 582-4022. teletron. available. closes march 20
_ ``sarafina!,'' a south african musical about high school students in a black township. cort, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``starlight express,'' an andrew lloyd webber-trevor nunn roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the united states. gershwin, 586-6510. teletron. available
_ ``the gospel at colonus,'' a gospel version of a greek classic by sophocles. lunt-fontanne, 575-9200. now in previews, opens march 24. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``the nerd,'' a comedy by larry shue, author of ``the foreigner,'' about the limits of friendship. helen hayes, 944-9450. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``the phantom of the opera,'' the lavish andrew lloyd webber musical about a deformed composer who haunts the paris opera house and the young soprano he loves. majestic, 239-6290, same number as telecharge. difficult
she goes by old values: an honest day's work for an honest day's pay ... live within your means ... save money for a rainy day ... support the police. to margaret thatcher, that's also the formula for the success of a nation. it is essentially the basis for the thatcher revolution, which has put a staggering britain steady on its feet again. but her critics say it is at a heavy price
far from losing steam after nearly nine years in office, margaret thatcher is marching through her third consecutive term as prime minister looking more confident and powerful than ever
the 62-year-old conservative party leader has become such a fixture on the political scene, here and abroad, that at times she seems to be parodying the bossy, schoolmarmish image bestowed on her by her critics
she'll let loose an outburst every so often _ ``i never did understand men,'' she complained after an argumentative european summit meeting. she'll chide the united states about balancing its budget and badger her citizens about littering the streets
she advocates a return to ``victorian values,'' supports the restoration of the death penalty, has legislated curbs on the promotion of homosexual lifestyles, and brandishes the official secrets act with a vigor that makes many critics fear for the freedom of the british media
now, eight months into a fresh five-year term, the blonde mother of twins has governed continuously for longer than any other british prime minister in the 20th century. in the process, she says, she has wrought a revolution. it's a claim that not even her severest critics now totally dismiss
she has taught us that you don't win ... unless you have a clear ideological position,'' says roy hattersley, deputy leader of the socialistic labor party, which went down to its third successive election defeat by mrs. thatcher last june. ``we've made authoritarianism look respectable _ or, rather, she has.''
as the thatcher revolution surges on with shake-ups in state education, housing and the once-sacrosanct national health service, authoritarianism is the most frequent charge against her
but polls indicate that mrs. thatcher retains her trump card: a feeling among the united kingdom's 56 million people that, whether or not they like her policies, no one is offering anything more credible. the disarray in the left-of-center opposition gives her an unassailable parliament majority on just 42 percent of the popular vote
the voting pattern illustrated the divisions and polarization evident in mrs. thatcher's britain. tories swept the elections in prosperous southern england but won not a single seat in the house of commons in the north's five major cities, where unemployment and cuts in government spending are felt most acutely
she, more powerfully than anyone else, has articulated the moral doubts and yearnings of her age,'' wrote peter jenkins, a leading liberal analyst, in his recent book, ``mrs. thatcher's revolution.''
for what people wanted, surely, was an end to decline, release from the corrosive sense of failure, a government which governed and a country to begin to be proud of once again.''
mrs. thatcher feels her populist, anti-elitist instincts are ``absolutely in tune with how people feel ... not just in their pockets, but in their bones, in their hearts and in their minds. deep in their instincts they find what i am saying and doing right.''
she attributes it all to what she learned from, her father, alfred roberts, a smalltown grocer
my policies are based not on some economic theory, but on things that i and millions like me were brought up with,'' she has said
an honest day's work for an honest day's pay, live within your means, put a nest egg by for a rainy day, pay your bills on time, support the police.''
such is the message of her revolution
her laws have curbed the labor unions and nurtured a new breed of entrepreneurs who, like mrs. thatcher, are outsiders to the establishment
among the 200 richest britons, self-made chain store billionaires, computer whizkids and property tycoons outnumber the landed aristocracy and other old money 2 to 1, according to money magazine, a british publication
britain, the strike-plagued ``sick man of europe'' in the 60s and 70s, is now ranked by ambassador toshio yamazaki of japan as an olympics gold-medalist of business with ``one of the great reforming governments of the century.''
i have noticed not only a genuine economic resurgence but also a new attitude,'' yamazaki told the 1988 convention of the british institute of directors. ``the british seem to be enjoying success.''
unemployment is down from a peak 12 percent two years ago to 9.2 percent, lower than west germany and france; inflation hovers around 4 percent, down from more than 20 percent in the early thatcher years. britain's economic growth topped the west european league last year, while reins on state spending have produced a series of trim, low-deficit budgets
mrs. thatcher has steadily chopped away at tax rates at the highest income levels, which had reached 86 percent when she took over from prime minister james callaghan's labor government in 1979. her government succeeded in getting the top rate down to 60 percent and proposes to cut them even more this year
currency exchange controls are gone, and the blossoming of the city, london's financial district, into a global trading giant is just one sign of the radically changed business climate
but not everybody is better off, and much remains unchanged in thatcher's britain
a stubbornly class-conscious society survives with waiting lists for expensive, private high schools swelled by the children of the newly prosperous
people's accents still matter and are discussed _ including mrs. thatcher's, because it sounds acquired
critics who accuse mrs. thatcher of under-funding the national health service in favor of private medicine point to the three small children who died this year after heart surgery was delayed for lack of nurses at birmingham children's hospital
nine years after a woman became prime minister, british women are not noticeably better off. they still do most of the boring low-paid jobs and earn an average of 145 pounds ($255) a week, compared with 219.40 pounds ($386) for the average male
according to a survey published in february by the state-funded equal opportunities commission, women comprise 60 percent of bank employees but only 2 percent of the administrative and managerial staff. mrs. thatcher has never had a woman in her cabinet
says nurse rebecca malby, 24: ``i find her whole attitude totally out of tune with what young women think ... her references to the importance of staying home and raising children . .. the poor pay of women-dominated professions.''
everything about the grocer's daughter, from her frilly blouses and tinted hair to her right-wing views, offends a large section of the intellectual and cultural establishment
her odious suburban gentility and sentimental saccharine patriotism caters to the worst elements of commuter idiocy,'' charges writer-director jonathan miller,
the novelist kingsley amis retorts that the intellectuals are simply snobs and says he detects resentment among the intelligentsia that they, like the labor unions, are no longer consulted by mrs. thatcher
instead, she listens to small, right-wing think tanks like the institute for economic affairs, whose director, graham mather, says: ``there's no doubt the free-market right has been taking the offensive in recent years and has come to dominate much of the policy discussion
the left, the collectivists, the socialists, the believers in a corporate state, have almost opted out of the policy debate.''
internationally, mrs. thatcher has turned post-empire britain into what commentator brian walden calls ``a medium-sized power _ with clout.''
she is washington's staunchest backer in the north atlantic treaty organization. in western europe, her partners in european economic community may dislike her hectoring style and preoccupation with budgets, but they no longer call britain the weakling in the group
she is the longest-serving leader in the nato alliance, and general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev of the soviet union gave her a red-carpet welcome in moscow last spring. he stopped off to see her in december on his way to meet president reagan in washington to sign the treaty limiting nuclear weapons in europe
if she sees herself as the de facto leader of the west, that would give me not the slightest pain,'' former u.s. secretary of state henry a. kissinger wrote recently in london's sunday telegraph
i would like that. i have great hopes that even if she is not the founder of a new western structure, she can at least do what the roman tribunes used to do _ prevent the worst from happening.''
here are milestones in the life of prime minister margaret thatcher:
oct. 13, 1925 _ born at grantham, central england, the second daughter of grocer alfred roberts
june 1947 _ graduates from oxford with a chemistry degree
dec. 13, 1951 _ marries denis thatcher, a wealthy oil executive
aug. 15, 1953 _ gives birth to twins, mark and carol
june 1, 1954 _ qualifies as a barrister (lawyer)
oct. 8, 1959 _ elected to parliament
june 20, 1970 _ appointed to the cabinet as education secretary
feb. 11, 1975 _ elected leader of the conservative party, then in opposition
may 3, 1979 _ wins in general election and becomes prime minister
may 15, 1980 _ britain's inflation hits a record 21.9 percent
jan. 26, 1982 _ unemployment hits post-depression record of 3 million
april 2, 1982 _ dispatches a task force that recovers the falkland islands from argentina after a 74-day war
june 3, 1983 _ wins second five-year term
oct. 12, 1984 _ escapes an irish republican army bombing that kills 5 people and wounds 32
nov. 15, 1985 _ signs the anglo-irish accord, granting the irish republic a say in northern ireland on behalf ot the roman catholic minority
april 15, 1986 _ allows u.s. planes to launch bombing of libya from britain
march 28, 1987 _ gets a red-carpet official visit to moscow
june 11, 1987 _ wins third five-year term
jan. 3, 1988 _ becomes britain's longest continuously serving prime minister this century
in six years, george davies has turned a dowdy, obscure clothing company into britain's biggest retail success story of margaret thatcher's revolution _ a $1.75-billion empire for budget-conscious yuppies
raised in a working-class family in liverpool, davies is chief executive and chairman of next, a chain of nearly 500 stores, and epitomizes the ``go-getter'' society prime minister thatcher seeks to create
at 46, davies is not just an entrepreneur but a man eagerly sought by business experts and the media attempting to assess the thatcher revolution. he typifies the new class of young, self-made entrepreneurs who have benefited from the lower taxes and improved business climate of the thatcher years
i think the british do produce entrepreneurs, but perhaps the climate eight years ago didn't let them come through,'' davies said in a recent british tv interview, referring to the time before mrs. thatcher's conservatives took over from the labor party
so if someone like myself who is basically a working-class lad can start as i did on stock control of ankle socks and come through and do things i've always dreamed of and have a team that is equally positive, one's got to say something's going right,'' he said
davies worked in the clothing trade for nearly 20 years before his big break
in 1981, as a new senior executive with hepworths, a relatively little known clothing company, he spotted a gap in the market between pricy designer clothes and the mass production of the established chains
the first next store opened in wales in 1982 and they now cover britain. a mail order service davies launched this year was swamped with $10.8 million worth of orders in the first three weeks
company headquarters remain in leicester, an industrial city in central england town near where davies lives with his second wife, liz, in a 200-year-old rectory
he works six days a week, including saturday evenings when on his home computer he flips through the weekly takings from stores around the country
in un-british tradition, next employees call him george
it's attitudes that are divisive, not money,'' he says
at 24, rebecca malby is professionally a big success, but she considers herself a loser in margaret thatcher's revolution
miss malby is a nurse in charge of a 27-bed ward, mainly cardiac patients, at whipps cross hospital in a predominantly working-class district of the east end of london
on a salary of 9,000-pounds ($15,750) a year after seven years on the job, including gaining a postgraduate diploma, she makes roughly the same as a rookie policeman and about one-third less than many london secretaries
her home is a rented room in the house of two young doctors in london's far-from-gentrified stoke newington district and her major luxury is a second-hand car
she sees no prospect of buying her own apartment unless she gives up the car, vacations and most entertainment
but she loves her job, enthuses about being young and in london, believes passionately in the state-funded national health service, plans to train as a nursing manager _ and thinks prime minister margaret thatcher simply doesn't care
we think twice about ordering a brain scan on stroke patients now because of what it will cost,'' says miss malby, one of 515,000 nurses employed by the financially ailing state health service, which is used by 90 percent of britons
mrs. thatcher usually answers such criticism by showing statistics she says prove spending on health has increased. she says her aim is not to weaken the service but to streamline it by shifting funds from the health bureaucracy to the patients
she (mrs. thatcher) has made us think much more about what we're doing and there's nothing wrong with that,'' says miss malby. ``but we're on the edge now ... and she doesn't actually listen to anybody. she is driven by ideology and just determined we're going to have a mainly private health service.''
miss malby says she's not tempted into another career and hasn't seriously considered joining the hundreds of british nurses who leave annually to double their pay in jobs in u.s. hospitals
when i think of them (the government) lowering taxes again for wealthy people, it just seems a crime,'' she says
in ``wetherby,'' a 1985 movie about alienated english intellectuals, a character ruminates tipsily on what margaret thatcher is doing to his country
revenge! that's what she's doing. ... taking some terrible revenge. ... and now the whole country is suffering. and yet we've done nothing to her.''
the outburst is almost a metaphor for the arts in britain today after nearly a decade of thatcherism: enraged, unfocused, sometimes venomous to a degree never experienced by a prime minister this century
so deep is mrs. thatcher's imprint on society that she often becomes a stage character in her own right, whether as a cigar-chomping fascist in the satirical tv revue ``spitting image,'' or as nanny, leader of the rapacious, authoritarian money party in pete davies's novel ``the last election.''
now she returns in the hit movie ``sammy and rosie get laid,'' which features a thatcher speech on slum-clearance over footage of an urban wasteland
anti-thatcherism is not confined to left-wing artists. conservative novelists also rail against mrs. thatcher's ``go-getter society,'' which they claim is drowning ye olde englande in a greedy money-and-fast-food culture
the spate of recent movies with anti-thatcher messages provoked an angry article in the sunday times by the right-wing historian norman stone of oxford university in which he claimed that ``the done thing is to run down mrs. thatcher, to assume that capitalism is parasitism, that the established order in this country is imperialist, racist, profiteering.''
hanif kureishi, who wrote the award-winning movie ``my beautiful laundrette'' and the ``sammy and rosie'' film, responded by accusing stone of ``creative impotence and snobbishness.'' kureishi insisted the britain shown in his films is authentic: ``an intolerant, racist, homophobic, narrow-minded, authoritarian rathole.''
the cultural battle, observed the economist magazine, signifies ``that mrs. thatcher is not just the first prime minister of the century to have an `-ism' attached to her name. she is also believed by her opponents ... to have so stamped her values on the country that it has almost become a personal fief.''
the creaky old farm credit system is being rejuvenated, but it'll take a while before the 72-year-old financial empire starts feeling its oats again
it's more than just a face lift, says an agriculture department economist. more like a transplant of key innards, along with $4 billion worth of new blood and muscle
the surgery was performed by congress in the agricultural credit act of 1987, which was signed into law by president reagan on jan. 6. losses to the system totaled about $4.8 billion over the last two years and the outlook was grim
although other components came along later, a cornerstone of the fcs since 1916 has been the federal land banks. other parts include intermediate credit banks and banks for cooperatives. altogether, some 37 banks and hundreds of local associations have made up the system's cooperative network
in all, the fcs has a $50 billion loan portfolio representing about a third of the u.s. farm debt
while federal assistance allows the fcs to operate in the shortrun, the help is not cheap,'' says merritt hughes of the department's economic research service. ``changes included a reorganization of the system, additional rights for its borrowers, and additional measures to ensure the institution's future.''
structurally, the fcs won't be the same. for example, within six months the federal land banks and the federal intermediate credit banks must merge. other mergers between fcs institutions and districts may follow, she said. the banks for cooperatives must also decided whether to consolidate
the farm credit administration (fca), the federal agency that oversees the cooperative system, will have expanded regulatory responsibilities and powers ``along the lines of those already existing for other types of financial institutions,'' ms. hughes said
newly created components will include an insurance corporation to insure debt obligations of the system. a separate farm credit assistance board has been formed to administer the federal bail-out of the system and ensure that units getting aid take necessary steps to reduce costs
a secondary market for agricultural real estate loans and certain rural housing loans will be handled by a new autonomous institution within fcs called the federal agricultural mortgage corp., which already has been dubbed ``farmer mac,'' she said
reorganizing the fcs will reduce overhead cost as the number of fcs entities declines,'' ms. hughes said. ``farmer mac is expected to bring in additional income.''
although there will be added costs associated with the new administrative parts of fcs, the changes overall ``should result in a more efficient implementation and delivery of loans'' to farmers, she said
insurance against operational failure will be targeted to a number of areas, ms. hughes said. an internal fund will be created to guarantee against default on system debt issuances
the new act requires fcs institutions to build up equity in order to decrease interest rate exposure and stabilize net income,'' she said. ``banks will be able to charge loan origination fees and issue non-voting, at-risk stock to raise the capital to meet fca-determined standards. borrowers will not be allowed to withdraw stock as their loans are repaid, and non-borrowers will be able to purchase non-voting stock.''
ms. hughes' analysis was reported in the march issue of agricultural outlook magazine published by the usda agency
the fcs's recent troubles resulted from two simultaneous developments: the near-collapse in the farm economy, and the system's issuance of long-term bonds with high interest rates, ms. hughes said
how would the system react in the future under repeat circumstances?
the fcs will likely be more capable of coping with a recurrence of the first or these problems as capital is rebuilt,'' she said. ``if proportionately more income is generated from loan origination fees and the sale of non-insured stock, the adverse consequences of borrower default will be less of an issue.''
in the case of unanticipated high interest rates, the impact on the fcs ``may not be substantially reduced'' by the new legislation, ms. hughes said. the new requirements call for a high level of capital that can be easily drawn on during downswings
 the level of capital is probably not as important as the stability of capital (immunity from investor flight), since prior to the mid-1980s the system had developed very large capital stock without legislative prompting,'' she said
one of the problems in the old fcs was an inability to shuttle financial help from one bank to another
the former capital corporation mandated by a 1985 law, for example, was able to assess about $300 million from the various banks but was able to collect only $175 million and actually dispensed only $10 million, ms. hughes said. formerly, the sharing of capital among fcs institutions was in conflict with reponsibilities to stockholders
the 1987 act permits a more flexible organizational structure while at the same time requiring continues, rather than sporadic, shared financial responsibility,'' she said
r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. has begun its $6.1 billion tender offer for federated department stores inc. and has gone to court in hopes of torpedoing the competing $6.18 billion offer by campeau corp
macy filed suit tuesday in federal court in manhattan seeking an injunction to bar campeau from proceeding with its tender offer on the grounds that campeau's amended bid was actually a new offer and as such must remain open beyond its scheduled expiration at midnight march 15
extending campeau's bid would reduce the pressure on federated shareholders to decide between the rival macy and campeau offers, effectively putting the macy offer _ which expires april 4 _ on better footing
higher stamp prices won't take effect until next month at the earliest, postal officials say
the board of governors of the u.s. postal service decided tuesday to postpone a final decision on the effective date of the new rates, and scheduled a special meeting for march 22 to discuss putting the new rates into effect, effectively delaying the increase until april 3 at the earliest
the new prices, recommended by the independent postal rate commission last friday, would boost the first-class rate to 25 cents from 22 cents
dart group corp. has abandoned its $1.03 billion takeover bid for stop &amp; shop cos. and says it will return all tendered shares to stop &amp; shop stockholders
stop &amp; shop announced on feb. 29 it had agreed to be acquired in a $1.23 billion leveraged buyout by the investment firm of kohlberg kravis roberts inc
dart's tender offer expires at midnight wednesday and will not be extended, dart said tuesday in a one-paragraph announcement
a federal appellate panel has upheld a lower court's finding that there was no evidence general motors corp. knowingly sold 1.1 million 1980 x-cars with alleged brake defects
the panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals on tuesday affirmed u.s. district judge thomas penfield jackson's 1987 rejection of government claims that the cars had an inherent defect that caused rear brakes to lock up prematurely and spin out of control under certain circumstances
ford motor co. has handed thousands of profit-sharing checks to u.s. workers as their share of the company's industry record profit of $4.6 billion for 1987
ford distributed $653 million in profit-sharing checks tuesday averaging more than $3,700 to 156,479 hourly and salaried workers
cheating on federal income taxes has declined by as much as 20 percent, mainly because of tax law changes and tougher federal policing, internal revenue service commissioner lawrence b. gibbs says
gibbs told a house appropriations subcommittee on tuesday that an irs study indicates the difference between taxes owed and taxes paid has dropped to between $80 billion and $90 billion in 1987. the agency's last report on the annual gap estimated it would rise to more than $100 billion in 1987
commuter airlines which carried nearly 30 million people last year are being targeted for stepped-up inspections by the federal aviation administration after seven fatal accidents and 56 deaths since november
the agency announced tuesday it would make the special inspections of the commuters, which normally fly aircraft of 30 or fewer seats. it said that about 20 percent of the 173 commuter carriers are expected to be singled out for particuarly close scrutiny
corning glass works says it has agreed to acquire international clinical laboratories for about $260 million in cash
chairman james houghton said tuesday he hoped the merger would broaden corning's laboratory services. the company said it planned to combine nashville-based international clinical with its laboratory subsidiary, mepath inc
digital equipment corp. has unveiled a line of powerful computers in another challenge to industry leader international business machines corp
analysts said tuesday's introduction of the vax 8800 series makes digital, the world's second-largest computer company, a competitor with ibm in the mainframe field
tandon corp. has sold off the disk-drive business on which the company was founded to western digital corp. for $49 million in cash and other considerations
western digital, of irvine, a leading maker of computer storage, communications, video controller and logic-processing units, also will assume about $28 million in tandon liabilities, the companies said tuesday
the average college administrator got a 3.3 percent pay increase this year, down from a 5.3 percent increase a year ago, the college and university personnel association says
the 3.3 percent increase for 1987-88 was less than the 3.7 percent increase in consumer prices during the same period, and the first time since 1982-83 that the college salaries trailed the rise in the consumer price index
the association said tuesday it derived the figures from its 11th annual survey of how much colleges pay their presidents, deans and administrators
stock prices surged tuesday as the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 24.70 points to 2,081.07
the dollar continued to slide against other major currencies
bond prices were little changed
prices for future delivery of cocoa rose, cattle futures advanced sharply while futures prices for pork, grains and soybeans were mixed
a key stock market indicator has risen to its highest level since the october market crash, even as the dollar slipped further against foreign currencies
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 24.70 points to close tuesday at 2,081.07, its highest level since the oct. 19 crash
other market indices also rose, as two stocks advanced for every one that fell on the new york stock exchange
wall street analysts said the rally partly reflected a desire by managers of institutional investment funds to put unused money to work as the first quarter draws to a close at the end of this month
others said the increased interest in stocks reflected true buying interest and waning anxiety by investors over the impact of the october collapse, along with optimism over indications that the economy is thriving
but many professional strategists were reluctant to declare that the underlying post-crash nervousness has evaporated
in the currency markets, the dollar continued to slide as the british pound soared and other major currencies took their cue from sterling. analysts said the british currency was buoyed by high interest rates and the strength of the country's economy
sterling rose to $1.8425 on tuesday in new york from $1.8180 late monday and has gained nearly 7 cents against the dollar in two days
in the credit markets, bond prices finished little changed with the benchmark 30-year treasury bond ending the day barely below where it ended monday's trading session
oil futures prices rose slightly in response to calls for meetings among oil-producing nations over production and price issues
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the u.s. benchmark crude oil, settled at $15.45 per 42-gallon barrel, up 8 cents from monday's close.   
oil prices have firmed slightly in response to calls for meetings among oil-producing nations
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the u.s. benchmark crude oil, settled at $15.45 per barrel tuesday, up 8 cents from monday's close
among refined products, wholesale heating oil gained 0.08 cent to 43.49 cents a gallon. near-term contracts for wholesale gasoline dipped 0.23 cent to 43.71 cents a gallon
analysts said longer-term contracts for both crude and the products were stronger, reflecting sentiment that key world oil producers may yet agree on ways to limit production and stabilize prices
in gasoline, for example, the september contract gained 0.41 cent to 43.70 cents a gallon on hopes for firmer prices and a strong summer driving season
helping support prices tuesday was egypt's announcement that non-opec oil producers would meet today in london. venezuela also reportedly called for more future meetings of the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries, analysts said
members of both groups appear anxious to address the problem of price discounting by some oil producers, said bob baker, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc
but analysts said meetings alone would not dissolve the world's oil glut
there will have to be some kind of results or we'll continue to see these kinds of prices,'' said john hill of merrill lynch energy futures
digital equipment corp.'s newest line of computers should continue the company's process of chipping away at the domination of industry giant international business machines corp., analysts said
digital, the world's second largest computer company, introduced the vax 8800 series on tuesday, boosting its mainframe capability and issuing another salvo in the battle to be number one
it's not an earth-shattering announcement but it is a topper in terms of price and capabilities,'' said sonny monosson, an independent computer analyst in boston. ``it is very capable and will make inroads into the ibm market.''
maynard, mass.-based digital has mounted an aggressive campaign to erode ibm's dominance in mid-sized computers and large mainframes, or central processing units
last fall, digital introduced two new microvax computers and positioned them as competitors with ibm's 9370, a mid-sized computer that came out last summer
in january, digital and apple computer inc. announced a joint development pact _ specifically designed to challenge ibm _ that would make vax programs available on apple's macintosh computers
the newest line of vax computers is priced from $543,900 to more than $1.7 million
digital said the vax 8800 series delivers up to four times the processing power of the 8700 series with multiprocessing capabilities. the series is designed for large, multifaceted companies
this does intensify the competition,'' said howard anderson, managing director of yankee group, a boston-based market research firm. ``historically what happened is that dec has great software and underpowered computers. every time dec comes out with a high-powered machine, its users, who have been power starved, grab it up.''
despite the announcement, digital stock fell $4 a share to $120.37{ a share in consolidated new york stock exchange trading
analysts said digital had been expected to announce new software in conjunction with the new computers. when the company didn't, analysts lowered their earnings forecasts, which may have helped depress digital's stock price
the company said vax 8700s can be upgraded to the new line, which is available immediately, and analysts said they expect a 60-40 split between upgrading and new sales. analysts said they expect the vax 8800 series to offer strong competition for ibm's 4300 series and 4381 model
what we have seen is that the largest users are assuming there are only two companies acceptable for all applications _ ibm and dec,'' anderson said. ``two years ago it was only ibm.''
dart group corp.'s decision to drop its hostile $1.03 billion takeover offer for stop &amp; shop cos. marks the latest of dart's series of unsuccessful but profitable attempts to acquire a major retailing chain
dart said in a brief statement tuesday that it would let its $37 a share tender offer expire at midnight est tonight return all tendered shares to stop &amp; shop stockholders
stop &amp; shop, a supermarket and discount department store operator, said feb. 29 it had agreed to be acquired in a $44 a share, $1.23 billion leveraged buyout led by the investment firm kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co
a dart spokesman, who did not wish to be identified, said the landover, md.-based company felt it was ``uneconomic to bid further.''
dart, which owns about 2.7 percent of stop &amp; shop's 27.9 million common shares outstanding, nevertheless stands to profit from its abortive takeover try
dart reportedly acquired its 730,000 stop &amp; shop shares at prices below $20 a share, giving them a potential pre-tax gain of at least $17.5 million if it tendered its shares under the company's buyout
stop &amp; shop closed at $43.50 a share tuesday on the new york stock exchange, down 12{ cents from monday's close
dart, which had launched its takeover bid with a $31 a share offer on feb. 1, in recent years has developed a reputation as a corporate raider that launches hostile takeover bids and later pockets huge profits by selling its stock to another suitor or to the target company
dart since 1985 has been spurned in takeover bids by several major retailers, including safeway, beatrice cos., supermarkets general corp. and dayton hudson corp
the company, which owns the crown books and trak auto parts retail chains, has maintained it wanted to acquire a major retail chain as part of its long-term strategy
in addition to the kohlberg kravis buyout agreement, dart faced another obstacle in stop &amp; shop's federal lawsuit to block the hostile tender offer. stop &amp; shop accused dart of failing to disclose that its purpose in making the bid was to boost the stock price of the target company in order to make a speculative profit
boston-based stop &amp; shop owns 113 stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 169 bradlees discount department stores. in a leveraged buyout, investors borrow heavily to buy out a company and then pay off the debt with the target company's cash flow or the sale of its assets
a federal judge has set a hearing for next week to review the constitutionality of ohio's anti-takeover law, but has refused to immediately prevent firestone tire &amp; rubber co. from using the law to thwart a $1.86 billion buyout bid from italian tiremaker pirelli
judge alice batchelder rejected pirelli's request for a temporary restraining order against the law and set a hearing for next monday to review the statute's constitutionality
attorneys for pirelli societe generale sa went to u.s. district court in cleveland on monday in an effort to prevent firestone from using provisions of the ohio takeover act, which attempts to hinder hostile buyouts
firestone rejected an earlier merger proposal from pirelli in favor of a venture under which it will sell 75 percent of its core tire business to bridgestone corp. of japan. that rejection led the italian tiremaker to launch its unsolicited tender offer for firestone on monday
john j. nevin, chairman of firestone, stated late monday that the company's board was reviewing the offer and asking shareholders to await its recommendation before deciding whether to tender their stock to pirelli, which is based in milan
the board will complete its review by march 18, nevin said
mark peabody's share of ford motor co.'s profits will go into a house he is building for his family. mike heaslip is taking his to las vegas and josephine aftanas plans to use hers for her daughter's may wedding
many of the 4,500 livonia transmission plant employees already had plans for their portion of the $635 million in profit-sharing checks that ford distributed tuesday to 156,479 u.s. workers
ford earned an industry-record $4.6 billion in 1987 and distributions to workers jumped by 70 percent to an average of more than $3,700, up from $2,100 in 1986 when ford earned a company-record $3.29 billion
most ford workers received their checks tuesday morning. but peabody and his colleagues on the main transmission assembly line at the livonia plant agreed to wait until ford vice chairman harold poling arrived for a tuesday afternoon ceremony
it's not only the politicians who can call this super tuesday,'' poling told a crowd of cheering workers. he noted that the plant's 4,500 employees received $17.6 million, or an average of $4,450 each
you helped make 1987 one of the most remarkable years _ and certainly the most profitable _ in the history of ford motor co.,'' poling said before he and a retinue of reporters and executives walked to the assembly line
the livonia transmission workers' checks were larger than the company average because most workers have high seniority and few new, younger workers have been hired there, said ford vice president peter pestillo
workers on that line assemble transmissions for front-wheel-drive cars such as the popular taurus-sable and the new lincoln continental
most of them said they are lucky to be there at all. most were on layoff from other plants and had enough seniority to be called to work at livonia when ford added the line three years ago
ford withheld the checks of about 2,244 workers under a court order for payment of delinquent child support. all but 50 of those workers live in michigan. the others live in jefferson county, ky., ford spokesman mike moran said
more than 160,250 ford workers in the united states received profit-sharing checks in 1986. ford workers took home an average $2,100 in profit-sharing for 1985, $2,000 for 1984 and $400 for 1983, when the company distributed the first checks
general motors corp. workers received no share of gm's $3.56 billion in 1987 profits, though the corporation said it would distribute $184.6 million in stock bonuses to executives
gm, the nation's largest automaker, switched to the ford profit-sharing formula for 1988, but said that formula would have generated no profit-sharing distributions had it been used for 1987
procter &amp; gamble co. has entered a joint venture with syntex corp. of palo alto, calif., increasing the cincinnati-based consumer products company's involvement in the pharmaceutical industry
the companies will work to bring naprosyn, syntex's popular prescription arthritis treatment, to the over-the-counter market
p&amp;g officials have joined syntex's talks with the food and drug administration concerning wider distribution of naprosyn, kathleen gary, syntex vice president of public affairs, said tuesday
once the venture is under way, syntex will benefit from p&amp;g's expertise in marketing over-the-counter drugs, she said
syntex and p&amp;g have indicated their work on naprosyn would be the first of several joint projects. the companies said they are ``engaged in a series of other broad ranging discussions regarding further collaboration.''
neither p&amp;g representative pam sussman nor ms. gary could provide details on what kind of ventures the companies might be planning
naprosyn and a related product called anaprox are syntex's biggest sellers, accounting for more than half of its $1.3 billion in annual sales. naprosyn is sold in more than 80 countries
roper corp. says it will meet with general electric co. to discuss an unsolicited $423 million takeover offer despite a pending merger agreement with whirlpool corp
the augusta, ga.-based company maintained tuesday that its earlier agreement with whirlpool didn't preclude meetings with ge. roper said it would advise shareholders about its stance on the ge offer by march 18
whirlpool, meanwhile accused ge of ``deliberate and heavy-handed interference'' in its efforts to acquire roper, which manufactures some of the gas and electric ranges currently marketed by ge
ge on monday bid $45 a share, or $423 million, to acquire 9.4 million outstanding shares of roper stock. the offer came a week after announcement of a definitive agreement under which whirlpool would pay $37.50 a share, or $350 million, for outstanding roper stock
ge's tender offer for roper expires april 1; whirlpool's expires march 25
the prior agreement ``remains in the best interest of shareholders, customers and employees of both companies and ... whirlpool remains firmly committed to effecting the agreed-upon transaction,'' benton harbor-based whirlpool said in a statement released in detroit
the statement said whirlpool officials were ``considering a full range of options to complete the transaction.'' it did not specify how the ge bid would be countered but noted that roper directors unanimously approved the agreement with whirlpool
whirlpool was ``deeply disturbed by ge's deliberate and heavy-handed interference with its definitive merger agreement with roper,'' the statement said
whirlpool officials also were concerned ``that ge's offer was inspired by a fear of the increased competition a whirlpool-roper combination would bring, especially for ge's hotpoint brand,'' the statement said
calls to ge headquarters in fairfield, conn., were unanswered late tuesday. ge said it made the offer after learning from a securities and exchange commission filing that roper agreed to the whirlpool merger under the threat of a unilateral takeover
west german chancellor helmut kohl on wednesday called upon the u.s. congress to recognize europe's contribution to liberalizing world trade and refrain from protectionist legislation
in a speech to the european parliament, kohl said the european economic community's recent decisions to cut back farm production set an example for washington to follow
we are confident the congress will understand our measures and therefore should refrain from all protectionist legislation,'' he said
kohl referred to a decision by the leaders of the 12-nation eec last month to cut spending on agricultural subsidies as a means of curbing the production of food europe can neither consume nor sell
speaking as the current eec president, kohl hailed the feb. 13 decision of the brussels summit as a turning point in the eec's 31-year history
he also outlined to the parliament a long list of measures his government plans to push through before the end of its eec presidency on june 30. among them were plans for complete liberalization of capital movements, opening of the insurance and financial services to international competition and harmonization of technical standards
the internal market will develop only if we coordinate our economic, financial and monetary policies,'' kohl said
west german chancellor helmut kohl wednesday called the creation of a european central bank an ``absolute necessity.''
but he told the european parliament that fusing the monetary policies of the 12 european economic community nations must be ``gradual, step by step.''
kohl's backing of an eec central bank was more cautious than that of his foreign minister, hans-dietrich genshcer, who last month called for the creation of an experts group to see how such a central bank could be formed
genscher suggested the experts be named by the next eec summit in june with the mandate of drafting within a year the statutes of an eec central bank
eec business leaders also have called for the creation of a european central bank
a major japanese trading firm and an agricultural group that imports about 40 percent of the nation's feed grain will jointly purchase a u.s. grain company, a spokesman said wednesday
the national federation of agricultural cooperative associations, or zennoh, and c. itoh co., one of japan's three largest trading houses, are completing an agreement to buy consolidated grain and barge of st. louis, missouri, said a c. itoh official, speaking on condition of anonymity
the official said final details, including the purchase price and the share of investment by each party, would be worked out by the end of april
a zennoh official said his organization planned to link its new orleans-based export arm, the zennoh grain center, with consolidated grain, which handles 3.3 million tons of corn and 750,000 tons of soybeans a year
consolidated grain, which operates primarily in ohio, illinois, missouri and iowa, controls 30 grain silos and 650 barges used to transport grain
the zennoh official, who also insisted on anonymity, denied a report in the japanese newspaper yomiuri shimbun that zennoh would use the company to apply pressure on grain-growing regions where farmers are pushing for an end to japan's restrictions on beef and citrus fruit imports
zennoh, which handles almost 40 percent of the 1.5 million tons of feed grain imported annually into japan, has condemned u.s. demands for an end to the quotas
chrysler corp. will try to cut costs in a new contract with the united auto workers union, while the uaw will push for improved job security and profit-sharing, negotiators for both sides say
among the top items on the no. 3 automaker's negotiating agenda are more employee-management programs. the uaw also will demand a halt to layoffs unless there is a sales slump
the company has offered an early start to negotiations this year, when a three-year contract with the uaw expires. the union's 190-member chrysler council is to meet thursday and may decide whether to accept the company's offer
the chrysler-uaw contract, which covers 71,700 workers, expires sept. 14
uaw vice president marc stepp, who heads the union's chrysler department, said the union will demand that profit-sharing be based on annual earnings, as it is at ford motor co. on tuesday, ford distributed profit-sharing checks averaging $3,700 apiece to its unionized employees
stepp also said the union was seeking job-protection language similar to uaw contracts at ford and general motors corp. those three-year contracts, negotiated last year, forbid layoffs unless there is a sales slump, put stronger restrictions on work performed outside the company and a 3 percent general wage increase in the first year and lump sum payments in the following two years
we won't take anything less than gm and ford,'' stepp said
general motors corp. spent 25 percent more on its television advertising in 1987 than it did in the previous year, ranking it as the top advertiser among automakers, a survey shows
gm spent $500 million on television ads last year, the largest chunk of the $2 billion car makers spent on the medium, according to a survey reported tuesday by the television bureau of advertising
the 1987 total figure was 19 percent more than in 1986
gm spokesman harold jackson said the automaker's increase came because of ``aggressive promotion of new gm models in a highly competitive market.''
ford motor co. ranked second, spending $304 million, and chrysler corp. was third at $265 million. toyota motor sales led foreign car makers, spending $167 million last year
the largest increase in advertising came from suzuki motor co., which boosted its television costs by 126.3 percent, from $12 million in 1986 to $28 million last year. the largest decline was at volkswagen of america, which spent 9.4 percent less last year than the year before
the figures represent annual network and spot television spending for the automakers and dealer associations, according to william moll, president of the television advertising bureau. filing, stock price.</note>
r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. has taken its battle for federated department stores inc. to the marketplace and to the courts
macy, which last week agreed to a $6.1 billion buyout of federated, on tuesday began a tender offer for 80 percent of the cincinnati-based retailer's common stock
macy also asked a federal court for an injunction to block the rival $6.18 billion buyout offer from campeau corp., contending campeau's bid _ which was revised from an earlier offer _ actually constituted a new offer and as such must remain open beyond its scheduled expiration at midnight est march 15
extending campeau's bid would reduce the pressure on federated shareholders to decide between the rival macy and campeau offers, effectively putting the macy offer _ which expires april 4 _ on more equal footing
campeau, a toronto-based real estate developer and retailer, is offering $75 in cash per share for 80 percent of federated's stock and $44 in cash per share for the remaining 20 percent. the campeau bid, which has an aggregate value of $68 per share, totals $6.18 billion
until march 2, when campeau officially announced its two-tier bid, the company had offered $68 in cash outright for each of federated's 89.6 million outstanding shares
in order to increase the pressure on federate's stockholders, defendants have unlawfully treated their new two-tier offer as a `mere' amendment to their prior tender offer,'' macy contended in court papers
because of the two-stage price structure, campeau's latest proposal bears little resemblance to its original bid and should therefore be treated as a new offer, macy argued
under federal law, a new offer would have to remain open for at least 20 business days after publication or submission to stockholders. if campeau's bid is considered a new offer, it could not legally expire on march 15 as scheduled
macy asked the court to block the campeau offer from closing before stockholders had a sufficient amount of time to review materials and to evaluate the changes included in the new bid
macy's tender offer will pay $74.50 per share in cash for up to 70.43 million shares, or approximately 80 percent of federated common stock. macy plans to swap shares in a new company, macy's-federated inc., for the remaining 20 percent of federated's shares
the macy offer expires at midnight est april 4. analysts estimate it is worth $6.1 billion
macy revealed in a filing with the securities and exchange commission tuesday that under the macy-federated agreement, federated executives have the option of being paid in cash for all of their shares in the company, instead of the cash-and-stock offer being made to the public. the price to be paid for the executives' stock was $73.80 per share, slightly less than the cash price in the tender offer
federated stock was up 37{ cents to $66.37{ a share in early new york stock exchange trading today
in a separate sec filing monday detailing its latest bid, campeau revealed that federated had received six offers for its ralphs supermarkets division in california. the bids ranged from $800 million to $990 million, including a $955 million offer by ralphs management, campeau said
macy also said in its sec filing that it expected ralphs to be sold
whoever ends up acquiring federated is also likely to sell the company's other non-department store divisions, gold circle discount stores and main street and children's place specialty stores
campeau announced last week it had agreed to sell federated's foley's and filene's department store divisions to the may department stores co. if its tender offer succeeded
federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer, also owns department stores including bloomingdale's, lazarus, rich's, abraham &amp; straus, bullock's and burdine's
in its sec filing, macy said it expected some department store divisions would be sold, but it did not elaborate. analysts expect macy, which has nearly 100 department and specialty stores of its own, to sell federated rich's and abraham &amp; straus divisions
the government is trying to push legislation through the belgian parliament to control corporate raiders in the wake of the takeover battle for societe generale de belgique sa, officials said wednesday
the law would make it mandatory for an investor to disclose a shareholding in a publicly-listed belgian company once the stake reaches 10 percent of the total voting stock. further disclosures would be required for each increment of 5 percent
if approved, the law would be effective from march 1, 1988 through dec. 31, 1989 and would apply to belgian companies with a minimum equity of 200 million francs, the equivalent of $5.71 million
the bill will be examined by a committee on thursday and be put to a parliamentary vote next week, marc de backer, a finance ministry spokesman, said
the absence in belgium of legislation to control raiders allowed the italian investor carlo de benedetti to build up a direct and indirect stake of 18.6 percent in societe generale before announcing his bid on jan. 18 for effective control of the firm, which is belgium's largest holding company
in the ensuing battle, the other major societe generale shareholder, cie. financiere de suez of france, bought its stake of 20 percent in similar secrecy
the stock market edged upward today, struggling to extend tuesday's rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 24.70 on tuesday, gained .66 to 2,081.73 by 11 a.m. today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 788 up, 528 down and 461 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 72.23 million shares at midmorning
confidence has continued to spread lately on wall street that the economy remains healthy nearly five months after black monday on oct. 19
in addition, stock prices have been less volatile lately than they were as recently as early january, suggesting that investors' mood is less subject to sudden change
analysts say investing institutions have grown more eager to put some of their cash reserves into stocks, in order to show in their first-quarter reports to clients that they participated in the recent market rally
still, many observers wonder how much stock might be for sale at higher prices by investors sitting with paper losses and waiting for an opportune time to get out of the market
japanese stocks were mostly higher following an up day in the tokyo market. matsushita electrical climbed 4} to 200{ and honda motor gained 2~ to 129~
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .31 to 151.93. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.65 at 297.69
c. robert powell ought to be taking orders from tokyo. last year, the 60-year-old chief executive became one of the first americans to see his company seized by the japanese in a hostile takeover
so why is powell still telling his japanese bosses how he intends to run things at reichhold chemicals inc.? simple, he says. he knows the american market and they don't
in japan they have `harmony': a closed industry; you don't cut prices. i told them `harmony' in the u.s. is six years in leavenworth.''
more than 3 million americans work for businesses that have at least 10 percent foreign ownership, and their numbers are rising rapidly as foreigners snap up u.s. properties with the dollars earned from their huge trading surpluses
the bosses include italians in indiana, swedes in georgia, canadians in vermont and west germans in california. the businesses range from cars to cement
but people like robert powell in white plains, n.y., prove that working for a foreign boss doesn't necessarily mean giving up the american way of life
after one tough discussion with a superior from dainippon ink and chemicals inc., powell says he was told by a lower-level japanese, ``mr. maeda doesn't like to argue with you.''
i said, `fine, tell him not to argue with me.'''
foreign companies such as dainippon are learning to adapt to american ways, a lesson in flexibility learned years ago by u.s. companies such as international business machines corp. when they went global
we're really babies at working with each other,'' said clifford clarke, president of iri international inc. in redwood city, calif., a consulting firm specializing in u.s.-japanese management issues
the first step in a corporate relationship is denial of differences. the second step is ``throwing names at each other.'' the third step is understanding, and the final step is taking advantage of the differences, clarke said
out of the diversity comes the best decisions,'' clarke said. ``that's as american as apple pie.''
fretting about foreign bosses seems to be more common among people who don't have them _ presidential candidates, for example _ than people who do have them, such as wayne hancock, who works for a bridgestone corp. tire plant in la vergne, tenn
it's been real enjoyable working with the japanese,'' hancock, an accounting manager, said recently. ``it's not like an american company. there's a lot more emphasis here on the quality of the product. ... they're more people-oriented.''
bridgestone's relations with the union are so good that the united rubber workers flag flies next to the bridgestone flag in la vergne
some problems do arise when the boss lives in another country. differences in language and culture can inhibit communication, and there are ceilings at some companies on how high americans can advance
in barre, vt., david cuttler was worried that his way up at quebec-based bombardier inc. was blocked by his trouble learning french. now his worries have eased
after you work together for a while, you tend not even to distinguish americans and canadians. you're all part of the same team,'' said cuttler, production manager for a factory that builds train cars. ``it's nice to speak french, but it's not necessary.''
the leading states for foreign employers are california, new york, texas, new jersey and pennsylvania, according to 1985 figures that are the most recent available
japanese employers get most of the publicity even though they ranked only fifth in u.s. employment in 1985, behind british, canadians, west germans and dutch
japanese ranked far ahead of british, west germans and arabs in a poll asking which were the best u.s. employers. the poll was released this past week by smick-medley &amp; associates inc., a washington-based consulting firm
one reason for japan's high profile _ think of the movie ``gung ho'' _ is that japanese are likely to mold companies in their own image. europeans often remain at arm's length from their u.s. holdings
italian executives of ferruzzi group have paid only two visits to the fort wayne, ind., headquarters of food processor central soya inc. since buying the company last year. and that suits david swanson just fine
it would be foolish of americans to try to implant certain of their systems on europeans _ and vice versa,'' said swanson, central soya's president and chief executive
europeans are not always so invisible: west germany's basf ag has had labor problems in west virginia, michigan, new york and new jersey, and chemical workers in geismar, la., are just now trickling back to work after a company lockout that began in 1984
basf says its labor policies in the united states are set locally, but the oil, chemical and atomic workers union charges that the decisions are made in ludwigshafen
in west germany, it's illegal to lock your employees out. what they've been able to do here they would not have been able to do in their own country,'' said ernest rousselle, a union representative
both europeans and japanese have elaborate employment guarantees at home _ the europeans by law, the japanese more by tradition. americans sometimes feel cheated when the companies are not as protective when they do business in the united states
more than 130 people in the san diego area sued japan's kyocera international inc. after they were laid off in 1980, claiming they had been promised lifetime employment. they lost but have appealed
more typical are complaints from ambitious american executives that their road to the top has been blocked, such as the pending lawsuit by thomas mcdannold and edward neubauer against nec america inc. in mountain view, calif
potential for cultural conflict is probably greatest on wall street, where buttoned-down japanese managers try to deal with freewheeling american recruits, and vice versa
you need a kind of cowboy mentality,'' said gregory v. coggiano, an executive with nomura securities international inc., ``but you've got to be a team player as well.''
a consensus is developing among management experts that foreign owners would be wise to adapt their homegrown methods to the ways of americans. at bridgestone, for example, japanese stopped doing early-morning exercises in the parking lot when only a few americans joined in
the result, as bridgestone's human resources adviser seiji ohtsu describes it, may be a ``third approach'' _ a blending of good ideas, foreign and domestic
as such things as quality circles and flexible job classifications become standard operating procedure here, having a foreign boss may no longer seem quite so unusual
in japan's case, said labor analyst harley shaiken of the university of california at san diego, ``the real, key issue isn't so much how japanese companies are different, it's the enormous influence they have had on u.s. firms.''
it is a place few americans ever see, a plush lounge where japanese executives spend $100 an evening to sip whiskey, flirt with pretty hostesses and maybe take a turn singing to the accompaniment of a baby grand piano
the piano bar _ ``pianoba'' in japanese _ is the one place where japanese executives lower their reserve, speak frankly and consolidate working relationships with their colleagues and customers
in the office, nothing moves. in the piano bar, everything moves,'' a japanese executive said late into a recent friday evening at one club in midtown manhattan
americans other than ethnic japanese are generally not welcome at a piano bar unless they are in the company of japanese. piano bars do not advertise. the only way to get in is to know where one is _ and then to be able to read the message in japanese on a small piece of paper telling customers to ring three times for admittance
americans are accustomed to being the outsiders when they go to japan to do business. but at a piano bar, americans are outsiders in the middle of new york city
if you're not invited, you're being cut out of something,'' said a young american who speaks japanese, works for a japanese trading company and occasionally goes to piano bars
more business is done after 5 o'clock in these bars than is done during business hours. because that's when people can have a couple of drinks and really say what's on their minds,'' the american said, speaking on condition that he not be identified
the piano bar does not start to fill up until after 9 p.m. or so, when executives drift over after work and dinner. the $100 does not pay for food, except for light snacks. it doesn't even cover drinks: regulars have bottles of expensive scotch kept for them in a closet
the $100 does cover the attentions of the hostesses, young women who sit on stools and light guests' cigarettes, freshen their drinks and engage in flirtatious small talk. most are from japan or elsewhere in the far east; others are americans or europeans
lest the guests become too bored or too bold, the hostesses are shuttled from table to table by the mama-san, who is dressed in a traditional kimono
when their names are called out, men stride up to the microphone and sing the song of their choice, usually in japanese. among songs in english, a favorite is ``my way,'' a la frank sinatra
the importance of the piano bar to japanese business should not be underestimated, said clifford clarke, president of iri international inc., a redwood city, calif-based consulting firm specializing in u.s.-japanese management issues
while americans prize achievement above all, japanese give the most weight to personal relationships, which are forged in piano bars and their less-expensive cousins, the karaoke bars, clarke said
we talk about after 5 in the bars as being social. they don't separate private life and work life,'' clarke said. ``it's not felt that after-hours time is play time
a lot of americans feel that japanese never give direct feedback. well, that's what the evenings are for,'' he said
weakened by corruption and low prices, mexico's giant pemex petroleum monopoly has been trying to cut costs and raise productivity as it struggles to stay afloat in a world glutted with cheap oil
but experts say the effort by president miguel de la madrid's administration has not made much headway, even though the well-being of pemex is vital to this debt-ridden country of 84 million people
two of the main obstacles to raising productivity have been corruption and a very powerful union that has been against trimming an overblown work force,'' said one expert on the mexican oil industry, who spoke on condition of anonymity
nevertheless, pemex ``is enormously important'' to mexico both as ``a major source of foreign exchange, and the country's largest tax payer,'' said oil expert george w. grayson in a telephone interview from richmond, va
the taxes and royalties pemex paid last year made up half the federal government's revenues as it struggled through the nation's sixth year of economic crisis. but the petroleum products it sold abroad accounted for 39.6 percent of the country's 1987 export earnings, down from 79 percent in 1982 when the oil industry was booming here
petroleos mexicanos s.a., as it is known by its formal name, monopolizes everything from exploring and drilling to heavy petrochemicals, transportation and wholesaling. only the gas stations, which carry its logo, are privately owned concessions
it was created by president lazaro cardenas, an army general, through an executive order issued march 18, 1938, a few days after he expropriated 17 foreign companies
international financial circles did not expect pemex to live long because it lacked money, skills and technology
half a century later, pemex is celebrating its 50th anniversary as one of the world's biggest integrated petroleum companies and a national institution a majority of mexicans take pride in
the big bonanza came when jose lopez portillo, the son of a pemex engineer, became president in late 1976, shortly after a new generation of pemex geologists and engineers trained in modern techniques, located fields in the southeast that turned out to be about twice the size of alaska's north slope in prudhoe bay
with half the world starved for petroleum because of high prices, arab embargoes, and later erratic deliveries caused by the outbreak of the iran-iraq war, the young technocrats at pemex scrambled to find and develop even more sources of new oil
pemex has sole rights over all hydrocarbons in mexico's 761,604 square miles of national territory (three times the size of texas) and over the 200-mile offshore belt on both coasts that mexico claims as an exclusive economic zone
as a result, the country's proven oil reserves of 48 billion barrels in 1987 _ almost twice as big as those of the united states _ remain the world's fifth largest after saudi arabia, kuwait, the soviet union and venezuela
but much of that oil lies inside tightly packed rock formations, making it too expensive to pump out at today's depressed prices. reserves are down by an estimated 2 percent from three years ago, because exploration has not kept pace with production
exploration was restricted after the government cut pemex's budget by 8 percent last year, along with almost everything except a few priority projects, because of the country's economic crunch
the bust came during the last months of lopez portillo's six-year term, when north sea, alaskan and other non-opec oilfields started to flood world markets and traditional producers began slashing prices to hold on to their clients
at the height of the oil boom from december 1980 to may 1981, pemex light-grade isthmus crude sold at $38.50 a barrel. as of this january, isthmus crude had dropped to an average of $15.03 a barrel. february prices have not yet been released
aside from the price slide, the company also continues to battle corruption, much of it centering around the oil workers union, which represents 95 percent of pemex's 183,000 workers and employees
de la madrid, who inherited these problems along with a giant foreign debt now estimated at $105 billion and few resources to meet payments on it, launched a ``moral renovation'' campaign at the beginning of his administration and appointed mario ramon beteta, a veteran economist, as head of pemex
beteta riled the union by trying to crack down on corruption, cutting costs and pork-barrel contracts to union companies. by law, 5 percent of the value of all pemex contracts used to go to the union, which owns a host of service companies, from drilling to pumping and construction. beteta cut that to 2 percent, also mandating that the contracts be awarded through open bidding
francisco rojas, who succeeded beteta last year, replaced four of pemex's seven deputy directors and laid off 900 non-union employees, but the fight against corruption continues. industry sources say the union still wields considerable power and maintains the inside track on most contract work
to hold down costs, pemex has concentrated on developing the ``gusher'' fields on- and off-shore in the southeastern part of the gulf of mexico, where the oil is cheapest to produce
export revenues are down from an annual high of $16.4 billion in 1982-84, to a low of $6.1 billion in 1986 and $8.5 billion last year. production has dropped from an average of 2.65 million barrels a day, then, to 2.40 million in 1986 and 2.60 million last year
about half of pemex's production is used domestically, supplying an estimated 90 percent of mexico's energy needs
roughly a quarter more is exported to the united states. the rest goes mostly to japan, spain, france, israel and central america
mexico has consistently tried to project a conservative and independent image as a world exporter. it refuses to join the organization petroleum exporting countries, even though it has reluctantly cooperated at times with the 13-nation cartel in reducing export volumes to buttress prices
as a matter of policy, it also refuses to sell more than 50 percent of its exports to any single country
grain and soybean futures prices opened mixed today on the chicago board of trade
soybean futures opened higher but quickly turned lower in response to reduced spot market prices for soybeans, soybean oil and soybean meal, analysts said
wheat futures opened lower on follow-through selling from tuesday but soon turned higher as the reduced prices brought in buyers
wheat futures prices have been trending lower recently due to uncertainty about future u.s. export sales, especially large shipments under the government's export enhancement program, analysts said
we've got some business but we're in need of some new eep business,'' said dale gustafson of drexel burnham lambert inc
corn futures weakened on increased farmer selling, gustafson said. but algeria and south korea both had purchase bids pending, and sales of u.s. corn to those countries could boost corn futures, he said
in early trading, wheat was \ cent to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3 a bushel; corn was 1\ cent lower to \ cent higher with march at $2.00\ a bushel; oats were \ cent to } cent lower with march at $1.91} a bushel; soybeans were { cent to 2{ cents lower with march at $6.14{ a bushel
cattle futures were mixed while pork futures were mostly lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .25 cent lower to .15 cent higher with april at 72.92 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .20 cent lower to .08 cent higher with march at 81.05 cents a pound; hogs were .28 cent lower to .03 cent higher with april at 43.75 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .40 cent to .77 cent lower with march at 53.32 cents a pound
cattle and hog futures closed higher tuesday while frozen pork belly futures retreated
the stock market pushed ahead today, extending tuesday's rally despite some early resistance from sellers
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 24.70 on tuesday, gained 3.64 to 2,084.71 by noontime today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by nearly 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 926 up, 480 down and 444 unchanged
confidence has continued to spread lately on wall street that the economy remains healthy nearly five months after black monday on oct. 19
in addition, stock prices have been less volatile lately than they were as recently as early january, suggesting that investors' mood is less subject to sudden change
analysts say investing institutions have grown more eager to put some of their cash reserves into stocks, in order to show in their first-quarter reports to clients that they participated in the recent market rally
still, many observers wonder how much stock might be for sale at higher prices by investors sitting with paper losses and waiting for an opportune time to get out of the market
japanese stocks were mostly higher following an up day in the tokyo market. matsushita electrical climbed 5 to 200} and honda motor gained 2~ to 129~
johnson &amp; johnson added 2} to 86\. analysts said the buying was prompted by renewed enthusiasm over sales prospects for a j&amp;j skin treatment product that has received considerable publicity of late
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .59 to 152.21. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 2.83 at 298.87
volume on the big board came to 139.26 million shares at noontime, against 107.60 million at the same point tuesday
grumman corp. today announced that it will lay off about 700 employees and eliminate another 1,900 jobs due to declining business in aircraft engineering and manufacturing
in an open letter to employees, grumman president john o'brien said the reductions were prompted by the loss of a recent competition for a new aircraft program, production delays caused by defense budget reductions, and uncertainty about the funding of the a-6 aircraft
however, o'brien said, ``the airplane business is the backbone of our company, and we're in it to stay.'' he said the company was investing millions of dollars in research for future aircraft
six hundred employees will lose their jobs at the aircraft systems, aerostructures, data systems and electronics systems divisions on long island, n.y.; another 100 layoffs are planned for aircraft systems facilities in milledgeville, ga., and stuart, fla., and the systems division in melbourne, fla
an additional 1,900 jobs will eliminated nationally through attrition, coupled with a reduction in part-time and temporary workers, the company said
the largest part of the layoff will occur by the middle of april, with the remainder spread over the remaining months of the year, grumman said
grumman said hiring has already been sharply curtailed and is now essentially limited to people with specialized skills
walt disney co. has filed a copyright and trademark infringement suit accusing more than 15 outlets in new york city of unauthorized distribution and sale of toy telephones bearing a likeness of mickey mouse
the suit, filed wednesday in u.s. district court for the southern district of new york, is the latest of a rash of legal actions brought by the burbank-based entertainment concern for alleged unauthorized use of disney characters
in the past 24 months, the company has brought 14 suits involving more than 400 manufacturers, distributors and retailers in new york, south carolina, florida, texas, california and washington, d.c., the burbank, calif.-based company said
disney's latest action asks the court to award unspecified damages and to enjoin the distributors and stores from importing and selling the telephones with the unauthorized mickey mouse likenesses
housing construction plunged 14 percent in 1987 from the previous year as rising interest rates and high apartment vacancies took their toll on the industry, a survey released wednesday showed
the report by the f.w. dodge division of mcgraw-hill information systems co. said nationwide housing starts fell to 1.58 million units from 1.84 million units in 1986
it noted that only three of the nation's top 10 metropolitan areas _ washington, d.c., detroit and philadelphia _ showed any pickup in construction activity last year
high vacancy rates and high mortgage rates took a heavy toll of apartment and one-family building alike last year,'' said george a. christie, chief economist for f.w. dodge
christie said the apartment surplus, which he describes as ``a hangover from early '80's tax shelters,'' was likely to persist this year but that a drop in interest rates after the oct. 19 stock market crash has improved the outlook for construction of single-family homes
leading the nation in 1987 housing construction was washington, with 52,045 units, up 1 percent from 1986. the los angeles-long beach area ranked second with 50,052 units, although activity decreased 32 percent from the previous year
the rest of the nation's top 10 housing areas for 1987 were: atlanta, 46,333 units, down 12 percent; riverside-san bernadino, calif., 41,282, down 20 percent; chicago, 30,189, down 6 percent; phoenix, ariz., 27,216, down 37 percent; san diego, calif., 27,011, down 34 percent; minneapolis-st. paul, 26,219, down 5 percent; detroit, 26,009, up 1 percent; and philadelphia, 25,366, up 1 percent
the stock market bogged down today, struggling to extend tuesday's rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 24.70 on tuesday, slipped back 4.31 to 2,076.76 by 2 p.m. today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 880 up, 587 down and 456 unchanged
confidence has continued to spread lately on wall street that the economy remains healthy nearly five months after black monday on oct. 19
in addition, stock prices have been less volatile lately than they were as recently as early january, suggesting that investors' mood is less subject to sudden change
analysts say investing institutions have grown more eager to put some of their cash reserves into stocks, in order to show in their first-quarter reports to clients that they participated in the recent market rally
still, many observers wonder how much stock might be for sale at higher prices by investors sitting with paper losses and waiting for an opportune time to get out of the market
japanese stocks were mostly higher following an up day in the tokyo market. matsushita electrical climbed 5{ to 201 and honda motor gained 2| to 129|
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .10 to 151.72. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 2.98 at 299.02
volume on the big board came to 155.61 million shares with two hours to go
the stock market bounced around in a narrow range today, struggling to extend tuesday's rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 24.70 on tuesday, slipped back 1.16 to 2,079.91 by 3 p.m. today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 895 up, 601 down and 452 unchanged
confidence has continued to spread lately on wall street that the economy remains healthy nearly five months after black monday on oct. 19
in addition, stock prices have been less volatile lately than they were as recently as early january, suggesting that investors' mood is less subject to sudden change
analysts say investing institutions have grown more eager to put some of their cash reserves into stocks, in order to show in their first-quarter reports to clients that they participated in the recent market rally
still, many observers wonder how much stock might be for sale at higher prices by investors sitting with paper losses and waiting for an opportune time to get out of the market
japanese stocks were mostly higher following an up day in the tokyo market. matsushita electrical climbed 5 to 200} and honda motor gained 2| to 129|
charles schwab corp., a discount brokerage firm that recently announced an increase in commission rates, rose | to 9|. schwab stock traded as high as 17 after the company went public last september, and as low as 5} in the wake of the crash
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .26 to 151.88. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 3.36 at 299.40
volume on the big board came to 177.23 million shares with an hour to go
unisys corp., striving to show its commitment to standards in the computer industry, announced technology agreements wednesday with american telephone &amp; telegraph co. and sun microsystems inc
unisys said the agreements would bolster its use of unix, a computer operating system or ``traffic cop'' that was developed by at&amp;t and is gaining popularity among commercial computer users
in addition to working with at&amp;t to enhance unix, unisys said it was licensing a computer chip design from sun microsystems, known as sparc, that would be used in future unisys computers running unix
unisys, the world's third-largest computer company, said its strong support for unix set it apart from its two larger rivals, international business machines corp. and digital equipment corp
the company said its business based on unix doubled last year and amounts to more than $500 million a year
there's no doubt by now that unix is going to be a very sizable portion of the information systems industry,'' jan lindelow, unisys senior vice president for corporate marketing and services, said in an interview
soybean futures prices fell sharply in light trading wednesday on the chicago board of trade. grain futures also ended lower
the soybean selloff was led by speculators and commission houses in reaction to lower cash prices for soybean meal and soybean oil, analysts said
the losses were exaggerated by the thin trade, said dale gustafson, an analyst for drexel burnham lambert inc
it wasn't a very heavy trading day in terms of volume,'' he said
weaker cash prices also weighed on the corn market while wheat futures declined on profit-taking from the day's highs
gustafson also noted some speculative position-taking in advance of the agriculture department's monthly grain supply-and-demand report, which was scheduled for release after the close
at the close, wheat was 2 cents to 3} cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $2.92 a bushel; corn was \ cent to 3 cents lower with march at $1.98{ a bushel; oats were 4{ cents to 8 cents lower with march at $1.84 a bushel; soybeans were 7\ cents to 10 cents lower with march at $6.08{ a bushel
the stock market churned in a narrow range today, struggling to extend tuesday's rally
confidence has continued to spread lately on wall street that the economy remains healthy nearly five months after black monday on oct. 19
in addition, stock prices have been less volatile lately than they were as recently as early january, suggesting that investors' mood is less subject to sudden change
analysts say investing institutions have grown more eager to put some of their cash reserves into stocks, in order to show in their first-quarter reports to clients that they participated in the recent market rally
still, many observers wonder how much stock might be for sale at higher prices by investors sitting with paper losses and waiting for an opportune time to get out of the market
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 6.80 to 2,074.27
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 4 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 871 up, 636 down and 459 unchanged
big board volume totaled 210.90 million shares, against 237.68 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index lost .14 to 151.48
stora ab, a forestry products company, offered wednesday to pay the equivalent of $990 million for swedish match ab, the world's leading manufacturer of lighters and wooden matches
the offer of 5.94 billion kronor was the biggest cash takeover bid ever in sweden, but was widely criticized as being far below the value of swedish match, which also has major interests in home interior and consumer products
both companies are dominated by investment companies controlled by the wealthy industrialist wallenberg family. one group controls 85 percent of swedish match, and the other holds a major voting holding in stora, which has peter wallenberg, the family patriarch, as its board chairman
a merger would create one of sweden's largest companies, with annual sales of 36 billion kronor, or about $6 billion, and more than 55,000 employees
analysts said stora wants to diversify its paper, pulp and power operations and improve its access to the european economic community
brian knox, a scandinavian specialist at kleinwort grievson, a london brokerage, said the bid was far below the range of what swedish match is worth
if match were a london company, it would be putting up a vigorous defense,'' he said. ``but because of the huge (wallenberg) position, there will be a tendency for people to just shut their eyes and enjoy it.''
peter wallenberg conceded after a news conference that the price was disputed at meetings of the two companies' boards, but he said it reflected a fair value for swedish match
both companies released 1987 financial results wednesday showing strong gains in profit. stora said its pre-tax profit climbed 39 percent to 2.57 billion kronor from 1.85 billion kronor the preceding year. swedish match had a 26 percent rise in profit to 628 million kronor from 500 million
swedish match was taken over by the wallenberg family, along with several other companies, after financier ivar kreuger's empire collapsed and he committed suicide in paris in 1932. swedish match had created a virtual monopoly in the market for wooden matches and now also dominates in lighters
it later expanded into consumer products and housing products. its tarkett group is the world's second largest producer of flooring material
analysts noted that sweden's two other major forestry product companies recently diversified their operations through acquisitions. svenska cellulosa ab bought the french diaper company peaudouce, and mo-och domsjoe ab acquired holmens bruk ab, a swedish newsprint producer
hans larsson, chief executive of swedish match, said adding the financial strength of stora would help in future acquisitions
we will now have a very rich parent company,'' he said. ``we'll be on the offensive now, as we have been.''
among swedish match's latest major recent acquisitions are the $230 million purchase of wilkinson sword, a major british producer of matches, shaving products and household goods, and the $190 million purchase of the west german flooring group pegulan
those acquisitions are part of what makes the company attractive, because of the access they offer to the european economic community, peter wallenberg said
stora, like other swedish, norwegian and finnish groups, is eager to expand into the member countries of the trade bloc to avoid being shut out in 1992 when a single internal market is scheduled to be created. none of the three belongs to the group
chrysler corp. and the united auto workers union could be meeting over a bargaining table as soon as next month if 140 local union leaders meeting here thursday agree to a request for early contract talks
local union leaders said wednesday they favor early talks and uaw vice president marc stepp has said ``the earlier the better,'' but one issue must be settled first: will chrysler also agree to an early strike deadline?
our preference would be to actually start the clock ... a real strike deadline as opposed to an artificial bargaining deadline,'' uaw spokesman peter laarman said
chrysler's three-year national contract, which governs wages and benefits for 71,700 workers, expires sept. 14. talks normally would begin in july, but chrysler asked for early talks last week
chrysler made the request after it succumbed to uaw pressure and decided against selling its 28,000-worker acustar inc. parts subsidiary. as an alternative, the company said it would close four acustar plants if it could not sell them in the next 18 months
angry workers had threatened a series of plant-by-plant strikes over local issues and had stopped cooperating in union-management programs essential to improving quality and production efficiency
the no. 3 automaker doesn't appear willing to let the union set a deadline before sept. 14, after which workers could legally strike the company if no settlement were reached, laarman said
chrysler's chief negotiator and vice president for human resources, anthony st. john, told the detroit news on tuesday that the company doesn't want an early strike deadline, but the company would not comment wednesday
st. john and stepp both were in milwaukee on wednesday for negotiations on a plant closing agreement for 5,500 workers at the former american motors corp. assembly and stamping plants in kenosha, wis
stepp has said he would recommend early talks when he meets thursday with the uaw's national chrysler bargaining council, which represents workers at 49 local unions. the council will make its decision thursday afternoon
local union leaders said they would support early talks because it would increase chances of protecting jobs and of ironing out mounting difficulties in plant-level labor relations
i'm positive our membership would be 100 percent in favor of that. as long as we're talking about jobs they would be more than willing,'' said fred o'brien, an official with local 1264 at chrysler's key sterling heights stamping plant
if talks begin early on the national contract, local unions would follow suit on plant-level contracts, which govern working conditions and other issues specific to them, laarman said
chrysler is expected to agree to the job-protecting pattern contract established last fall at ford motor co. and general motors corp
chrysler's contract lacks protections included in the gm and ford pacts and workers said they want to sign a similar contract as soon as possible
the gm and ford contracts forbid layoffs except when production is cut because of slow sales, make it harder for the companies to move production outside the company or country and forbid plant closings that were not announced before talks started
o'brien said going to the table early would limit the time chrysler has to announce further plant closings and make it easier for the union to battle the possible closings of the four acustar plants
in addition, chrysler already buys the largest percentage of outside parts of any big three maker _ 70 percent compared with 30 percent at gm and about 50 percent at ford
o'brien said workers are anxious to sign a contract that keeps chrysler from moving more parts work to outside non-union ``scab shops'' or ``we'll all be on welfare.''
chrysler also has no profit-sharing program. stepp said last week that he would particularly like to see the ford profit-sharing formula included in the chrysler contract
ford workers tuesday received profit-sharing checks averaging more than $3,700 from ford's industry-record 1987 profits of $4.6 billion
grumman corp., wounded by defense cutbacks and the failure to win a major aircraft contract, announced wednesday it would lay off 700 employees and eliminate 1,900 more jobs this year
the reductions amount to 7.7 percent of grumman's 33,700 employees. of the 700 employees who will be laid off, 600 work on long island. the others work at grumman facilities in milledgeville, ga., and stuart and melbourne, fla
the other job reductions will be made by attrition, coupled with a cut in the number of part-time and temporary workers. officials said 1,700 of those 1,900 jobs are located on long island
grumman president john o'brien, in a letter to employees published wednesday, said recent reverses forced the reductions
he cited production delays caused by cuts in the defense budget, and questions about the status of the a-6 plane. congress must reconcile the budget, which calls for production of 12 advanced a-6fs, and a budget authorization, which calls for production of 11 of the old a-6e planes
he also noted that grumman had lost a competition for a contract to build the navy's advanced tactical aircraft. the contract, valued at more than $4 billion, was won by mcdonnell douglas corp. of st. louis
o'brien noted that other grumman planes, like the f-14d, e-2c and ea-6b, will remain in production, and ``we are continuing to invest millions of dollars in the development of technologies for future aircraft.''
the airplane business is the backbone of our company, and we're in it to stay,'' o'brien insisted
most of the layoffs will occur by the middle of april, with the remainder spread over the remaining months of this year, the company said
the stock market's recent rally bogged down wednesday as blue chips gave up some of their gains from the day before
smaller issues, however, showed more of the strength they have been displaying since late last year
the dow jones average of 30 big-name industrials, up 24.70 points on tuesday, dropped back 6.80 to 2,074.27
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 4 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 872 up, 654 down and 460 unchanged
big board volume totaled 210.90 million shares, against 237.68 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index lost .14 to 151.48
confidence has continued to spread lately on wall street that the economy remains healthy nearly five months after black monday on oct. 19
in addition, stock prices have been less volatile lately than they were as recently as early january, suggesting that investors' mood is less subject to sudden change
analysts say investing institutions have grown more eager to put some of their cash reserves into stocks, in order to show in their first-quarter reports to clients that they participated in the recent market rally
still, many observers wonder how much stock might be for sale at higher prices by investors sitting with paper losses and waiting for an opportune time to get out of the market
japanese stocks were mostly higher following a gain in the tokyo market. matsushita electrical, up 5 at 200}; honda motor, up 2} at 129}; pioneer electronics, up 1 at 52{, and sony, up ] at 41], all hit record highs
facet enterprises jumped 3] to 27. prospect group said it planned a $26-a-share tender offer for all of the company's stock
johnson &amp; johnson added 1} to 85\. analysts said buying was prompted by renewed enthusiasm over sales prospects for a j&amp;j skin treatment product that has received considerable publicity of late
losers among the blue chips included international business machines, down 1 at 116|; mcdonald's, down ] at 46}; exxon, down | at 41~; ford motor, down | at 45[, and eastman kodak, down } at 42~
charles schwab corp., a discount brokerage firm that recently announced an increase in commission rates, rose { to 9{. schwab stock traded as high as 17 after the company went public last september, and as low as 5} in the wake of the crash
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $0.69 billion, or 0.03 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 240.13 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose .04 to 312.46, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down .37 at 269.06
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 3.35 to 380.28. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 299.58, up 3.54
texaco inc. has asked a federal bankruptcy judge to authorize a credit agreement allowing the company to borrow up to $3 billion to finance its reorganization plan
the $3 billion is a vital part of the giant oil company's effort to extricate itself from chapter 11 bankruptcy and would be one of the largest amounts ever made to a company emerging from that process
texaco sought protection from creditors under chapter 11 last year to avoid liens stemming from a $10.3 billion award granted rival pennzoil after a texas jury found texaco had illegally derailed pennzoil's takeover of getty oil co
after months of failed appeals and negotiations, a reorganization plan was reached with texaco under which pennzoil would get a cash settlement of $3 billion
in a financial disclosure statement filed earlier this year, texaco told u.s. bankruptcy judge howard schwartzberg it would need $5.6 billion to fund the reorganization plan, of which $2.4 billion would be cash on hand and $3.2 billion would be borrowed
according to papers filed in bankruptcy court tuesday, 20 to 30 banks were involved in the negotiations for the loans
the loans would be made to texaco, texaco refining and marketing inc. and texaco overseas holding inc. and would be secured by collateral
the papers said that the collateral could include the stock of texas caltex petroleum, texaco canada, deutsche texaco ag, reserves of oil and gas or other assets
the debt would be repaid within three years, with an initial $1.5 billion payment occuring within 12 months, $500 million payment on the second anniversary and the rest paid the following year
if approved, the plan would become effect april 14
the rate of interest would decline as texaco's credit rating improved, the papers said
a hearing on the matter was set for march 22
the u.s. dollar was mostly higher against major currencies on a technical rebound wednesday, as world markets remained transfixed by the surging british pound, analysts said
gold prices were also higher. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price of $436.15 for a troy ounce of gold as of 4 p.m. est, up from $435.70 late tuesday
john mccarthy, a currency trader at irving trust, said the dollar moved lower all day, but bounced back at the end of the session as traders covered short positions
in a short sale, traders sell borrowed dollars in expectation of ``covering'' the transaction by replacing the dollars with others bought at cheaper rates
since last friday, the dollar has lost 7{ cents against the british pound, as sterling surged amid higher british interest rates and a strengthening economy
adding strength to the pound tuesday was a remark by prime minister margaret thatcher ruling out an early cut in interest rates
dan holland, an analyst at discount corp., said sterling's rise ``threw a bit of confusion into the market,'' because it led traders to wonder if britain were going to stop helping the other major industrial nations maintain currency stability
but he said those fears eased wednesday after a remark by u.s. treasury secretary james baker that the reagan administration believed london remained ``fully committed'' to upholding that dec. 22 agreement among the industrialized nations
in london, the british pound closed at $1.8460, more expensive for buyers than tuesday's late $1.8415. in new york, it cost $1.8476 to buy one pound, more expensive than the $1.8426 of tuesday
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 128.08 japanese yen, up from 127.80. later, in london, it was quoted at a lower rate of 128.00 yen. later in new york, the dollar stood at 127.95 yen, up from 127.93 tuesday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late tuesday, were: 1.6690 west german marks, up from 1.6674; 1.3791 swiss francs, up from 1.3770; 5.6530 french francs, up from 5.6482; 1,232.50 italian lire, up from 1,231.00; 1.2537 canadian dollars, down from 1.2538
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late tuesday, were: 1.6685 west german marks, up from 1.6668; 1.3785 swiss francs, down from 1.3790; 5.6485 french francs, down from 5.6625; 1.8750 dutch guilders, down from 1.8780; 1.231.50 italian lire, down from 1,234.00; 1.2532 canadian dollars, up from 1.2524
on the new york commodity exchange, gold closed at $436.20 a troy ounce, up 90 cents from late tuesday's $435.30
earlier in london, it fell to a late bid price of $436.50 a troy ounce, down from tuesday's late $438.10. in zurich, the late bid price was $437.00, up from $436.50. in hong kong, gold closed at a bid $438.01, up from $438.00
silver bullion traded late in london at a bid $6.31 dollars a troy ounce, down from $6.36. on the new york comex, silver stood at $6.298 a troy ounce, down from $6.36 tuesday
copper futures prices settled at the highest levels in three weeks wednesday on indications of tightening supplies and rising demand
on other markets, precious metals were mixed; grain and soybean futures sank; cattle futures were mixed while pork futures retreated; energy futures were mixed; and stock-index futures advanced
prices for future delivery of copper rose for the sixth time in the last seven sessions on the commodity exchange in new york on renewed concern over supplies and a better-than-expected economic outlook, analysts said
copper inventory levels tracked by the comex and the london metal exchange have fallen in recent weeks, reinforcing ideas that the fundamental factors that caused copper prices to more than double last year have returned to the market, said bette raptopoulos, an analyst in new york for prudential-bache securities inc
the comex said wednesday that its copper inventories had declined by 927 tons to 13,715 tons, the third substantial decline this week
for a long while (last year ) there was tightness in supplies,'' said ms. raptopoulos. ``in the early part of this year, the tightness seemed to recede. now the market's getting back to the reality of a tight-supply situation.''
copper settled 3.90 cents to 6.25 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $1.035 a pound
gold advanced slightly while silver retreated a bit in quiet trading on the comex
gold settled 90 cents to $1.70 higher with april at $437.50 a troy ounce; silver was 1.2 cents to 5.1 cents lower with march at $6.298 a troy ounce
soybean futures prices fell sharply in light trading on the chicago board of trade. grain futures also ended lower
the soybean selloff was led by speculators and commission houses in reaction to lower cash prices for soybean meal and soybean oil, analysts said
the losses were exaggerated by the thin trade, said dale gustafson, an analyst for drexel burnham lambert inc
weaker cash prices also weighed on the corn market while wheat futures declined on profit-taking from the day's highs
gustafson also noted some position-evening in advance of the agriculture department's monthly grain supply-and-demand report, which was issued after the close
the report estimated u.s. wheat stocks on may 31, the end of the current wheat marketing year, would total about 1.28 billion bushels. the estimate was unchanged from figures issued a month ago
the usda estimated ending corn stocks as of sept. 30 at 4.12 billion bushels, also unchanged from the previous estimate
but the agency revised upward its estimate for ending soybean stocks as of sept. 30, to 315 million bushels from 305 million
the report was expected to have little impact on futures prices, analysts said
wheat settled 2 cents to 5 cents lower with march at $2.94} a bushel; corn was { cent to 2} cents lower with march at $1.98} a bushel; oats were 5 cents to 7} cents lower with march at $1.84\ a bushel; soybeans were 10{ cents to 12 cents lower with march at $6.06\ a bushel
frozen pork belly futures plummeted on the chicago mercantile exchange in reaction to a tuesday report showing 4.2 million pounds of bellies stored last week in the exchange's warehouses outside chicago
the number, about double what the market had expected, came at a time of seasonal increases in hog slaughters, said chuck levitt, an analyst for shearson lehman hutton inc
hog futures retreated on increased slaughters while the cattle complex finished mixed on profit-taking after two days of solid gains, he said
live cattle settled .37 cent lower to .10 cent higher with april at 72.92 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent lower to .27 cent higher with march at 81.27 cents a pound; hogs were .12 cent to .82 cents lower with april at 43.60 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .35 cent to 1.80 cents lower with march at 52.20 cents a pound
crude oil prices edged upward listlessly on the new york mercantile exchange while the refined products ended mixed, with few developments to influence trading
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 4 cents to 10 cents higher with april at $15.49 a barrel; heating oil was .19 cent to .46 cent lower with april at 43.03 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .17 cent to .29 cent higher with april at 44 cents a gallon
stock-index futures advanced slightly on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled .55 point higher at 269.65. the underlying spot index closed .37 point lower at 269.06. the responses; picks up 4th graf: webber studied...</note>
women business students are more eager for leadership positions than they were in the 1970s and men are more likely to accept the change, a wharton school study concludes
the improvement in relations between the sexes is dramatic,'' ross a. webber, management professor at the elite pennsylvania business school, wrote for the latest issue of human resources management journal of the university of michigan business school
he acknowledged, however, that the improvement apparent from responses about the roles of women in mixed-gender study groups may be slightly suspect because of 1980s expectations about men's attitudes toward women
webber studied behavior of men and women business graduate students at the wharton and columbia schools in group projects from 1969-75 and at wharton from 1980-84
women are much more likely to exercise leadership whether in the majority or the minority; conflict levels have sharply declined on predominantly female teams; and males appear to be much less threatened when working with women,'' webber wrote
clearly significant social change has occurred during the 10 years separating the two investigations.''
the study examined four-person study groups formed from 420 students in the 1969-75 period and 268 in the later period. course instructors gave neither leader designations nor instructions on how to organize to perform assigned tasks
of the 688 students overall, 120 were in groups of four males, 392 in groups of three males and one female, 164 in groups of three females and one male and 12 in groups of four females
in the male-majority groups, 51 percent of the men claimed to be leaders, compared with 13 percent of the women, in the earlier sample. by the 1980s, the disparity disappeared, with 57 percent of the men and 61 percent of the women claiming to be group leaders
group members' ideas toward others also changed, with the percentage of men being called leaders falling from 48 to 36, and the percentage of women considered group leaders rising from 7 to 56
the results suggest that when working with women, men feel less compelled to play the macho, dominating role,'' webber said
among women in female-majority groups, claims of being the leader rose from 35 percent to 61 percent over the decade. in the 1970s, all 21 men in those female-dominated groups considered himself the group's leader, but in the 1980s, 70 percent claimed that status
leadership status in those groups was attributed to the sole male member 83 percent of the time in the 1970s, falling to 60 percent in the 1980s. as women's views of themselves as leaders rose to 61 percent in the 1980s, the perceptions by all group members of other women as leaders fell from 53 percent to 35 percent
women appear to be much more willing to compete for leadership, even as a lone female on a predominantly male team,'' webber wrote
webber cautioned that expected attitudes may have influenced some men's responses in his most recent sample
even among our younger male graduate students, with their appearance of greater comfort with mixed sex teams, one can ask whether actual behavior has changed as much as claims and attributions,'' webber said
for example, today it may not be as permissible for a male to be critical of female behavior as in the past, so the 1980s questionnaire responses could be a bit suspect.''
a group of non-opec oil producers met in london wednesday to debate moves to halt plunging prices, while members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries considered similar talks
results of the london session weren't disclosed, but oil prices edged upward in response to hopes that producing nations inside and outside of the cartel would move quickly to stem the recent erosion of the market
the meeting of non-opec officials was called by egypt and was held at the mexican embassy in london, even though britain, which rejects group pricing policies for its north sea oil, wasn't invited
another european producer, norway, declined to attend
apart from egypt, the other invited participants were the soviet union, china, angola, malaysia, brunei, oman, mexico and colombia
the meeting is at expert level with no ministers involved,'' said a mexican official, who declined to be identified. ``they just want to talk about the situation in the market, although obviously they are not in any position to take a decision.''
oil prices have declined by an average of about 20 percent over the past few weeks amid reports of production excesses and price discounting by opec members
on tuesday, egyptian oil minister abdel-hady kandil said the london meeting was not aimed against the 13-nation cartel, ``but is an attempt by non-opec producers to help save the world oil market from further deterioration.''
there also was continued speculation that opec would convene its own emergency meeting. venezuela initiated calls for such a conference, which were supported by saudia arabia and indonesia, among others. but sources said the saudis preferred to hold preliminary, informal talks to set an agenda for a meeting
nigeria, whose oil minister rilwanu lukman is president of opec, has yet to respond to the proposal. sources said it was unlikely a date would be set before nigeria replied
the pricing committee is empowered by opec to hold an emergency meeting of all 13 members of the cartel when prices drop dramatically below the official price of $18 per barrel
the price slide was interrupted when reports of official concern surfaced tuesday. on the new york mercantile exchange wednesday, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the u.s. benchmark crude oil, settled at $15.49 per 42-gallon barrel, up 4 cents from the tuesday close. the contract had gained 8 cents monday
northwest airlines said wednesday it would impose a contract on the carrier's 6,700 flight attendants april 1, despite a stalemate over wage demands that nearly triggered a strike last month
northwest said a provision of the railway labor act allowed it to implement contract changes unilaterally following a 30-day cooling-off period that ended feb. 26
flight attendants have voted to strike since then, but have continued to work while pursuing negotiations with the airline through their teamsters union local
union spokesman jeffrey musto said he had no immediate comment on the airline's latest move because teamsters lawyers were still studying it
terry erskine, the airline's vice president of law and labor relations, said the contract did not include a union proposal to limit the number of years needed to elevate attendants to higher salary levels
the main obstacle to reaching an agreement between the airline and the teamsters union local representing the attendants has been a demand by the union to raise lower-paid b-scale attendants to a-scale wages
northwest has proposed extending the b-scale from five years to eight years, meaning lower-wage flight attendants would have to wait an additional three years before earning top-scale wages
but b-scale flight attendants say the airline is trying to break a promise that they would earn a-scale wages after five years
the union also has objected to two-tier wage agreements, saying they pit junior workers against senior workers
the issue has intensified since northwest acquired republic airlines in 1986. roughly one-third of the 2,600 republic attendants work for b-scale wages and the other two-thirds have said they wouldn't get enough out of northwest's latest wage offer
erskine told a news conference wednesday that there are some changes in the contract that will be imposed april 1, but they are minor
under the contract proposal that will be implemented, the entry-level wage will go from more than $13,000 a year to $15,000 a year and the top base wage will go from the current $32,000 up to $35,000 a year, erskine said
erskine said the airline has not talked with the union about its plan to impose the contract
federal regulators declined wednesday to renew their previous pledge not to take regulatory action against the thrift unit of troubled financial corp. of america
the move came as the federal home loan bank board, which oversees the thrift industry, sought to reassure nervous wall street firms who have lent more than $12 billion to american savings &amp; loan association of stockton, calif., irvine-based fca's thrift unit
the bank board declined to issue a new letter pledging not to take regulatory action against fca. regulators have issued such ``comfort letters'' to fca since late 1984, when the company was swamped by heavy losses and fell below regulatory capital requirements
at the end of 1987, the company for the first time posted a negative net worth _ the difference between assets and liabilities
fca has tried unsuccessfully to work out the problems by itself but has been hindered by persistent problems with bad loans. fca added $551.2 million to its loan-loss provisions last year, bringing the total since september 1984 to $1.7 billion
the bank board has tried unsuccessfully for nearly a year to find another institution willing to take over all or part of fca on terms that wouldn't be excessively costly to the federal savings &amp; loan insurance corp., the bank board unit that insures customer deposits up to $100,000 each
because of its size, a failure by fca would cause serious problems for fslic
fca, with $33.9 billion in assets at year-end, is the nation's second-largest thrift holding company after los angeles-based h.f. ahmanson &amp; co
in its effort to reassure wall street, the bank board said in an eight-page resolution wednesday that it would use its ``best efforts'' to insure that the market for reverse repurchase agreements, or repos, isn't disrupted if american savings defaults on its obligations, or if regulators must take any action such as placing the institution under receivership
american savings has about $12.6 billion in repos outstanding
repos are financing instruments in which a lender buys a security and agrees to resell it to the original seller when it reaches maturity. repos usually mature in 30 days or less and the collateral generally is in the form of mortgage-backed securities held by the borrowing thrift
fca's current comfort letter expires march 31
asked if the bank board was considering renewing that letter or issuing a new one, spokesman karl hoyle said, ``no. we feel today's resolution deals with that question.''
some industry leaders have argued that past comfort letters had unduly restricted the bank board's options in dealing with fca's problems
while wednesday's resolution didn't say the bank board would take any action against american savings, it did say it issued the resolution because of ``the potential disruption to the markets in such repos that could arise as a result of a receivership, conservatorship or similar proceeding with respect to american.''
fca's fourth quarter loss of $224.6 million boosted its deficit for the year to $468 million for all of 1987, and gave it a negative net worth of $163.4 million at year-end
in a brief statement, fca spokeswoman layna browdy said, ``we commend the bank board and wall street for arranging this agreement (on repos). we've had a good and long-standing relationship with wall street which is being helped by this latest actoin taken by the bank board.''
fca declined to elaborate or to say comment on the board's decision not to issue a new comfort letter
mcdonnell douglas corp. executives, using a symbolic gold-plated rivet, wednesday began assembly of the first md-11, the company's entry into a fierce competition to provide a new generation of jetliners
the action soothed concerns that were expressed about whether the new airliner would ever get off the ground after the company earlier this year scaled back the number of orders it had received for the plane
during a ceremony at the company's douglas aircraft co. plant in long beach, douglas president james worsham announced that two more carriers had ordered a total of six md-11s. identity of the new carriers wasn't disclosed
the new orders brought the total to 16 customers and 99 of the jetliners, which sell for between $90 million and $100 million each. if all the planes are purchased, it would create $9.9 billion in revenue for douglas, a division of st. louis-based mcdonnell douglas
douglas spokesman don hanson said wednesday that 31 of the orders are firm, 45 are conditional or options and 23 are listed as ``reserves,'' which the company defines as falling into ``various categories of intent to acquire the airplane.''
the md-11 is a roomier, longer-range and more fuel-efficient version of its current jumbo jet, the dc-10
however, the md-11 faces a tough fight with seattle-based boeing co. and the airbus industrie, the european consortium, to provide the new generation of passenger jetliners in what is likely to be a shrinking market
analysts say there is room in that market for only two manufacturers and it is a toss-up as to which will survive
in what is generally seen as a weakness for the md-11, the maker has yet to land an order from a domestic commercial passenger airline. the only domestic order it has received is from federal express, the parcel-delivery service. characterized proposed standstill agreement, update with further american standard response, closing stock prices, edit to tighten. no pickup.</note>
black &amp; decker corp. on wednesday refused to enter talks proposed by its target american standard inc. over the toolmaker's $2.26 billion hostile buyout offer
black &amp; decker said american standard had asked it to enter into a standstill and confidentiality agreement under which it would provide black &amp; decker with non-public corporate information
such an agreement would prohibit black &amp; decker from taking additional action to pursue its hostile bid for the new york-based plumbing and air conditioning maker
nolan d. archibald, black &amp; decker chairman and chief executive, called the conditions of the proposal ``excessively restrictive and totally unacceptable.''
he said black &amp; decker would continue to ``pursue aggressively'' its $73-a-share bid
american standard rose 37{ cents to $73.37{ a share on the new york stock exchange. black &amp; decker rose 25 cents to $18 in heavy trading
american standard on tuesday announced it would continue developing a recapitalization plan aimed at thwarting black &amp; decker's hostile buyout offer, but said it expected to engage in discussions and negotiations with black &amp; decker and other potential acquirers
on wednesday, american standard denied asking for a standstill agreement, saying it only sought to uphold ``shareholder values.''
we have just requested that they not drop their tender offer and conduct a street sweep...thereby preempting higher bids for the company,'' said spokeswoman linda king. ``we were puzzled to see black &amp; decker's release. we are trying to pursue a reasonable course and are talking to black &amp; decker's legal counsel to resolve the situation.''
in a street sweep, a bidder tries to gain a controlling interest in a target company by buying huge blocks of the target company's stock rapidly in regular market transactions
in a prepared statement, black &amp; decker said it had a right to the same information on the same terms that american standard had made available to third parties supporting the recapitalization
those parties include banks who have agreed to let american standard borrow nearly $2 billion to finance its plan and emerson electric co., which has agreed to buy $160 million in american standard junk bonds
thomas t. taylor, president of towson-based chesapeake securities research corp., said american standard was trying to buy time to find a ``white knight'' friendly suitor in proposing a truce with black &amp; decker
on friday, black &amp; decker sweetened its offer for the fourth time _ to $2.33 billion _ just hours after american standard had increased its own competing offer to shareholders
american standard said monday it would pursue other ways to boost its recapitalization plan before it accepted black &amp; decker's takeover bid
analysts estimate the american standard plan, paying shareholders a combination of cash, debt, and stock in the recapitalized company, is worth slightly more than $2 billion
