the 9-year-old son of a zimbabwean diplomat who had been accused of abusing the boy has been returned to his native land, according to a published report
u.s. officials said terence karamba left new york for zimbabwe on sunday, accompanied by a zimbabwean social worker, but was not to be returned to his father's custody, the washington post reported in tuesday's editions
the boy was to be placed in foster care under the auspices of the courts and the zimbabwean ministry of social welfare, said robert j. mcmahon, director of the social services agency that had cared for the boy for the past two months
mcmahon, executive director of st. christopher-ottile services for children and families, said the karamba family would undergo counseling in hopes of eventually being reunited with terence
with any of these cases, there's always a lump at the bottom of your stomach, but i think the level of risk is as low as you can possibly get it,'' mcmahon told the newspaper
a city agency had charged that the boy's father, floyd, had beaten the boy and the child in december was removed from his home and placed in foster care
the father, who served for more than a year as a member of zimbabwe's delegation to the united nations, was ordered to leave the united states because of what state department officials called ``clear evidence of child abuse.''
in january, the supreme court refused to block the u.s. government from sending the boy home after the legal aid society's juvenile rights division had argued that the boy was afraid to go home
mcmahon said sen. daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y., interceded and persuaded the state department that the boy should not be returned immediately
we received what we asked for, which was time to work with the boy, said gary kipling, a st. christopher-ottilie official who served as terence's foster father part of the time
the state department had a psychiatric consultant accompany the boy on his trip home and also engaged a law firm in zimbabwe to monitor his case, the post reported
plo leader yasser arafat met monday with five western diplomats and delivered messages about the ``dangers'' of the u.s. plan for a middle east peace settlement, the palestinian wafa news agency reported
it said arafat met with the ambassadors of france, britain, greece, spain and turkey in tunis, the headquarters of the palestine liberation organization
wafa said arafat asked the diplomats to transmit to their nations his concern about ``the dangers to the palestinian people of the new american demarche.''
a two-day summit conference of the north atlantic treaty organization is to open wednesday in brussels, belgium, with president reagan among the leaders scheduled to attend
according to wafa, arafat's messages said the u.s. plan proposed by secretary of state george shultz on his mideast tour ``ignores the national rights of the palestinian people, notably their right to self-determination and the creation of an independent state on their own territory under the plo, the sole, legitimate representative.''
shultz has called for a palestinian role in negotiations, but not participation by the plo
james h. douglas jr., an air force secretary under president dwight d. eisenhower who presided over the planning and construction of the air force academy in colorado springs, colo., died wednesday. he was 88
douglas graduated from princeton university after serving as an army officer in world war i. he earned a law degree from harvard in 1924
douglas, an attorney and investment banker, also served for two years as deputy secretary of defense beginning in 1959. he held a high post in the treasury department under presidents herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt. douglas was appointed undersecretary of the air force in 1953 and secretary in 1957
joseph kiselewski, an internationally known sculptor, died friday at the age of 87
kiselewski work included the world war ii memorial in holland's veterans cemetery, the statue of harold vanderbilt in nashville, tenn., and four plaques for the house chamber of the capitol in washington, d.c
he received many awards for his work, including the prix de rome and the beaux arts prize and he's listed in who's who in america
beatrice major van fleet burns, the wife of former governor of hawaii john anthony burns, died sunday at age 82
burns was elected governor of hawaii in 1962. mrs. burns served as hawaii's first lady for 12 years. her husband died in april 1975
leslie h. turner, 88, the artist who wrote and illustrated the ``captain easy'' adventure comic strip for 27 years, died sunday
turner graduated with an english degree in 1922 from southern methodist university in dallas. considered one of the top magazine illustrators of the 1920s and '30s, turner was best remembered for ``captain easy,'' which at its peak appeared in more than 600 daily newspapers
the strip addressed unpleasant subjects such as alcoholism as early as 1949, and it won praise for being scientifically correct. turner wrote and illustrated ``captain easy'' until he retired in 1970. cocktail party.</note>
prince andrew and his pregnant wife, sarah, lingered over a museum incubator but declined to cuddle the kicking mechanical infant inside monday, the fourth day of a 10-day trade trip by the royal entourage
the couple awoke aboard the 416-foot royal yacht britannia beneath typically british gray skies with rain stalking their motorcade to a museum, department store and a supermarket sojourn described as a first royal visit to an american supermarket
it was retail day for the duke and duchess of york
the day began with andrew welcoming top u.s executives for an investment seminar on the royal yacht, aimed at attracting american money to britain. the couple then went ashore
the incubator was the final stop on the royal couple's walk through the los angeles county museum of science and industry, which also included a tour of an exhibit on british technology. despite repeated entreaties from a british photographer, sarah wouldn't pick up the kicking pink babe, dubbed samantha by the exhibitors
can you believe them?'' she asked her guides, laughing at the jostling crowd of newsmen kept in check by a chain barrier and u.s. state department security guards. the duchess is expecting a child in august
at the vons pavilions market, a deluxe, high-tech supermarket in suburban arcadia, the duchess tasted coffee-toffee-chip ice cream and turned up her nose at a corn dog, and both she and the prince tried their hand at cake decorating as they cruised the aisles
earlier, andrew told u.s. executives that anglo-american business bonds are as important as historical and cultural ties
britain wants american investments, the duke of york said during a brief appearance before 80 delegates attending a daylong investment seminar aboard the royal yacht britannia, which included a five-hour luncheon cruise
greetings from queen elizabeth ii were relayed by sir paul greening, chairman of the royal household
the queen says she hopes you have a worthwhile day. the queen has personally chosen what you'll have for lunch today,'' said greening, who didn't divulge the menu
the economic ties between our two nations are no less important than our cultural ones,'' andrew said
there were delegates from such companies as hewlett-packard, hughes aircraft, ford motor co., apple computers and lockheed aircraft. among them was henry termeer of boston-based genzyme, a biotechnology firm
it's definitely a public relations ploy to create good will. i think it's an excellent idea. every european country does this sort of thing, but not every country has a royal family with a ship like this,'' said termeer
the day's events also included a visit to bullocks wilshire department store, which was touting british goods
celebrities michael york, morgan fairchild and roddy mcdowell and hundreds of store employees were among those who greeted the royal couple's arrival at the posh art deco landmark
at one point during the tour, the duchess scanned the first floor vestibule and was asked by a guest if she was looking for her husband, who had gone ahead. ``no, i see him every day,'' sarah replied
monday evening, the royal couple took a moonlit stroll through the lush wetherly gardens at the four seasons hotel in los angeles
the cocktail party was tossed by british consul general donald ballentyne, and guests who noshed on hors d'oeuvres and sipped champagne included ``dynasty'' actress emma samms and actor vincent price
when cara dunne listened to broadcasters narrate the olympic skiing events, she recalled the thrill of winning her own medals last month at international games for the disabled
the 17-year-old chicagoan was blinded by cancer as a baby. after years of training, she won two silver medals in the 1988 winter olympic games for the disabled in innsbruck, austria
miss dunne, a senior at william howard taft high school on the northwest side, said she feels every bit an olympian
in the opening ceremonies, when you march in with your teammates, you feel so proud because you are representing your country,'' she said
miss dunne said the olympic coverage from calgary reminded her of her own triumphs and defeats
when people are falling, you can relate to them,'' said miss dunne. she said she lost the gold in austria because she slipped in the second run of the giant slalom
basically you work all your life for the goals you set. when you are competing you feel an enormous amount of pressure,'' she said
but when the race is over you feel this great spirit. i think that is what the olympics _ whether able-bodied or disabled _ is all about.''
miss dunne's parents started teaching her to ski when she was 7
when we got into skiing ... i looked at it as a chance for cara to prove to her friends and her schoolmates that she is just as capable as they are,'' said her stepfather, richard zabelski
zabelski, a lawyer, has been her guide, skiing in front of miss dunne, yelling directions
initially i was trying to get the attention of a new step-child,'' he said. ``now we are strictly training for success.''
prior to the latest competition, miss dunne and zabelski trained full time for about six weeks. he pays for most of the training because disabled athletes are not sponsored by the government and landing corporate sponsors is tough
miss dunne, the youngest member of the disabled olympic ski team, said she has won nine medals in international competition
she said she received an acceptance letter from harvard university last week, ``so i don't know how much time i'll have for training.''
but she is already looking forward to the 1992 games, when the disabled and able-bodied winter olympics will be held simultaneously in albertville, france
a roman catholic high school wrestling team is traveling to the soviet union this week to compete against soviet athletes in what school officials have dubbed an ``experiment in glasnost.''
the sacred heart high school team is apparently the first roman catholic group officially welcomed to the soviet union to compete, said the rev. philip j. cascia, the school's chaplain and wrestling coach
the soviets are very conscious of their image,'' he said. ``this could be a very positive statement from them that they are willing to take steps toward more openness.''
one team member is gary shvartsbeyn, a 16-year-old soviet jew who immigrated to the united states in 1980. shvartsbeyn says the trip will be a chance for him to avoid the severe travel restrictions he faced when he lived in the soviet union
i'd just like to see something in russia i never saw before,'' said shvartsbeyn, a native of the village of donetzk in the ukraine
the 30 wrestlers are set to leave wednesday. the team, which had a disappointing 2-22 record this season, has scheduled three matches with soviet wrestling clubs _ one at the olympic village in moscow and two at the sports complex in leningrad
also making the trip are 20 honor students from sacred heart along with 37 coaches, teachers and parents who will act as chaperones
cascia said he wants to make sure the energetic teen-agers are on their best behavior, because they will be acting as goodwill ambassadors not only for the united states but for the roman catholic church as well
cascia hatched the idea for the trip seven months ago. formal approval came from the soviet government the day that mikhail s. gorbachev headed home after his summit meeting with president reagan in december
cascia thinks the timing was evidence that the school's trip is another ``experiment in glasnost,'' the soviet leader's much-touted policy of openness
the fact that they've given us the olympic village, which is their showpiece ... indicated right away they are going to give us a lot of attention,'' he said
the students are paying just $200 apiece, with the rest being financed by a $25,000 grant from the u.s. government, $5,000 from the waterbury tourism council, and the sale of t-shirts bearing the message in english and russian that ``glasnost is real.''
the soviet government is donating $5,000 in services, the school said
the cia and the agriculture department have teamed up to report that the cabbage is king in the soviet union, while americans bow to the tomato
the study of food supplies in the united states and the soviet union says that radish and carrot tops are common fare among soviet consumers but are rarely found on american grocery lists. but then, the united states has the sweet potato while the soviet union doesn't
on the other hand, the overall nutrient levels in the two nations are not too far apart. on the average, the soviet union supplies about 3,200 calories per day to each citizen, compared with 3,500 for the average american
protein availability, at an average of 100 grams per day, is a tossup. but americans have more fat and cholesterol in their food supply, while soviet people get more carbohydrates
the study was conducted jointly by the cia and the agriculture department's human nutrition information service. the report by cia and hnis analysts was published in the latest national food review, a quarterly magazine of the department's economic research service
a 16-year period, 1965 to 1981, was used in the study. information about soviet per capita food use was supplied by the cia's office of soviet analysis from ``various published and unpublished sources,'' the report said. the usda agency drew on extensive food statistics kept on americans
the report cautioned that the food use statistics for both countries were derived mathematically from production, exports, imports, year-end inventories and other annual figures
but within those limitations, analysts said the study ``reveals some interesting differences and similarities'' between the united states and the soviet union
for instance, sources of food energy differed,'' the report said. ``carbohydrate provided most of the energy in the soviet food supply, while carbohydrate and fat provided almost equal proportions in the u.s. supply. protein provided the same proportion in both countries.''
among the soviet vegetables, cabbage ranked number one,'' the report said. ``soviet use reached 66 pounds per capita in 1981, compared with 55 pounds 16 years earlier. u.s. use stayed at about 10 or 12 pounds.''
cabbages accounted for 34 percent of all vegetables used in the soviet union in 1981, while providing only 6 percent of the u.s. vegetable menu
tomatoes led the u.s. list, accounting for 24 percent of all vegetables, while ranking second in the soviet union at 28 percent. carrots and beets were next among soviet vegetables, while lettuce was second in the united states, followed by cucumbers
the per capita use of foods in nine major categories increased between 1965 and 1981 in the soviet union. those included poultry, eggs, fruit, fish, vegetable fats, dairy products, vegetables, sugars and sweeteners, and meat
at the same time, the united states gained in the use of meat, poultry, vegetable fats, and sugars and sweeteners, the report said. potato and grain use declined in the soviet union, while the use of animal fats, eggs, dairy products and potatoes dropped in the united states
one of the reasons behind huge soviet grain imports of recent years is a drive by moscow to increase the production of livestock and poultry to help upgrade the diets of soviet consumers. the report shows how the situation has changed
in 1965, the soviet union's per capita use of dairy products was 244 pounds, compared with 453 pounds in the united states. by 1981, soviet use rose to 347 pounds, while the u.s. average dropped to 405 pounds
meat use by the soviets in 1965 was 78 pounds per capita against the u.s. average of 146 pounds. in 1981, the averages, respectively, were 98 and 154 pounds
the soviet per capita use of potatoes in 1965 was reported at 313 pounds, compared with 86 pounds in the united states. in 1981, potato use had dropped to 232 and 78 pounds, respectively
although soviet use of grain products declined from 343 pounds per capita in 1965 to 304 pounds in 1981, it was still approximately twice as much as in the united states (145 pounds in 1965 and 151 pounds in 1981),'' the report said
wheat accounted for the largest share in both countries, but rye, rice, barley, corn, buckwheat and oats were also used.''
grain products in the soviet union were primarily in the form of whole grains and groats, or coarsely ground, hulled grain, the report said. white flour was the major grain product used in the united states
it may be the most implausible gambit of the year, or the most naive, or just the dumbest _ but there isn't any doubt that paul simon's decision to skip the south on super tuesday turns 1988 political theology on its head
we urged him to take a midwestern industrial strategy,'' said illinois democratic chairman vince demuzio, perhaps with a straight face
the accepted dogma is that no democrat in this lifetime will grace the white house without winning a fair share of states in the south
it's simple arithmetic. the republicans have had a lock on the west; they've done whatever it takes to win california and they've added support from the farm belt and the upper reaches of new england
democrats _ who won ``hubert humphreyland'' in 1984, but little else _ generally can rely on some industrial states, the islands of hawaii and the four corners of the district of columbia
of course that doesn't add up to a democratic victory in the electoral college and during a 20-year stretch, the republicans have lost the white house just once, to georgia's jimmy carter
and so party leaders agree the democrats must work the south; the need for a southern strategy was an underlying rationale for creating next week's super tuesday primaries and is one explanation for the tremendous effort being poured into the region this week by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, jesse jackson, rep. richard gephardt of missouri and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee
but not paul simon
simon is the senator from illinois whose campaign is floundering, to be polite. after a second-place finish in iowa, third-place finishes in new hampshire and minnesota and a complete collapse in south dakota, he is out of money and out of the running
the book of campaign etiquette says this is where simon thanks his staff, thanks his supporters and gets out of the race _ perhaps throwing his endorsement to a candidate who shares his values. maybe dukakis, or maybe a dramatic, home-state boost for jackson
yes, that's the way it's generally done
simon embraced the etiquette just after new hampshire
if i don't win either minnesota or south dakota, i'm going to drop out of the race,'' he said. ``i don't want to just continue indefinitely running second or third.''
he expressed high hopes for victory, declaring, ``the place where my natural roots are is right here in hubert humphreyland.''
the logic was unassailable but his resolve didn't last
before 24 hours, simon was hedging ``because of the reaction we've been getting from around the country.'' (whose reaction was he talking about? certainly not the reaction of the voters in hubert humphreyland; he finished just behind uncommitted, just behind jackson and way behind dukakis
and so simon announced that he's going to skip the south and pick up in illinois on march 15, in michigan on march 26, and so on. he says the southern vote will be ``scattered'' and that, ``we're not going to have a first-ballot nominee. we're going to have a very open convention.''
fair enough. but will the convention turn to paul simon?
the dogma of 1988 says the last thing the democrats will do is nominate a candidate who bypassed the south. he could put minnie pearl on his ticket and it wouldn't keep the republicans from rubbing their hands together in excitement
not that simon is talking about a southerner for his ticket. no, he's got a ``midwestern industrial strategy.'' in michigan the other day he said he'd want to consider lee iacocca as a running mate
it's possible that simon, blinded by presidential ambition, simply does not see this strategy as futile. but simon didn't enter the race until failing to draft sen. dale bumpers of arkansas, so blind ambition doesn't ring true. and naive, or stupid, he is not
instead, this skip-the-south gambit is probably a reluctant deference to local pols who want to ride his home-state coattails into atlanta
there are people in illinois who want to go to the convention and who are simon delegates,'' simon said last week
that's all well and good for them, but simon himself stands to become a quintessential spoiler, draining votes from compatible liberal candidates without a prayer of winning himself. in return, he might hope to amass the kind of good will in illinois democratic clubrooms that provides an uncontested primary for re-election in 1990
jonathan wolman is assistant bureau chief in washington for the associated press. case</head>
if lawyer e. robert wallach had stayed with his original plan, attorney general edwin meese iii's files would never have contained a 1985 memo outlining a plan to pay the israeli labor party to ensure the safety of a proposed $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline
the memo to meese is part of a three-document package that wallach gave to the attorney general on the same day in september 1985 in an attempt to revive the project, which was foundering over iraq's demand for an insurance package against israeli bombing
the documents, now part of special prosecutor james mckay's criminal investigation into meese's activities, were released last week by the attorney general's lawyers. in addition, three telex messages from wallach to a swiss oilman who was a partner in the pipeline project surfaced last week and showed that wallach and other project backers attempted to have pentagon budget money paid to the israelis not to bomb the pipeline
the pipeline memos also have drawn the attention of iran-contra independent counsel lawrence walsh because they draw the first link between the pipeline project and the trade of arms for hostages
the burgeoning paper trail in the meese-pipeline episode includes a sept. 19, 1985 handwritten letter from then-israeli prime minister shimon peres expressing support for the proposed pipeline
but mckay, who is investigating meese's role in the pipeline project, is focusing on two memos, both dated sept. 25, 1985, from wallach to meese. the peres letter was attached to the first memo, a four-page explanation of the problems surrounding the project. in it, wallach urged meese to help round up support from top u.s. officials
one problem, wallach wrote, was that seeking the insurance package required disclosing to a number of bankers and others the nature of the ``security package'' guaranteeing that israel wouldn't destroy the line
wallach said this package involved the ``never-to-be-stated but fully understood quid pro quo.''
meese's lawyers say the quid pro quo was a reference to plans by wallach's client, swiss oilman bruce rappaport, to make available to israel substantial amounts of oil from the pipeline. discounts on the oil were to amount to $650 million to $700 million over 10 years
however, government sources familiar with the investigation of meese say mckay is trying to determine whether the ``quid pro quo'' memo is related to the second memo that wallach handed over to meese at the same time
the second memo, marked ``personal &amp; confidential _ for your eyes, only,'' contains a paragraph which says that rappaport confirmed with peres the ``arrangement'' in which israel was to receive up to $700 million over 10 years from the pipeline. the next sentence says: ``what was also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to labor.''
mckay wants to know whether the money for the israeli labor party headed by peres is the ``quid pro quo'' mentioned in the first memo
if it is, the two memos suggest that meese may have known about a plan to bribe israeli politicians as a way to assure the safety of the planned pipeline. if meese knew about such a proposed payoff, he might be charged with violating or conspiring to violate the foreign corrupt practices act. that law bars bribes to foreign officials and gives the attorney general authority to file civil suits to stop u.s. companies from bribing potential foreign customers
in the ``quid pro quo'' memo, wallach was trying to explain to meese the importance of rappaport to the pipeline project. to demonstrate the ``credibility and relationship'' of rappaport to israel, wallach, a longtime friend of the attorney general, also said that he was ``preparing ... a memorandum for my own files'' on other matters wallach said he had discussed with the swiss oilman
i will communicate orally the contents of that memorandum,'' wallach said
but he changed his mind _ for reasons as yet undisclosed
instead of giving meese a verbal summary of that memo, wallach gave the document to meese, thus allowing the special prosecutor and the public to see what wallach said were rappaport's thoughts about money for the israeli labor party
was this a planned bribe?
peres, who is now israel's foreign minister, denies receiving any bribe offer; a peres aide is quoted as saying the then-prime minister was told israel would get oil discounts but peres didn't take that seriously. rappaport denies making any payoffs. and meese says he doesn't recall reading the portion of the second memo mentioning labor party payments. iran-contra</head>
republican jack kemp, trying to breathe life into his lagging presidential campaign, blasted george bush and bob dole as tax-raising twins in a southern debate and said if either is nominated, ``the reagan revolution is over, gone, dead.''
and bush and dole tangled repeatedly at a debate sunday afternoon on their differing calls for a budget freeze, on the iran-contra affair and on protecting the south's textile industry from foreign competition
the gop debate may be the last confrontation of the four gop candidates before the big round of primaries across the south on march 8, super tuesday
bush forces, confident that the vice president commands the field in dixie, said after the debate that bush had no plans to attend the next scheduled debate, set sunday in nashville and sponsored by the league of women voters. his move could scrap the final gop debate of the southern campaign
we're simply at a point where we've got 20 states,'' bush campaign manager lee atwater said. ``we've got a pretty busy schedule.''
only a week ago, the bush forces expressed shock that sen. dole of kansas and the fourth contender, pat robertson, backed out of a similar debate in dallas
rep. kemp of new york, whose white house aspirations are on the ropes after a series of poor showings in the earlier primaries and caucuses, tried to depict himself as the true conservative in the race and lumped bush and dole together as moderates who would raise taxes and turn their backs on the legacy of president reagan
frankly under bob dole or george bush you're going to get exactly the same thing,'' kemp said in the debate sponsored by the atlanta journal-constitution newspapers
they sound alike. they talk alike. and they have supported together every single tax increase in the last eight years
if they're nominated, i want you folks to know, the reagan revolution is over, gone, dead,'' he said
bush and dole both objected, saying they have fought against tax increases and for the reagan administration's agenda for the past seven years. they charged that kemp wasn't willing to take steps to solve the federal budget deficit, even as both said raising taxes wasn't the way they would do it
jack's never met a deficit he didn't like,'' dole said
bush told kemp: ``you don't care about deficits. you never have, and they're public enemy no. 1.''
dole raised the iran-contra subject and, holding a copy of a report by a commission bush headed that recommended no deals with terrorists, charged that bush had condoned selling weapons to iran in exchange for hostages
we should never trade arms for hostages. we shouldn't issue these reports and say we shouldn't trade arms for hostages _ the vice president's report _ and then later go to a meeting and say it's all right. we shouldn't do those things,'' dole said
bush, who contends he did not know the arms were being exchanged for hostages, said only that ``mistakes were made'' in the iran-contra affair
asked later if the affair had occurred on ``his watch,'' bush replied: ``i think when the president found out what happened, he took the proper steps.''
robertson, the former television preacher, offered a defense of embattled attorney general edwin meese iii, saying intense scrutiny has made it difficult to attract people to government. meese is under investigation by an independent counsel
after spending the last two weeks explaning his own remarks _ that nuclear missiles are in cuba, that bush forces have engaged in dirty tricks and that his christian broadcasting network knew where american hostages were held in lebanon _ robertson criticized the press
i know it's very difficult dealing with the press of america to get the truth out. they love to distort our words,'' robertson said
kemp accused dole and robertson of changing positions to please southern voters with their support for legislation limiting textile imports. the textile industry is particularly large in south carolina, which holds a key southern test on saturday, two days before primaries across the rest of the south
he referred to rep. richard gephardt of missouri, a democratic candidate who has called for tough trade sanctions against unfair trading partners, when he said after the debate, ``pat robertson and bob dole sound like dick gephardt to me on trade.''
robertson said that foreign imports now make up a large portion of the domestic textile market and asked, ``how much do you want to give them, communist china and communist russia?''
bush and dole attacked each other's proposals for a federal budget freeze as a way to deal with the deficit. bush said his was more flexible, and that dole's plan would cut defense spending
dole countered that bush's plan was a ``four-year cop-out.''
the confrontations of the two gop leaders _ bush and dole _ so dominated the first part of the gathering that kemp protested, ``this is a four-man debate.''
actor sean penn says being married to a star like madonna is a strain, but that recent reports the couple was close to divorce were created by the press
penn discussed his marriage in a story published in sunday's chicago tribune, which said it was the first interview with filmdom's bad boy since he was jailed for 32 days after striking a movie extra
penn, 27, vowed to ``refocus'' himself to avoid outbursts. he said reports of his marital problems with madonna, 29, stem from her fans' possessiveness of her and their view of him as less-than-ideal marriage material
she belonged to them, to the public,'' penn said. ``and if anybody took her, i think they thought it should have been someone more acceptable, like donald trump.''
madonna filed divorce papers in santa monica, calif., on dec. 4, citing irreconcilable differences. two weeks later, she asked to withdraw the petition and the court granted the request the same day, court records show. no reason was given in the court papers for her change of heart
but penn said the divorce story ``was more people magazine than reality. my attitude with the press right now is that i hope they've had their share of me. they've been very busy trying to find or make dirt. i'd like to get back to acting.''
freddy gorman, co-writer of the song ``please mr. postman,'' says he's content to be a full-time mail carrier again, like he was in 1960 when he wrote the motown classic that led him into a musical career
it honestly didn't bother me to have to return to the post office,'' he said in an interview in this week's people magazine. ``i started looking around but realized i wasn't qualified for too many other jobs. it was sort of ironic that i ended up back where i started.''
the song gorman co-wrote for the marvelettes put him on the route to fame with his own group, the originals. but gorman says he went back to his appointed rounds after 15 years in the music industry because his career never brought him ``the big money,'' and he had family responsibilities
gorman, 48, lives in the los angeles suburb duarte with his wife of 27 years, dodie, and their 18-year-old son, dillon
planners of nebraska's annual celebration of its heritage said they had a shrinking range of cowboy actors to consider for their buffalo bill award, but are happy with their choice: bruce boxleitner
boxleitner, who co-starred in the television series ``scarecrow and mrs. king,'' was named last weekend to receive award at the 1988 nebraskaland days, a june celebration that includes rodeo performances and a parade
nebraskaland days president kim baxter said boxleitner has an interest in quarter horses and has played western roles
he appeared as james arness' nephew in ``the macahans,'' which inspired the ``how the west was won'' series. he was kenny rogers' co-star in three ``gambler'' television movies
to be honest, they're not making as many westerns as they used to,'' baxter said. ``we've gone to choosing a person who represents good family entertainment. but it's good when you can get someone who has been in westerns.''
betty friedan, author of the women's liberation classic ``the feminine mystique,'' says women working in the media face ``the threat of a new feminine mystique to send them home again.''
there are patterns here. a pattern where disproportionately in the restructuring of networks and movie studios, women are being dislocated,'' friedan said sunday at women, men and media, a conference she chaired at the university of southern california
marlene sanders, a former correspondent and news executive at abc, said the setbacks resulted from cutbacks caused by takeovers and mergers of media corporations and reduced federal regulation of broadcasting
los angeles times television critic howard rosenberg told the conference male media executives were less likely to take women seriously in entertainment shows. he said a study found that men were the central characters in 42 tv series and women in only 17, and in dramas the ratio was 23 men to 3 women
levar burton, who played the rebellious slave kunte kinte in ``roots,'' says he took an ``inner journey'' on his way back from years of relative obscurity to a role in ``star trek: the next generation.''
i hadn't come to terms with the bottom line _ myself,'' burton said in an interview in this week's people magazine. ``i wasn't in touch with my feelings. i was floating. i can't point to a particular date in my life, but i finally decided to find some balance within myself, regardless of what was happening in the outside world.''
he said his spiritual voyage has involved some unusual therapies, including rolfing, yogic breathing, fire walking and, to prepare for his latest role, jumping blindfolded off a telephone pole
burton, 31, plays the blind lt. geordi la forge, who uses special glasses to pilot the starship enterprise on the syndicated science fiction tv series
a small fire caused a 40-minute interruption in a performance of the tony-award-winning musical ``me and my girl,'' but it didn't squelch the sense of humor of star jim dale
you've got to expect this if you come to see the hottest show on broadway,'' dale told the audience of 1,600 after they filed back into the theater saturday afternoon
no injuries were reported. marquis theater stage manager john bonanni blamed the blaze on an overheated cable igniting rope in the proscenium arch
dale, who plays a cockney-commoner-turned-aristocrat, recalled sunday that he ``couldn't resist an ad lib'' in a later scene
i say to the butler, `you haven't got a cigarette, have you, mate?' then i turned to the audience and said, `i promise i won't light up,''' he said. and hardin, a0814. an ams separate on kuenn also moved on sports circuits.</note>
harvey kuenn, a former hard-hitting major leaguer who managed the milwaukee brewers to their only world series appearance, died at home sunday at age 57
kuenn, the 1953 american league rookie of the year and the 1959 al batting champion, had been the brewers' major-league scouting consultant since 1983
in 1982, after taking over the brewers in june, he led milwaukee to the world series. the brewers lost to the st. louis cardinals in seven games. he was fired after milwaukee finished fifth in its division the following season
under kuenn, the hard-hitting brewers were known as harvey's wallbangers, kuenn had a lifetime batting average of .303 in 15 major-league seasons with detroit, cleveland, san francisco, the chicago cubs and philadelphia. he retired as a player in 1966
amy lynn hardin, who underwent a liver transplant at 11 months thanks to vigorous community fund-raising, died at home saturday at the age of 5
amy was born with biliary atresia, in which the bile ducts malfunction and the liver becomes hard. she underwent surgery when she was 6 weeks old and again at 3 months, but the operations were unsuccessful
doctors said her only chance for survival was a liver transplant. community residents rallied to raise more than $260,000 for the operation. the rock group kiss gave a benefit concert, and president reagan sent a letter of support
the liver amy received on may 10, 1983, began to fail around thanksgiving, and she returned to the hospital for a month, said her mother, robin hardin
she couldn't stand it anymore,'' mrs. hardin said. ``we made a promise that we wouldn't take her back to the hospital. we brought her home and the family took turns being with her.''
louis zhang jiashu, bishop of shanghai under china's independent catholic church, died thursday at age 96, the official xinhua news agency reported
the ``patriotic'' catholic church in china broke with the vatican in 1957 after accusing rome of interfering in china's internal affairs. the church claims more than 3 million followers in china
xinhua said zhang studied in britain and france for 10 years before returning to china in 1924. in 1960, he was elected bishop of the shanghai diocese, which has an estimated 100,000 parishioners and about 20 churches
the report said he was vice chairman of the china patriotic catholic association
edward m. knabusch, who began making chairs in a garage behind his father's home in the 1920s and founded the la-z-boy chair co. with his cousin, died thursday at age 88
knabusch and cousin edwin j. shoemaker built novelty chairs such as the gossiper, a telephone stand with a built-in seat, before modifying a wooden porch chair so its seat moved forward as its back reclined
on the advice of dealers they made an upholstered version. in 1929, the la-z-boy recliner was patented, and in 1941 the la-z-boy chair co. was incorporated. sales topped $420 million in the company's 1987 fiscal year
the company halted chair production during world war ii to make seats and backs for tanks, torpedo boats, turret guns and armored cars
knabusch resigned as chairman in 1985 but continued as a director. shoemaker, 81, continues as vice chairman, executive vice president of engineering and a director
mary dunhill, the last surviving child of alfred dunhill, founder of the tobacco and pipe-making company, died wednesday at age 81
the only daughter among dunhill's four children, ms. dunhill joined the board of dunhill holdings in 1944, explaining ``they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, alfred
miss mary,'' as she was known, became president when she retired as chairman in 1975, and continued to work two days a week
emelyn jewett, daughter of former oakland tribune publisher sen. william knowland and a former president of the newspaper, died of cancer thursday. she was 59
jewett had served on the tribune board of directors since 1950 and was named president upon her father's death in 1974. she was senior vice president of the tribune publishing co. through three other owners, resigning in 1985
marjorie holwill breffeilh, commander of the women's army volunteer corps in the hawaiian islands during world war ii, died thursday of complications following surgery. she was 76
breffeilh fled shanghai, china, after the japanese bombed the international settlement, where she had lived with her parents for 20 years
she was put in charge of volunteer women's services and given the rank of major when the bombing of pearl harbor forced evacuation of the regular women's army corp
her volunteers performed clerical and administrative chores for the military during the war
composer, pianist and musical arranger gene vincent de paul, whose collaboration with lyricist don raye on the song ``pigfoot pete'' earned them an oscar nomination, died saturday at age 68
de paul worked with johnny mercer on music for the 1954 film ``seven brides for seven brothers'' and the broadway play ``l'il abner.''
he and raye were nominated for an academy award in 1942 for ``pigfoot pete'' from the film ``hellzapoppin.''
among his biggest hits were ``cow cow boogie,'' ``star eyes,'' ``irresistible,'' ``when you're in love'' and ``mr. five by five.''
james h. douglas jr., who as air force secretary under president dwight d. eisenhower presided over the planning and construction of the air force academy in colorado springs, colo., died wednesday at age 88
douglas, an attorney and investment banker, also served for two years as deputy secretary of defense beginning in 1959
he held a high post in the treasury department under presidents herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt. he was appointed undersecretary of the air force in 1953 and secretary in 1957
a native of cedar rapids, iowa, douglas graduated from princeton university after serving as an army officer in world war i. he earned a law degree from harvard in 1924
vincenzo celli, former principal dancer and choreographer at la scala opera house in milan and the last pupil of ballet master enrico cecchetti, died sunday at age 87
born in salerno, italy, celli immigrated to the united states with his parents in 1904. celli said he was inspired at age 14 when, as an usher in a chicago theater, he saw nijinsky dance with the diaghilev company
celli studied for six years with cecchetti, the teacher of nijinsky and pavlova. he debuted at la scala in 1926 in ``petrouchka'' and was named ballet master in 1929, a post he held for 12 years
later he opened a studio in new york and taught ballet for 40 years. his pupils included alicia markova, jerome robbins and agnes demille
the federal government is paying about $203 million a year in irrigation subsidies in the west for crops that also receive price supports or other farm subsidies, according to the first estimate of the double subsidy ever made by the bureau of reclamation
the bureau also calculated its total 1986 subsidy to farmers as $534 million, about $54 an acre
the calculations have been given to rep. george miller, d-calif., chairman of the water and power subcommittee of the house interior committee, who conducted hearings on the double-subsidy issue last may and october
miller has been a skeptic of reclamation projects and has sponsored legislation, opposed by the bureau, to make farmers eventually pay the full cost of water used to irrigate crops that get other subsidies
in a letter to miller, wayne marchant, deputy assistant secretary of interior for water and science, defended the irrigation subsidies
the irrigation subsidy reported here is responsible for much of the current character of the western united states,'' marchant said. ``without the support for development of irrigation established by congress, much of the agricultural development in the west, especially in california, would not have occurred.''
he said the projects also have provided important electricity and recreational benefits
but the bureau's own calculations also show that those benefits have come at a substantial price
the bureau provides all or part of the irrigation of 9.9 million acres on 150,300 farms in 17 states. crops subsidized in the farm program were grown on 5.7 million acres
overall water revenues averaged only $19 million a year for 1983, 1984 and 1985, while irrigation subsidies just on the subsidized crops were estimated at $203 million a year
since the bureau was created in 1902 through 1986, the total irrigation subsidy was estimated at $9.8 billion, calculated in 1986 dollars
farmers are supposed to pay for construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems. but congress often has specified that construction repayments be made at zero interest or a rate well below the treasury rate _ what it costs the government to borrow
critics say the bureau has devised other subsidies as well, persuading congress to allocate a too-small share of a project's cost to irrigation, and allowing farmers to postpone capital repayments until a project is complete even though their part may be delivering water
the bureau calculated the double subsidy indirectly. in the previous 10 years, an average of 38 percent of the land irrigated by the bureau was used to produce crops with farm subsidies, so the bureau estimated the value of the irrigation subsidy as 38 percent of its total 1986 subsidy of $534 million
the bureau said it could not answer three questions from miller _ how much the water might have been worth in alternate uses, how much would have been collected if it had charged full cost, and how much it would collect if it had to charge full cost in 1995
miller's bill would apply as contracts came up for renewal, but marchant said the bureau thought it unfair to farmers who had invested under a promise of subsidy
the effect of the bill ``may vary from area to area. the westlands water district (in california's san joaquin valley) could probably afford to pay full cost. but in our view a lot of farmers could be driven out of business, with all the attendant social costs,'' marchant said
he said he was disappointed that congress last year forbade a change in administration policy that would require agriculture subsidies to be disregarded when project costs and benefits are calculated. ``this would have been the right thing to do,'' he said. ``i do not think we should be piling one subsidy on top of another.''
westlands is served by one of two projects for which miller requested subsidy costs, the central valley project and the columbia basin project in washington state. the bureau said central valley got an annual subsidy of $135 million, $60 per acre, and columbia basin got $54 million or $102 per acre
annual subsidies for some uncompleted projects will be larger, up to $719 per acre for the garrison diversion project in north dakota, where 52 percent of the crops are in the farm program
these are outrageous subsidies,'' said ed osann, water specialist for the national wildlife federation and longtime critic of water projects
third-graders in mary alice blanton's class look at each other knowingly these days whenever she takes an unruly child out into the hall
they say mrs. blanton is going to give the kid the same thing she gave that gunman who came into our school three weeks ago,'' said west end christian school headmaster dan carden. ``it's become a sort of standing joke.''
carden was referring to the morning of feb. 2, when mrs. blanton, 57, whacked one of two intruders with a book of bible stories. the man she struck, james l. harvey, fended off the blow and went on to hold mrs. blanton and her pupils hostage for the next 12 hours
harvey, a 43-year-old tuscaloosa native, was wrestled to the ground after he was lured out by a phony pardon from gov. guy hunt and a false promise that he would be able to air his complaints about poverty and homelessness at a news conference. he has undergone psychiatric evaluation, authorities said. a preliminary hearing on the kidnapping charges against him is set for wednesday
carden, whose two sons were in school during the takeover, said his children and the other pupils seem to have survived the episode in remarkable fashion
everything is going very smoothly here,'' he said last week. ``i can honestly say i don't know of any serious repercussions among our staff, students or their parents.''
allan goodwin, a psychologist who helped out during and after the hostage taking, which involved 80 of the baptist school's 280 students, said he is amazed by the lack of psychological fallout
it's hard to believe but it's true that everything has returned to normal at the school,'' said goodwin, director of the indian rivers community health center here. ``i don't detect any malice _ even the parents have been able to forgive and forget. i think this may have something to do with the fatalism that goes along with their fundamentalist faith, a feeling that such events are out of our hands.''
john rhodes jr., who accompanied harvey during the school invasion, apparently was duped by harvey. all charges against rhodes, an unemployed laborer who first met harvey only minutes before they went to the school, were dropped
as for harvey, goodwin said, the children apparently viewed him as a harmless blowhard
i think they see harvey as someone who was strange, but not as a menacing figure,'' goodwin said. ``i don't think the children inside the room with him ever picked up the degree of tension that existed among the law enforcement officers and parents outside the school.''
mrs. blanton, who spent 12 hours as a hostage, said much the same thing
after the first few minutes i don't think the children really felt threatened,'' she said last week. ``frankly, the biggest adjustment problem we've had has been adjusting to the flu. it has really been going around.''
however, she said she did have the class write about the episode
a couple of the kids who were released early in return for pizzas seemed a little indignant,'' she said. ``they thought they were worth more than a pizza.''
as for her own role, and her brief attempt to disarm harvey with her book, she said, ``i never thought about being a hero, i was just acting on instinct. in retrospect, it was probably a pretty dangerous thing to do.''
carden is still confused by one aspect of the case
i still don't know why harvey picked our school,'' he said. ``i'll be interested to hear what he has to say about that at his trial.''
wyoming this week becomes the first state in the west to allocate presidential delegates, but the contest has gotten relatively little attention in the rush to the super tuesday states
still, state officials and wyoming political leaders are touting their caucuses this saturday as the kickoff contest in the region, saying results in the state will help set the stage for larger contests to come
we have a real potential to influence the process, especially since we're the first western state'' to assign delegates, said muffy moore, state democratic party chairman
it's not our numbers that are important. it's our position on the calendar,'' she added
the wyoming caucuses are three days before super tuesday, march 8, when 20 states, mainly southern and border states, will hold caucuses and primaries
wyoming's caucus process, according to republican and democratic campaign directors, calls for little in the way of media advertising. instead, campaign staffers spend most of their days on the phones to individuals who will attend the county conventions
you make the calls. you make the personal contacts. this is a retail state,'' said mickey munley, a co-director for tennessee sen. albert gore jr.'s wyoming campaign. ``down south, there are so many people all the candidates are buying tv. ... in wyoming, it's more personal. people want a phone call.''
state gop chairman mark hughes said he expected the republican race to come down to sen. bob dole and vice president george bush, who have spent more time and effort in wyoming than rep. jack kemp and pat robertson
my opinion is that bush and dole are far more organized and have been in the state a much longer period of time,'' said hughes
i don't believe jack kemp has campaigned extensively here and don't think his campaign has been that strong here,'' he said, adding that robertson also has been weak in wyoming
on the democratic side, leaders are reluctant to make predictions. 
it's hard to tell how people are going to vote at this point,'' moore said late last week. ``i still think we have a very large portion of our democrats who haven't made up their minds yet.''
twenty-eight years ago it was wyoming's position in the alphabet that brought it glory as the state's democratic delegation cast the deciding vote in los angeles that gave john f. kennedy the party's presidential nomination
some state and party officials believe that with that in mind, it might be in wyoming's best interest to send an uncommitted delegation to the convention
gov. mike sullivan holds that belief, at least for the time being. one of wyoming's five ``super delegates'' to the democratic national convention, sullivan does not have to commit himself to any candidate prior to the convention
so far he has remained uncommitted, although he's been lobbied by the candidates to cast his support prior to super tuesday
not all democratic leaders are taking that tack, however
former gov. ed herschler, the state's chief executive officer for 12 years before sullivan took over in 1987, will get an idea this saturday of how much political clout he carries. he endorsed sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee last month
mike beson, deputy campaign director for rep. richard gephardt, said endorsements aren't the only thing that count
we're not going to let that hinder our campaign,'' he said. ``we have a grassroots, aggressive campaign.''
on the democratic side, each of the 23 counties will hold party conventions saturday at which a secret ballot will determine the allocation of 13 delegates. once the results are known, nominees for delegates to the state party convention on may 7 in sheridan will campaign on behalf of a certain candidate, or perhaps as an uncommitted delegate
later in the day, delegates to the state convention will be selected, and at the convention the 13 delegates to the national convention will be chosen
on the republican side, things are not so simple
precinct caucuses started earlier this month at which delegates to the county conventions were selected. at the county conventions, which start tuesday and end the following saturday, there will be no formal presidential preference poll taken to base delegate selection, said mary ann collins, state gop executive director
twelve counties are considered delegate counties and will send 12 presidential delegates to the state gop convention on may 7 in cheyenne. the nominees for these positions must declare which candidate they are supporting, according to party bylaws
the remaining counties, plus one, will send alternate delegates to the state convention. at the state convention the remaining six delegates will be selected. visit</head> detail on gun incident lower and deleting some material to tighten. no pickup.</note>
prince andrew and his wife, sarah, went to church with everyday americans on sunday morning and later dined with hollywood elite in the evening at a gala that included a british celebrity entourage
the duke and duchess of york, who are on a tour to promote british trade, arrived at st. luke's episcopal church shortly after 11 a.m. after a motorcade from the royal yacht britannia, which is docked at long beach naval station
unknown to the royal retinue and the press, police officers sweeping the motorcade route had detained a man they spotted carrying a rifle. but it turned out that the man's presence had nothing to do with the royal visit and the rifle was unloaded, police said
later in the evening, the duke and duchess were the guests of honor at a star-studded dinner at the biltmore hotel in downtown los angeles
among the 700 guests paying $1,000 apiece to dine with british royalty were zsa zsa gabor, her husband prince frederick von anhalt, british-born ``dynasty'' star joan collins, her date george hamilton, and british actors michael york and roger moore. moore served as master of ceremonies
money raised by the event benefits the three-month uk-la '88 art festival and a fund to salvage books damaged in disastrous 1986 fires at the los angeles central library
earlier, the couple were greeted by a cheering crowd waving miniature union jacks as they went to church under british-style drizzly skies
the rev. a. leroy young, rector of st. luke's, officated over matins, a morning service of prayer and song. andrew read the day's lesson from romans 8:31
in his sermon, young noted the presence of the couple
i think the majority will agree with me that their presence here today is the biggest thing that has happened in this city since the richfield oil refinery exploded, and that was in 1933,'' he said
ten minutes before the royal couple arrived, british ambassador anthony acland, consul general donald ballentyne and their wives, pulled up in a limousine that had been smashed on one side. the accident, which caused no injuries, was blamed on a driver who ran a red light a few blocks from the church, said british consulate official stewart granger
about 300 people lined the sidewalk across from the church, some packed under a bus shelter to avoid the occasional showers
blanche schulman, a war bride originally from london who sported a british-made umbrella, said the event reminded her of damp monarch-watching excursions of her youth
i'm very excited. ... the rain to me is part of everything. it's just like home,'' said mrs. schulman, 64
elaine tuttle, 73, and myrna dillon, 48, both of long beach, perched on stepladders in hopes of catching a glimpse
we love them, we really do. we follow their every move,'' said ms. dillon
asked if she had watched the weddings of andrew and sarah and charles and diana on television, she replied, ``we didn't just watch them, we watch them all the time. we have them on tape.''
the incident with the man with a gun did not change the royal couple's itinerary sunday morning
john kasser of long beach had retrieved a .22-caliber rifle from the police station there and was headed to his car when los angeles city police officers spotted him, said long beach lt. rod mickelson. the gun had been held by police for safekeeping for several days after officers confiscated it during a domestic dispute, mickelson said
kasser was later freed and allowed to keep his gun, police said. he was not charged sunday, nor had he been charged in the domestic dispute, mickelson said
there's absolutely no relation between him and the motorcade,'' he said
arrests for driving under the influence of alcohol rose more than 220 percent from 1970 to 1986, while the number of licensed drivers increased by just 42 percent in that period, a government report says
in 1986, some 1.8 million people were arrested for driving under the influence, compared to 556,000 in 1970, said a report issued sunday by the bureau of justice statistics. in 1983, the peak year, there were 1.9 million such arrests, one for every 80 drivers
the study also found that rates for driving under the influence were highest among 21-year-olds, reaching a peak in 1983 with a rate of one arrest for every 39 licensed drivers of that age
since 1983, most states have phased in new laws raising the minimum age for buying or selling alcohol to 21. arrest rates for dui for the ages 18 to 20 have declined by 14 percent since then, more than twice the rate of decrease for those aged 21-24
another portion of the study found that half the jail inmates convicted of drunken driving had consumed the equivalent of at least 12 bottles of beer or eight mixed drinks before their arrests
almost half of the people jailed on drunken driving charges or serving a sentence for that offense had been sentenced for the same offense previously
the jail portion of the study, based on a 1983 survey of inmates in 407 locations, also found that one in five of the convicted drunken drivers had been consuming two or more kinds of alcoholic beverages when arrested
the median age for those in jail for drunken driving was 32, about 5 years older than the median age for all jail inmates. some 95 percent of the jailed drunken drivers were men and nearly 80 percent were unmarried, separated, divorced or were widows or widowers
telephone credit cards make it easier to charge calls but they're also making it easier for thieves to steal the numbers and run up huge long-distance bills
the thieves are not necessarily the users. they often sell the stolen numbers to others who use them to dial around the world
toll fraud costs the long-distance companies about half a billion dollars a year, about 1 percent of the industry's revenues, according to the industry-sponsored communications fraud control association
despite phone companies' security efforts, thieves are coming up with bold new deceptions aimed at the unsuspecting
officials at the mexico (mo.) ledger fell into such a trap with a southwestern bell calling card, which the newspaper used to make long-distance calls on american telephone &amp; telegraph co.'s network, according to editor robert m. white ii
southwestern bell, using a computer to monitor calling-card use by its customers, detected unusually high use by the newspaper one weekend in january. after consulting the newspaper, it canceled the card and issued a new one
publisher max thomson says that on the same day the new code was issued, he got a call from a man who said he was from at&amp;t and needed to verify the new credit card number assigned to the newspaper because someone was trying to use it. unsuspecting, thomson gave the caller the new number
within days, the card again was being used to charge calls around the world, and by the time southwestern bell's computer sent up another red flag, the newspaper's card had run up charges of more than $4,500
the calls included one for $155.46 from a new york pay phone to mali and another costing $105.27 from the same phone to the same number in mali 12 hours later; a $144.15 call that lasted two and a half hours between a jersey city, n.j., phone booth and china. others calls went to kuwait, bangladesh, gambia, senegal, spain, taiwan and the dominican republic, among other places
as is the practice of most phone companies, southwestern bell didn't charge the newspaper for the unauthorized calls
but the ledger has ensured that it won't happen again: ``we no longer have credit cards,'' thomson said
southwestern bell officials aren't sure how the newspaper's card number was stolen initially. some codes are obtained by computer hackers who dial into a long-distance company's electronic files and find secret billing codes
long-distance companies are improving their network software to help detect unauthorized access quickly, and they are phasing out their shorter codes and adopting 14-digit replacements, which are harder for hackers to crack
but thieves don't need a computer to get a code. some hang around phone booths where callers are dialing from cards and ``they'll use binoculars, mirrors, anything they possibly can'' to read the numbers off the cards or even memorize the numbers as the caller is punching them into the phone, said everick bowens, president of the fraud control association
with codes in hand, hustlers and hackers then look for customers
at banks of pay phones in transit areas, the hustlers offer domestic and international calls at deeply discounted rates, aware that with frequent use the life of a code can be just a few hours
bolder hustlers are passing themselves off as legitimate resellers of long-distance service or even as a representative of a long-distance company
us sprint communications co., which lost $80 million to toll fraud last year and is one of the most active long-distance companies in going after code theft, recently uncovered a ``multi-level marketing operation'' that sold codes to about 200 people and businesses _ including insurance companies, accountants, lawyers and retailers, said security director robert f. fox
a man walks in wearing a three-piece suit and says he's a reseller with a contract with a major long-distance company and that he can cut your long-distance phone bill,'' fox said, recounting the scam
he looks at a company's phone bill. say it's $10,000 a month. he says, `i can cut it to $5,000 a month,''' fox said. ``he says he'll give you authorization codes, and for your protection the codes will be changed every few days.''
some of the buyers are caught unaware, fox said, but ``some people don't ask a lot of questions because they don't want a lot of answers.''
sprint has been going after many of these buyers in civil court actions and collecting restitution, he said
fox advises: ``it may sound legitimate, but if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.''
the u.s. economy has shrugged off the worst effects of the october stock market collapse and should be able to escape a recession this election year, economists for top u.s. corporations predicted today
the national association of business economists said optimism among its members has risen appreciably since the last survey conducted in the month following the oct. 19 plunge in stock prices
in november, more than half of the business economists were predicting a recession would begin before the end of 1988, an outlook that could have spelled bad news for republican hopes of holding onto the white house
now, the number of economists expecting a recession this year has dropped to about one-fourth
as we move farther away from october, we are a little less nervous. we are seeing continued improvement in manufacturing and other good signs that the expansion will keep going,'' said kathleen cooper, chief economist for security pacific national bank of los angeles
the next president is likely to face a recession soon after taking office, the analysts believe, with about 60 percent of them picking 1989 as the most likely year the downturn will begin
but for 1988, the economists are projecting further growth at a modest pace, stable interest rates and a slight drop in inflation
the analysts predicted that the economy, as measured by the gross national product, will expand just 2 percent this year, down from a 3.9 percent gnp increase in 1987, when measured from the fourth quarter of 1986
this is more pessimistic than the reagan administration, which is calling for gnp growth this year of 2.4 percent
ms. cooper, who compiled the association's survey, said the decline in the stock market caused the majority of economists to reduce their growth forecasts for this year, but she said most of them had cut back their projections by less than 1 percent
economists see the largest effect of the market's plunge on consumer spending for durable goods,'' she said, noting that they are now expecting car sales to total only 9.8 million units this year, down from an expectation of 10.5 million sales made before the market decline. the forecast of housing starts also was trimmed to 1.52 million units this year, compared to 1.62 million new houses built in 1987
ms. cooper said the analysts expect growth to be most sluggish in the first half of the year, as businesses cut back on production to reduce high inventories. gnp growth will average 1.5 percent in the first six months and then improve to 2.5 percent growth for the rest of the year, the economists forecast
this sluggish growth rate will not be enough to keep the unemployment rate from rising. the economists forecast that unemployment, which now stands at 5.8 percent, will rise to 6.1 percent by the end of the year
but the slow growth will help to keep inflation from getting out of control. the analysts predicted that consumer prices will rise 4.2 percent this year, slightly slower than the 4.4 percent increase in 1987
in other predictions, the economists said:
_interest rates, as measured by the prime lending rate, will stay steady. banks cut their prime rate, used to set interest rates on a variety of corporate and consumer loans, to 8.5 percent in early february, and analysts forecast it will remain at this level through the end of the year
_the federal budget deficit, which fell to $150.4 billion in 1987, will rise to $157 billion in the current fiscal year, but then resume falling, dropping to $140 billion by 1990. this is more pessimistic than the reagan administration, which sees this year's deficit falling to $146.7 billion and a further decline to $104.2 billion by 1990
_the country's foreign trade deficit, which hit a record $171 billion last year, will finally start to come down, dipping to $150 billion this year and $130 billion in 1989
the optimism on the trade deficit is based on a belief that the dollar has finally fallen far enough to stem americans' appetite for imports while making u.s. products competitive once again on overseas markets
ms. cooper said the economists are now less pessimistic about the fate of the dollar with less than one-fifth of them thinking the dollar will drop by 10 percent in value this year against other major currencies. in november, more than 40 percent were looking for a decline in the dollar that was at least that large
the internal revenue service has put out the definitive word on a confusing new law affecting taxation of investors in mutual funds
investors will not have to report certain operating expenses of their publicly offered mutual funds as 1987 income because the funds will not pass along those expenses to shareholders, said irs spokesman rod young
people don't have to be concerned at all about those expenses on the returns they are filing now,'' said mike delaney of the investment company institute, which represents most of the nation's 2,400 mutual funds
this means investors will have to do nothing on their 1987 returns to get a one-year reprieve from a new tax
however, unless congress intervenes, about 20 million shareholders will have to count such expenses as income on future tax returns and then attempt to write them off as a miscellaneous itemized deduction
the taxation of these expenses has been surrounded by confusion because of the wording of a new provision affecting them that was signed into law by president reagan only last dec. 22. that provision delayed for one year implementation of a section of the big tax overhaul enacted in 1986
because of the december change, publicly offered mutual funds will not allocate their 1987 operating expenses among shareholders. thus, shareholders will not have to mention such amounts on their tax returns at all
but all that changes for 1988. mutual funds will be required to pass on operating expenses to shareholders. in turn, shareholders will list that amount as income and hope they can deduct it as a miscellaneous expense
that is, unless congress intervenes again
under the 1986 tax overhaul, the deduction for all kinds of miscellaneous expenses is limited to those that exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income. a mutual-fund shareholder whose miscellaneous expenses did not reach that threshold would have no way of deducting the fund's expenses and, as a result, would be taxed on income never received. the same would be true for a taxpayer who did not itemize deductions
reagan has asked congress to grant shareholders permanent relief from taxation on that ``phantom income'' at a cost of $400 million a year
the lion's share of money invested in mutual funds is in those that are regularly traded on securities markets. but there are numerous non-public funds that are traded privately
the irs notes those that are not publicly offered or owned by at least 500 persons may have to allocate expenses among shareholders for 1987. any fund that is so affected should be advising shareholders to report as income the expenses that are designated in ``box 2'' on form 1099-div
if you are not sure that your fund qualifies as publicly offered, you should contact your fund,'' advises young of the irs
a bitter, open debate marked by charges that some prominent historians are trying to tone down the horror of nazi atrocities is capturing the attention of west germans
the controversy has been the topic of a best-selling book, numerous newspaper articles and tv reports. it is known as the ``historians' dispute'' and has split prominent professors into feuding camps
one group, represented chiefly by prominent berlin historian ernst nolte, is calling for a new perspective on the third reich and german identity 43 years after world war ii
six million jews were killed in europe between 1933 and 1945 as part of adolf hitler's ``final solution.''
nolte and his supporters tend to compare what happened under hitler to atrocities carried out by other governments, such as the deaths of millions in the soviet union under stalin
but their opponents, led by frankfurt university philosophy professor juergen habermas, say the conservative historians are trying to lessen the magnitude of nazi crimes through such comparisons. habermas, one of west germany's best known intellectuals, also says his opponents are paving the way for nationalistic impulses
in december more than 300 historians, sociologists, and philosophers met in frankfurt to discuss the dispute's impact. no resolutions were passed there, but lectures held at the meeting will be published in a book scheduled for release in march
the debate, however, has moved far beyond academic circles
a book documenting the dispute made the best-seller list in the news magazine stern last year, and new arguments regularly make headlines in leading newspapers. as recently as jan. 20, regional television in the state of bavaria devoted a book-review show to new history books associated with the dispute
nolte told the associated press in a telephone interview wednesday that he stands by his arguments
those who want to make the nazis' mass murder stand alone by forbidding every comparison with other events are guilty of having an incredibly unhistorical attitude,'' nolte said
nolte sparked the historians' dispute with an essay called ``the past that won't go away,'' published in the conservative frankfurter allgemeine zeitung newspaper in june 1986
he suggested that stalin's infamous forced labor camps and the communists' murder of millions of peasants were in a sense a forerunner of the nazi death camp auschwitz and hitler's genocide program
wasn't the bolsheviks' `class murder' the logical and actual precursor of the national socialists' `racial murder'?'' nolte asked in the essay
nolte's opponents have frequently called his phrasing unclear and open to many interpretations
his critics also say he tries to justify hitler's motives for attacking the soviet union in world war ii by arguing that the dictator was mainly responding to the soviets' goal of spreading communism
to nolte, hitler is a european citizen who was historically in the right in that he unwillingly went to war for democracy,'' the bayerischen rundfunk television show ``lesezeichen'' said in reviewing nolte's new book
nolte and his supporters, however, say their arguments raise valid questions in historical interpretation
other nolte arguments include comparing nazi atrocities with those of cambodia's pol pot regime in the 1970s
nolte says that he does not adhere to any one political party, but many historians call him a conservative
i would say nolte is a conservative,'' historian christian meier of the university of munich told the ap. ``conservatives in this dispute are those who see the horrible events of world war ii and the holocaust as an instance of fascism, which also took hold in other european countries, and not as a failure of german society and values.''
habermas, in a newspaper essay, charged several conservative historians with reinterpreting history to justify and minimize the nazi regime's crimes. the article appeared in the hamburg-based weekly newspaper, die zeit, in july 1986
the nazi crimes ``lose their singularity'' in nolte's arguments, habermas wrote in the article
many historians hold that the nazis' genocide cannot validly be compared with other atrocities
never before had a state, with the authority of its responsible leader, decided and announced it would completely kill off a specific group of people'' and put the plan into aciton, historian eberhard jaeckel of stuttgart university wrote about the nazi genocide in a 1986 essay as a response to conservative arguments
some historians say that too much dwelling on the nazi past could cause west germans today, particularly younger ones, to resent what they may see as a steady stream of accusation
many (west) germans today are at least one generation removed from the nazi period,'' meier said. ``but the (west) germans are constantly being reminded of past actions. if it goes too far, it could even provoke a counter-reaction.''
some liberal historians attribute the airing of conservative views to a new, conservative ``political climate'' in west germany. in 1982, chancellor helmut kohl's conservative christian democrats toppled the leftist social democrats
ten years ago they (the conservative historians) wouldn't have risked advancing such notions,'' historian hans-ulrich wehler told the ap. ``the conservative historians' arguments fit into today's political climate.''
the food and drug administration says it is concerned about possibly misleading advertisements that describe regular aspirin use as a way to prevent heart attacks
the agency has summoned the nation's aspirin makers to a meeting this week to discuss to what degree they can make that claim in their ads, an fda official said sunday
the meeting is scheduled for wednesday at the agency's headquarters in rockville, md. it comes a month after the new england journal of medicine published preliminary results of a study showing that aspirin taken every other day could reduce the risk of heart attacks in middle-aged men
we do have some concerns about this,'' said fda spokesman donald mclearn. ``even the study itself was accompanied by an editorial saying, `don't jump to conclusions, folks.'''
some aspirin makers have launched advertising campaigns featuring young men who have suffered heart attacks
the study was conducted on physicians aged 40 to 65 years old
it was clear from the preliminary results that it could be helpful for heart attacks for men between 40 and 65,'' mclearn said. ``our concern is people will read about the study and say, `i'm a 20-year-old female, maybe i should take aspirin every day.' that's not what the study was all about.''
mclearn said that because the study's results are still preliminary, doctors still may need to know more before prescribing regular aspirin dosages to patients. one possible side effect is an increased risk of strokes, he said
also asked to participate in the meeting were associations representing the prescription and over-the-counter drug industries. also likely to attend are officials of the federal trade commission, which oversees advertising of over-the-counter drugs
a survey suggests the mailing of surgeon general c. everett koop's report on aids to individual households in alaska was well received and helped those who read it understand the disease
the alaska department of health and social services mailed 217,000 copies of the report last november and had a professional polling company assess the impact the following month
officials believe it is the first followup study of a mass mailing of aids material in the united states
that study by dittman research corp. found 91 percent of the people who read some or all of the booklet judged it ``appropriate, well done and covered the topic adequately.'' only 3 percent found it ``inappropriate, too sexually explicit and offensive.''
among other things, the report says people who do not limit themselves to one aids-free sexual partner should use condoms. it contains a photograph of a condom and instructions on use
the report, issued in october 1986, also contains a brief section calling for sex education in schools as one way to help control spread of the deadly disease
those who read the surgeon general's report had distinctly different understanding of aids compared to those who hadn't read the report,'' the research company wrote in its analysis
dittman's scientific telephone survey of 521 residents from 51 communities found that 58 percent of those contacted reported receiving the booklet and that 76 percent of those read at least some of it
moreover, 46 percent of those questioned said other household members had read at least part of the report
dr. john middaugh, the alaska state epidemiologist, said the pollsters _ who did not include a margin of error in their summary _ told him they considered the 58 percent who recalled receiving the booklet unusually high for an unsolicited mailing
he said some copies probably did not reach their destination for a variety of reasons, but that a majority of those who could not recall the booklet probably discarded it without realizing what it was
the significance of the study, he said, was the high ratio of those who did recall getting the 36-page booklet, who then read it and the even higher proportion who approved of it
this proves the acceptability of doing this and the effectiveness of doing it,'' middaugh said in a telephone interview. ``this was an overwhelming response that should forever lay to rest whether this is an appropriate step to take.''
he referred to controversy at the federal level over whether to mail aids information to every household, whether the surgeon general's report or some other format
middaugh said republican state sen. tim kelly pushed authorization for the alaska mailer through the legislature after it became apparent the federal government was not going to do it last year
u.s. public health service spokesman jim brown said 12 million copies of the report have been printed, including 9 million supplied to members of congress for mailing to their constituents
congress allocated money for a national mailing last year _ although not necessarily the surgeon general's full report _ but it was never done. the current phs budget contains more explicit language directing a national mailer and health and human services department officials say a brochure now under preparation will be in the mail by june
i'm delighted that the state of alaska has chosen to educate its people by using the surgeon general's report,'' said koop. ``i'm even more thrilled that they did a followup survey to see the reaction to it. we've had good general reaction to the surgeon general's report, but this is the first real formal tracking that i know of.''
the dittman survey included an analysis of different responses from 345 ``readers'' and a 176-person non-reader ``control group'' on a variety of questions such as ``can you get aids by being bitten by a mosquito?'' twenty-three percent of the non-readers said yes, compared to 17 percent of the readers. the report says the answer is no
twenty-two percent of non-readers said you can get aids from donating blood, compared to 11 percent for readers
eighty-two percent of the readers said they would let their children attend school with an aids-infected child compared to 75 percent non-readers
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,242.81 points, down 42.06 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on monday. separates two sides, but union maintaining that strike threat remains. no pickup.</note>
the union representing 6,700 northwest airlines flight attendants continued to threaten to strike sunday night although both sides in the labor talks said just one issue divided them
negotiators for the airline and the union met with a federal mediator for four hours sunday and agreed on all but one contract issue, according to northwest spokesman william wren
william genoese, international director of the international brotherhood of teamsters airline division, agreed that only one issue separated the two sides _the issue of how long newly hired workers will stay on a lower pay scale. but he declined to characterize the rest of the day's discussions except to say ``we talked around'' other issues
a strike was still a possibility, he said late sunday
at this moment we're in strike position. it can happen two minutes from now or any other time. under the law, we have that right,'' genoese said about 9:30 p.m. cst sunday
about two hours later, after meeting with other union negotiators, genoese said ``tomorrow (monday) will be the really big day.'' monday is the first weekday since the contract expired at midnight friday
northwest officials said sunday the airline continued to operate a normal flight schedule. no delays were reported at airports served by the carrier
genoese and northwest agreed that the only sticking point in the negotiations is northwest's proposal to stretch from five to nine years the time in which an employee advances from a ``b'' or lower pay scale to the ``a'' pay rate. the union is resisting the proposal
the airline issued a press release sunday night saying that its contract offered the union would make the flight attendants the second-highest-paid in the airline industry
according to northwest, the contract, which would run through dec. 31, 1992, also calls for two 2 percent wage increases for all flight attendants through 1992 and lump sum bonus payments in 1988 and 1989
earlier in the day, the two sides had been reported to be apart on other issues such as the length of the contract and retroactive pay
a strike deadline last friday night was extended as the two sides continued negotiations that began wednesday. the two sides resumed talks one day after the teamsters airline division announced that nearly 95 percent of the attendants had authorized a strike
on saturday, the talks broke off, but a union spokesman said strike preparations had been ``put on hold.''
genoese said late saturday that a request by the federal mediator to delay a strike helped avert a walkout saturday morning
meanwhile, there was no word on whether flight attendant picket lines would be honored by pilots or machinists if there is a strike
spokesmen for the pilots' union were in a meeting sunday morning to discuss the flight attendants' matter and were unavailable for comment
if flight attendants do strike, the airline has said it will keep flying
about 2,000 managers trained as flight attendants were posted throughout the northwest system with 200 newly hired replacement flight attendants also ready to move, terry erskine, the airline's vice president for law and labor relations, said saturday
the justice department says it made an ``honest error'' by erroneously giving the impression for nine months that attorney general edwin meese removed himself from the pollard spy case
it now acknowledges he was briefed twice about the case and he never was excluded
in what chief department spokesman terry eastland called a correction, he said meese is only excluded from the espionage case against the israeli air force officer who recruited jonathan pollard, a navy counterterrorism analyst, to spy for israel
meese is free to be briefed and even to make decisions in the still-open pollard case to the extent that they don't involve the case against israeli brig. gen. aviem sella, eastland said
we were confused about the sella case,'' eastland said. ``it was an honest error.''
eastland acknowledged that last month and on one previously undisclosed occasion assistant attorney general william weld, head of the criminal division, had briefed meese about the pollard case ``without touching on sella.''
meese's own lawyer, nathan lewin, was unaware of the situation as recently as last week even though it was lewin's work for meese and sella in separate cases that triggered the exclusion, known as a recusal
the turnabout comes as a government source said independent counsel james mckay is examining another meese recusal for clues about his motives in dealing with a mideast oil pipeline proposal in 1985
meese hired lewin last may to represent him in mckay's investigation of whether the attorney general and his attorney, e. robert wallach, violated or conspired to violate a federal law barring bribes to foreign officials
in may 1985, meese was recused from all matters involving wallach, but arranged for wallach to meet national security adviser robert mcfarlane to promote the pipeline. investigators say that examining that meese recusal might help determine whether the attorney general was aiding wallach's plan or, as lewin argues, directing it to the proper official
at the office of government ethics last week, general counsel donald campbell explained: ``if you're a federal official and you've hired a law firm to represent you, you should recuse yourself, that is, take no action in any matter involving that firm _ just as a matter of appearances even if you have no financial stake.''
for that reason, eastland said, meese advised justice officials last may: ``i hereby recuse myself from participating in any matter before the department in which the law firm (of miller, cassidy, larroca &amp; lewin) represents any party or is otherwise involved.''
the washington post reported then that the recusal covered the pollard affair. the justice department did not dispute that
pollard was sentenced last year to life in prison for giving reams of secrets to israeli agents. but justice officials still pursued the case, in part, because sella had fled to israel and has not been brought to trial here
so there was surprise and consternation when the post reported feb. 19: ``after being briefed on the case last month, ... meese ordered that the pollard case be kept officially open so investigators can pursue their inquiry.''
asked by the associated press last monday for an explanation, justice department spokesman john russell said, ``i have problems with that account because meese is recused in pollard.''
russell bucked the question to deputy chief spokesman pat korten. citing the same problem, korten bucked it to eastland, who was with meese in california until wednesday
on tuesday, lewin said he'd never discussed pollard with meese because ``i think he certainly has recused himself because i am representing sella.'' expressing surprise at the post account, lewin said, ``at the department, they have known all along that it has been very much up front that he is not involved in pollard.''
while eastland sought an answer, a senior department official, demanding anonymity, said wednesday there was no problem because meese merely was briefed and made no decisions
some former department lawyers dispute that view. one, who once worked in the attorney general's office, said, ``a recusal has always meant a chinese wall. you are not even kept up to date.''
a former justice career lawyer said that, to avoid making a decision by ``a wink or a nod,'' briefings were restricted to situations where the information was essential to decisions in other areas
but friday afternoon, eastland provided an official explanation that did not claim an exception for briefings
he said the client lists regularly provided by lewin's firm ``have not included the pollard case, and so the attorney general is not recused from pollard.''
the lists do include the sella case, and the attorney general has been very careful to avoid taking any action in that case or in any other related case where his action might at all affect the sella case.''
eastland denied meese kept the pollard case open. ``he didn't have to, because it has been open for some time.'' 4th graf pvs ``dealers said...''</note>
stock prices declined moderately in quiet trading on the tokyo stock exchange today, ending 13 consecutive days of gains in the market's key index, while the dollar remained steady after opening lower against the japanese yen
the 225-issue nikkei stock average, which rose 119.69 points during saturday's half-day session, closed at 25,242.81, down 42.06 points or 0.2 percent
on the foreign exchange market, the dollar opened at 128.08 yen, down 0.27 yen from friday's close of 128.35 yen. after declining at one point in morning trading to 127.95 yen, its first trip below the 128-yen level in about three weeks, the dollar ended the day at 128.12 yen, down 0.23 yen
dealers said many stock market participants were staying on the sidelines in anticipation of a slight correction in prices following the recent gains
during the 13 previous trading days, the nikkei index rose a total of 1,622.60 points or 7 percent
the market is taking a respite, which many participants had expected for some time,'' said an analyst at nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage, who spoke on condition of anonymity
a record 14 consecutive days of gains in the nikkei average was set in early 1961
foreign exchange dealers said sentiment toward the dollar was relatively weak, with the market still searching for the currency's bottom level. but they said the dollar's decline was being tempered by fears of possible market intervention by japan's central bank below the 128-yen level, profit-taking by speculators and light activity by commercial dollar-sellers
despite the fears of dollar-buying by the bank of japan, a senior trader at a commercial bank, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the central bank was unlikely to intervene unless the dollar began falling at a faster pace below the 127.5-yen level. strong second</head>
new englanders michael dukakis and george bush claimed victories in the maine caucuses, but jesse jackson's unexpectedly strong second-place showing was the surprise of the evening
our message is winning,'' declared jackson, who finished with 1 percent of the democratic vote in maine's caucuses four years ago but gained 28 percent on sunday
anything but first place would have been a major setback for dukakis, the massachusetts governor who was winning 42 percent of the delegates to the state democratic convention in maine. twenty-one percent were uncommitted
the also-rans were paul simon with 4 percent, richard gephardt with 3 percent, and albert gore and gary hart with 1 percent each
`today our message shone through again ... (and that) gives our national campaign another push towards success on super tuesday,'' dukakis said sunday from cleveland
bush too needed the ``overwhelming victory'' he claimed sunday. with no official tally, the bush campaign cited its own reports from 259 caucuses and said the vice president had the non-binding support of 65 percent of the gop state convention delegates chosen over the weekend
that added up to a huge lead for bush in the state where he has a vacation home. robertson garnered 147 delegates, or 14 percent; senate majority leader bob dole 88, or 8 percent; and rep. jack kemp 14, or 1 percent, the bush campaign said, adding that 123 delegates, or 12 percent, were uncommitted
i am delighted with what appears to be an overwhelming victory in the maine caucuses, assuring my campaign of all 22 national delegates,'' bush said from washington
if the democratic results held up at the state convention, dukakis would win 10 of the state's 23 pledged delegates to the democratic national convention. jackson is in line for 8 delegates and the uncommitted group 5
the numbers were unquestionably on the side of dukakis, but the runner-up emerged with a victory no less sweet
maine has sent a message to america that we can win, that america wants bold leadership and a new director with sound ideas,'' jackson said from the campaign trail in texas
if it hadn't been for the strong grassroots organization that we had, we would have been in trouble,'' acknowledged david villarino, manager of dukakis' maine campaign. villarino asserted that jackson's victories in two of maine's largest cities, portland and bangor, reflected defections from the recently scaled-back campaign of illinois sen. paul simon
whatever the reason for their success, the jackson forces were ecstatic
what we're doing in maine is building an electoral victory, from the grass roots to the top of the blades,'' said scott nova of the jackson national campaign staff
bush aides had worried earlier in the week that robertson's ``invisible army'' of supporters would flood the caucuses here as they did in michigan, iowa and other states. but robertson's supporters did not total the numbers feared by bush aides, and deals with dole supporters diluted robertson's impact
with the state party planning no count of results, the various campaigns agreed in general that bush was running well ahead
jeff nelson, a spokesman for robertson in the state, said of the bush supporters: ``i don't think there's any question that they are going to be able to claim victory.''
a top dole organizer, state sen. pamela cahill, also conceded
this is bush country up in new england, up in maine and new hampshire,'' she said
in assessing the results in maine, dukakis and jackson both dutifully invoked super tuesday, the mega-primary next week in which 20 states and one territory will hold primaries or caucuses. at stake in the march 8 contests are 1,307 delegates to the national convention
we're right where we want to be, and we're heading into the final turn,'' said villarino
jackson spokesman mel king said, ``people across the country, when they find he came in second in maine, are going to dispel the notion that a person who is black can't do well.''
bush supporters acknowledged that they needed a big margin over robertson before the contests in the south, where the former television evangelist has a strong core of support
we couldn't afford to have the national story out of maine be that robertson comes in a close second,'' said gov. john r. mckernan jr., one of bush's strongest backers in the state
maine's conservative gop wing and fundamentalist churches were fertile recruiting grounds for robertson, and his forces mounted an energetic challenge. but outmaneuvered, if not outmuscled, by bush backers in caucus brokering, robertson's followers were unable to turn their raw numbers into a matching proportion of delegates
the party and the procedures'' favored bush over robertson, said jeff nelson, state spokesman for the robertson campaign
a strong earthquake in the bering sea shook the aleutian islands, but there were no immediate reports of damage
sunday night's quake struck about 100 miles east of bering island and had a preliminary magnitude of 6.6 on the richter scale, said the alaska tsunami warning center
paul whitmore of the tsunami center said the quake occurred at 8:32 p.m. sunday
he said no alerts were issued for a tsunami, a fast-moving ocean wave caused by sesimic action. ``it's too small for that area to potentially cause a tsunami,'' whitmore said
he said the center had no contact with the area and did not know if there had been any damage
bering island is part of the commander islands just west of attu in the aleutian chain
the richter scale is a gauge of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion on a seismograph
a quake of magnitude 6 can cause severe damage
a rape-murder case nearly 13 years old will be the focus tuesday of a u.s. supreme court review that many inmates see as a ticket off death row
in my opinion, it will affect everybody,'' said jim vanderbilt, who has spent more than 11 years on texas' death row for the 1975 slaying of an amarillo teen-ager. ``we will have commutation of everybody.''
lawyers for the state and for donald gene franklin will present arguments to the high court on the constitutionality of a texas statute that limits consideration by a jury of mitigating circumstances that could benefit a defendant
since october, when the court agreed to hear the case, dozens of death-row inmates in texas, whose 27 executions in the last six years are the most in any state since executions resumed in 1977, have attached franklin's arguments to their own in efforts to win stays
it's an issue that could potentially affect everybody on death (row) in texas,'' said richard h. burr iii, coordinator of the death penalty project of the naacp legal defense and educational fund inc. in new york. ``i think probably everybody now is raising the issue and if they're not, they should be.''
franklin, 36, who has had three trials and four execution dates, blamed the abduction, rape and stabbing death of 27-year-old mary margaret moran on a friend who used his car
franklin was arrested hours after the july 1975 abduction but refused to say where the missing san antonio nurse was. search parties combed san antonio, but it took four days to find her bleeding in a bed of insects, suffering from loss of blood and irreversible shock. she died the next day
mark stevens, who is representing franklin before the high court, said jurors should have had doubt about franklin's guilt because of circumstantial evidence in the case
stevens also said franklin, at the time of the last trial, had caused no disciplinary problems while in prison, ``which goes to show among other things, he shouldn't be executed.''
stevens contends although such mitigating circumstances are presented at the punishment phase of a trial, the jury is given no guidance as to how heavily to weigh them
franklin's trial attorneys suggested a jury charge that spelled out ways to handle mitigating circumstances. the judge refused to include it in his instructions to the jury, which determined franklin should die. he has been on death row since 1982
the state is real confident it will prevail,'' said bob walt, an assistant state attorney general
a texas jury now has these questions to consider before deciding a person convicted of capital murder should be executed: whether the defendant's act was deliberate and with the expectation death would result; whether the defendant is likely to commit a future violent act; whether the victim may have provoked the attack and whether the response by the defendant was reasonable
what they're saying now is that the constitution requires a jury to consider mitigating evidence,'' walt said. ``i can't think of a case in texas that has less mitigating evidence than donald gene franklin's
he was in custody on a prior rape. ... there ain't no doubt in this case. they had the victim's clothes soaking in bloody water in his house. all the victim's property was at his house.''
stevens and walt agree one one thing: it is impossible to predict what the supreme court will do
if the court rules in franklin's favor, anyone who requested similar jury instructions could be entitled to a new trial, stevens said
even if you didn't request these instructions, you might be entitled to raise that fundamental constitutional right,'' stevens added
it's real tough to speculate,'' walt said. ``of course, hope springs eternal on death row.''
hope is indeed the prevailing word on death row, where more than 260 people await execution
there are a lot of options but (commutation) is the most likely,'' said james beathard, who arrived on death row in 1985 for killing a 14-year-old boy
what could they do _ hold new trials for 250 people? everybody's real hopeful about it and figure it's their best chance.''
friends and enemies of the confederate flag say they ain't just whistlin' dixie when they promise a fight over whether the rebel battle banner will keep waving from state flagpoles in the south
the confederate flag flies over the capitols of alabama and south carolina along with state flags. the state flags of georgia and mississippi incorporate the design
in georgia, a bill to redesign the state flag languishes in a legislative committee, and in alabama black lawmakers who hoped to remove the confederate banner from atop the capitol dome were arrested
this is a very emotional, controversial issue. we knew that when we took it on,'' said earl shinhoster, southeastern regional director of the national association for the advancement of colored people. ``we think we deserve a vote on the issue.''
south carolina state sen. glenn mcconnell said opponents are being intolerant of differing views
it does not breed good relations ... to pull (the flag) down and brand it as a symbol of racism and hate,'' mcconnell said. ``if we become a society that cannot bridge differences, then we ... become a society built on extremes.''
shinhoster said the flag ``represents the heart and soul of a defeated cause.''
it represents state sovereignty, state rights, a rejection or resistance to federal control, and it has an adverse effect on basic issues of human need,'' he said
georgia's legislature voted to include the confederate battle emblem on the state flag in 1956, as a reaction to federal school desegregation orders. a bill seeking to reinstate the former state flag has been sent to a house committee, where it will likely die quietly
judith damewood, president of the grass-roots lobbying group common cause georgia, said she is embarrassed whenever she looks at the georgia state flag
when the democratic national convention comes to atlanta this summer, this is not the flag i want those delegates to see,'' she said
in alabama, the battle flag has flown since 1961, when then-gov. john patterson had it put up in commemoration of the civil war's 100th anniversary
since there is no law allowing the flag to fly, gov. guy hunt has said he will allow the legislature to resolve the dispute
on feb. 2, the house turned down a resolution to remove the flag, so 13 black legislators, led by rep. thomas reed of tuskegee, tried climbing a fence surrounding the capitol to pull down the flag. the group was arrested on trespassing charges. a march 11 court date has been set
other states that made up the confederacy _ arkansas, florida, louisiana, north carolina, tennessee, texas and virginia _ do not fly the battle flag officially
the norfolk, va., city council, under pressure from the local naacp, recently voted to stop displaying the flag at meetings
while flag opponents hedge their bets on intense lobbying and public outcry for action, flag supporters are preparing to talk the issue down
if it takes a filibuster, i'm going to do it,'' mcconnell said. ``i hope we can reach a consensus where the naacp ... will decide that conciliation, rather than confrontation, is better for all of us on this.''
a jet that landed here slightly more than 36 hours after it took off unofficially broke the speed record for an eastbound, around-the-world voyage, company officials said
the 19-seat, gulfstream iv completed the route in 36 hours, 8 minutes and 34 seconds. the jet started and ended its flight at houston's hobby airport, taking off friday and landing saturday with stops in ireland, united arab emirates, taiwan and hawaii, said gulfstream aerospace co.'s chairman
the flight time remains unofficial until further review by the national aeronautics association, which sanctions such records. an naa representative was on the flight
allen e. paulson and his three co-pilots flew the jet 45 minutes, 41 seconds faster than a boeing 747-sp last month. that 747, piloted by clay lacy, flew around the world in 36 hours, 54 minutes and 15 seconds
paulson is chairman and chief executive officer of savannah, ga.-based gulfstream
paulson said he attempted the trip as a test performance for the new jet, which had logged just 12 hours flight time before its worldwide trip and weighs less than 77,000 pounds
the winds were cooperative, the airplane worked flawlessly and we had it red-lined all the way,'' paulson said
the average speed was 636 mph for the trip, which covered 19,988 nautical miles _ 22,986 statute miles
paulson, 65, established the westbound around-the-world speed record last year aboard another gulfstream aircraft
israel's state-run television and radio have been accused of playing down the extent of palestinian unrest in the occupied lands
since the violence in the west bank and gaza strip began, israeli viewers only once saw troops beat protesters and rarely see pictures of arabs wounded by gunfire. tv anchors often refer to the situation as ``relatively quiet.''
by contrast, tv viewers in the united states often see soldiers beating arab protesters and palestinians who have been wounded or killed by gunfire
after nearly three months of violence, u.n. figures show 74 arabs have died in rioting, mostly by israeli gunfire
there appear to be three reasons for the low-key coverage in israel: concerns that too much publicity will encourage arab protesters and spark more violence; ``patriotic journalism,'' or the reluctance to report stories that weaken the morale of soldiers, and, in some cases, official censorship
if i compare the reports we are getting from around the world to what the israeli people are watching, it looks like we are talking about two different places,'' said israel peleg, a former member of the israel broadcast authority's board of directors
the israel broadcast authority which runs television and radio barred this reporter from interviewing broadcast journalists
but yair stern, head of the tv's news division, said the coverage was considered too critical by many israelis. ``if the action is tough, we get up to 100 calls a night, most from people who say they don't want to see this or want us to be more favorable to the government,'' he said
stern rejected charges that tv intentionally soft-pedaled bad news. he acknowledged the station had only once shown soldiers beating palestinians, but cited as the reason lack of footage, not censorship
the footage of the only beating shown was provided by cbs television and showed soldiers kicking and hitting with rocks two bound arabs in the west bank city of nablus last week
but israeli editors cut the most gruesome scenes, including one in which a soldier who seemed to be breaking the arms of one of the arabs
israel radio quoted uri porat, the director-general of the israel broadcast authority, as saying the scenes were deleted because of a television ban on showing atrocities and because some viewers might not be mature enough to deal with such images
in defending the coverage, stern said israel tv tried to present longer background pieces, while american networks ``collect the highlight of action from here and there, and then wrap it up in 50 seconds. that's why the impression in america is of violence, and only violence.''
but several israeli print journalists rejected those explanations. israeli newspapers cover the arab protests much more aggressively than television and radio, and have broken several stories about army brutality, including an incident in which soldiers allegedly buried alive four arabs after a protest
the yediot ahronot newspaper described the television and radio coverage as ``vegetarian, sterile.''
they have this long-winded piece that there were disturbances, and then you hear five people were badly wounded,'' said ari rath, managing editor of the english-language jerusalem post
in an editorial, he complained of a ``new clean language by israel's radio and television that calls major clashes between civilians and troops ... mere `disturbances.'''
rath said he didn't know of widespread official censorship but said some broadcast journalists apparently held back on their own. ``in part, it could be a subconscious self-defense to an increasingly embarrassing and painful situation,'' rath said. ``you try not to call a spade a spade.''
peleg, a former director of the government press office, added: ``the self-restraint in israel tv has reached a point where there is no need for censorship or political interference.''
dr. henry heimlich, the physician who developed a maneuver to save choking victims, is trying to treat cancer patients in mexico by deliberately giving them malaria, a newspaper reported
heimlich has treated three people at a mexico city hospital since december by infecting them with a non-lethal strain of malaria on the belief that the 103- to 104-degree fever produced by the disease kills cancer cells, the (cleveland) plain dealer said sunday
heimlich, 67, believes that malaria, in addition to killing cancer through fever, can stimulate the body's natural immune system to fight cancer
malaria is an infection caused by parasitic microorganisms and is spread by mosquitoes. it causes high fevers, sweats and chills
some medical researchers say heimlich's procedures should be tested first on laboratory animals and tissue cultures. they also said they were skeptical about the quality of cancer research in mexico
u.s. food and drug administration officials said heimlich's so-called ``malariatherapy'' was ``not an acceptable treatment or therapy.''
george blatt, director of the health fraud unit in fda's drug evaluation and research center, said mexico was more lenient than the united states ``in what they allow in the practice of medicine.''
most of what we call quack clinics are not prohibited in mexico,'' blatt said
heimlich, contacted sunday at his home in cincinnati, said that describing his work as ``south-of-the-border research ... is despicable.'' he said cancer research regulations in mexico were more stringent than those in the united states
we had conferences with the very highest levels of (mexico's) government and very careful protocol was laid out to protect the rights, choice and selection of patients, much, much more than is required in this country,'' said heimlich, a professor at xavier university in cincinnati and head of the heimlich institute
the first patient was given the non-lethal strain of malaria, plasmodium vivax, on dec. 23. she was a 27-year-old woman dying of rectal cancer. two others, men in their 50s, were given malaria in january, the newspaper reported
heimlich said he developed his theories after he said studies showed that third world nations with high malaria rates had low incidences of cancer
officials of the american cancer society and the federal government's national cancer institute said they had never heard of the malaria therapy, according to the newspaper
friends and enemies of the confederate flag say they ain't just whistlin' dixie when they promise a fight over whether the rebel battle banner will keep waving from state flagpoles in the south
the confederate flag flies over the capitols of alabama and south carolina along with state flags. the state flags of georgia and mississippi incorporate the design
in georgia, a bill to redesign the state flag languishes in a legislative committee, and in alabama black lawmakers who hoped to remove the confederate banner from atop the capitol dome were arrested
this is a very emotional, controversial issue. we knew that when we took it on,'' said earl shinhoster, southeastern regional director of the national association for the advancement of colored people. ``we think we deserve a vote on the issue.''
south carolina state sen. glenn mcconnell said opponents are being intolerant of differing views
it does not breed good relations ... to pull (the flag) down and brand it as a symbol of racism and hate,'' mcconnell said. ``if we become a society that cannot bridge differences, then we ... become a society built on extremes.''
shinhoster said the flag ``represents the heart and soul of a defeated cause.''
it represents state sovereignty, state rights, a rejection or resistance to federal control, and it has an adverse effect on basic issues of human need,'' he said
georgia's legislature voted to include the confederate battle emblem on the state flag in 1956, as a reaction to federal school desegregation orders. a bill seeking to reinstate the former state flag has been sent to a house committee, where it will likely die quietly
judith damewood, president of the grass-roots lobbying group common cause georgia, said she is embarrassed whenever she looks at the georgia state flag
when the democratic national convention comes to atlanta this summer, this is not the flag i want those delegates to see,'' she said
in alabama, the battle flag has flown since 1961, when then-gov. john patterson had it put up in commemoration of the civil war's 100th anniversary
since there is no law allowing the flag to fly, gov. guy hunt has said he will allow the legislature to resolve the dispute
on feb. 2, the house turned down a resolution to remove the flag, so 13 black legislators, led by rep. thomas reed of tuskegee, tried climbing a fence surrounding the capitol to pull down the flag. the group was arrested on trespassing charges. a march 11 court date has been set
other states that made up the confederacy _ arkansas, florida, louisiana, north carolina, tennessee, texas and virginia _ do not fly the battle flag officially
the norfolk, va., city council, under pressure from the local naacp, recently voted to stop displaying the flag at meetings
while flag opponents hedge their bets on intense lobbying and public outcry for action, flag supporters are preparing to talk the issue down
if it takes a filibuster, i'm going to do it,'' mcconnell said. ``i hope we can reach a consensus where the naacp ... will decide that conciliation, rather than confrontation, is better for all of us on this.''
donald kaschalk has had fewer birthdays than any of his seven children
my youngest boy is 19, and i'm just going to celebrate my 14th birthday,'' says the east detroit milkman, who was born on leap day in 1932
like other folks born on feb. 29, kaschalk's actual birthday rolls around only once every four years. it's a studder step in time that compensates for the 365\ days it takes the earth to orbit the sun
the u.s. census bureau estimates about 9,600 babies were born in the united states on feb. 29, 1984, and a similar number of infants should be born today
it's truly delightful,'' said ypsilanti businessman peter fletcher, who was born the same day as kaschalk. ``the common reaction is one of sympathy and lament because you don't have a frequent natal commemoration
but that very streak of sympathy provokes people to make it even more memorable. when i was in my callow youth, people would try to compensate for it by having a veritable spate of shivarees and celebrations for me.''
jason weiner, who's celebrating birthday no. 3 though he turned 12 today, takes it all in stride
it's ok, i guess,'' said the sixth-grader at maple elementary school in walled lake
this is his third birthday,'' said jason's mom, joyce weiner. ``we used to celebrate it on the 28th (of february), but the last few years he's said he wants to celebrate it on march 1.''
the traditional observance of leap year began in 46 b.c. when julius caesar adopted the egyptian calendar and the western world began counting years with 365\ days each
the added day every fourth year keeps the earth's calendar in line with the sun's rotation
residents of the rural valley where arizona gov. evan mecham grew up find it hard to believe he has done anything wrong, no matter that he has been indicted and impeached
the dairy farmer's son who left the uintah basin when he joined the army air corps in 1943 was industrious and studious, kind of quiet and a model citizen, neighbors and relatives recall
we can't believe he isn't a good man and see no reason for impeachment. i've not found anybody who couldn't praise evan and his integrity,'' said birdie swasey, a retired teacher who has known the mecham family since the great depression
beverly fieldsted, who was one year behind evan in school and whose brother-in-law lives in the former mecham residence down the road in mount emmons, agrees
they were not a crooked family. evan didn't steal money,'' she said. ``he worked hard on the farm, he went to school, he minded his own business, he wasn't a smart-alecky, showy kid.''
while defending mecham's integrity, mrs. swasey acknowledged that the governor, whose impeachment trial was scheduled to begin today, may have spoken carelessly at times
i suppose he's not a politician. he may have spoken quickly. you have to learn the rules of society, be sophisticated ... you can't be naive like a child and say everything that pops into your head,'' she said
mecham and his family occasionally return to this expansive valley along the south slope of the uinta mountains to visit relatives, who remain supportive
i hate to see them treat him so badly,'' said edith burton, mecham's aunt. ``i just stopped listening to the news because it made me feel bad. i knew much of it wasn't true.''
mecham said recently that his home country was ``the greatest place to grow up. i always apologize to my children that i raised them in the city and not in a place like that.''
mecham's father, adelbert, settled in mountain home in 1908 and married ina hanberg there in 1916. evan, the fifth of six children, was born may 12, 1924
when evan was 12, the family moved to mount emmons, where they had a ``humble home,'' a dairy, ran a store and raised a few crops, the governor said. ``we didn't have much, but we weren't poor. i've never felt poor in my life.''
being a dairy farmer's son during the depression and early war years forged evan's character, including those traits responsible for his current problems, friends said
he's never been a quitter,'' said his cousin, ona rust. ``that's why he's hanging in there now to clear his name.''
in 1942, 18-year-old evan took over most farm duties when his father became incapacitated by rheumatoid arthritis. evan was forced to cut back on schoolwork, but kept up his grades and earned an agricultural scholarship to utah state university
he had a reputation of someone who always worked hard to get what he got, said former neighbor harry fieldsted, adding, ``i don't know if he was any smarter, but he seemed to apply himself more.''
mecham sang and danced at mormon church functions and was elected student body president his junior year at altamont high school, though he was kidded about his shyness in the 1941 yearbook
mecham's date at the altamont junior prom, florence lambert, became his wife, and they later had seven children. the couple settled in arizona after world war ii, when mecham studied business at arizona state university and became an auto dealer
smoke in the cockpit of a chicago-bound midway airlines jet forced its pilot to make an unscheduled landing here, officials said
no injuries were reported among the 119 passengers and five crew members aboard flight 793, which originated in tampa, authorities said
sunday's landing of the boeing-737 was a precautionary measure, said v.h. steed of the federal aviation administration in atlanta
the smoke was created by an electrical problem, said sandra allen, director of corporate communications for the chicago-based midway airlines
passenger jon klank, 24, of glen ellyn, ill., said he was sleeping when the plane started to descend to gainesville regional airport
i woke up when the ladies next to me started crying,'' he said
midway treated the passengers to lunch while they awaited another jet to take them to chicago
the tokyo stock exchange's key index ended 13 consecutive days of gains today, edging down in moderate trading, while the dollar stayed within a narrow range after opening lower against the japanese yen
dealers said many participants stayed away from the stock exchange in anticipation of a market correction following the string of gains. after rising 119.69 points during saturday's half-day session, the 225-share nikkei stock average closed at 25,242.81, down 42.06 points or 0.2 percent
such a small decline has almost no meaning,'' said kunihiro ono of nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage. ``it was just a reaction to 13 straight days of increases.''
the market is taking a respite which many participants had expected for some time,'' said another analyst who spoke on condtion of anonymity
during the previous 13 trading days, the nikkei index had risen a total of 1,622.60 points or 7 percent. it just missed matching a record 14 consecutive days of gains set in early 1961
on the tokyo foreign exchange market, the dollar opened at 128.08 yen, down 0.27 yen from friday's close of 128.35 yen. it edged down briefly to 127.95 yen, its first trip below the 128-yen level in about three weeks, before ending the day at 128.12, down 0.23 yen. spot volume was a light $4.1 billion
sentiment toward the dollar is bearish, and the market is still searching for its (the dollar's) down side,'' said a trader who spoke on condition of anonymity. he said speculators had tried to sell the u.s. currency lower, but had bought back some dollars in the afternoon to cover dollar-short positions
traders said the dollar's decline was being slowed by fears of possible market intervention by the bank of japan below the 128-yen level, profit-taking by speculators, and light activity by commercial dollar-sellers
but a senior trader at a commercial bank, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said the bank of japan was unlikely to intervene unless the dollar began falling at a faster pace below the 127.5-yen level
satoshi sumita, bank of japan governor, said today the central bank would continue to move ``flexibly'' in money markets
in a speech to businessmen, he cautioned against a further decline in the dollar, which he said would have negative effects on the u.s. economy, including possible inflation, stock market instability and a slowdown in foreign money flowing to the united states
carbon monoxide fumes apparently from a gas heater killed four children ranging from ages 6 to 12 and their teen-age baby sitter, police said
it's absolutely the worst multiple death case in one family that we've had in clay county,'' said sheriff's lt. tim martin
ultimately, what has happened was, we feel, a faulty exhaust on a gas furnace became clogged and the carbon monoxide fumes were allowed to back up and disperse through the house,'' he said saturday
ola weerts and a friend had left the children with a baby sitter and went to dinner. when they returned about midnight friday, the baby sitter and three of the children were dead, martin said
the only survivor was tanya weerts, 12, who was taken unconscious to shands hospital in nearby gainesville. she died saturday evening
pronounced dead at mrs. weerts' home here were two other children, 10-year-old james and 6-year-old sherri. mrs. weerts' friend's granddaughter, julie meador, 10, and baby sitter jennifer bias, 17, were also dead, martin said
they were all in their beds, apparently sleeping except for one 10-year-old on the kitchen floor,'' he said. ms. bias was found on a living room sofa
autopsies on the others showed they died of acute carbon monoxide poisoning, according to the medical examiner
reports that condoms were discovered in some milk products of steffen dairy foods co. were a hoax to defraud the company and not a case of tampering at the plant, police say
four people have been arrested on charges of felony theft and conspiracy to commit felony theft, police capt. john dotson said saturday. more suspects were being sought, he said
reports by four people of condoms in their milk was a hoax,'' dotson said. ``there is no tampering of products at steffen.''
steffen recalled about 10,000 quart and half-gallon cardboard milk cartons wednesday after four reports about unpackaged condoms in the milk. the company received a fifth report last week, but that was retracted, dotson said. highway</head>
a law school graduate out to celebrate after taking the florida bar examination was shot to death as he drove along interstate 95, police said
friends following irv ribler's sports car told police the single shot was fired from a van whose occupants had just thrown a small object at the car, but that was unconfirmed, broward county sheriff's spokesman jim leljedal said sunday
right now, we're just hoping someone will come forward who saw what happened. somebody had to. there was a lot of traffic out there,'' leljedal said of the shooting at dusk saturday in unincorporated broward county
after ribler, 26, was shot just below his left shoulder, his car sped across the median, three lanes of oncoming traffic and then plowed into a gully. he was pronounced dead within the hour at broward medical center
no other cars hit his and no other injuries were reported
zaida ribler, who cleaned houses and worked as a tailor seven days a week to put her only child through florida state university and the university of miami law school, said her son was going to a party in nearby delray beach
he left me a note before he left saturday,'' she said sunday from her home here, about 15 miles north of miami. ``it says, `mom, see you in the morning. i love you. irv
he was a good son. he studied so hard. he worked in the yard. he cleaned the house. he didn't drink,'' his mother said. ``now my life has ended. everything is over.''
ribler graduated from law school last may and had since failed the bar exam. since then, he had studied constantly. after taking the test in tampa on wednesday, he was elated _ certain he had passed, friends said
his whole life was centered on passing the bar and working as a public defender,'' said classmate manny fernandez, 24. ``he had some offers. he was almost there.''
a journalist for more than 45 years, newsday columnist murray kempton was given a special citation as long island university announced its george polk awards in journalism
kempton has represented the highest standards of the profession,'' said the university as awards in 14 categories were announced sunday
whether covering u.s. presidents, civil rights activists, or even gangland figures, he has demonstrated the tough-mindedness, courage, and sensitivity that are in the best tradition of the long island university polk awards,'' the statement said
kempton, 70, was given a career award, presented occasionally to honor a body of work
two wall street journal reporters, james b. stewart and daniel hertzberg, were chosen to receive a financial reporting award for coverage of the october stock market crash. a nominating committee member praised the ``rigor, depth and range'' of their reporting
the polk awards, among the nation's most coveted journalistic prizes, are presented each year at a luncheon at the hotel roosevelt in manhattan. this year's awards will be presented march 30
roger rosenblatt of time magazine won his second polk award for magazine reporting. rosenblatt's ```day in the life of the soviet union'' went beyond the commonplace accounts of the country's political and military politics, treatment of political leaders, and customary assessments of dissident movements, the university said
in a departure from the norm, the committee selected two major news organizations _ rather than an individual person or story _ as its winners in political reporting and network television reporting
knight-ridder's washington bureau received the political reporting award for what the university said was the general excellence of its political coverage and its particularly effective reporting on the iran-contra scandal
cable news network received the award for network television reporting for the ``excellence of its around-the-clock, seven-days-a-week, 52-weeks-a-year coverage of the news.''
other awards:
_foreign reporting: nora boustany of the washington post for coverage of the plight of palestinian refugees and the trauma of beirut
_national reporting: mike masterson, chuck cook and mark n. trahant of the arizona republic for a 30-story series, ``fraud in indian country,'' on mismanagement and corruption involving the federal bureau of indian affairs
_metropolitan reporting: the charlotte observer for more than 500 stories, with repeated revelations, on the jim bakker and ptl scandal
_local reporting: ron ridenhour of the new orleans citybusiness, a biweekly newspaper, for a yearlong investigation of a city tax scandal
_sports reporting: chris mortensen of the atlanta journal and constitution for ``ignoring the rules,'' a 110-story report on the subversion of amateurism by sports agents and college athletes
_science reporting: science news, published by science service inc., for comprehensive and reliable coverage of the latest research in all branches of science
_foreign television reporting: gordon manning of nbc for his role in bringing to the network and public two major projects, ``changing china'' and ``a conversation with mikhail gorbachev.''
_local television reporting: margie nichols of wsmv-tv, nashville, tenn., for ``a premium price'' and ``little assurance,'' an investigation of insurance fraud that preys on senior citizens
_radio reporting: larry bensky of pacifica radio for his multiple roles as organizer, anchor and commentator for pacifica's gavel-to-gavel coverage of the iran-contra hearings
the awards were established by liu in 1949, the year after polk, a cbs news correspondent, was slain while covering the greek civil war
the winter olympics' flame, which was lighted in greece and traversed some of the most rugged terrain by helicopter, dogsled, snowshoes and skis, was extinguished beneath a nearly full moon in calgary
with 60,000 people present, athletes from 57 countries marched in to mcmahon stadium for sunday night's closing ceremonies carrying miniature olympic torches. banners reading ``until we meet again'' in eight languages were draped along the top of the stands
about 250 skaters took to the world's largest temporary ice rink in period costumes depicting the history of figure skating as a high-tech array of thousands of lights glistened off sequined costumes, flags and flame
the skaters included past and present medal winners as well as young skaters from albertville, france, site of the 1992 winter games, and seoul, south korea, site of this year's summer games
these have been wonderful games,'' declared frank king, whose title is chief executive officer of calgary games' organizing committee
for the united states, however, the winter games was the worst showing in 52 years. two of the six u.s. medals were gold medals, won by brian boitano in figure skating and bonnie blair in speed skating. blair also won a bronze in speed skating, making her america's only double winner
the soviets finished first in number of gold medals, with 11, and total medals, with 29, a record. east germany's athletes won nine golds, 25 overall; while switzerland's team came in third in gold medals, five, and overall medals, 15
four other teams also did better than the united states in terms of overall medals: austria, west germany, finland and the netherlands
in 1936, the united states won just four medals, but only 51 were available then. this time, 138 medals were handed out
pulitzer-prize winning columnist jimmy breslin was cited for stories of ordinary new yorkers trying to live decent lives amid drugs and poverty as the american society of newspaper editors announced six recipients of its 1988 distinguished writing awards
the new york daily news columnist was honored for outstanding commentary, which also included columns he wrote on the howard beach racial attack
other recipients announced by the asne sunday are:
_ breslin's colleague at the daily news, columnist bob herbert. he was cited for deadline writing based on his account of the violence in the 1987 presidential elections in haiti
_ blaine harden, washington post africa correspondent, for non-deadline writing. he was chosen for a ``vivid account of a river journey through zaire'' and other stories
_ james m. klurfeld, associate editor of newsday, for editorial writing. klurfeld won for writing about president reagan and the iran-contra affair
_ carl schoettler, baltimore evening sun reporter, for obituary writing. his entries included accounts of the lives of three baltimore residents: a news dealer, a former mayor and a newspaper publisher
_ tom shales, chief television critic and tv editor of the washington post, for obituary writing. the committee noted his appreciations of ray bolger, david susskind, danny kaye and rita hayworth
winners of the national awards receive a $1,000 cash prize from the asne foundation at its annual convention in washington april 15
runners-up in the 1988 competition are henry allen, the washington post; graham s. dower, cleveland plain dealer; david finkel, st. petersburg (fla.) times; michael pakenham, new york daily news; and elizabeth rau, providence (r.i) journal-bulletin
the work of the national winners will be published in a book, ``best newspaper writing 1988,'' produced by the poynter institute for media studies in st. petersburg, fla
take note of today, monday _ there won't be another like it until 1992
it's leap year, when a day which seems to come from nowhere is added to february and the year is 366 days long instead of 365
the astronomers of julius caesar in 46 b.c. decided it
they said that as the solar year was 365 days and 6 hours, the hours made an extra day every four years
why leap?
the oxford english dictionary says _ and you may have to read this twice _ that the year probably got its name because any fixed festival after february in such a year ``falls on the next weekday but one to that on which it fell in the preceding year, not on the next weekday as usual.''
a leaping over day, you see
according to popular tradition in britain, a woman on this day has the right to ask a man to marry her, instead of the other way round
english folklore has it that any woman having her feb. 29 proposal rebuffed can claim a silk dress from the man
in 1288 a law was enacted in scotland to give women the right to propose on feb. 29. it said any maiden lady ``shall hae liberte to bespeke ye man she likes.''
if the man refused, he had to pay the lady a pound _ a lot of money in those days _ unless he could claim he was already betrothed
a few years later, france passed a simliar law and it was also legalized in the 15th century in the italian cities of genoa and florence
a british romantic fiction publisher named silhouette, seeking to find out modern manners of proposing, asked the gallup poll to include a leap year question in its survey
the poll found that women who propose to the man of their dreams on feb. 29 have a 92 percent chance of success
but only 12 percent of the women questioned for the survey _ it didn't say how many _ responded that they would seriously consider popping the question on this day
jane ellison, a columnist on a london daily, the independent, asked today: ``how many men are worth waiting four years to propose to these days?''
ms. ellison suggested using leap year ``sensibly'' by relocating those ``annual events you dread'' to feb. 29
among her choices: the university boat race, the next andrew lloyd webber musical and christmas
to the state, john gacy is a sex murderer many times over who deserves to die. to sue terry, he's ``a real nice person'' she'd like to marry
ms. terry came to this feeling by exchanging letters during the last 16 months and through repeated visits to gacy at menard correctional center, where he's on death row for murdering 33 young men and boys
most of the victims were buried in the crawl space under his home northwest of chicago
excerpts of some of gacy's 41 letters to the 43-year-old centralia woman from oct. 5, 1986, to feb. 16 were published sunday and today in the chicago sun-times
she said gacy, 45, expects to be paroled and she believes he's innocent of the sex killings
gacy is under 12 separate death sentences and 21 terms of natural life in prison with no hope of parole
we're real close,'' she said. ``i like john, and he trusts me. i guess i love him. yes.''
ms. terry, a divorced mother of eight children who is also helping to raise two grandchildren, said gacy has asked her to marry him. she said she would
i was gullible and trusted others. that's how i got where i am today,'' gacy wrote in one letter published today. ``i could lay back and say it's not my fault i am here, because i know i never killed anyone. the facts will back me up. but i am guilty of being gullible and trusting others, so i belong here for letting myself down.''
gacy also wrote of how he cried watching the olympics and the devotion of the athletes; he scolded ms. terry for not selling any of his oil paintings; and he told of how he was going to run a strict household for ms. terry's children when he gets out of prison and they all live together
however, attorney terry sullivan, who prosecuted gacy, said he ``is more likely to be executed than paroled.''
ms. terry said she first met gacy at menard in august 1986, seven months after she first wrote him a brief note
i decided to go back because, well, he's real nice. ... he's a real nice person and he seems to be really concerned about me and my kids.''
cardinal bernard f. law says the roman catholic church has been guilty of racism and has put `horrendous obstacles'' in the way of black catholics
at a special mass sunday where more than 1,000 black catholics celebrated the past and future of blacks in the boston archdiocese, the boston archbishop said the ``faith of black catholics has been tremendously tested by the church, which put such horrendous obstacles in their way. but the faith endured even under the most extraordinarily difficult circumstances.''
following the mass, which also marked black history month, law said, ``racism is not conquered, not here or anywhere else. but what we're seeing is a very positive sign
racism is a sin. it offends god. the church is made up of sinners, not saints, and one of the church's sins has been racism. for that we are repentant.''
there are an estimated 25,000 blacks among the 1.9 million catholics in the boston archdiocese
the mass at the cathedral of the holy cross featured the singing of hymns by soloists meyer chambers, philiss baker and denise graves
we're so accustomed to holding back in the catholic church, but today was a chance to live our own heritage, to open up,'' chambers said. ``it's been a long time coming.''
prices were mixed on the london stock exchange early today, although banking shares posted strong gains on news that brazil has agreed to resume interest payments on its foreign debt
at midmorning, the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was down 1 point, or 0.06 percent, at 1,765.5. the index had opened at 1,769.1, up 2.6 points on friday's close
thirty-five of the 100 major companies comprising the index were showing gains in early trading, 19 were showing losses and the remainder were unchanged. contract expiration occurred late friday, adds two grafs of background.</note>
northwest airlines' 6,700 flight attendants continued to keep the carrier guessing today on whether they will strike, three days after a union deadline for reaching a new contract
both sides in the labor talks said just one issue divided them. but william genoese, international director of the teamsters union's airline division, said late sunday that no further negotiations were scheduled
at this moment we're in strike position. it can happen two minutes from now or any other time. under the law, we have that right,'' genoese said
he said absenteeism had increased among flight attendants
they are calling in sick. it's on the increase,'' genoese said. but he declined to categorize the absences as a negotiating tactic, saying, ``i'm not going to say that.''
representatives of the airline and the union met with a federal mediator for four hours sunday and agreed on all but one contract issue, said northwest spokesman william wren. wren and genoese said the issue is northwest's proposal to increase from five to nine years the period that newly hired workers stay on a lower pay scale
genoese said he sent a telegram to steven g. rothmeier, chairman and chief executive officer of nwa inc., the parent company of northwest, requesting a meeting. wren said late sunday he did not know if rothmeier knew of the request
northwest officials said sunday the airline continued to operate a normal flight schedule. no delays were reported at airports served by the carrier
if flight attendants do strike, the airline said it will keep flying, using about 2,000 managers trained as flight attendants were and 200 newly hired replacements
genoese said he planned to meet today with representatives of the pilots and machinists on whether they would honor flight attendant picket lines
a strike deadline late friday was extended as the two sides continued negotiations that began wednesday. genoese said saturday night that a request by the federal mediator to delay a strike helped avert a walkout earlier in the day
former republic airlines flight attendants have been working under their old contract since northwest acquired republic in 1986, and many of them are paid less than their northwest counterparts
the company, the nation's fifth-largest airline, is trying to bring the workers under one contract and offered to bring former republic employees up to the salary levels of northwest employees. but the union claimed the airline wanted too much in exchange, including cuts in vacation pay and retirement benefits
in a sun-dappled forest on the outskirts of geneva, a soviet negotiator and his american counterpart meet to discuss, among other things, the nuclear arms race and the fate of the world
they are a diplomatic odd couple. the russian, andrey botvinnik, is gregarious, impulsive and almost childlike in his enthusiasm for the frivolous. the american, john honeyman, is officious, humorless, a bit priggish and irritatingly sincere about his new job as the u.s. representative to the arms control talks
their one-on-one marathon conversations make up lee blessing's ``a walk in the woods,'' a wise and witty evening of theater that arrived sunday at broadway's booth theater
the russian wants to discuss country music, italian suits and making love to red-haired women. he wants a pal, not protocol. ``formality is simply anger with its hair combed,'' he coos
the earnest american wants to steer the talk back to the negotiations. he wants results. ``friendship,'' he says, ``takes you away from commitment to solving problems.''
the two-character play was inspired by a true incident in 1982 involving american arms adviser paul nitze and a soviet negotiator. blessing takes their real-life rustic ramble and embellishes on it, transforming their meeting into a theatrical situation laced with humor, grace and intelligence
some two-person plays are like tennis matches. they are made up of relentless back-and-forth banter that exhausts the audience without leading anywhere. ``a walk in the woods'' has its share of volleys and it dallies a bit, particularly in the second act. still, it manages to make its point about the need to keep trying for peace, with a minimum of preaching
in part, the play succeeds because blessing refrains from overloading the evening with technical jargon and anti-war sermons. there may be references to mx missiles, megadeaths, star wars, bargaining chips, lasers and afghanistan, but the emphasis is on the men, not specific ways of averting nuclear destruction
by the time the two diplomats have walked through these woods during four different seasons, they have grown to understand and even like each other. that knowledge comes at the same time they realize their two countries, while proclaiming interest in peace, have little desire to slow down the arms race
if that makes the play sound unusually somber, it isn't. ``a walk in the woods'' has its share of belly laughs, most of them supplied by robert prosky, best known as sgt. jablonski on television's ``hill street blues.'' he's a big, beefy actor who inhabits the very soul of the soviet diplomat and who even negotiates a convincing russian accent. but the character's joviality masks a cynicism fed by too many years at the bargaining table. ``if mankind hated war, there would be millions of us and only two soldiers,'' he says
sam waterston, as the somber american, plays straight man to prosky, except for one wonderful comic monologue in the second act when he explains what happened after he threw a gum wrapper on switzerland's spotless soil. but for much of the time, this reliable actor is left to deliver conventional, present-day attitudes on the horrors of the arms race. it's to waterston's credit that he makes them seem part of his character's idealistic beliefs rather than soapbox oratory
the play has been directed by des mcanuff in an understated manner with movement kept to a minimum. for a good deal of the evening, the two actors just sit on a park bench set squarely in the center of a woodsy glade designed by bill clarke and washed in a delicate light by richard riddell
rich-looking earth nearly spills into the first few rows of the theater and a forest of trees soars to the top of the proscenium arch. it's an inviting, tranquil setting, the perfect place to ruminate on what would be lost if the two superpowers didn't continue their walks in the woods
in other reviews:
the new york times' frank rich offered guarded praise for the actors' work and called the set _ with the trees changing with the seasons _ ``pretentious.'' rich said the play ``fudges the distinctions of actual international politics and arms negotiation, choosing instead to telescope the messy, life-or-death conflict into a sentimental relationship between two likable envoys.''
in the daily news, howard kissel roundly praised waterston and prosky. ``it is waterston's most moving work in years,'' he wrote. ``it is hard to imagine a more perfect actor to play the wily soviet.''
said kissel, ``a few times the play seems coy or tendentious, but the two are so powerful we never forget it's about frail men fighting quixotically against their awareness of futility.''
the protesters, marching four in a row, walked toward parliament from st. george's cathedral, where tutu and other clergymen had declared the churches would have to lead the protests against the government's anti-apartheid policies because 18 major opposition groups had been banned last week from all political activity
tutu marched in front of the procession, along with the rev. allan boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches, and the catholic bishop of cape town, stephen naidoo
at the end of each row were clergymen; lay people who had attended the service were in the middle. tutu had warned the protesters during the church service in the cathedral that they might be tear-gassed, sprayed with watter cannon or arrested
before starting the march, tutu told the service, ``we have gathered here as an active witness and out of protest against what the south african government did last week. we intend after this very short service to walk to parliament to present a petition.''
he said the intention was not to provoke police and if the march was stopped the participants should kneel down
the petition, addressed to president p.w. botha and parliament, said:
we leaders of a number of south african churches have come to parliament today to witness and pray in a time of crisis outside the buildings in which you make important decisions affecting the lives of millions of south africans who belong to our churches. in terms of the principles of non-violent direct action, we informed the government of our intention before coming here.''
the winter olympics' flame, which was lighted in greece and traversed some of the most rugged terrain by helicopter, dogsled, snowshoes and skis, was extinguished beneath a nearly full moon in calgary
with 60,000 people present, athletes from 57 countries marched in to mcmahon stadium for sunday night's closing ceremonies carrying miniature olympic torches. banners reading ``until we meet again'' in eight languages were draped along the top of the stands
about 250 skaters took to the world's largest temporary ice rink in period costumes depicting the history of figure skating as a high-tech array of thousands of lights glistened off sequined costumes, flags and flame
the skaters included past and present medal winners as well as young skaters from albertville, france, site of the 1992 winter games, and seoul, south korea, site of this year's summer games
these have been wonderful games,'' declared frank king, whose title is chief executive officer of calgary games' organizing committee
for the united states, however, the winter games was the worst showing in 52 years. two of the six u.s. medals were gold medals, won by brian boitano in figure skating and bonnie blair in speed skating. blair also won a bronze in speed skating, making her america's only double winner
the soviets finished first in number of gold medals, with 11, and total medals, with 29, a record. east germany's athletes won nine golds, 25 overall; while switzerland's team came in third in gold medals, five, and overall medals, 15
four other teams also did better than the united states in terms of overall medals: austria, west germany, finland and the netherlands
in 1936, the united states won just four medals, but only 51 were available then. this time, 138 medals were handed out
curly's skin-pated look-alike mingled with the crowd while three stooges devotees watched old films and ducked flying pies
from as far as california, at least 1,000 fans of the celebrated knuckleheads came to maine for a weekend of _ nyuk, nyuk _ stoogemania, ron eugley, one of the convention's organizers, said sunday
a stooge trivia contest was in progress when the pie fight _ a highlight of the event _ broke out
i was emcee and i didn't even get a chance to close my eyes,'' said joe jerrier, 37, a firefighter from gardiner, maine. ``i got four of 'em.''
i've loved larry, moe and curly ever since i was 5 years old,'' said virginia riviera, 30, who came with two friends from salem, mass
they and others swapped memorabilia and watched such films as ``three little pigskins,'' ``all the world's a stooge,'' ``dizzy doctors'' and ``disorder in the court.''
curly impersonator david knight, an iron worker from palmyra, n.y., tweaked ears but generally restrained himself from head-knocking, eye-poking and face-slapping. those were some of the slapstick hallmarks of the trio that made more than 190 short films and about 50 feature-length films until the '60s
morris ``moe'' horowitz, who later changed his last name to howard, died in 1975; his brother samuel ``shemp,'' and larry fineberg died earlier, as did jerome ``curly,'' another horowitz brother who replaced shemp as a result of a pay dispute
why is there a three-story, $8,000 stained glass window 10 yards from the odor control tank at a sewage pumping station near fisherman's wharf?
the window is part of the $200,000 worth of art commissioned to decorate the city's sewage treatment plants
under a 1969 ordinance, san francisco requires contractors to set aside up to 2 percent of every public works construction dollar for art that is selected by the arts commission
just as we need air and water, we need art and culture in our lives. it doesn't cost any extra ... (and) it makes a facility more enjoyable and respected,'' jill manton, curator of san francisco's public art program, said recently
concrete totems, a colored geometric roof gravel design and mosaic tile walls are other completed sewer art projects
the sunnydale pump station near candlestick park is in line for a special design to help hide the station's rooftop air ducts while featuring a habitat for an endangered butterfly species
the dollar drifted lower in light european trading early today. gold prices also fell
market sentiment for the dollar turned bearish last week when it became clear that the currency could not hold the 1.70-level against the west german mark, said a trader in frankfurt
but overall the market lacked direction, and the dollar was fluctuating within a narrow range, traders said
midmorning dollar rates in europe compared with rates late friday:
_ 1.6869 west german marks, down from 1.6895
_ 1.3888 swiss francs, down from 1.3897
_ 5.7095 french francs, down from 5.7175
_ 1.8941 dutch guilders, down from 1.8965
_ 1,243.20 italian lire, down from 1,245.45
_ 1.2639 canadian dollars, down from 1.2838
the british pound edged up to $1.7740 from $1.7715
the dollar closed in tokyo at 128.12 japanese yen, down from 128.35 yen on friday. in later london trading today, the dollar was quoted at 128.28 yen
london's major bullion houses fixed a recommended gold price at midmorning of $423.75 a troy ounce, down from an opening bid of $428 and friday's closing rate of $431.50. a trader said gold came under heavy selling pressure, but he was unsure why
in zurich, gold was bid at $424.20, down from $431.50
earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid of $430.19, down from $430.34 on saturday
silver bullion was quoted in london at a bid of $6.10 a troy ounce, down from $6.20 late friday. northwest</head>
the northwest basked in record-high temperatures while the east shivered and showers and thunderstorms doused parts of california and texas today
cloudiness enshrouded the lower great lakes region, resulting in widely scattered snow showers. isolated rain showers were common in the rocky mountain region
temperature records established sunday included 66 degrees in boise, idaho, 71 in portland, ore., 60 in spokane, wash., and 57 in kalispell, mont
the afternoon high of 71 degrees in portland also established a record for february
showers and thunderstorms moved through southern and central california and central texas sunday evening and early today. the rain developed ahead of a cold front pushing across oklahoma and texas
cloudiness extended from the northern ohio valley to the west coast. advisories for dense fog were in effect this morning for southern and central louisiana and parts of southeast texas
temperatures were generally below freezing this morning in the nation's midsection, dropping to the teens in eastern new york state and northern new england and to single digits in northern maine
today's forecast called for scattered showers and thunderstorms from california and oregon across nevada and arizona to utah and southern idaho and as far south as the central gulf coast; and snow or snow showers from northern new england across new york state to the central appalachians
highs were expected to be in the 30s from new england across the northern and central appalachians and the great lakes region to the upper mississippi valley and the dakotas; teens and 20s in northern maine, the northern great lakes and northern minnesota; 60s and 70s from the south atlantic states across the gulf coast states, the southern plains, much of new mexico and parts of arizona to the west coast states; some 80s in southern portions of texas and arizona and 40s and 50s elsewhere
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 3 degrees below zero at houlton, maine, to 71 degrees at laredo, texas
other reports:
_east: atlanta 42 fair; boston 25 fair; buffalo 34 snow; charleston, s.c. 35 fair; cincinnati 36 fair; cleveland 34 fair; detroit 32 fair; miami 59 foggy; new york 32 fair; philadelphia 28 foggy; pittsburgh 35 snow; portland, maine 16 fair; washington 31 fair
_central: bismarck 29 fair; chicago 32 fair; dallas-fort worth 58 cloudy; denver 31 fair; des moines 29 fair; indianapolis 31 fair; kansas city 30 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 29 fair; nashville 34 fair; new orleans 60 foggy; st. louis 34 fair
_west: albuquerque 46 partly cloudy; anchorage 36 cloudy; las vegas 53 partly cloudy; los angeles 59 cloudy; phoenix 63 fair; salt lake city 47 partly cloudy; san diego 59 partly cloudy; san francisco 55 partly cloudy; seattle 49 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 25 cloudy; toronto 34 partly cloudy
what we're doing today is history. in 20 years people will be looking back and this will be the definitive way to impeach a governor, i hope.'' _ arizona senate minority leader alan stephens, commenting on the start of the impeachment trial of gov. evan mecham
they sound alike. they talk alike. they've supported every single tax increase over the last eight years. if they're nominated, the reagan revolution is over, gone, dead.'' _ rep. jack kemp, referring to vice president george bush and sen. bob dole, his rivals for the republican presidential nomination
those who want to make the nazis' mass murder stand alone by forbidding every comparison with other events are guilty of having an incredibly unhistorical attitude.'' _ west german historian ernst nolte, commenting on attempts by him and other revisionist historians to compare the holocaust to genocides in other countries
a pakistani delegation left for geneva today for what could be the conclusive round of peace talks on afghanistan as the islamabad government hastened efforts to reach a consensus on its position
prime minister mohammad khan junejo spent the weekend consulting cabinet ministers and opposition lawmakers over whether to couple a soviet troop withdrawal from afghanistan with the formation of an interim kabul government
he convened a closed joint session of parliament to debate the issue sunday night and was scheduled to hold another cabinet meeting today
we will contribute positively to the talks in accordance with the aspirations of our people,'' the state minister for foreign affairs, zain noorani, said today as he prepared to depart from islamabad airport as head of the pakistani delegation
on wednesday, it is to begin working out the final details of a soviet troop withdrawal indirectly with kabul's communist government
informed pakistani and foreign sources in islamabad, speaking on condition of anonymity, said islamabad still has not decided whether to sign an accord with the governing people's democratic party of afghanistan under its current leader, najib
moscow, which first sent troops to afghanistan in december 1979, announced feb. 8 it is prepared to start pulling out its estimated 115,000 troops beginning may 15
however, pakistani officials recently have insisted that a peace accord should be accompanied by a political settlement to ensure the safe return of about 3.5 million afghan refugees now in pakistan
afghan resistance leaders, headquartered in peshawar, pakistan, last week proposed an interim government virtually excluding najib's party. najib criticized the proposal over the weekend, according to official radio kabul
washington, the moslem rebels' main military backer, has said a political accord was ``desireable'' but should not hold up the geneva document, which would pave the way for a soviet pullout
prime minister junejo has taken the unprecedented step of calling opposition groups outside parliament for consultations on the issue on march 5. minister noorani is scheduled to return to islamabad for the meeting
opposition leaders, including benazir bhutto of the pakistan people's party, withheld immediate response to the invitation. officials of their umbrella organization, the movement for the restoration of democracy, indicated they will reply in unison
the hectic political activity has been typical since soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev made his dramatic feb. 8 offer to start bringing the red army home 60 days after the signing of a geneva accord
in a surprise move, prime minister rajiv gandhi of india on saturday invited pakistan president mohammad zia ul-haq to new delhi to discuss the issue, but zia declined by reversing the invitation
indian foreign secretary k.p.s. menon on tuesday will come to islamabad instead, it was decided
pakistan based its rebuff on india's pro-soviet stance and gandhi's repeated refusal to accept zia's invitations to islamabad. zia went to new delhi in december 1985 in hopes of launching friendship talks, but gandhi has never reciprocated
at least 20 government soldiers were killed in clashes with communist rebels, and an aide to president corazon aquino said she will not extend an amnesty for communist and moslem rebels
mrs. aquino first made the controversial amnesty offer in february 1987 following the breakdown of peace talks with the communist-dominated national democratic front. she extended it for another six months the following august
an official at the presidential palace, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the program administered by the national economic development authority would expire on schedule tonight at midnight
rebels who will come down from the hills starting tomorrow will be charged in court for crimes they committed,'' he said
the official added that rebels who had already surrendered will continue to receive government assistance
the military had been unenthusiastic about the program because senior officers complained it enabled rebels to avoid prosecution for killing soldiers. military dissidents arrested after previous coup attempts also complained that they should be granted the same amnesty as the rebels
officials at the national economic development authority claim nearly 60,000 people, mostly communist rebels or their supporters, surrendered under the amnesty program. but the authority admitted that only 6,252 were regulars of the 23,000-strong communist new people's army
critics of the program believe those figures are inflated. journalists who attended several mass surrender ceremonies found that many of those claiming to be rebels or their supporters were simply impoverished peasants seeking government handouts or trying to avoid military attacks on their villages
as the deadline approached, it appeared the communists were gearing up for a new round of fighting. at least 20 soldiers were killed in scattered battles with the rebels over the weekend
the rebels on sunday stormed a philippine constabulary headquarters on negros island, killing six government troopers and looting the garrison of its weapons, the military said today
on saturday, 12 elite scout rangers died when their truck ran over a land mine between guinobatan and jovellar towns in albay province, 200 miles southeast of manila
troops killed four ebels in the ensuing gun battle, the military said
elsewhere, rebels killed two philippine constabulary sergeants in leyte province saturday and soldiers killed two rebels in bohol province, according to military reports. entry</head>
police in panama briefly detained three u.s. journalists and accused them of breaking the law by taking a photo of the opposition newspaper la prensa, a newspaper reported monday
la prensa, based in panama city, has been closed by troops and is surrounded by city police as part of a crackdown by panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega
ursula seemann and mike billington of the fort lauderdale news-sun-sentinel and carol morello, a reporter for the philadelphia inquirer, were detained for about 45 minutes sunday, the news-sun-sentinel reported
seemann had photographed the building and police surrounding it when officers demanded her film and then ordered the three to a local police station. the film was returned and the journalists were released without further incident
on friday, panamanian authorities refused to admit three u.s. journalists after they landed in a chartered plane at omar torrijos international airport in panama city
sam dillon of the miami herald, his wife julia preston of the washington post and nicaragua-based nbc-tv producer john siceloff were told they could not stay because they had not announced their arrival in advance, the herald reported
in separate incidents in january, dillon and ms. preston were detained overnight after entering panama on commericial flights and deported the next morning
a man who claimed a michigan lotto jackpot must share the $1.8 million prize with his former live-in girlfriend, an county judge has ruled
carolyn eeles of westland filed the suit, claiming she and her former boyfriend, james w. renfro, had an oral agreement to share any winnings from lotto tickets they bought for a december 1985 drawing
ingham county circuit judge peter houk upheld the claim friday
eeles's lawyer, karl nickolai of highland, argued that eeles paid $5 to buy 10 lottery tickets dec. 18, 1985. one of those tickets turned out to be a jackpot winner, which nickolai said renfro redeemed two days before returning to his estranged wife and moving to tennessee
renfro testified that he bought the lotto tickets himself, but 17 other witnesses contradicted renfro's testimony, including some who vouched for eeles' claim that she and renfro each paid $5 for the 10 tickets and that eeles herself picked the winning numbers
renfro has collected first two installments, worth about $74,000 each after taxes, and houk ordered him to pay eeles half of that sum
houk also ordered that eeles receive half of the remaining 18 payments and interest on the first two installments and that renfro pay her lawyer's fees
i'm thrilled, there is justice in this land,'' eeles, 43, said afterward. renfro, 48, said the witnesses ``weren't telling the truth.''
president corazon aquino said today she sent two relatives to meet ferdinand marcos in hawaii, and her ousted predecessor said he wanted to negotiate his return
mrs. aquino said she was not ready to let marcos come back, but a senator hinted marcos may be allowed to come home if he swears allegiance to the government and meets other terms
presidential spokesman teodoro benigno told reporters mrs. aquino recently sent her uncle, rep. francisco sumulong, and cousin, rep. egmidio tanjuatco, to meet with marcos at his home in honolulu
marcos fled the philippines in february 1986 after a military-civilian uprising that followed fraud-tainted presidential elections in which both he and mrs. aquino claimed victory
go there and listen. if we can listen to other people, why can't we listen to mr. marcos, who said that he had an important message to send,'' benigno quoted mrs. aquino as telling her relatives
tanjuatco told the associated press, ``i saw mr. marcos in honolulu starting at 2 p.m. on jan. 26. we met only once. the meeting was between him and myself only. during the meeting, mr. marcos reiterated to me his desire to return to the philippines at the earliest opportunity.''
in honolulu, where marcos lives in exile, marcos issued a statement saying:
we are ready to appoint our representatives to negotiate the details and conditions under which my family and i shall return to the philippines for the salvation of the country from the bloody takeover by communist insurgents.''
the statement commended the aquino government for inviting ``all political factions to organize one united political structure'' and congratulated the aquino government for existing as long as it has
the aquino government had no immediate response to the statement from marcos
mrs. aquino has banned marcos and his immediate family from returning to the philippines. asked by reporters today whether she would let marcos return, mrs. aquino replied ``not yet.'' she refused to elaborate
but sen. neptali gonzales, a former justice minister in the aquino government, told reporters marcos might be allowed to return if he swears allegiance to the administration and settles claims that he stole billions of dollars from the treasury during his 20-year rule
in another development, officials said they found the name ``imelda marcos'' on the passenger list of a flight that arrived in manila saturday from australia
a marcos family spokesman said mrs. marcos was still in hawaii
look, down on the ground! it's a bird! it's a plane! it's an eyesore!
it's a stinson reliant spotter plane, strange visitor from another era, that now looms behind william surgi's home
if we had really wanted to look at airplanes, we would've moved next door to an airport,'' said barbara reeks. ``see how you'd like it, day after day, out there where you have no choice but to look at it.''
said her next-door neighbor, anne sullivan, ``what's he think he's going to do, fly that thing out of here?''
the single engine is missing from the plane, built in 1943 for the royal canadian air force. the original fabric covering its wings has been reduced to ragged strips of cloth fluttering from the rusty steel frame
surgi, 64, a retired navy mechanic and world war ii veteran, said he is restoring the aircraft as a hobby. until it is airworthy, he wants to work on it behind his home
city officials say there's no law against that, though some neighbors are complaining that the industrial flavor of surgi's yard may drive down property values
surgi, who concedes that his hobby is an eyesore at the moment, has been cited by the city for running a junkyard and for storing so much debris that it attracted rats
however, he said his project has the support of most of his neighbors, and displayed a petition he said was signed in his behalf by 98 neighbors
the city has set a march 21 public hearing on the issue. a proposed amendment to the city code would prohibit the storage or repair of an airplane in residential areas, unless it is inside a building
if he makes the plane flight-worthy, he'll have to dismantle it and take it to an airfield to fly it, surgi said
a drunken soldier who was waving a grenade to threaten teen-agers at a town fair accidentally dropped it early today, killing eight people, including himself, and wounding more than 30 others, police reported
sixteen people were hospitalized with serious injuries after the explosion in mae cham, 50 miles south of the provincial capital of chiang mai, said lt. manit juntanung of the mae cham police station
chiang mai, in the province of the same name, is about 430 miles north of bangkok
manit said sgt. maj. phisanu chuemai, 25, pulled the pin of the m-26 grenade and was threatening a group of teen-agers who had gotten into a dispute with fellow soldiers over dancing partners
he fell and dropped the grenade at about 12:30 a.m., as the fair was winding down. about 500 participants were at the fair at the time, manit said
manit said phisanu was training rangers, or paramilitary units, at a nearby army camp. he quoted the camp commander as saying phisanu had been drinking at the base and went to the fair after hearing about a fist fight between soldiers and teen-agers
considering that adventure writer jack london considered his early years here ``the dullest possible exisence,'' it may be no wonder local officials twice refused to rename public works in his honor
but that has angered some local historians, whose latest efforts to honor the author of ``the call of the wild'' failed when the park directors recently turned down a proposal to rechristen neptune park as jack london park
i think it's a disgrace for the town. i'm disgusted,'' said janet newton, a local historian
the request came from the heritage preservation commission, but commission chairwoman marie abbott said she now believes local residents are too parochial to honor the internationally respected author
last year, city officials also turned down abbott's request to rename altair street near neptune park after london. the ranch where london spent some of his childhood is part of neptune park
livermore is about 30 miles east of san francisco
two decades after the kerner commission issued its report on u.s. racial conditions, panelists at a conference here said prejudice is no longer the main reason many inner-city blacks live in poverty
the problem is not a problem of a defective people, the problem is a problem of a politically and economically defective system,'' said roger w. wilkins, an assistant u.s. attorney general under then-president johnson
and until we get that message across, we are going to continue to grind up and destroy people.''
wilkins said nationwide programs focusing resources on specific disadvantaged areas and people will be neccessary before any progress can be made
a growing number of people are living in an urban ``underclass'' in inner- city neighborhoods where the social and family support system has been eroded by the flight of people who could afford to leave, participants said
the report by the national commission on civil disorders, also called the kerner commission, was issued feb. 29, 1968. the panel, named by johnson and chaired by illinois gov. otto kerner, examined the causes of racial tension that led to riots in large cities across the united states
the report, in addition to calling for solutions to the problems of the black ghettos, tied the riots to a trend in which america was ``moving toward two societies, one black, one white _ separate and unequal.''
participants at the weekend conference, due to end today, said racial prejudice still exists, but that the growth of a black middle class has made the ghettos less a racial phenomenon than a structural one
william julius wilson, a professor of sociology and public policy at the university of chicago, said there are 20 percent more ``underclass'' people living in the ghettos of the nation's 50 largest cities than when the kerner report was issued. he said this is so despite the fact that those cities suffered a 5 percent overall population decrease between 1970 and 1980
the extreme poverty in such areas eliminates many of the services and social outlets available in the larger, more prosperous society at large, resulting in an increase in crime and a decrease in the aspirations of the impoverished, wilson said
banks, stores, professional services, churches _ they're either leaving or losing their audiences,'' he said
ronald mincy of the urban institute in washington said racism was at the root of the rage that spurred the urban unrest of the 1960s but that social class should be the focus of contemporary discussion of the impoverished
the black poor of today don't just compare unfavorably with white america, but also with a growing section of black america,'' he said
wilkins, now a professor of history and american culture at george mason university in fairfax, va., said it will ultimately be up to both whites and blacks to solve the problems of the underclass
the conference was co-sponsored by the institute for public policy of the university of new mexico, the 1988 commission on the cities and the johnson foundation
poet and philosopher mikhail naimy, one of lebanon's major literary figures, died in christian east beirut shortly after developing pneumonia, relatives said today. he was 98
naimy, who lived in the united states for 21 years and served in the u.s. army during world war i, died at his home in the zalka district on sunday, his family reported
the slim, bespectacled naimy, biographer and longtime associate of lebanese writer khalil gibran, was born oct. 17, 1889, in baskinta, a mountaintop village 10 miles northeast of beirut
he was educated at a russian missionary school in jerusalem and attended high school in moscow. he went to the united states in 1911 and earned a law degree from washington state university in seattle
he was drafted may 25, 1918, and sent to the front in france
naimy's career as a writer began after his 1919 return to walla walla, wash., to live with his two elder brothers
he returned to live in lebanon in 1932, a few months after gibran's death. naimy and gibran became close friends in the united states, where gibran spent most of his adult life
naimy was fluent in english, russian and arabic. his english language ``book of mirdad, a lighthouse and a haven'' has been translated into several languages. his biography of gibran was first published in arabic in 1934 and then reprinted in english in new york in 1950
naimy, a bachelor, was the author of at least 10 other books. insert ``by the associated press.</note>
vice president george bush is the chief beneficiary of the free flowing money for presidential politics in ohio, while massachusetts gov. michael dukakis is the top money man among democrats running in the state's may 3 primary
bush raised nearly $1 million in ohio last year, more than four times greater than any other gop presidential candidate, according to a story in the akron beacon journal sunday. the sum is more than 5 percent of the $18 million his presidential campaign raised nationally
among democrats, dukakis last year raised the most in ohio _ $66,710. while it is much smaller than bush's contributions, it is much more than his nearest democratic rival got, the report said
overall, the six republican presidential candidates took in $1,467,729 in ohio, more than seven times the $193,642 given to seven democrats
sen. albert gore of tennessee and vice president george bush are the favorites of kentuckians who plan to vote in the march 8 presidential primary, according to a new poll
among the 473 democrats surveyed for the bluegrass state poll, published in a copyright story in sunday's editions of the courier-journal, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis made a strong move into second place behind gore
bush had the highest favorable rating of any candidate at 57 percent. he was the choice of 41 percent in mid-november and 51 percent of the 204 likely republcian voters surveyed last week
dole has consistently won the support of about a quarter of republicans, with 28 percent in last week's poll
kentucky is among 20 states that will hold primaries and caucuses on what is known as super tuesday. kentucky's primaries will determine how each party's national convention delegates will vote on the first ballot
vice president george bush and favorite son richard gephardt are the likely winners in the first missouri primary, according to results of a new poll
bush was a narrow winner over senate minority leader robert dole in polling conducted statewide in a telephone survey commissioned by the st. louis post-dispatch and kmox radio for the march 8 ``super tuesday'' primary
gephardt, a congressman from south st. louis, polled 53 percent for a commanding lead in the democratic race, the newspaper reported in a copyright story sunday
bush got 35 percent of the republican vote to 29 percent for dole, a kansas senator. among other candidates, pat robertson got eight percent and jack kemp four percent, with 24 percent undecided
dukakis polled eight percent for second place among democrats, followed by jesse jackson with seven percent, paul simon with five percent, gary hart with three percent, albert gore with one percent and 23 percent undecided
the poll surveyed 1,000 registered voters _ 500 who said they were likely to vote in the democratic primary and 500 who said they were likely to vote in the gop primary
with super tuesday just a week and half away, vice president george bush and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis are leading their respective parties in florida, a statewide poll shows
findings of a survey by the miami herald and miami television channels wtvj and wtvt show republican bush enjoying support among 46 percent of those polled. dukakis leads the democratic pack with 22 percent, but the poll found ``undecided'' was the strongest contender _ picked by 39 percent
also among state republicans, the poll found that 17 percent backed kansas sen. robert dole, 10 percent favored former television broadcaster pat robertson, 3 percent preferred new york congressman jack kemp and 24 percent were undecided
other findings among democrats were that 12 percent backed missouri congressman richard gephardt; 11 percent were for the rev. jesse jackson; 7 percent preferred tennessee sen. al gore; 6 percent were for former colorado sen. gary hart; and 3 percent for illinois sen. paul simon
the telephone survey polled 1,027 registered voters between feb. 20-25. the margin of error among democrats surveyed was 4 percent while its republican margin of error was 5 percent
democratic presidential candidates michael dukakis and richard gephardt have the lead in the march 8 primary in texas, but the race remains tight and could change, according to a recent poll conducted for the houston chronicle and the dallas morning news
while the democratic race in the state is tight, vice president george bush has a clear lead in the republican primary for texas, the state he calls home. sen. bob dole is a distant second
among 301 likely democratic primary voters surveyed, massachusetts gov. dukakis has 22 percent of the support and missouri rep. gephardt has 21 percent. both posted increases of 4 percent and 6 percent, respectively, from the first three days of surveying, feb. 21-23
jesse jackson's support dropped from 19 percent in the previous survey to 12 percent in the recent sample. illinois sen. paul simon garnered 1 percent in this survey, compared with 5 percent in the last one. tennessee sen. albert gore got 10 percent, compared with 12 percent
gary hart has 8 percent, up from 6 percent in the previous survey. twenty-six percent remain undecided in the democratic race
the poll, conducted by university of houston political scientist richard murray through the university's center for public policy, has a margin of error is plus or minus 6 percentage points. issues</head>
democratic presidential candidate paul simon has gotten the highest rating from a southern environmental group, but no candidate in either party graded better than fair on the group's ``toxics report card.''
six of the candidates, all the republicans and two democrats, got ``failing'' grades from the southern envionmental assembly
the assembly, made up of 10 environmental organizations from southern states that held a two-day conference in atlanta, graded simon, a senator from illinois, at 76 percent on issues such as reducing use of toxic chemicals, cleaning up dumpsites and recycling waste
but according to a release sunday from the assembly, that grade only rates as ``fair.'' none of the democratic or republican candidates scored in the ``good'' or ``excellent'' categories
these candidates debate about many important issues, but they neglect to address the environment,'' said patty frase, a member of the arkansas enviromental congress who attended the weekend conference. ``how can we focus on national defense when we can't defend out drinking water supplies against chemicals that cause birth defects and cancer?''
the st. petersburg times has endorsed republican bob dole and democrat michael dukakis in florida's super tuesday primary
senate minority leader dole of kansas demonstrates a ``capacity for independent leadership'' and ``the ability to study a complex issue, to make up his own mind about its merits and to persuade others to follow,'' the newspaper said sunday
in the democratic column, the newspaper said dukakis' strongest suit was his 2{ terms as massachusetts governor and praised his reputation for conciliation and consensus-building
dole and vice president george bush ``are siamese twins in their positions on the issues,'' but the newspaper faulted bush for his failure to separate his views from those of the reagan administration
about 1,500 armenians marched through hollywood to call for re-establishment of their nation and show support of protests in soviet armenia
chanting in armenian and waving signs with slogans such as ``one nation, one people, one country,'' the demonstrators ended their mile-long march sunday at los angeles city college, where they listened to speeches and sang armenian songs
police sgt. tom knopp said the crowd was orderly and no problems reported
the rally was organized by the armenian apostolic church to express solidarity with armenians it says have been persecuted in the soviet union, said spokeswoman sona tenkerian
about 200,000 of the up to 500,000 armenians in california live in los angeles county, she said
the recent protests in the soviet republic of armenia have involved the region of nagorno-karabakh, in the caucasus mountains. the region is part of the neighboring republic of azerbaidzhan, but armenians want it to be annexed to their republic. more than 80 percent of nagorno-karabakh's 157,000 residents are armenian
president abdou diouf declared a state of emergency to quell violent demonstrations that began today following radio reports that he was winning re-election by a landslide
witnesses said truncheon-swinging riot police battled students in the northern section of the capital and rock-throwing protesters destroyed several buses in the southern section
a broadcast on national radio said all public meetings were banned and that the emergency declaration was being made ``in response to grave troubles this morning.''
the radio said diouf, who polled 83.5 percent in the 1983 election, received 77 percent of the vote in early returns. it said early returns showed the leading opposition candidate, abdoulaye wade of the senegalese democratic party, got 21 percent of the vote. two other candidates split the rest
diouf had been expected to easily win re-election to a second five-year term in sunday's voting. but opposition candidates charged sunday that diouf's socialist party was handing out fraudulent voting cards to his supporters
reporters saw riot police break up a meeting today of the opposition senegalese democratic party outside party headquarters. a photographer for the associated press was arrested and his camera and film confiscated
the opposition party earlier had threatened demonstrations if the government announced election returns before they had been certified by the country's supreme court, which hears challenges to results
armored personnel carriers mounted with machine guns blocked major entrances near the opposition party headquarters and to the university of dakar, where dozens of people were arrested today during clashes with police
witnesses said police moved in to break up a group of students who had gathered on campus, and that police broke into the students' residences, knocking down doors and throwing tear gas grenades into the rooms
a group of moroccan students told reporters they had been taken out of their beds by police, dragged outside on the lawn and beaten with rubber truncheons
those who had been singled out for beatings also had their heads shaved by police, students said
although the election campaign had been marred by battles between police and opposition supporters, the only reported trouble on election day was in the northern town of kebemer. a radio france international reporter said police fired on a group of young senegalese democratic party supporters who were throwing rocks at them
the kebemer hospital said four people were treated and released and two others were hospitalized after surgery. no other details were available
diouf was appointed to succeed president leopold senghor who retired in 1981
his party was expected to maintain its majority in the national assembly, although it appeared likely it would lose some of the 111 seats won in the 1983 elections
candidates from four parties were contesting the presidency while six parties had candidates running for seats in the legislature
the opposition parties have called for changes in the electoral process
wade has repeatedly claimed there was widespread fraud in the 1983 voting and threatened to turn his party into a national liberation movement if sunday's voting was rigged
the body of a 23-year-old northern ireland man, who was shot to death at a british army checkpoint, was reburied in the irish republic after a second autopsy
irish prime minister charles haughey was expected to tell parliament on tuesday about the results of the examination of the body of aidan mcanespie
in a snub of britain, haughey has ordered an investigation into the feb. 21 killing, which occurred across the border in the british-ruled north. a british soldier has been charged with unlawful killing
mcanespie's body was exhumed sunday after his family requested that an autopsy by done by an irishman. a british autopsy already had been completed
the second post-mortem was conducted at monaghan general hospital by dr. john harbison, ireland's chief state pathologist. the body was then reburied sunday night
haughey's order for the inquiry has upset the british government and infuriated the majority protestant politicians in the north, who see it as interference in their affairs
harold mccusker, a protestant lawmaker, said: ``it was always clear that this inquiry was designed not to help but to embarrass the british government and to question its procedures and honesty.''
my own view is that this inquiry will not produce anything startling or embarrassing, though it will be used for that purpose,'' mccusker said
mcanespie belonged to the roman catholic minority and his sister, eilish mccabe, claimed sunday that her brother had received a number of death threats from the british army
she said british soldiers constantly harassed her brother as he crossed the border between his home in the north and his workplace in the republic
the army said the bullet that hit mcanespie was fired accidentally and ricocheted. an 18-year-old soldier charged with unlawful killing is held on bail in military care
the mcanespie family lawyer, pat fahy, said there was autopsy evidence to show the fatal shot entered the body from the front, rather than the back, as indicated by authorities in northern ireland
mcanspie was buried last tuesday in clara, county monaghan, across the border from his home at aughnacloy. graf pvs, the candidate</note>
super tuesday was hailed today as ``the main event'' of the primary season as centrist democrats who had hoped to give the presidential campaign a southern flavor opened a two-day meeting
democrats can't win the white house without winning the south,'' former gov. charles robb of virginia told the democratic leadership council
robb is the outgoing chairman of the council and a prime mover in getting southern states to hold nearly all their primaries and caucuses on march 8, now dubbed super tuesday. he said the 20 states that will vote that day represent ``the first broad-based test of the primary season _ the first opportunity for the candidates to address a truly national audience.''
he said that ``as the sun rises on super tuesday, fewer than 10 percent of the delegates to the democratic national convention will have been selected. by sunset, as a result of voting that begins on the shores of the atlantic ocean and ends thousands of miles away in the pacific ocean, over 40 percent of the delegates to atlanta (site of the convention) will have been chosen.''
robb also noted that the super tuesday states represent 207 electoral votes, 76 percent of the total needed to be elected president
so to a large extent,'' he said, ``the general election chances of the democratic party rest with these 20 states. the preliminaries are over and super tuesday is indisputably the main event of the primary season.''
in at least one sense, however, super tuesday is not turning out as some of its creators had hoped. three of the leading democratic contenders were pursuing agendas far from that advocated by the democratic eadership council
the candidate with the largest base in the south is jesse jackson, who has referred scornfully to the dlc as the ``democratic leisure class.''
another leading contender is gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts, whose northeast base is exactly the wrong place most dlc members think the party ought to look for its next nominee
rep. richard gephardt of missouri was a founder of the dlc, but has become a leading 1988 contender by advocating the kind of trade sanctions sought by organized labor and anathema to the dlc
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, the southerner in the race, but never a particular favorite of the dlc, is pursuing a super tuesday strategy, taking stands to the right of his rivals
the democrats dlc members most wanted to see in the presidential race were sen. sam nunn of georgia and former gov. charles robb of virginia. robb is ending a term as dlc chairman and will be replaced by nunn
the dlc was established in the wake of the 1984 election in which democratic presidential candidate walter f. mondale carried only one state. that landslide defeat was the party's fourth loss in the last five presidential elections
the problem, decided many democratic officials from the south and west, was the disproportionate weight wielded in the party by labor, minority groups and eastern liberals. it was time to give the south a stronger voice in choosing the next nominee and time to diminish the importance of iowa and new hampshire
thus was born super tuesday, which amounts to a southern regional primary. twenty states will hold primaries or caucuses on march 8, a majority of them south of the mason-dixon line
a discussion of ``the super tuesday challenge'' was on the agenda for the dlc's two-day meeting at colonial williamsburg
other topics included ``democratic capitalism: new strategies for growth with equity,'' and ``citizenship and national service.''
but the most watched event of the meeting will be a debate monday night between five of the party's six presidential candidates
participating in the forum at the college of william and mary are gephardt, jackson, gore, dukakis and former sen. gary hart of colorado
not joining was sen. paul simon of illinois, who is passing up super tuesday
the most recent democratic debate on saturday in atlanta was a contentious confrontation with dukakis, gephardt and gore attacking each other
displaying his most aggressive style of the campaign, dukakis focused on gephardt's vote in favor of president reagan's 1981 tax cut and said gore ``has never run a government.''
gephardt retorted that dukakis had ``raised taxes about 10 times'' in massachusetts, while gore said the governor would need ``on the job training in foreign policy.''
the consumer federation of america says its annual ratings of the voting records of senate and house members show 48 ``heroes'' and 23 ``zeroes'' for consumers
the ratings released sunday were based on a dozen votes in the senate and 14 in the house of representatives. members were given credit for some obvious consumer issues, such as support for appliance energy efficiency standards, and for some that were not so obvious, such as a vote against supreme court nominee robert bork
the heroes included nine senators and 39 house members, the group said, and it gave the senate its best rating ever
for the first time since the federation started rating congress in 1971, it said, the senate supported consumer interests in more than half of the votes counted
overall, senators sided with consumers 59 percent of the time, it said, up from 45 percent a year earlier. members of both parties were credited with significant improvement
in the house, consumer issues were supported 53 percent of the time, up from 51 percent the year before
senate votes listed as favoring consumer interests, in addition to the appliance and bork votes, included retaining the broadcast fairness doctrine, giving communities notice of large plant closings, supporting clean water funds, cutting tobacco export subsidies and opposing raising the speed limit to 65 miles per hour
house votes favoring consumers also included clean water, the fairness doctrine and low speed limits plus limits on credit card interest rates, requiring banks to make deposited funds available to customers, encouraging use of generic drugs, restricting smoking on airplanes and funding legal services
senate heroes voted correctly, according to the federation, every time, while house heroes managed at least 13 out of 14 votes correctly, the study said
senate heroes are brock adams, d-wash.; carl levin, d-mich.; howard m. metzenbaum, d-ohio; barbara mikulski, d-md.; george j. mitchell, d-maine; daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y.; claiborne pell, d-r.i.; paul s. sarbanes, d-md., and robert t. stafford, r-vt
house heroes, all democrats, are ronald v. dellums, california; brian j. donnelly, massachusetts; dennis m. hertel, michigan; dale e. kildee, michigan; joe moakley, massachusetts; ted weiss, new york; sidney r. yates, illinois; anthony c. beilenson, california; thomas j. downey, new york;richard j. durkin, illinois;
also dennis e. eckart, ohio; don edwards, california; lane evans, illinois; james j. florio, new jersey; sam gejdenson, connecticut; frank j. guarini, new jersey; charles a. hayes, illinois; george j. hochbrueckner, new york; steny h. hoyer, maryland;
plus gerald d. kleczka, wisconsin; john j. lafalce, new york; mickey leland, texas; sander m. levin, michigan; edward j. markey, massachusetts; robert t. matsui, california; nicholas mavroules, massachusetts; matthew f. mchugh, new york; kweisi mfume, maryland;
and george miller, california; henry j. nowak, new york; donald j. pease, ohio; claude pepper, florida; charles b. rangel, new york; peter w. rodino, new jersey; james h. scheuer, new york; stephen h. solarz, new york; pete stark, california; gerry e. studds, massachusetts, and henry a. waxman, california
on the other side of the coin, zeroes were listed as those in the house and senate who voted as the federation thought correct either once, or not at all
senate zeroes, all republicans, were james a. mcclure, idaho; steven d. symms, idaho; malcolm wallop, wyoming; phil gramm, texas; jesse helms, north carolina, and don nickles, oklahoma
house zeroes, also all republicans, were connie m. mack iii, florida; robert e. badham, california; dan burton, indiana; daniel coats, indiana; howard coble, north carolina; larry combest, texas; tom d. delay, texas; james m. inhofe, oklahoma;
also jack f. kemp, new york; jon kyl, arizona; bill lowery, california; edward r. madigan, illinois; bob mcewen, ohio; michael g. oxley, ohio; bob stump, arizona; robert s. walker, pennsylvania, and david o'b. martin, new york
president andre kolingba today commuted former emperor jean-bedel bokassa's death sentence, reducing it to life imprisonment in solitary confinement
the government-controlled national radio announced the commutation
the self-proclaimed bokassa i had appealed the death penalty to the supreme court, but the appeal was rejected last november. bokassa was convicted june 12, 1987 of ordering the murder of at least 20 political opponents. he also was convicted of diverting huge sums from the state treasury
kolingba, a general who is reportedly opposed to capital punishment, has commuted all previous death sentences imposed in this former french colony
bokassa was living in exile in france when he flew back to bangui to vindicate himself ``before the central african people.'' he had been convicted in absentia and sentenced to death in 1980
the former emperor, who ruled this nation of 3 million from 1966-79, was toppled in a french-backed coup while he was visiting libya
the french action followed allegations that bokassa had been involved in the deaths of 100 schoolchildren, beating 17 of them to death himself. the students were protesting government rules requiring them to wear expensive uniforms made in a factory run by one of bokassa's wives
bokassa also had been accused of cannibalism, but he was acquitted on this charge during a trial that began in december 1986 and ended in june
under the french legal system used in the central african republic, the government was obligated to try bokassa again. it was the first time a former head of state had been publicly tried in black africa
bokassa, 67, the son of a village chief of the minority m'baka tribe of the southwest, was educated in roman catholic mission schools. he joined the french army and rose to the rank of captain after winning a dozen combat medals in indochina
after the central african republic became independent in 1960, president david dacko asked bokassa to form an army. bokassa led a coup against dacko and named himself president and prime minister on jan. 3, 1967
bokassa proclaimed himself emperor and was crowned in a ceremony in 1977 which cost more than $200 million, or 25 percent of the nation's annual revenue
patty rosier picked at her last meal, kissed her children goodbye and rested in bed with her husband. they talked and wept and hugged, he said, and then she swallowed a handful of sleeping pills
my wife wanted to sleep. to just fall into a restful sleep and die. she took the drugs herself. her last words to me were, `i love you, peter,''' peter rosier said in an interview published sunday
rosier, a fort myers physician, is charged with first-degree murder in the death of his 43-year-old wife on jan. 15, 1986. his trial is scheduled to begin april 18, and prosecutors say they will seek the death penalty if he is convicted
mrs. rosier did not die from the sleeping pills, nor from injections of morphine which her husband allegedly gave her after she lapsed into a coma. the woman's stepfather, vincent delman of new york city, says that he finally suffocated her
delman has been granted immunity from prosecution. prosecutor ed volz says rosier conspired in the death of his wife and can be tried for first-degree murder
authorities investigated the death only after rosier talked about the circumstances on television
mrs. rosier was diagnosed in april 1985 as having lung cancer. rosier quit his job as head of the pathology department at lee memorial hospital to be with his wife, whose treatment at first seemed successful
six months later, doctors found brain tumors. soon there were more tumors, in her abdomen and on her skin, rosier said
she was incurable. she was going to die. she felt, why go through that torture (radiation therapy) all over again,'' rosier, 46, said in an interview published in sunday's editions of the miami herald. ``my wife chose to end her life.''
it was rosier's first interview since he was indicted in september
he said he and his wife of 22 years had planned at first to die together
we spent an entire day going over the assets, which realtor would sell the home, how to dispose of the property. ... i told the children i could not live without patty. but then i realized it was my responsibilty to stay with them,'' he said of their children, jacob, now 20, and elizabeth, 19
on the night of her planned death, mrs. rosier invited family and friends for a last visit. she gave them gifts and had a catered dinner, although she was too ill to eat
later, rosier helped her to the bedroom. the couple made love. they talked
i had had an affair earlier on in our marriage. i asked her again if she had forgiven me,'' he recalled. ``she said, `you know i've forgiven you thousands of times.' we talked about a lot of things. about whether there was a god ... about how much we were going to miss each other. she wasn't scared. i was.''
then she took the drugs
i couldn't bear to be with her after she'd fallen asleep. i left the room,'' he said. twelve hours later, mrs. rosier was still alive
delman has said that rosier attempted in vain to end his wife's life with injections of morphine. finally, the stepfather intervened
i decided to cover her mouth and her nose. ... i mean it was pathetic to see this lady in bed and all this stuff going on for 11, 12, 10 hours, whatever it was. so the thing is to end it,'' delman said in depositions
the body was cremated within 48 hours
months after his wife's death, rosier commission a scriptwriter to produce a screenplay from a book he wrote about her death. then he went on television and during an interview said he helped his wife die, a confession that sparked the criminal investigation
oral roberts told a church service that some people are trying to embarrass evangelists and ruin their ministries
right now, this old world and the media and certain church people are dragging the name of evangelists in the mud,'' said the 70-year roberts
roberts, of tulsa, okla., mentioned no one by name when he spoke to more than 1,200 people sunday at the christian center in suburban gahanna
television evangelist jimmy swaggart was disciplined by the assemblies of god last week after confessing to unspecified sinful behavior against his wife. jim bakker left his national television ministry last year after he admitted having an extramarital sexual encounter with church secretary jessica hahn
roberts made a controversial appeal last year for $8 million, saying that god would ``call me home'' if he did not raise the money to fund scholarships for medical missionaries
oral roberts university said last month that 117 scholarships had been funded, but that there were no plans to raise funds for additional aid
in december, roberts pulled his weekly ``expect a miracle'' program from 71 stations, but continued to run it on 150 others
our income dropped off in may and it stayed there,'' his spokeswoman, jan dargatz, said at the time. ``that's when the jim and tammy thing heated up. there is a correlation there.'' rises</head> more arab fatalities; picks up 4th graf pvs: the army ...; deletes last five grafs pvs to tighten</note>
israeli soldiers killed one palestinian during a protest in the occupied west bank today, hospital officials said, and the army said a second arab died of wounds suffered in an earlier clash with soldiers
meanwhile, a jewish settler suspected of killing two palestinians was freed on bail, and an israeli officer trying to teach his men restraint made them watch tv footage of soldiers beating captured arabs
yasser daoud eid, 18, died after he was shot in the neck during a clash with soldiers in burin, about 3 miles south of the west bank city of nablus, the arab-owned palestinian press service and officials at nablus' al ittihad hospital said. the army said it was checking the report
a second palestinian, 30-year-old mahmoud batwi, died of wounds suffered four days ago when he was shot in the head in a protest in the west bank town of jenin, the army said
police freed on bond hananiya schneider, a jewish settler detained on suspicion of involvement in the shooting death of two arabs in the west bank. police said an investigation into the slayings would continue
schneider, of neve tzuf, is suspected of killing two palestinians on saturday night from the neighboring village of abud after villagers blocked the main road
the army today charged three soldiers, including a sergeant-major, with aggravated assault and brutality for allegedly burying alive four palestinians in the west bank village of kfar salem, an army spokesman said
the incident occurred feb. 5 after troops broke up a stone-throwing demonstration in the village. the arabs escaped with the help of relatives
the soldiers' names were not released. it was the first known case of a soldier facing serious criminal charges related to the unrest in the occupied lands, although other soldiers have been disciplined for using excessive force there
the army also confirmed it was investigating charges that a soldier shot and killed a palestinian demonstrator in cold blood after seizing him during a demonstration. the spokesman said the incident occurred in the gaza strip last month but gave no other details
in another development, an israeli senior commander on sunday made his officers watch cbs television footage showing four soldiers beat two palestinians for nearly 40 minutes last week
excerpts of the footage showed the soldiers bent over the arabs, who were lying on the ground with their hands tied behind their backs. the soldiers kicked the arabs in the head and chest, then picked up fist-sized rocks and smashed them on the arabs' arms and legs, trying to break bones
we have to make sure that we don't become an army of rabble,'' maj. gen. amram mitzna, commander of israeli troops in the west bank, told army radio
the four soldiers accused in the beatings near nablus were released from custody today, army radio said. their case went to the military prosecutors' office, where it will be decided what steps to take against them, it said
in jerusalem, police today safely detonated a bomb planted at the entrance to a large supermarket in ramat eshkol, one of the city's northern jewish neighborhoods, police spokesman rafi levi said. levy said the bomb was discovered by a passerby who alerted police
the latest fatalities came as u.s. secretary of state george shultz pursued his middle east shuttle. since unrest began in the occupied territories on dec. 8, 74 arabs have died, according to u.n. count
shultz visited cairo on sunday, where his peace plan received support from president hosni mubarak. shultz then returned to israel for more meetings with israeli officials sunday night and this morning before flying to jordan
foreign minister shimon peres told reporters after meeting shultz today that he believed jordan was taking the shuttle ``very seriously'' even though king hussein flew to london for dental treatment before the mission began
during a debate of israel's 24-member cabinet on sunday, transportation minister chaim corfu and labor and social affairs minister moshe katzav proposed barring reporters from the west bank and gaza. no decision was made
i've reached a conclusion that media presence creates riots. . .. so in order to subdue the riots or stop them completely it's better that the media would not be present,'' katzav told army radio
a woman who thought she won enough in a million-dollar sweepstakes to pay off her debts is deeper in debt now after taking a celebratory trip and finding out she didn't win after all
but officials of united states purchasing exchange, the contest's sponsor, say debra long probably is the victim of a mixup, a misunderstanding or a bad joke. she won't be getting any money
long quit her $2.25-an-hour waitress job, took a trip to las vegas with her boyfriend and made plans to buy a house and pay off debts after thinking she won $1.7 million in a sweepstakes
they were convinced i was a winner. i got phone calls saying that,'' long said after learning last week that she wouldn't receive the money
a spokeswoman for the california-based mail-order company disputes long's story on several points. among other things, she says, no winner has been named because the sweepstakes is still in progress
long ordered a $9.98 canister set from uspe in november and entered its sweepstakes
in early february, she said, she received a letter from uspe saying she would receive a ``multimillion-dollar cash letter.'' another uspe letter arrived feb. 13 by certified mail, and long said she took it to mean she had won
uspe officials said the second letter was a promotion advising customers they're in the running for the prize
long said she called the company feb. 15 to confirm her windfall and was asked to read the letter over the phone
a secretary said ``if i heard two beeps, it meant i wasn't a winner,'' long said. ``i was sitting on the edge of my chair, waiting, but i didn't hear any beeps
and then she connected me with the manager. he said, `miss long, i pronounce you the grand prize winner of the uspe sweepstakes. you're $1,731,852.21 richer than you were 24 hours ago.'''
she said she was told the money would be deposited in her bank account within 60 days
uspe officials got word of long's claim last thursday, and cheryl mcgeary, the company's customer service supervisor, called long with the bad news
besides not confirming information via telephone, mcgeary said, uspe doesn't notify winners by certified mail and doesn't ask for bank account numbers
and while long said she called uspe on feb. 15 to verify her claim, mcgeary said company offices were closed that day for presidents' day
mayor edward i. koch called president reagan a wimp in the war on drugs today after taking out a full-page ad in the new york times urging the president to cut economic aid to drug-producing countries
the mayor's ad bore a black-bordered picture of a 22-year-old rookie policeman murdered last week in the drug-ravaged south jamaica section of queens
we are truly in a war with the drug pushers, but the president is not acting as the commander-in-chief. if anything, he's acting as a wimp,'' koch said today on ``cbs this morning.''
koch said the ad attempted to ``channel this rage that the whole city is feeling'' about the killing friday of officer edward byrne, who was shot three times while guarding the house of a threatened witness in a drug case
the $12,900 ad, paid for by koch's 1989 re-election committee, said byrne was killed ``by a gunman who, very probably, was acting on instructions from a new york drug kingpin.''
reagan is expected to sign an order tuesday exempting some countries from a law mandating cuts in economic and military aid for their failure to take adequate steps to combat drug trafficking
koch's ad asks readers to send reagan telegrams saying, ``do not sign the certifications for foreign aid to mexico, panama, the bahamas, haiti, paraguay, colombia, or any other drug source country.''
the mayor also urged readers to send telegrams to members of congress, asking them to vote against certificates of aid to drug source countries if reagan approves the aid. trafficking</head> yet made</note>
the united states will not impose maximum penalties against panama for failing to take steps to control drug trafficking, a newspaper reported today
under a 1986 anti-drug law, the president has until tuesday to certify whether countries in which major drug trafficking occurs are fully cooperating in efforts to fight the trafficking
the new york times, quoting senior reagan administration officials, said president reagan last weekend signed an order to decertify panama, but that he declined to use his discretionary powers to impose the maximum penalties
however, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the president has not made a decision. ``it hasn't gone to him yet. it's going today.''
the law requires the united states to vote against new loans by international development banks such as the world bank and the international monetary fund to decertified countries. in the case of panama, the united states also would be obliged to keep in place the military and economic sanctions imposed last year
other sanctions reagan has the power to impose include the barring of airline flights between panama and the united states; imposition of a 50 percent tax on all panamaniam imports; and the loss of preferential tariff treatment
some administration officials have said the president should impose full sanctions as a means of conveying disapproval to gen. manuel antonio noriega, panama's de facto leader. noriega was indicted in florida this month on drug-trafficking charges
it was not known why reagan chose not to use all the mechanisms under the law, but some officials speculated that the administration wants to wait until events become more stable in panama. panama's president, eric arturo delvalle, was ousted on friday by the country's assembly, which noriega controls
iran hanged two men sentenced to death for bombing a tehran square, iran's official islamic republic news agency reported today
the executions sunday raised to seven the number of people hanged in public in the iranian capital during the weekend for bombings. irna, monitored in nicosia, said five men were hanged saturday
a senior commander of tehran's revolutionary committees, which have largely taken over security from civilian police, announced saturday that 30 people responsible for recent bombings in tehran and western iran had been arrested
he said the suspects, described as ``paid iraqi agents,'' would be handed over to the revolutionary courts for trial
irna did not specify whether the seven men executed were part of the group of 30 reported arrested
irna identified the two men hanged sunday as mohammed kazimzadeh and rasoul rahmani. it said the islamic revolutionary court convicted them of planting bombs, spying for iraq and transporting explosives to tehran from iraq
they received ``a large amount of money'' from iraq for the bombings, the agency said
the two men were sentenced to death for bombings last year in a tehran square and were hanged ``at the scene of their crime,'' irna said
the latest reported bombing in tehran was feb. 18, when a car bomb exploded on a tehran expressway, wounding two people
another 10 people were wounded three days earlier by a blast in north tehran's martyr bahonar avenue, only a few hundred yards from the residence of iranian revolutionary patriarch ayatollah ruhollah khomeini
iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980. members of iranian resistance groups fighting against khomeini's fundamentist islamic regime are invariably branded iraqi agents by the iranian authorities
the supreme court today agreed to consider letting the federal government apply retroactively a formula that limits reimbursement paid to hospitals treating medicare patients
the court said it will hear reagan administration arguments that some hospitals could reap a windfall from the ban on retroactive application of the formula
the government in 1981 adopted a rule that excluded from the medicare reimbursement formula wages paid by hospitals owned by the federal government
the idea was to save money by not applying national pay scales to private hospitals in areas with lower wage levels
but the department of health and human services adopted the new rule without allowing a time for the public to comment on the proposal. the formula was challenged by private hospitals and thrown out by a federal judge as a violation of proper rule-making procedures
the federal agency adopted the rule again in 1984 using the correct procedure. but this time the department applied the rule retroactively to reimbursement sought by the hospitals beginning july 1, 1981
the u.s. circuit court of appeals here ruled last june that the formula may not be applied retroactively, and awarded more than $2 million in reimbursement money to seven hospitals
the appeals court said that if the government believes any hospital has received excess reimbursement, each case must be proved
the justice department, in its appeal to the supreme court, said the appeals court ruling ``would effectively eliminate the only realistic method available ... to make retroactive corrections to reimbursement decisions.''
the hospitals involved in the case are georgetown university hospital, howard university hospital and greater southeast community hospital, all in the district of columbia; tucson general and tucson medical center in arizona, st. cloud hospital in minnesota and community hospital of battle creek, mich
the case is bowen vs. georgetown university hospital, 87-1097
a reporter's attempt to force the state department to release documents from u.s. embassies around the world failed in the supreme court today
the justices, without comment, let stand rulings that threw out donald f. goldberg's lawsuit, which had been filed under the freedom of information act
goldberg, a reporter on the staff of syndicated columnist jack anderson, filed an foia request in 1984 seeking from the state department responses to an unclassified 1982 questionnaire on foreign governments' diplomatic practices
the foia was passed by congress in 1966 to help curtail government secrecy
state department officials told goldberg in 1985 that only four of 161 relevant documents could be released fully
of the remaining 157 documents, nine were not to be released at all and 148 were to be released with certain portions omitted
the government invoked an foia exemption that protects secrets of national defense or foreign policy
goldberg then sued, contending that the responses improperly were given a ``classified'' designation in washington by john eaves, director of the office of mandatory review in the state department's classification and declassification center
goldberg noted that most of the responses originally had been designated ``unclassified'' by responding ambassadors
a federal trial judge dismissed goldberg's suit before trial, and the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the district of columbia upheld that ruling
the appeals court said it rejected goldberg's argument that ``the affixing of conclusory `unclassified' labels on responses to an unclassified questionnaire by itself controverts a detailed review and explanation that some parts of those documents are properly classified.''
the case is goldberg vs. state department, 87-655
the supreme court today agreed to review a decision halving the fines and prison terms given to a dodge city, kan., business and its president for rigging highway-construction bids
the justices said they will hear federal prosecutors' arguments aimed at reinstating the original sentences received by broce construction co. inc. and ray c. broce
broce and the business pleaded guilty in 1982 to charges contained in two indictments, respectively alleging bid-rigging in highway-construction projects in meade and barton counties
broce was sentenced on march 15, 1982, to concurrent two-year prison terms and fined $101,000. the corporation he headed was fined $1.5 million
more than a year after the sentencing, broce and the corporation sought to set aside the judgment and sentence from the second indictment. they contended that the separate sentences meted out under the second indictment amounted to multiple punishment for the same crime
a federal trial judge threw out the appeal but the 10th u.s. circuit court of appeals reversed that ruling
the appeals court said that the constitution's protection against double jeopardy had been violated by the sentencing, and that broce and the corporation had not waived their double-jeopardy protections when agreeing to plead guilty
the appeals court set aside the sentences issued under the second indictment _ $750,000 in fines for the corporation and $50,000 in fines and a two-year prison term for broce
in seeking supreme court review, government lawyers noted that the two defendants pleaded guilty to two indictments alleging two different criminal conspiracies under a plea bargain in which the government agreed not to prosecute on other charges
under such circumstances, the government's appeal said, defendants should not be able later to attack the sentences on grounds that the two alleged conspiracies were actually a single conspiracy
the case is u.s. vs. broce, 87-1190. with quotes from news conference. picks up 6th graf, `the clergymen ...'</note>
police today arrested anglican archbishop desmond tutu and other church leaders as they marched toward parliament with a petition protesting the government's crackdown on anti-apartheid groups
the clergymen, wearing robes and crosses around their necks, stood with arms linked and bibles clutched in their hands as a policeman announced through a bullhorn that the gathering was illegal. police had been lining the street outside st. george's anglican cathedral, waiting for the marchers to emerge
after tutu, a nobel peace prize laureate, and other clergymen were placed in police vehicles, police fired water cannons at more than 100 demonstrators sitting on the sidewalk singing a hymn, local journalists said
the clergymen and demonstrators were taken to a police station and released with a warning that charges would be brought against them if they staged a similar protest, said the rev. allan boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches. he said they were told summonses might be issued against them for demonstrating near parliament and they might be called to court
police also took some journalists into custody
upon their release, the white, black, mixed-race and indian clergymen held a news conference in the cathedral, which was still surrounded by policemen with a water cannon nearby
we are not defying the law,'' tutu said, ``we are obeying god. we also obey god every day.''
in the past,'' tutu continued, ``it was possible for people to say it was the usual rabble rousers demonstrating. they can't say it any more. it's the church.''
boesak described today's protest as ``an act of subversion.''
we told the south african government that we had decided we would be obedient to god. that is a higher law to us,'' he said
the clergymen carried a petition, addressed to president p.w. botha and parliament, saying: ``we leaders of a number of south african churches have come to parliament today to witness and pray in a time of crisis outside the buildings in which you make important decisions affecting the lives of millions of south africans who belong to our churches.''
the protesters, marching five abreast, walked a few yards toward parliament from st. george's cathedral, the main anglican church in downtown cape town
in a service in the cathedral before the march, tutu and other ministers declared the churches would lead protests against the government's anti-apartheid policies because 18 major black opposition groups had been banned last week from all political activity
tutu marched in front of the procession, along with boesak and other prominent ministers
tutu warned those at the service that they might be tear-gassed, sprayed with water cannons or arrested. the church leaders said they had informed the government about the proposed march
the march proceeded with clergymen at the end of each row and lay people in the middle. as they reached government avenue, near the parliament buildings, they were met by about 50 policemen who linked arms to block the road
the police told the crowd they were gathering illegally, then began leading away the church leaders, starting with boesak
the rev. sid luckett, head of the anglican board of social responsibility, led the rest of the crowd to the police vehicles and they sat down on the sidewalk
police sprayed the seated protesters with water cannons, but they stayed in place, and were then put into police vans as they recited the lord's prayer
last wednesday, the government banned the united democratic front, the nation's largest anti-apartheid organization, and 17 other major black opposition groups from conducting any political activity
banning orders were also issued against 18 prominent black leaders, prohibiting them from taking part in anti-government activities, confining them to their hometowns, and ordering them not to speak to the press
church groups weren't included in the crackdown and theoretically still were free to engage in resistance campaigns, but most forms of peaceful protest are banned under existing regulations
tutu had called the new regulations ``a declaration of war against the people.'' he and other church leaders had pledged the churches would begin to conduct some of the protest campaigns that had been organized by the banned groups
in may 1980, tutu was one of 54 people, mostly priests, who were arrested in johannesburg under the riotous assemblies act for marching in protest against the detention of a congregational church minister. all were convicted and sentenced to pay a $45 fine or spend 50 days in jail. tutu's fine was paid
boesak was last arrested in august, 1985, when he was charged with subversion for, among other things, organizing a march to pollsmoor prison where african national congress leader nelson mandela is serving a life term. fourteen months later the charges were dropped
under south africa's apartheid policies of racial segregation, the nation's 5 million whites maintain political and economic control over 26 million blacks, who have no vote in national affairs. searches lose appeal</head>
illinois officials wanting to conduct warrantless searches of racetrack employees' on-grounds living quarters as one way of protecting the sport's integrity lost a supreme court appeal today
the justices, without comment, let stand rulings that such searches violate constitutionally protected privacy rights if conducted without first obtaining a court warrant
the illinois racing board for years had authorized state law enforcement officers to search, without warrants, the rooms of ``backstretchers'' _ those employees who feed, groom, exercise and generally take care of racehorses
the searches were aimed at discovering drugs or mechanical devices that could affect a race's outcome
while employed by horse trainers, many backstretchers live in small rooms located in the area where horses are stabled, the backstretch
the board also authorized warrantless searches of the employees themselves
at one time, backstretchers were required to consent to such searches as a condition to receiving their licenses
three backstretchers working at arlington park racetrack challenged the state board's policy and rules in 1982
don serpas, raymond johnson and carl waters sued the racing board in behalf of all backstretchers working at illinois tracks. the three had been subjected to searches that turned up no evidence of any crime
u.s. district judge charles p. kocoras ordered that the warrantless searches be halted temporarily in 1983, and then banned them permanently in 1985
the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals upheld the ban last july 17 after finding no explicit authority for the searches in illinois law
the appeals court said the backstretchers' living quarters, though temporary and humble, must be treated as their homes
the constitution's fourth amendment generally prohibits searches of someone's home unless a court warrant is obtained. courts generally will not issue a search warrant unless authorities show a likelihood that evidence of criminal conduct will be found as a result
there is no reason to doubt that drugs and mechanical devices pose major threats to the integrity of the horseracing industry,'' the appeals court said. but it added that the illinois racetrack searches ``without the safeguard of a warrant are unreasonable and violate the fourth amendment.''
in seeking supreme court review, illinois attorney general neil f. hartigan relied on past rulings by the justices that have allowed warrantless searches of heavily regulated industries
the case is schmidt vs. serpas, 87-644
the supreme court today refused to revive lawsuits charging the government and federal contractors with negligently causing deaths and disease among people exposed to open-air atomic tests
the court, without comment, let stand a federal law that effectively spared the government from having to defend itself against claims seeking billions of dollars
the atmospheric nuclear tests that gave rise to the case took place between the closing days of world war ii and the adoption of a treaty between the united states and the soviet union in 1963 banning open-air testing
suits were filed on behalf of 29 people _ civilians and members of the military _ including 26 who died from cancer or cancer-related causes. the suits alleged that the health problems were caused by radioactive fallout from the explosions
charged with negligence were the university of california, which operated the los alamos, n.m., project; lawrence livermore laboratories, which helped develop the atomic bomb; sandia corp., which provided engineering for the weapons program; and reynolds electric engineering co., which helped build and operate a test site in nevada
the suits accused the private contractors of failing to take adequate safety precautions at the test sites, and also said the government was responsible for failing to enforce its own safety standards
if the suits were successful, the government ultimately would pay the claims because it had insured the private contractors for any losses
but in 1984 congress passed a law supported by the reagan administration that says only the u.s. government may be sued for negligence allegedly caused by a private contractor in the atomic weapons testing program
the result was to bar the claims since the government is immune from such suits unless it surrenders immunity under the existing federal tort claims act
those who sued the companies said the 1984 law unconstitutionally deprived them of a remedy for the deaths and disease caused by the atomic explosions
the petitioners had a remedy against the original defendants. they have none against the united states,'' they said
the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals upheld the law last june. it rejected arguments that the law violates the constitution's required separation of powers by retroactively preventing the courts from considering pending claims
the administration, in urging the supreme court not to disturb the appeals court decision, said more than 3,000 people are seeking damages totalling more than $4.9 billion in all cases stemming from the weapons tests
the high court on jan. 11 refused to hear a related appeal by some 1,200 people in nevada, arizona and utah who sought to hold the government financially responsible for deaths and diseases allegedly caused by the tests in nevada
the case acted on today is konizeski vs. livermore labs, 87-953. case</head>
the supreme court asked the reagan administration today whether it thinks high-stakes bingo games run by indian tribes are subject to state sales taxes
the court said it wants to hear from justice department lawyers before it says whether it will review an attempt by oklahoma officials to tax revenue from a bingo game in tulsa run by the muscogee creek nation
the justice department's brief may not be filed for months
the 10th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled in september that the state could not force the tribe to collect and remit the state's 2.5 percent sales tax on the bingo operations
the appeals court said the state's interest in collecting the tax is minimal in this case
patrons do not travel onto creek lands to play bingo in order to avoid sales taxes,'' the appeals court said. ``creek nation bingo does not undermine the state economy or tax base. the state is not losing tax revenues it would otherwise obtain from sales made outside of tribal boundaries.''
the appeals court also based its ruling in part on a supreme court decision last year that said state and local governments may not regulate indian-run gambling unless congress gives them permission
the muscogee creek bingo game is conducted in tulsa on a 100-acre area known as the mackey site along the arkansas river
the 10th circuit court said the land is indian territory in the same way any reservation belongs to native americans
the appeals court also said the fact that the bingo game is managed by a non-tribal entity _ indian country, usa inc. _ hired by the tribe does not alter the exempt status of the gambling operation
forcing the tribe to collect and remit the sales tax would place a heavy burden on the indians even if the tax did not affect revenue for the creeks, the appeals court added
it said the tribe would be subject to fines and liens on its property if it were held responsible for collecting the tax and then failed to do so
the case is oklahoma tax commission vs. muscogee creek nation, 87-1068
former army football star peter dawkins today announced his candidacy for the gop senate nomination in a bid to unseat democratic frank lautenberg, saying new jersey needs to improve its environment, education, employment and trade
we've gone from being a state that was written off to a state being written up. and we're ready to climb even higher to become the very best,'' said dawkins, who was a rhodes scholar and vietnam war hero after he graduated from west point
he is the first candidate to announce his candidacy in the june 7 republican primary
we can't be satisfied until the opportunity and prosperity that has reached some, reaches all,'' dawkins said. ``we can't forget those people caught in the forgotten pockets of poverty in camden, in trenton, in newark, where too often the real growth industries have been drugs and crime and disappointment.''
both dawkins and lautenberg already have raised millions and are employing top national political strategists
republicans claim lautenberg, seeking his second six-year term, is among the most vulnerable incumbents in the senate. democrats counter that the millionaire businessman has compiled an impressive record
dawkins has never sought elected office, but has spent more than a year planting the seeds of his candidacy around the state
the supreme court today refused to reinstate a little rock, ark., man's criminal conviction thrown out because police did not tell him specifically about his right to free legal help
the justices, without comment, let stand a state supreme court ruling that so-called miranda warnings given before police question criminal suspects must mention that right
michael e. mayfield was convicted in 1985 of robbing a little rock store. when arrested and read his rights, mayfield had confessed
the standard warning then used by little rock police said a suspect has the right to remain silent or to talk with a lawyer ``either retained by me or appointed by the court'' before giving a statement
such police warnings have been given since 1966 when the supreme court ruled in a case called miranda vs. arizona that the fifth amendment protection against self-incrimination requires them
the arkansas supreme court, ruling last sept. 28 that mayfield is entitled to a new trial, said his confession should not have been used as evidence against him
the state court said an indigent criminal suspect must ``be informed that he has just as much right to representation by an attorney as a person who can afford one.''
earlier last year, the arkansas court upheld a police warning that stated, ``if you cannot afford a lawyer, one will be appointed for you, before any questioning if you wish.''
in the appeal acted on today, arkansas attorney general steve clark told the justices the state court ruling is inconsistent with their 1981 decision that the warnings given by police do not have to follow the miranda decision verbatim
the 1981 decision, however, involved a case in which a criminal suspect was told about his ``right to have a lawyer appointed to represent you at no cost to yourself.''
the case acted on today is arkansas vs. mayfield, 87-1105
jewish leaders have presented a 5,180-signature petition to the israeli consul general recommending a ban on television coverage of israeli-arab conflicts in the occupied territories
israeli consul general rahamim timor accepted the petition sunday at temple emeth near delray beach
good friends can give us advice,'' timor told the audience of 400. ``any recommendations, suggestions and advice will be studied and considered.''
rabbi leon fink and cantor david leon led the petition drive that blamed television coverage for sparking more violence on the west bank and gaza strip
graphic television footage of recent palestinian demonstrations against israeli rule has been shown around the world. the footage has shown stone-throwing by palestinians and israeli retaliation, including tear gas attacks, gunfire and brutal beatings
seventy-four palestianians have died in the protests since dec. 8, according to united nations figures
we're not against the press, but there's a major difference between the camera and the press,'' said leon, adding that television footage gives a distorted view of the entire conflict. ``you get a completely different picture from the print.''
if you think that stoning and firebombing in the middle east is a new thing, you are wrong,'' he said. ``we are concerned, we should not be excited.''
timor said that occasionally, excessive force is used, ``but this is war.''
we shall not commit suicide,'' he said. ``if the public relations is not nice, then they are not nice, but we shall survive.''
a tourist was in intensive care today after falling from a third-floor hotel balcony in the first such incident in the college spring-break season
david irwin and several friends stepped out onto the balcony after hearing a firecracker go off sunday night. irwin, 23, reached for a railing but missed, his friends told police. he fell to the pool deck
it was not known whether irwin was a college student. manager neal hughes of the hawaiian inn in daytona beach shores irwin had traveled alone from ontario
about 500,000 students are expected to visit area beaches this march and april for spring vacations. thirty people have fallen from daytona beach-area hotel and motel balconies in the past four years, mostly during spring break. six have died
heavy drinking has usually been the reason for the accidents, officials say
the hawaiian does not allow students on hotel balconies after 11 p.m
we have had students here for three weeks'' so far this year, said hughes. ``they have been real good. they have been real cooperative about keeping the curfew hours.'' sted lowdrick</note>
prince andrew and his wife, sarah, prayed with ordinary people in church then played with hollywood celebrities at a black-tie dinner, where the duchess joked with a male admirer in the audience
the duke and duchess of york ended a diverse day of activities sunday with the star-studded dinner organized by industrialist armand hammer and arco petroleum chief lodwrick cooke
among the 700 guests paying $1,000 apiece to dine with british royalty at the biltmore hotel were zsa zsa gabor, her husband prince frederick von anhalt, ``dynasty'' star joan collins, her date george hamilton, burt bacharach and his wife, carole bayer sager, actor michael york and astronaut buzz aldrin
british actor roger moore, the master of ceremonies, joked about the nature of the royals' trip, quipping that the highlight was today's visit to a supermarket
i couldn't help but notice the royal couple will be there on double coupon day. and just in case you want to do a little shopping, this one's for disposal diapers,'' moore said, holding up a coupon for the couple, whose first child is due this year
their fourth day in southern california was to start today with a visit to two british exhibits at the california museum of science and industry. in the afternoon, attention focuses on promoting british trade
they were to tour the bullocks wilshire clothing department store and visits a vons supermarket in arcadia
for sunday night's black-tie event, the duchess arrived in a strapless black evening gown with a shimmery, puffy orange wrap draped around her shoulders
allowed to give a few remarks after two lengthy introductions and a short speech by her husband, sarah drew applause and some cheers when she said: ``at last i have a turn to talk _ all these men.''
a man from the audience shouted, ``i love you.''
i'll see you later,'' she quipped to more applause and cheers
andrew had gotten in his dig a moment earlier when he acknowledged hammer's remark that the couple ``could fly duets'' as they are both licensed pilots
you mentioned being able to fly duets,'' the prince said. ``it is a little bit difficult because we would be fighting for the controls of the plane.''
money raised by the dinner benefits the three-month uk-la '88 art festival and a fund to salvage books damaged in disastrous 1986 fires at the los angeles central library. the guests dined on crepinette of salmon and white fish, with champagne chervil
on behalf of the british library board, andrew brought a gift, the book wonders of creation. sarah presented the couple's personal gift, two volumes of the book, ``royal heritage,'' bound at windsor castle
on sunday, the day began on a more common note. the couple attended services at st. luke's episcopal church in long beach
about 300 people lined the sidewalk across from the church to see the couple
we love them, we really do,'' said 48-year-old myrna dillon, perched on a stepladder to ctach a glimpse. ``we follow their every move.''
unknown to the royal retinue, officers sweeping the motorcade route detained a man carrying a .22-caliber rifle
john kasser, 30, of long beach, had retrieved the unloaded rifle from the police station and was headed to his car when los angeles city police officers spotted him, said long beach lt. rod mickelson. the gun had been held for safekeeping for several days after officers confiscated it during a domestic dispute, mickelson said
kasser was later freed and allowed to keep his gun, police said
there's absolutely no relation between him and the motorcade,'' mickelson said
every saturday morning at gene's cafe, over coffee, grits and country ham biscuits, elders of this small piedmont town discuss the weather, how to solve the nation's problems and lately, who should be nominated for president
unlike previous races, they've had plenty of firsthand looks at the candidates. and their republican primary votes on saturday, along with the rest of south carolina, will carry unprecedented weight
as george bush pointed out last week during one of many days spent in the state:
this state is going to be on the leading edge of the most significant political event in terms of selecting a president that we've had in this country in modern times,'' he said, in only a slight overstatement of the importance of the super tuesday collection of 20 primaries and caucuses three days after south carolina votes
you're going to see the darndest invasion of people who want to be president that you've ever seen.''
the republican candidates are blanketing the state ahead of saturday's balloting with an eye toward the state's 37 gop delegates, yes, but more importantly, with hopes of a boost going into super tuesday
south carolina's primary falls three days before 20 states, mostly in the south, choose more than one-third of the delegates to the national convention in new orleans
by going ahead of that, south carolina has a special place in the sun. you're going to send a signal, you see, all across the region. and that signal will reverberate across the country,'' bush said
heavy stuff for the boys at gene's
but claude crocker said no topic is too big for his crowd
we talk about international trade policy, the panama canal, the deficit. ... we handle all those high-level things,'' the vice president of clinton mills deadpanned
crocker thinks bush is the man to beat in his area and in the state. but charles ``buddy'' oakley said former television evangelist pat robertson can't be counted out
i think robertson appeals to a large group of religious-type people in south carolina,'' he said
their observations mirror more objective measurements
a survey published sunday by the state newspaper said bush was the choice of 48 percent of the voters likely to cast gop ballots, dole 25 percent, robertson 19 percent and jack kemp 3 percent. the poll, conducted last monday through wednesday, surveyed 319 likely gop voters
but lee atwater, a south carolina native and bush's national campaign manager, said robertson's strength has to be at least doubled because of the strong turnout of his supporters and the difficulty in measuring them. robertson has attracted new voters to the rolls, and many conservative democrats are expected to vote in the gop primary for him
university of south carolina political professor earl black said ``there is an enormous potential for a heavy cross-over vote'' because south carolina voters don't register by party and because, this being the second primary ever, there is no historical gauge
robertson has said for months that he is seeking a first-place finish in south carolina, where he has a large and fervent following of fundamentalist christians. one robertson stronghold is ptl's heritage usa, where more than 1,500 people live
south carolina is a do-or-die state for kemp, who has yet to finish better than third in any contest. the new york congressman is portraying himself here as the conservative alternative, saying robertson has no chance of winning the nomination
south carolina is george bush's to lose,'' said blease graham, an associate professor in governmental studies at the university of south carolina
one issue that could cost bush votes, graham said, is his opposition to legislation that would restrict the growth of textile imports, which the industry says is causing job losses
the industry is running advertisements across the state every day urging people indirectly to vote for candidates who back the legislation. robertson and dole announced last week that they support the bill now in the senate
bush's main strategy in south carolina has been to promote his close ties with president reagan, who remains popular here
turnout in 1980 was 145,000, and party officials estimate that between 175,000 and 200,000 people will vote saturday
a man sentenced to death in utah for his role in the 1974 killings of three people forced to swallow drain cleaner before they were shot lost a supreme court appeal today
the justices let stand william andrews' conviction and death sentence for the three murders committed during an aril 22, 1974 robbery of an ogden store
police said andrews and pierre dale selby, both stationed at hill air force base in utah, robbed the hi-fi shop. killed were stanley walker, the store's assistant manager; michelle ansley, a cashier; and carol naisbitt, a relative of the store's owner
andrews' lawyers said he was a ``non-triggerman'' participant in the crime, and that selby actually murdered the three
selby, from brooklyn, n.y., was executed last aug. 28
andrews, a former resident of jonesboro, la, contended that he was denied a fair trial because blacks were excluded from the trial jury. his appeal also challenged the validity of utah's death penalty law on several grounds
the 10th u.s. circuit court of appeals previously had rejected those arguments
the case is andrews vs. shulsen, 87-5449
the supreme court today agreed to decide whether states may block a man from trying to prove he fathered the child of a woman married to someone else
the court said it will study a challenge by a man identified in court records only as michael h., to a state evidentiary rule creating a conclusive presumption of fatherhood to a wife's husband
michael h. contends he is the father of a 6-year-old girl, victoria, born to a woman identified as carol d. at a time when carol d. was married to gerald d
michael h. filed in a state court in los angeles a ``reverse paternity'' lawsuit in 1982, seeking to have himself declared victoria's father
his lawsuit was thrown out because california law, as do laws in many other states, creates a conclusive presumption of paternity in favor of a woman's husband if a child is conceived and born during their marriage
in upholding the dismissal of michael h.'s lawsuit, a state appeals court said the conclusive presumption is based ``upon a determination by the legislature as a matter of overriding social policy that given a certain relationship between the husband and wife, the husband is to be held responsible for the child and the integrity of the family unit should not be impugned.''
the california supreme court had refused to hear michael h.'s appeal last july 30
the nation's highest court two years ago rejected, without comment, a similar appeal from a massachusetts man seeking to prove he fathered the child of another man's wife
in the appeal acted on today, lawyers for michael h. said he enjoyed ``an ongoing father-child relationship'' with victoria and that blood tests show a better than 98 percent chance that victoria is his biological daughter
the appeal said victoria was born as a result of an affair michael h. and carol d. had while she was married to gerald d
the appeal also said that carol d. and victoria moved to the virgin islands to live with michael h. for several months in 1982 when she and her husband were estranged
court records indicate that carol and gerald d. later resumed living together
the case is michael h. vs. gerald d., 87-746
a general strike started today to demand the resignation of gen. manuel antonio noriega but government intimidation, censorship and the fact that today is payday apparently hurt its effectiveness
the opposition asked the nation's businesses and industries to close today and remain shut indefinitely
deposed president eric arturo delvalle remained in hiding, defying noreiga, who ousted delvalle and ordered him out of the country
buses, by far the main mode of public transportation, circulated this morning like any other morning. most were full, taking people to work
about two-thirds of the stores were open at a commercial center of more than 100 enterprises on central avenue in panama city
many panamanian banks were closed by the strike, but international banks were open
several people consulted by the associated press as they stepped from buses on their way to work mentioned intimidation as a reason for not observing the strike
there's fear,'' said a middle-aged man, a bank employee. ``we lack unity to confront these people who have all the arms and are disposed to use them.''
the people don't have means to resist,'' said a woman, a domestic employee, walking with him. ``one has to live as they (the armed forces) say.''
the two also noted that today, being the last day of the month, is payday for many panamanians
police chief col. leonidas macias told journalists it would be understandale if hungry people looted a closed supermarket, and his forces would not try to prevent them
the strike call was supported by the industrial workers' union of panama, and its effectiveness appeared to be greater in industry than in commerce. most factories in panama city's industrial zone were closed
roberto brenes, a leader of the national civic crusade, predicted sunday that the strike would do well in manufacturing and construction, but would be less effective in the service industries
opposition figures also said they expected the strike to pick up in several days. they said government censorship had slowed word of the strike
indeed, la prensa, the leading opposition paper, has been closed by troops and the newspaper building surrounded by city police
delvalle's relatives would not disclose his whereabouts but they said he was in a ``safe and secure place'' in panama, in ``good spirits'' and determined to regain his job
i am going to stay here (and) stick it out,'' delvalle told abc television in a telephone interview saturday night. ``i'm going to fight it all the way.''
roderick esquivel, delvalle's vice president, also was in hiding. both men were ousted friday by the national legislative assembly in a move orchestrated by noriega, chief of panama's 17,000-member defense forces
on thursday, delvalle ignited the latest crisis in eight months of civil unrest in panama when he tried to fire noriega, charged in florida with corruption and narcotics trafficking. the united states also has urged noriega to step down as military chief
on friday, delvalle returned to his home in an upper-class neighborhood. police surrounded the house friday night and delvalle's telephones were cut, leaving him under an undeclared house arrest
sometime that night, he reportedly climbed over a patio wall at the rear of the house and escaped through a neighbor's yard
opposition leaders said a prolonged strike could create financial chaos in panama and force noriega to resign, paving the way for delvalle's return to office and an end to military domination of the government
the pro-government newspapr critica blared a red-ink banner headline ``a closed business is a taken-over business.''
osvaldo velasquez, president of the panama committee for human rights, predicted the government would ``use state terrorism'' to ``try to counteract the strike.''
he added: ``one of the means they will resort to is to stimulate the crowds to get into the stores, to break into the businesses that dare to close.''
he said that tactic had been used by the government in previous, unsuccessful strikes last summer
raul diaz, delvalle's brother-in-law, said sunday that the former president was telephoning world leaders from hiding to ask their support
delvalle, he said, was not with his wife and three children, but all of them were safe. ``they are in one place and he is alone in another,'' he said
the u.s. state department said on saturday that some of delvalle's children or grandchildren were at the u.s. embassy or the home of u.s. ambassador arthur davis. the embassy declined to comment sunday on that report
in an interview on cbs news' ``60 minutes'' program, noriega was asked where delvalle was and the general said, ``he's with the north americans, with the ambassador of the united states.'' when he was asked if delvalle was at the u.s. embassy, noriega said, ``at this point we don't know.''
delvalle's hopes of regaining his post were dealt a setback saturday when the permanent council of the organization of american states, meeting in washington, declined to impose trade sanctions on panama or approve a resolution condemning the president's ouster by the military
nancy reagan today called for a crackdown on casual drug users, saying they are ``an accomplice to murder'' in the deaths of judges, agents and others who have been killed by narcotics traffickers
i want to make it impossible for casual users to escape responsibility for any innocent deaths due to drugs,'' mrs. reagan said. ``i want to make them fully face the brutality of drug use.''
the first lady was joined by her husband, president reagan, at the white house conference for a drug free america, a meeting intended to showcase the fight against drugs
she said that when she moves back to california next year, ``i'm not going to give up my interest and concern about this.'' she said she will continue her efforts at the nancy reagan house in los angeles, which is to be run by the phoenix house
in his remarks, the president said that despite all the publicity about drugs, ``let's keep in mind the progress we've made.'' he said the number of users is leveling off and may even be falling
the tide of the battle has turned and we're beginning to win the crusade for a drug-free america,'' reagan said
mrs. reagan gave a more somber assessment, saying, ``drugs are tearing our community apart.'' she said drug traffickers and dealers will murder anyone who stands in their way
in particular, she cited the murder of colombia's chief prosecutor, attorney general carlos hoyos, and his two bodyguards who were abducted last month by a half-dozen gunmen who the government accused of working for local cocaine barons
hoyos' bullet-riddled body was dumped outside the center of the nation's drug trade. the body had been blindfolded and handcuffed
the government blamed his abduction and death on the medillin cartel, which u.s. officials say controls 80 percent of cocaine entering the united states
mrs. reagan said that ``the people who casually use cocaine are responsible beause their money bought those bullets.''
the casual user may think when he takes a line of cocaine or smokes a joint in the privacy of his nice condo, listening to his expensive stereo, that he's somehow not bothering anyone,'' she said
but there's a trail of death and destruction that leads directly to his door,'' mrs. reagan said. ``the casual user cannot morally escape responsibility for the action of drug traffickers and dealing
i'm saying that if you're a casual drug user, you're an accomplice to murder,'' the first lady said, prompting loud applause from the audience of anti-drug activists
the casual users ... also cannot morally escape association with those who use drugs and then endanger the public safety,'' she said. ``the message from casual use is that drugs are acceptable, that they can be handled, that somehow it's simply a matter of dosage
casual use sets the tone for tolerance and that tolerance can kill,'' she said, recalling a train crash in maryland last year that killed 16 people and injured 175 others. she noted that an investigation determined that a train engineer and brakeman had smoked marijuana. graf pvs, ``it's the entire xxx</note>
all five members of one family were found dead early today in their burning home, and authorities said investigators were treating the deaths as homicides
they were obviously not killed by the fire,'' said livingston county sheriff richard kane. he said that it might have been a murder-suicide, and that a 16-gauge shotgun was found near the father's body
obviously, two scenarios come to mind: murder-suicide is one, and the other is that another person was involved in committing these acts,'' said kane
the fire, discovered just before midnight by neighbors, was ``highly suspicious,'' kane said
kane identified the victims as lawrence delabarto, 32; his wife, linda, also 32; and their children, anthony, 12, danielle 10, and dominic, 6. he said the three young children and the father were found shot; mrs. delaberto was apparently strangled
it's the entire family,'' kane said. ``they were all dead.''
firefighters in this hamlet about 10 miles south of geneseo found the five bodies in their bedrooms, kane said
kevin niedermaier, chief of the groveland volunteer fire department, said it took two hours to bring the fire under control
the father of the family worked for a wholesale liquor company in the area, kane said
panama's ambassador to the united states said today that efforts by the newly installed government in panama to replace him will not succeed
following the ouster last friday of president eric arturo delvalle, the successor government appointed the second ranking official at panama's u.n. embassy, leonardo kam, to succeed ambassador juan b. sosa
the u.n. embassy said that kam was in washington today but sosa said he had heard nothing from the envoy
sosa said in a telephone interview that the ouster of delvalle by the national assembly, dominated by forces loyal to military strongman manuel noriega, was unconstitutional. sosa said he continues to regard delvalle as panama's president
i hope not to hear from mr. kam,'' sosa said. ``it would be a very embarrassing situation. he would be representing an unconstitutional government. he would be wasting his time.''
asked about the status of other embassy diplomats, sosa said, ``the panamanian embassy is loyal to its ambassador and the ambassador is loyal to president delvalle.''
he said the representative of panama's defense forces at the embassy, capt. jose s. motta, continues to serve at his post. he added that motta reports to the defense forces and not to the ambassador
an oceanographic research vessel will be renamed on tuesday in honor of the late secretary of commerce malcolm baldrige
the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ship researcher will be renamed the malcolm baldrige in recognition of the late official's public service. baldrige died last july following a rodeo accident
the 2,963-ton vessel, 278 feet long, is the largest ship in the noaa fleet of 23 research and survey vessels. it conducts climate research in the atlantic and caribbean for noaa, which is a part of the commerce department
the renaming ceremonies will be held at the washington navy yard
the u.s. naval observatory is looking for help in sighting the moon
while nearly anyone can see the huge full moon, the astronomers are trying to determine just how soon after a new moon the first faint crescent of moonlight becomes visible to observers
to help determine just how quickly that occurs, the observatory has scheduled an experiment for july 14
the new moon will occur at 7:53 p.m. edt july 13, and observers are being asked to look for the first visibility of the moon on the following night
the observatory wants residents of the united states, canada, the caribbean and central america to begin looking for the new moon about 40 minutes after sunset july 14 and to record and report their results
persons willing to take part can get details by writing to ``looking for the moon,'' u.s. naval observatory, washington, d.c., 20392-5100
first moon sightings have been reported as early as 18 hours after new moon _ that time each month when the moon is completely obscured bu the earth blocking the sun's light. but such early sightings are considered extremely difficult
being able to pinpoint first visibility of the moon is important in several foreign cultures, the observatory reports. in islam, for instance, the end of one month and the beginning of the next occurs when the moon is first visible, and being able to predict that moment will help in preparing calendars
one of three men arrested on capital murder warrants in the shooting death of an off-duty police officer had previously pleaded guilty to an assault on another police officer and was on parole, authorities said
another of the men arrested was on parole after a robbery conviction
this is rather indicative of how the criminal justice system is working,'' capt. john holt said sunday
the officer's death was the seventh in six shootings involving police this year. in addition to three dead police officers, four civilians have been killed by police this year
vincent edward cooks, 23, was arrested sunday in houston, and tony ray harvey, 23, and tracy dewayne stallworth, 27, were arrested saturday, holt said at a news conference sunday
holt and lt. ron waldrop told reporters that other details of the arrests were not available because the investigation into the death of officer gary d. mccarthy was continuing
cooks began serving a five-year sentence in december 1986 and was paroled on aug. 4, 1987. he initially was charged with attempted capital murder of a police officer, but houston police sgt. v.w. west said cooks pleaded no contest in september 1985 to a reduced charge of aggravated assault
harvey was paroled jan. 18 after serving 18 months of a six-year sentence for aggravated robbery and unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, holt said
harvey was being held in lieu of $500,000 bond while bond was set at $300,000 for stallworth. cooks was to be returned to dallas from houston, said an officer who refused to give his name
former secretary of defense caspar w. weinberger is joining the law firm of rogers &amp; wells as a washington-based specialist in international law and finance, it was announced monday
the 275-lawyer firm is headed by former secretary of state william p. rogers
the announcement, issued by rogers &amp; wells' new york headquarters, said weinberger will not engage in any work involving the federal government, defense contracts or any other matters connected with the defense department
weinberger served as secretary of health, education and welfare and as budget director during the nixon administration. he was senior vice president and general counsel of bechtel corp. from 1975 until 1980, and became secretary of defense in 1981. he resigned from president reagan's cabinet late last year
the government has some sweet news for candy-loving poles: the rationing of chocolate will be lifted on tuesday
newspapers on monday printed an official announcement on the end of the rationing, but no explanation was given for the decision
under the rationing system, parents could only buy 7 ounces of chocolate a month for each child under 16 _ about two candy bars a month
adult chocolate-lovers did not receive a monthly ration for themselves
until now, the only recourse was to buy chocolate on the black market, in private shops or in government-run western currency stores for prices several times higher than the government-set price for polish-made chocolate products
meat is the only food product still rationed in poland. since introducing widespread food rationing in 1980-81, the government has gradually lifted restrictions on purchases of grain products, butter and cooking fats, alcohol, cigarettes and sugar. gasoline is still rationed for private car owners
three vehicles packed with people crashed on a rain-slickened highway monday, killing 25 people and injuring 26 others, authorities said
many of the victims were supporters of political candidates going to nakuru to see the office-seekers present papers for the march 21 general election
according to witnesses, one overcrowded pickup truck tried to pass another, but rammed into an oncoming minibus
the injured were taken to nakuru provincial general hospital, where 11 were admitted and 15 were treated and released
the accident occurred about 8 a.m. on a road outside nakuru, which is 100 miles northwest of nairobi
small covered pickup trucks and minibuses or vans are the most popular form of public transportation in kenya. the brightly colored vehicles, known as ``matatus,'' are criticized as deathtraps because of their overcrowding and reckless drivers
james g. radakovich liked to dance with his wife at the local serbian club and take care of his cadillac and his yard, said those who knew him
no one knows what led to the shootings saturday that claimed the life of radakovich, his wife and their sons, both college students. police say radakovich shot them dead and then himself
you never know what goes on inside a family,'' said richard grilli, a neighbor
something happened. he just cracked up,'' said joseph bergamasco, a police officer in this working-class pittsburgh suburb
mary radakovich, 57, was found on the livingroom floor. one son, james l., 21, was in his bed, and paul, 19, was on the floor of their bedroom
radakovich, 54, a retired steelworker, died of a single gunshot wound in the head and was found beside his younger son, authorities said. he had two notes in a pocket of his pajamas, one a will, the other burial instructions
the note said he was sorry for what he is doing, but possibly they would all be better off wherever they were going. but it gave no reason,'' said bergamasco
investigators found no signs of struggle
whether he was depressed, i don't know, but he didn't show it,'' said samuel budich, mrs. radakovich's brother
he was always a good husband to my sister,'' budich said. ``two weeks ago he was dancing the `colo' down at the narodi dom.''
the deaths were discovered after james' girlfriend alerted her father that all three family cars were parked at the home but no one was answering the door. police found two .22-caliber pistols, a revolver and an automatic
radakovich was laid off from the homestead works of usx corp. two years ago, and had a good pension, relatives said. he caddied at the oakmont country club for extra money
he took up golf when he was laid off,'' said grilli. ``he'd have a beer now and then, but i never saw him drunk. he took care of his house and his lawn. he was nice, quiet.''
northern africa and the sahel region are facing the threat of an invasion by desert locusts that could cause widespread destruction of crops and pastures, a u.n. group reported monday
about 2.5 million acres have been infested in northern mauritania, said the u.n. food and agriculture organization, which issued an appeal to international donors for two spraying aircraft and 39,000 gallons of pesticide
successful control of infestations in northern mauritania would greatly reduce the risks of substantial invasion of morocco and algeria to the north and of the sahel zone to the south,'' the fao said in its appeal
major control efforts have been under way in morocco and several other countries in the past several months, the fao said
small infestations have also been detected in sudan, near the red sea coast, but these are under control, it added. picks up 2nd graf, `both the ...'</note>
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar, opening an emergency session of the general assembly today, urged the united states not to close the u.n. mission of the palestine liberation organization and to respect the united nations
this question has immediate and profound importance for the united nations,'' he said as the 159-member assembly reconvened a three-day session to condemn the u.s. plan to close the plo mission under a new anti-terrorist law
the plo is an invitee of the united nations and the united states is obliged by its u.n. headquarters agreement to permit accredited plo personnel to enter and remain in the u.s. and carry out their official functions,'' the u.n. chief said
perez de cuellar said he hoped the united states could reconcile its domestic legislation with its international obligations
both the state department and the united nations say the new anti-terrorism law that would close the mission by march 22 violates the 1947 headquarters agreement between the united states and the united nations. it allows all missions to operation
still, the justice department reportedly intends to go ahead and order the mission closed, although legal maneuvering is expected to keep the mission open for as long as a year
twenty-two speakers, including the plo ambassador and the envoys of the soviet union, jordan, egypt and syria, were to speak today before the assembly
in the unusual session, the united states, the largest u.n. contributor, was expected to be lectured and rebuked by the world body, which recognizes the plo
the head of the u.n. arab group said sunday that if the united states insists on closing the legal plo mission, operating under international treaty, then the general assembly should vote to leave new york and relocate in geneva
i don't exclude any idea of shifting the general assembly, the security council and other key bodies dealing with the middle east, if the u.s. goes ahead with closure,'' said ambassador karim ebrahim al-shakar of bahrain
i would hope it will not reach that point,'' he said. ``but that depends on the will and good intention of the host country, the united states.''
without the plo, recognized as the legitimate u.n. representative of the palestinian people, the united nations cannot hold discussions on the middle east, said the bahrain envoy, head of the 21-nation arab group
most other diplomats and the plo said it was unlikely that the united nations would leave new york
the three-day session is expected to approve resolutions calling on the united states to allow the 13-year-old plo mission to operate, as legally required by treaty with the united nations. it also may seek a ruling against the united states by the international court of justice
the state department and u.n. lawyers both say the plan to shut the plo mission under a new anti-terrorist law is illegal and violates the 1947 headquarters agreement between the united states and the united nations
u.s. prestige and influence at the united nations are at an all-time low over the reagan administration's withholding of more than $250 million in u.n. budget dues. the united states has also sided with israel and south africa on key issues
the united states is the largest u.n. contributor, paying about one-quarter of the annual budget of $800 million. but the united states has failed to pay its dues because congress has not appropriated full funding. american critics say the organization is inefficient and biased against the united states
matt and ben kearney did more homework, read more books and spent more time with their parents while facing the ultimate challenge, an entire year without television
it came to a festive end at a family party when their father, lawyer mike kearney, handed each boy a packet of 10 $50 bills tied up in a red ribbon and then turned the television set back on at 7:30 p.m. thursday
it feels real weird,'' said 9-year-old matt, flipping channels quickly between the olympics, ``jeopardy'' and ``magnum p.i.'' ``it feels like i'm not supposed to be doing it.''
kearney got the idea about the year without television when he read about a new jersey boy whose mother offered him $500 to turn off the set for a year
every day they'd get up in the morning and watch tv until they went to school,'' kearney said. ``then they'd come home and watch it the rest of the day. on weekends they'd watch it until their ... eyes bugged out.''
it took the two brothers about ``two seconds'' to take their father up on the challenge, ben, 11, said
the first days were the hardest. ``the first night we sort of played more and then went to bed,'' ben said. ``and then the next morning we got up and thought, `what are we going to watch?' and then we remembered we couldn't.''
their mother, shannon kearney, saw the project as an exercise in self control. the rest of the family, including 5-year-old patrick, had continued watching television
the boys plan to spend part of their money on a home video game and save the rest
a graduate of texas a&amp;m, whose alumni are dubbed aggies and are the butt of some farming jokes in texas, has some of his fields under water and dumps hay on them, leading some anonymous wag to proclaim it an ``aggie hay farm.''
but john gaulding, 41, is not trying to grow hay. he's feeding crawfish
gaulding farms about 1,200 acres about 60 miles east of houston and leases about 300 acres to people who raise the freshwater crustaceans, especially popular in cajun cuisine
he said he didn't appreciate it when a sign with the message ``aggie hay farm'' mysteriously appeared in front of his land in october
at first, it seemed like a harmless prank,'' gaulding said sunday. ``i had no idea who did it. i don't know if they really even knew that it was a crawfish farm.''
we left it up for a couple of days. people were asking us to leave it up, and there was so much talk, finally we decided we would,'' he said. ``i figured if a&amp;m could win the cotton bowl, i could put up with a little kidding about it.''
pain and punishment are more than mere agenda items to armando valladares, a human rights ambassador with a resume written by two decades of imprisonment
valladares is the chief u.s. delegate to the u.n. human rights commission. he is among the delegates from 43 nations who are meeting here to discuss human rights violations
but as a political prisoner in cuba for 22 years, he is far from a typical ambassador
when he talks about torture, he points to broken bones that never healed quite right. when he talks about prison life, he displays scars left on his hands by hungry rats
when he discusses desperation, he can recall being denied pens and pencils in prison, and writing a poem in his blood
when the topic is cruelty, he talks about forgiveness
i do not hate anyone,'' he said, ``not even those who tortured me, because i think that hatred kills the person who feels it. i would say ultimately that those years were a struggle between love and hatred and love always triumphs.''
valladares, 50, a u.s. citizen for slightly more than a year, is his country's latest weapon in a struggle to get the commission to discuss alleged human rights violations in cuba
in an interview with the associated press, valladares said the effort is a struggle ``against a selective sensitivity'' in the commission, which routinely condemns human rights violations in israeli-occupied territories, south africa and chile
but his appointment as chief u.s. delegate session has angered the cuban government, which denounces valladares as an impostor who never was tortured or paralyzed during his prison tenure
valladares is a slightly built man with intense eyes under a shock of dark hair just beginning to turn gray. he is the father of two boys, one 3 and one nearly 2, and the husband of a woman he met in prison when she came to visit her father. they were married behind bars
he was just 23 when he was sentenced to a 30-year term for what he says were anti-communist remarks. in a book about his experiences, ``against all hope,'' he said prisoners were systematically tortured and denied proper medical care
he said at one point, following a 46-day hunger strike in 1974, he developed polyneuropathy, a nervous system deterioration that confined him to a wheelchair for five years
at that time he began writing poetry and smuggling it out of prison to his wife, martha, then living in the united states, he said
he won his freedom in october 1982 after french president francois mitterrand intervened in his case. just a month after obtaining u.s. citizenship, he was added to the u.s. human rights delegation
the chief cuban delegate, raul roa kouri, told a news conference that valladares' book was ``full of lies.''
the cuban government held similar news conferences in washington and mexico city and distributed pamphlets rejecting what it said were lies by the state department about valladares' past
it is an attack against me, a man, because they cannot refute the violations of human rights that are happening in their country,'' responds valladares
although his mother and sister live in miami, his 77-year-old father remains in cuba
he lives in the center of the island and often the authorities tell him to pack all his things because he is leaving cuba. then he travels all the way to havana and they tell him it was an error,'' said valladares
he said his father also is denied treatment for an eye ailment that has left him nearly blind
i think that the cuban government is moving this way against him thinking perhaps that i will change my attitude. i will not do that,'' he said
what he does do is bring a dramatic air of realism to the commission
speaking recently on torture, valladares said: ``i remember when they had me in a punishment cell, naked, my leg fractured in several places _ fractures that were never treated and eventually fused into a mass of deformed bones
through the wire mesh that covered the cell, the guards would pour over me buckets of urine and excrement that they had collected earlier.''
international condemnation of such acts, he said ``is the only thing capable of pressuring the torturers.''
authorities said today that a small wooden boat carrying illegal aliens from the dominican republic sank in rough seas off the west coast of puerto rico. a survivor was quoted as saying more than 40 people were aboard
elmer hasker, deputy district director for the immigration and naturalization service in san juan, said one illegal alien was in ins custody, another hospitalized, two bodies had been recovered and another had been spotted but washed away before it could be retrieved
one of the two known survivors ``has stated that there were approximately 40 people on the boat,'' hasker said in a telephone interview in san juan. ``we don't know anything about their situation ... whether they drowned or made it to shore is unknown at this point.''
the boat sank during the weekend off aguada, about 85 miles west of the capital san juan. at the time, the seas were very rough and it was very windy
in a telephone interview from aguada, police spokeswoman evelyn crespo said a survivor told authorities there were 45 people on the boat, including 37 men and eight women
police said the two bodies were of two girls, one 14, the other 16
ms. crespo said one of the survivors reported the group left from the province of higuey, on the southeastern tip of the dominican republic, early saturday. the survivors were rescued around 10 p.m. sunday, she said
there was no information available on why the boat sank. hasker said the boat apparently sank sunday night
the boat has washed ashore so it was close enough that it didn't disintegrate,'' hasker said
estimates on the length of the boat ranged from 20 to 30 feet
this morning a vessel from the commonwealth maritime police searched the waters off aguada for survivors and bodies, and ins and local officials searched the land, ins border patrol agent luis garcia in a telephone interview from aguadilla, about five miles from aguada
garcia said some clothes had been found along the beach in aguada but there was no way of knowing whether they belonged to those aboard the boat that sank
in october, as many as 100 dominicans are believed to have died when their boat sank about three miles off the north east coast of the dominican republic as they started their journey to puerto rico
hundreds of dominicans leave their country each year in wooden boats to make the dangerous crossing to puerto rico, where they hope to find jobs and a better life
the supreme court today agreed to decide whether employees of a pentagon intelligence agency are entitled to administrative hearings when they are fired as security risks
the justices said they will hear reagan administration arguments that those who work for the national security agency are not entitled to such procedural protection
the case raises issues similar to those in a case decided tuesday by the high court
in that ruling, the court said the merit systems protection board _ which provides job protection to federal workers _ lacks authority to reinstate an employee fired for lacking a security clearance. the court upheld the firing of a laborer at a navy installation
in the case acted on today, the justices will review a ruling that granted an administrative hearing to an unidentified nsa employee who said he was fired because he engaged in homosexual activities
the employee, identified only as john doe, works with secret codes for the spy agency
he told his superiors in 1982 that he had homosexual relations with several foreigners during vacation travels abroad
after a psychiatric evaluation, the nsa _in a decision upheld by the defense secretary _ ordered him fired on grounds his ``indiscriminate'' sexual activities posed a security risk since he had access in his job to the most secret type of classified information. the agency said the fact the acts were homosexual was not the determining factor
doe then filed a federal court suit, claiming the department of defense violated a federal civil service law entitling him to an administrative hearing
the u.s. circuit court of appeals agreed with him in a ruling last june
the appeals court said, ``as the government acknowledges, in this case the (defense) secretary has not found that a hearing would itself contravene national security. accordingly, (doe) is entitled by law to that hearing.''
caspar weinberger was secretary of defense at the time of doe's firing. since then, he has been succeeded by frank carlucci
the case is carlucci vs. doe, 87-751
president p.w. botha suggested monday that his government might comply with a demand by some british lawmakers that the union jack be removed from the south african flag
members of all three main parties in britain's parliament, citing botha's latest crackdown on black oppositon, urged their government on saturday to request that a replica of the british flag be removed from the south african flag
the union jack and the flags of two south african provinces are displayed in the center of south africa's flag as symbols of the country's past
the flag of south africa not only relates to our history but is indeed a symbol of national unity and nationhood,'' botha said. ``it is surprising that the agitation against the south african flag from britain is not taking into consideration the feelings of the english-speaking south africans.''
but if the british government wishes to interfere with the composition of a south africa symbol on this basis, the question may be asked whether the south african parliament should not give this matter its serious attention.''
designed 60 years ago, the south african flag was intended to show how the country was formed by a merger of british-controlled territory and the former afrikaner republics of transvaal and the orange free state. the mainly dutch-descended afrikaners make up about 60 percent of the 5 million whites, while most of the others have british ancestry
the british and afrikaners battled each in the boer war that ended in 1902, and strains between the two still surface
former soviet dissident natan sharansky, who immigrated to israel in 1986 after serving nine years in a soviet prison, has begun basic military training, an associate said monday
sharansky reported sunday to a military base near tel aviv for three weeks of training, said yuri stern, a spokesman for the soviet jewry information center, a private lobbying group
sharansky, 40, will join israel's civil guard, rather than the regular army, because of his age and poor health, said stern
civil guard members serve in israel, and their duties include patrolling population centers and guarding holy sites, such as the western wall, the last remnant of the second jewish temple destroyed by the romans in 70 a.d
like all israeli men, sharansky will be called up for several weeks of reserve duty once a year, stern said
stern said sharansky was ``proud to fulfill his duty of defending the country.''
however, stern added, sharansky ``will be no more than a private in the army, while his true battlefield is the campaign for the release of soviet jews. that's where he is a general.''
since coming to israel, sharansky spent most of his time studying hebrew, lecturing on the plight of soviet jews and writing his memoirs, stern said
sharansky, one of the soviet union's most prominent dissidents, served nine years in a soviet jail on espionage charges. he was freed in february 1986 in an east-west spy swap after his wife, avital, campaigned for his release throughout the west
two nuns are suing the nephew of their mother superior, claiming he embezzled their community property and holy relics
the lawsuit was filed in el paso county district court on behalf of the carmelite monastery of the sacred hearts, an independent community no longer recognized by the roman catholic church. named as defendant was jose de la luz sanchez of albuquerque, n.m., who once was the nuns' legal conservator
i'm not worried because none of that is true,'' said sanchez, 65. ``every time they ran out of money they sure knew who to call. i never refused them because, frankly, my wife and i have no kids and they're all we have.''
the lawsuit filed last week accuses sanchez, who is retired from new mexico's highway department, of theft, fraud and breach of fiduciary duty
it says he transferred the sisters' community assets, including a $150,000 promissory note, to his own name; that he took items such as the nuns' car, wheelbarrow and organ; and that he told the nuns he was looking after them for free but ``billed the community thousands of dollars for his time.''
mr. sanchez has gone so far as to deprive the nuns of their chalices, monstrance and holy relics,'' according to the complaint filed by two denver lawyers, roger p. thomasch and mark wielga, who have never met the sisters in person
the nuns, who follow religious vows that permit little contact with outsiders, declined comment
sanchez is the nephew of mother helen chavez, 79, the leader of the community, and mother agnes chavez, 86, who live in albuquerque
the suit was filed by mother josephine florence, 76, and sister theresa schull, 79, who apparently have separated from sanchez's aunts and are struggling to establish themselves in colorado springs
since the late 1970s, the suit says, the nuns have lived in three states while searching for a permanent home. they left burnet, texas, in 1978 for bryan, texas. later they moved to gallup, n.m., and to albuquerque. then they moved to colorado springs
the two nuns living in albuquerque are in nursing homes and receive some social security
the nuns follow the rules of the larger discalced nuns of the order of our blessed lady of mount carmel, but their group is no longer affiliated with the larger order, said bishop jerome hastrich of gallup, n.m
he said they were ordered by the vatican to disband several years ago
they didn't have unity,'' said hastrich. ``the mother was about 80, and she was unable to control the group. about half were in their 70s and 80s, and half were quite young.''
he found other homes for about 16 nuns, but said the four elders refused to separate from the community
acting gov. rose mofford held to a regular schedule monday as the senate began its impeachment trial of evan mecham
mrs. mofford held a routine 9 a.m. staff meeting, said her press secretary, athia hardt
the only tv we have is in my office, and i don't expect it to be on most of the day,'' ms. hardt said. ``we'll probably just catch it like everybody else when we go home at night.''
mrs. mofford has told department heads not to watch the trial and her department of administration director has instructed state employees not to watch it during work hours, ms. hardt said
mrs. mofford, a democrat elected as secretary of state, became acting governor when the house impeached mecham, the elected republican governor, on charges he illegally concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, misused $80,000 in state money and obstructed justice
mecham, who says he is innocent, also faces a recall election in may and a criminal trial next month on six felony charges stemming from the campaign loan
mrs. mofford would become governor should mecham be convicted at either trial. should mecham lose the recall, the opponent who received the most votes would become governor
israeli troops shot a palestinian dead monday and another died of earlier wounds. jewish settlers urged even tougher polices in the occupied lands, where 12 weeks of violence have cost at least 76 arab lives
the peace mission of secretary of state george p. shultz ran into trouble. sources said jordanian leaders, who believe palestinians are entitled to their own negotiating team, rejected talking with israel as part of a jordanian-palestinian delegation
maj. gen. amram mitzna, military commander of the west bank, said israel has four times as many soldiers there as it did before riots began dec. 8. in keeping with army policy, he gave no figures
the latest deaths brought to 76 the number of palestinians killed, according to u.n. figures, most of them shot by israeli soldiers. hundreds have been wounded
israeli measures to quell what palestinians now call ``the uprising'' have been criticized abroad. prime minister yitzhak shamir said monday those who censure israel from outside ``like to see us beaten and hate to see us defending ourselves with force and remaining alive.''
nations which said nothing when we were brought to the slaughterhouses are now going wild when they see rioters receiving their due punishment,'' he told reporters in northern israel. ``it's hard to understand the injustice in these reactions.''
some cabinet members have said journalists should be banned from the occupied west bank and gaza strip, and shamir did not reject the idea. ``if it becomes clear that indeed it may limit the damage, i would be willing to consider it,'' he said
jewish settlers distributed 3,000 leaflets in palestinian towns, working overnight to avoid clashes with arabs, that warned of tough israeli action against arab agitators
don't be mistaken enough to think we are turning the other cheek,'' said the leaflets from the nationalist group gush emunin. ``the days when jewish blood was cheap are long gone, as is the day of the slogan `slaughter the jews.' don't mistake our intention. we are staying here forever.''
gush emunim urged israel to impose emergency laws in the west bank and gaza, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. about 1.5 million palestinians live in the territories
noam arnon, spokesman for gush emunim, said: ``anyone who lifts a rock ... puts his life on the line. the arabs have to be told this. we don't have to wait until, god forbid, jews will be burned in a bus. we must do this now.''
hospital officials said two palestinians were wounded by gunfire in the gaza strip and 50 arab women and children threw stones at soldiers in the west bank city of ramallah, taunting them with chants of ``we are the plo!''
troops used tear gas and fired shots into the air in ramallah, and arrested two young arabs, associated press photographer martin cleaver said
in burin, a west bank village of about 1,400 three miles south of nablus, 50 palestinians attacked an army jeep with stones and iron bars, the army said. the report said soldiers fired tear gas and rubber bullets to no effect, then used live ammunition and yasser daoud eid, 18, was fatally shot in the neck
the second death monday was of mahmoud batwi, 30, who died of a gunshot wound to the head suffered four days earlier during a protest in jenin, a west bank town
two jewish settlers suspected of killing two arabs on saturday were freed on bail. also released were four soldiers who were shown in a cbs news videotape to be beating two palestinians for more than half an hour near nablus last week. authorities said investigations would continue in both cases
hananiya schneider, 45, and moshe bahagon, 37, both of the neve tzuf settlement, were released on bail of 2,500 shekels each (about $1,500)
they are suspected of killing the two palestinians in abud after residents of the village barricaded the main road
at kibbutz gesher in northern israel, home of one of the soldiers involved in the beating, friends and relatives of sgt. saguy harpaz, 20, accused defense minister yitzhak rabin of giving ambiguous orders to young soldiers. 4th graf pvs, ``a small oil xxx</note>
a salvage crew continued pumping oil today from an upside-down barge that was raised one month after it sank in guemes channel and spilled about 70,000 gallons of heavy bunker oil into inland waters
after the delicate lifting procedure sunday, the inverted barge was held at the surface by cables strung from two cranes as crews began pumping the remaining 344,000 gallons of oil aboard into a second barge
coast guard officials said this morning that one compartment of the oil barge contained mostly water, raising the possibility that more oil leaked than previously thought
it appears the structural integrity of the tank may be breached,'' said coast guard lt. eldo delong
coast guard guard chief petty officer roy compton said that as oil was pumped out of the barge's six tanks, air would be pumped in until the barge floated on its own
as of 8:40 a.m., an estimated 68,976 gallons had been pumped out of the damaged barge
a small oil sheen marked the spot where the barge surfaced sunday morning. mark stewart of the state division of emergency management said roughly 500 to 1,000 gallons of lightweight oil had spilled
surface skimmer boats had cleaned up about 160 gallons, while absorbent pads collected more of the spill, he said
most of the barge's cargo is heavier-than-water bunker oil
state ecology department spokesman ats kiuchi said it appeared the fragile, inner coastal environment had avoided a disaster
we're dealing with a lot of unknowns here. it's like mount st. helens erupting; you use the best estimate you can get. but it (the lift) was smooth,'' he said
the barge, operated by olympic tug and barge of seattle, sank jan. 31 in about 130 feet of water four miles west of anacortes and about 100 yards off shannon point. it had been loaded at an oil refinery at anacortes and was being towed by to seattle when it began listing and capsized
after resting with its stern on the bottom and the bow breaking the surface for about a week, the vessel dropped all the way to the bottom
on thursday, the coast guard assumed financial responsibility for the salvage because olympic was unable to obtain pollution liability coverage. compton said harley franco, olympic president, would be billed for the salvage costs. picks up 3rd graf pvs ``tehran radio..</note>
iran said it fired three missiles into the iraqi capital of baghdad before dawn today and iraq said two missiles crashed into residential areas, killing many civilians
twelve hours later, iran's official media reported iraqi warplanes bombed residential districts of tehran and hit a hospital. iran's islamic republic news agency, monitored in nicosia, said 16 people were killed at the hospital and ``dozens wounded, including newborn babies.''
tehran radio, also monitored in nicosia, urged iranians to take refuge in recently built bomb shelters. it was the second time the iraqis have bombed tehran in three days
the turkish anatolia news agency said one bomb exploded 300 yards from a downtown hotel where state minister yusuf ozal of turkey was staying with an official delegation led by prime minister turgut ozal, his brother
there were no reports of turkish casualties
earlier today, baghdad's official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, quoted a military spokesman as saying iranian artillery also shelled residential areas of the embattled southern port of basra and the border town of khanaqin, 80 miles northeast of baghdad during the night. he made no mention of casualties
it was the third straight day of attacks on cities and industrial centers by the two persian gulf war foes, beginning when iraqi warplanes bombed tehran on saturday for the first time in months
the attacks heightened fears that the two nations had begun another round of the so-called ``war of the cities'' that started in march 1985
in other action, iran claimed kurdish guerrillas and revolutionary guards killed or wounded 350 iraqis on sunday in fighting in northeast iraq
iran's official islamic republic news agency, quoting a military communique, said kurdish guerrillas beat back an assault by iraqi special forces on positions in erbil province, killing or wounding 250 men
the agency said iranian revolutionary guards killed or wounded another 100 iraqis in a bombardment of iraqi positions in the mountainous kurdistan region. irna, monitored in nicosia, said revolutionary guards gunners fired the three surface-to-surface missiles at the baghdad headquarters of iraq's state-run television and radio network and ``two military targets'' in baghdad
irna said the iranians fired the missiles in retaliation for iraqi air raids ``on non-military areas'' in tehran, the kurdish city of saqqez in northwest iran, dezful in southwest khuzestan province, and the western city of hamadan in recent days
it said 28 civilians were killed in those raids, with scores more wounded
the communique warned ``the iraqi government that its renewed attacks on civilian areas will not go unanswered,'' irna reported
baghdad radio did not identify the baghdad residential districts it said were hit by the missiles, believed to be soviet-made, scud-b weapons supplied to iran by libya and syria
the explosions were heard across the city of 5 million
many iraqis were killed, among them women, children and old people. many more were wounded and many houses were destroyed,'' the communique said. no exact casualty figures were given
the radio quoted an unidentified military spokesman as warning: ``all iranian cities are now targets for our air and missile forces until further notice. the losers in the end will be the rulers in tehran.''
the missiles were the first to hit the iraqi capital since nov. 8. the iranians have fired eight missiles into the city since the u.n. security council called for a cease-fire in the 7-year-old war on july 20 last year
altogether, iran has fired 37 missiles into baghdad since march 1985, when the two sides began the ``war of the cities.''
thousands of civilians on both sides have been killed or wounded in the intermittent campaigns involving air raids, missiles and long-range artillery bombardments. in one of the worst missile attacks, more than 30 children were killed and more than 100 wounded when their school was hit oct. 13
tehran's war information headquarters said iranian warplanes on sunday bombed a petrochemical plant in the southern iraqi port of basra, oil installations in abul khassib in the southeast and a bridge linking iraq with umm rassas island in the shatt al-arab waterway
baghdad said long-range iranian artillery shelled six border towns and cities saturday and sunday, killing and wounding an undisclosed number of civilians
baghdad radio said iraqi warplanes later sunday bombed hamadan in eastern iran and dezful in the southeast in retaliation for ``recent atrocities and crimes committed by the charlatans of iran.'' applicants</head>
here, at a glance, are highlights of actions taken monday by the supreme court

drug tests

the court agreed to consider barring the u.s. customs service from conducting drug tests for people seeking drug-enforcement jobs, setting the stage for its first ruling on the constitutionality of mandatory drug-testing for public employees
the court said it will hear a challenge to the testing program by a federal workers labor union that says taking urine samples from employees violates their privacy rights
the case is national treasury employees union vs. von raab, 86-1879

atomic tests

the court refused to revive lawsuits charging the government and federal contrctors with negligently causing deaths and disease among people exposed to open-air atomic tests
the court, without comment, let stand a federal law that effectively spared the government from having to defend itself against claims seeking billions of dollars
the case is konizski vs. livermore labs, 87-953

medicare

the court agreed to consider letting the federal government apply retroactively a formula that limits reimbursement paid to hospitals treating medicare patients
the court said it will hear reagan administraion arguments that some hospitals could reap a windfall from the ban on retroactive application of the formula
the case is bowen vs. georgetown university hospital, 87-1097

embassy documents

the court let stand rulings that threw out a reporter's attempt to force the state department to release documents from u.s. embassies around the world
the lawsuit by donald f. goldberg, a reporter on the staff of syndicated columnist jack anderson, had been filed under the freedom of information act. he had sought from the state department responses to an unclassified 1982 questionnaire on foreign governments' diplomatic practices
the case is goldberg vs. state department, 87-655

bingo

the court asked the reagan administration whether it thinks high-stakes bingo games run by indian tribes are subject to state sales taxes
the court said it wants to hear from justice department lawyers before it says whether it will review an attempt by oklahoma officials to tax revenue from a bingo game in tulsa run by the muscogee creek nation
the case is oklahoma tax commission vs. muscogee creek nation, 87-1068

security risks

the court agreed to decide whether employees of a pentagon intelligence agency are entitled to administrative hearings when the government fires them as security risks
the justices said they will hear reagan administration arguments that those who work for the national security agency are not entitled to such procedural protection
the case is carlucci vs. doe, 87-751

paternity

the court agreed to decide whether states may block a man from trying to prove he fathered the child of a woman married to someone else
the court said it will study a challenge by a man identified in court records only as michael h., to a state evidentiary rule creating a conclusive presumption of fatherhood to a wife's husband
the case is michael h. vs. gerald d., 87-746

hi-fi killings

the court let stand the conviction of a man sentenced to death in utah for his role in the 1974 killings of three people forced to swallow drain cleaner before they were shot
the justices let stand william andrews' conviction and death sentence for the three murders committed during an aril 22, 1974 robbery of an ogden hi-fi store
the case is andrews vs. shulsen, 87-5449

racetrack searches

the court let stand rulings that warrantless searches of illinois racetrack employees' on-grounds living quarters violate constitutionally protected privacyrights
the illinois racing board for years had authorized state law enforcement officers to search, without warrants, the rooms of employees who feed, groom, exercise and generally take care of racehorses
the case is arkansas vs. mayfield, 87-1105
michael dukakis walked aboard his chartered jet with a smile on his face. ``they don't know what a frappe is here in texas,'' he said, ``but i got one.''
dukakis didn't come all the way from the gold-domed statehouse in boston to the heart of texas for the thick milkshake that every soda jerk in new england knows how to make
but if he can find one in the land where lyndon johnson once reigned, can the massachusetts liberal also find enough votes to establish himself as a democratic presidential candidate of nationwide appeal?
with 1,307 democratic national convention delegates at stake on march 8, a festival of 20 primaries and caucuses with a southern flavor known as super tuesday, his aides concede it's a challenge
outside south florida i wouldn't call it hostility, but there's a skepticism about mike dukakis,'' says s. stephen rosenfeld, who left his statehouse job in massachusetts to organize in florida for the governor
while dukakis periodically insists that he's competing ``in every state'' on super tuesday, he is targeting his appeal to liberals, labor workers and retirees, and reminding voters everywhere that he is the son of greek immigrants
dukakis and his aides carefully avoid saying that he must carry even a single southern state to succeed on march 8, and say they are concentrating on winning as many delegates as possible
much of his time and campaign budget is focused in areas of texas, florida, north carolina and georgia. like other democratic rivals, he is virtually conceding the region's large black vote to jesse jackson
dukakis has made subtle changes in the campaign message that earned him a respectable third place in iowa and victories in new hampshire and minnesota. he no longer emphasizes his opposition to president reagan's support for the contras in nicaragua. and to demonstrate toughness in an area that likes it, he is suggesting he might authorize strikes against terrorist base camps in an effort to deal with hostage problems in the middle east
he also showed a combative side in last saturday's debate, repeatedly challenging rep. richard gephardt to say whether he was proud of his vote in favor of the 1981 reaganomics tax bill and questioning sen. albert gore jr.'s credentials for the white house
he still trumpets his record of nine balanced budgets as governor of massachusetts as the centerpiece of his campaign and calls for ``real jobs at real wages.''
dukakis is ready to run commercials attacking gephardt if campaign officials decide it is necessary. ``one of the things that you can't do is to try to make yourself into something you're not,'' dukakis said in an interview. ``he's got a record, and the record is there for all to see.''
for the next week dukakis is targeting his time, money and resources in a hectic southern effort to prove his appeal outside his northern, liberal base. hundreds of delegates are at stake
the governor and his aides also hope he can win the maryland primary (67 delegates at stake) and the washington caucuses (65) on the same day, to go with a rousing victory at home in massachusetts (98) and rhode island (22)
dukakis' aides say they hope he can win delegates in 110 of the 171 congressional districts voting on march 8 and hope for 350 or so delegates overall
they believe that would put dukakis in the lead for nominating delegates just as the campaign heads for the industrial states where he should feel more at home
if we can move out of super tuesday with a good total of delegates i think we will be clearly established,'' he said in an interview as his jet carried him from austin to atlanta, ga
largely bypassing the conservative vote in deepest dixie, dukakis is concentrating on south florida, where the population has been swelled in recent years by droves of cold-weather refugees. he also will make an effort in central florida and campaign extensively in texas, whose 183 delegates make it the biggest single prize on march 8
this emphasis is seen by the decision of where to have dukakis campaign personally and where to advertise on television. the first wave of ads were aired in south florida and parts of texas, as well as baltimore
barring changes in the schedule, dukakis will campaign in areas around atlanta, competing for a fraction of georgia's 77 delegates, and in targeted areas of north carolina (82 delegates)
don't look for the man with the new england accent and the wing-tipped shoes to spend much time, if any, in alabama, mississippi, louisiana, oklahoma, virginia and kentucky. he'll leave tennessee and missouri to favorite sons gore and gephardt
we'll do well by winning delegates in a lot of congressional districts,'' says senior campaign aide leslie dach. since most delegates are awarded on the basis of the vote within congressional districts, a candidate can score by campaigning in one region of a state and ignoring another
thus, in a state like florida or texas, he might not pull enough votes statewide to be a winner, but he could leave with plenty of delegates
an eight-day-old baby girl born with almost no brain died one day after she was taken off a respirator used to preserve her organs for transplant, hospital officials said today
evelyn keys died peacefully sunday night, said dr. joyce peabody, chief of neonatology at loma linda university medical center
her heart valves, eyes and corneas have been donated. the parents are saddened, but still very pleased their daughter could give some gift of life,'' ms. peabody said in a statement
a previous statement released by the hospital during the early morning hours today had said the baby was still alive, but ms. peabody said the baby had died at 10:35 p.m. sunday
the infant with the usually fatal birth defect called anencephaly was part of a novel organ donor program at loma linda university medical center to use the hearts and livers of such babies once they are legally declared brain-dead
loma linda has developed the nation's first guidelines for using such infants as organ donors
the hospital, 65 miles east of los angeles, is known for its frequent infant heart transplants. thirteen babies have received new hearts at the center, with nine surviving
baby evelyn never met the hospital's critieria for brain death, however, and was taken off life-support systems with parental approval saturday, ms. peabody said
the infant continued to breath on her own and received feedings by mouth until she died, said hospital spokeswoman anita rockwell
on saturday, ms. peabody said the baby girl was breathing but was already showing ``signs of gradual deterioration.''
the hospital uses life support systems on until babies are brain dead in order to maintain organs until they can be used. anencephalic babies are connected to respirators soon after birth, and doctors then monitor their abilities to breathe on their own
if they can't breathe by themselves they are declared brain dead before any organ deterioration caused by oxygen loss occurs
if they continue to breathe on their own, slow deterioration eventually makes their organs unsuitable for transplants, ms. rockwell said
evelyn was born feb. 20 in san antonio, texas, to judy keys, 22, and airman todd keys, 21, of the 6993rd electronic security squad at lackland air force base. the infant was flown to loma linda that same day to be used in the donor program
colorado's first experiment with high-oxygen fuels ended monday, without the epidemic of clogged fuel injectors and stalled cars predicted by opponents of the smog-control program
we were very surprised _ we thought there'd be more consumer backlash,'' said jerry levine of amoco corp. in chicago. levine had opposed the mandatory program in hearings last year before colorado's air quality commission
it will be another month, however, before state officials know whether the experiment reduced levels of carbon monoxide along the eastern slope of the rockies
at the city's mile-high altitude, ordinary gasoline burns incompletely and the unexpended fuel emitted into the air adds to the pollution which frequently robs denverites of their mountain views
gasoline suppliers plan to switch back to traditional gasoline without oxygenated additives sometime in march, but oxygenated fuels will be back in the service stations nov. 1, when next season's four-month program begins
since jan. 1, colorado motorists have been able to buy only high-oxygen blended fuels, either ether-based mtbe or corn-based ethanol. state officials predicted the program would reduce carbon monoxide levels by at least 8 percent this year
oil company executives and car mechanics predicted highways would be littered with stalled cars and repair shops overflowing with clogged fuel injectors and other mechanical ailments
there have been no major problems,'' said state air pollution control specialist kim livo. ``the actual program probably has relieved a lot of concerns people might have had before it started.''
the more skeptical agree
the negative effects on our cars have been fairly minimal,'' said bmw service manager mike palmieri at ralph schomp oldsmobile, honda and bmw in littleton. mechanics at the dealership had predicted they would be flooded with complaints of vapor lock, and drying and cracking fuel lines and injector seals
i think everybody including us guys here are willing to put up with some minor inconveniences to clean up denver's air _ we live here too,'' palmieri said
he said he thought the fuels reduced mileage by about 5 percent; livo denied the fuels had any effect on mileage
oil companies also had predicted consumers would be stuck with the blended fuels all year, because it would be too expensive for suppliers to switch fuels twice a year
now, total petroleum, amoco and conoco say they plan to stop selling the oxy-fuels when the program ends and current supplies run out
levine said the blended fuels cost amoco about three cents extra per gallon, though the additional price was offset this year by a drop in gasoline prices overall
both levine and palmieri remained skeptical about next year's program. they said colorado's transition to oxygenated fuels was smooth only because mtbe still accounted for 95 percent to 98 percent of the market
that balance probably will change next year when the oxy-fuels program is expanded to four months, and the required oxygen level rises from 1.5 percent to 2 percent
oil companies favor mtbe because it has been used as an octane enhancer since the early 1980s, said levine
oil companies and many dealers have recommended mtbe as being safer than ethanol, although the big three u.s. auto makers and many import manufacturers have said their cars can be adjusted either to mtbe or ethanol blends at the 2 percent oxygen level
ethanol producers and state officials say the corn-based product got a bad rap in denver three summers ago when a batch of low-quality gasohol hit the area. since then, they say, state regulations have ensured a higher-quality blend
state officials have been adamant about securing ethanol a place in the air quality program and giving consumers a choice of oxy-fuels. livo said the air quality control commission will review the program this spring and make its final recommendations for next year
whatever the commission decides, levine said, ``we'll accept it. we'll live with it.''
the oxy fuels program targeted the 1.6 million people living in the front range from colorado springs north to fort collins. because oil companies could not deliver oxygenated fuels through their pipelines just to this area, however, nearly all of colorado and part of wyoming _ more than 2 million people _ wound up switching fuels
israelis in this communal farm expressed shock monday over the arrest of one young member in the beating of two arabs, but they said government policy in the occupied territories placed soldiers in an untenable position
sgt. saguy harpaz, a gesher resident, was detained in the communal dining hall friday night after a cbs news videotape showed that he and three other soldiers beat two bound arab protesters with rocks for more than half an hour in nablus
people who saw the film were shocked,'' said catherine gur, 38, who taught harpaz in elementary school. ``it was very brutal. he did not act according to the values we impart on our children.''
ms. gur and other kibbutz residents held defense minister yitzhak rabin responsible, saying his announced policy of beating arab rioters instead of shooting them has confused troops
ms. gur said harpaz, 20, joined the army because of ``an ideal to serve the country and to defend the country.'' but she said rabin's policy had taught him ``to beat up women and children.''
harpaz and the other three soldiers were arrested and their deputy unit commander, a captain, was suspended. the four will be tried by a military court. the two arabs were ordered released
on monday, harpaz was released into the custody of his parents. wearing his uniform, he sat in the small living room of his parents' garden apartment, drinking coffee. he was surrounded by a dozen relatives and friends
i'm happy he's out,'' said his mother, amalia. ``but i'm angry about what happened to him. he seems to have changed over the past few weeks. it was an unfair responsibility to have been placed on such young shoulders.''
they make my son into a murderer,'' his father, yossi, told the yediot ahronot newspaper. ``saguy isn't violent by nature. he grew up in this kibbutz and was educated with values.''
harpaz's arrest prompted intense soul-searching in gesher, where 600 israelis live within view of jordan 80 miles north of jerusalem, and in other kibbutzim, which are traditional bastions of liberalism and patriotism
kibbutzniks are considered the backbone of the army, with disproportionately large numbers volunteering for combat units and serving as officers
kibbutzim were founded on the ideas of equality, self-sacrifice and socialist principles. they have produced many of the country's left-wing leaders
how israel quells unrest in the occupied territories ``has become a question for the whole kibbutz society,'' absorption minister yacov tzur, himself a kibbutznik, said monday during a meeting of the united kibbutz movement
we know we are sending our children to do a very difficult task that cannot be compared to anything we did in the past,'' he said
former defense minister ariel sharon accused army leaders of responding to the case with hysteria. he criticized officers who arrested ``a soldier, a fighter, in his kibbutz, in the dinning hall, and took him from the bosom of his family.''
ms. gur said six gesher members serve in the army in the west bank and gaza strip. ``it's hard to speak to them about what they do because they are ashamed, just ashamed,'' she said
unlike in the past, many of gesher's young people are no longer eager to serve, she said
added harpaz's 19-year-old brother, chen, who will join the army thursday: ``i have zero motivation. if that's the way the country treats its soldiers, i don't want to be a part of it.''
ms. gur said kibbutz education stresses the values of tolerance and acceptance of other ethnic groups. however, she said, the only arabs most kibbutz children come in contact with are laborers building homes or picking up garbage
she described harpaz as an intelligent youth with a ``rough exterior. but underneath he's still quite sensitive, a child.'' she noted that he wrote his final essay in high school on democracy
gesher is nestled in rolling hills south of the sea of galilee. its members grow cotton, mine gypsum and produce magnets and ceramic wares. conflict between armenia, azerbaidzhan. picks up 7th graf pvs ``an official at... '' corrects soveit union to russian republic in next-to-the-last graf.</note>
rioting broke out in an industrial city in azerbaidzhan, the tass news agency reported today. a dissident said the violence was sparked by tensions between armenians and azerbaidzhan's dominant ethnic group, the azeris
the tass report said the disturbances sunday in sumgait, a city on the caspian sea, were provoked by ``a group of hooligans,'' and ``rampage and violence followed.'' the agency said measures were adopted ``to normalize the situation.''
the official soviet agency gave no indication what led to the violence
armenians in huge numbers took to the streets last week in their capital, yerevan, to demand that a region of azerbaidzhan that has a largely armenian population be made part of their republic
of sunday's violence in sumgait, a city some 1,500 miles from moscow, dissident sergei grigoryants said: ``thugs in sumgait went up to people and asked them if they were armenian or not. they started to beat people who said they were armenians. several people were knifed.''
grigoryants, who lives in moscow but is of armenian origin, said it appeared that no one was killed in sumgait. he said ``several dozen'' azeris were reportedly involved in the attacks
grigoryants said by telephone that he received his information on the unrest from sources in yerevan
tass said an investigation has been launched into the violence at sumgait
the four-paragraph tass dispatch gave only sketchy details of the violence and did not say whether there had been deaths or injuries. the report did not say who was involved in the unrest or say what caused the violence
an official at the azerbaidzhani government's offices in moscow contacted today by telephone refused to give any details of the unrest
everything will be printed in the central press and shown on television,'' said the official, who refused to give his name
telephone calls placed from moscow to baku, the azerbaidzhani capital 20 miles southeast of sumgait, did not immediately go through
sumgait, with a population of more than 160,000, is the second largest city in azerbaidzhan after the capital. sumgait is 150 miles from the autonomous region of nagorno-karabakh, which is at the center of a dispute between armenia and azerbaidzhan
the armenians want the nagorno-karabakh region, which has been part of azerbaidzhan for 65 years, returned to armenia. three quarters of the 157,000 residents are armenian
last week hundreds of thousands of armenians took to the streets in yerevan, armenia's capital, calling for the region's annexation
protests also occurred in nagorno-karabakh backing the call
on friday, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed for ``civil maturity and restraint'' in an address read on armenian television by a senior party official. in the address, gorbachev promised that the communist party central committee would review relations among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
that same day gorbachev also met with two prominent armenian writers to help work out a solution to the armenian problem
azerbaidzhan is the largest of three soviet republics in the caucasus. it is bounded on the west by the soviet republics of armenia and georgia, on the north by the russian republic. the caspian sea runs for nearly 800 miles along its eastern edge and to the south lies iran
the republic is predominately shiite moslem, expect for the armenian christians living in the nagorno-karbakh region
it has happened so many times over the past 25 years that ron burrows long ago lost count
a car drives toward burrows' house, the heads inside turning about, until it comes to a stop in his driveway at the end of the short road leading to craigville beach. the befuddled motorist either turns the car around or asks burrows for directions
the problem: the kennedy family compound is accessible only from irving avenue in hyannisport, a half mile from irving street, where burrows lives
i'm so used to directing cars to the kennedy compound that i've even thought of setting up an information booth and charging them 10 cents a piece,'' burrows joked monday
now, his days as an informal tour guide are coming to an end
he and the other residents of irving street last week persuaded town officials to change the name of the dead-end street to inwood lane. the name change became official thursday; burrows is just waiting for a public works crew to change the street sign
that might take a couple of months,'' he said
burrows, 80, doesn't blame tourists for seeking a peek at the kennedy compound
but it was a nuisance with all the cars coming up such a small street and sometimes it was a problem because big trucks trying to deliver merchandise to the compound would end up here.''
protestant fundamentalism is growing rapidly in this predominantly roman catholic nation, and american missionary don exley's yellow and white revival tent symbolizes the movement
one night last week, 63 people crossed a muddy field in a hard rain to hear exley, who represents the assemblies of god, preach a spirited sermon in spanish. he told them god would save their souls if they prayed hard enough and sang loud enough
before the two-hour revival ended in the tent in suburban martinez, many of the men, women and children, had ``spoken in tongues'' and eight bowed before exley to be saved. exley said his revival attract crowds of up to 200 people
the assemblies of god is trying to minister to felt needs,'' exley said in an interview. ``people come, and they're coming more and more, because they're hurting financially, physically or in their relations with family.''
sidney rooy of buenos aires, a historian of religion, said pentecostal churches are the fastest-growing religious movements among argentina's 31 million people. the assemblies of god arrived here 40 years ago, but its rapid growth began just five years ago
another historian, the rev. timothy hamilton of buenos aires, said the popularity of protestant evangelism has been growing for a decade. exley claims argentina now has about 2.8 million evangelical christians in a population that is 90 percent catholic
jimmy swaggart, the disgraced assemblies of god television evangelist, visited argentina in 1986 on a four-nation crusade that included brazil, chile and paraguay. a packed house of 60,000 heard him preach at the river plate stadium in buenos aires
carlos annacondia, a former salesman, probably is the most popular argentine evangelist. he preaches in quilmes, just outside the capital
in his magazine abundant life, he published pictures of a recent crusade in paraguay during which he met president alfredo stroessner, the general who has ruled that neighboring country since a coup in 1954. he features the meeting with stroessner in promotional material
exley attributes the popularity of his religious movement, in part, to years of high inflation and ``disillusionment with military government and democratic government.''
he holds revivals four to six nights a week in the tent. exley, 38, has been an assemblies of god missionary since 1976 in argentina and argentina
as an example of his denomination's growth, he cites cordoba, the northwestern industrial center and second-largest city of argentina. exley said he began the assemblies of god ministry there 12 years ago with 75 people in a small church, and cordoba now has 20 churches serving 3,000-4,000 members
the church claims up to 14 million members in brazil, one-tenth of the population, and 12,000 in paraguay
when asked how the movement will be affected by the swaggart sex scandal, exley said: ``for sure it affects his credibility, it affects his credibility a lot. i'm sure it'll affect his finances. but it's very early to know how far-reaching.''
swaggart's tearful confession of sin was was front-page news in argentina
exley said swaggart and the assemblies of god provided most of the money for the block-long lot where the tent stands, provide the swaggart television program dubbed in spanish and were expected to help build a church complex
other financial help from the swaggart group included financing an elementary school in the lower-class lomas de zamora section of buenos aires, he said
mayor federico pena has ordered an investigation into reports that street crews spend more time eating and reading than working
i am outraged by the information ... that a handful of city employees has been wasting taxpayers' dollars by intentionally neglecting their assigned responsibilities as members of the city's work crews,'' pena said in a statement
he commented after seeing a news series that kusa-tv of denver began broadcasting sunday. the station's news crews followed city crews for eight hours and videotaped them with a hidden camera
complaints about the city's public works department, including slow cleanup following a december blizzard, have fueled a recall effort against pena
the station taped several street crews leaving public works yards in the morning, then spending time at stores, restaurants and talking with other crews
in one case, kusa said, a crew drove 64 miles but did no work in its eight-hour shift while visiting five food stores
pena said disciplinary action would be taken against city workers who could be identified from the videotape
while the evidence appears to implicate less than 10 of the city's 11,000 employees, the type of intolerable and inexcusable behavior allegedly involved unjustly damages the reputation of the overwhelming number of city employees who have worked long and hard on behalf of the people of denver,'' pena said
pena also said earlier evidence had led him to begin a management review to improve supervision in the city's pothole repair operation
chuck mills, president of the city employee's union and a public works employee, said if there were problems with workers taking excessive time off, they were isolated. congress</head>
the reagan administration on monday urged a federal appeals court to stay out of a dispute over whether the war powers resolution should have been invoked when the navy began escorting oil tankers in the persian gulf
justice department attorney james spears urged a three-judge panel to uphold a lower court's dismissal of a lawsuit brought by 110 members of congress to force president reagan to report to congress that u.s. forces were sent into hostilities last summer in the persian gulf
our policy has begun to bear fruit,'' spears said of the navy's operation to protect reflagged kuwaiti oil tankers from attack by warring iraqi or iranian forces in the persian gulf. ``for a court to recharacterize the u.s. role threatens to undercut this progress.''
spears called the issue ``quintessentially a non-justiciable political question'' that courts cannot decide
this is a situation where a political decision has been made by the political branches, it is not one for the judicial branch to come in and second guess,'' spears said
the 1973 war powers resolution requires that in the absence of a declared war the president must notify congress within 48 hours of placing u.s. forces in hostilities
the lawsuit was filed by rep. michael lowery, d-wash., and other members of congress, after president reagan refused to file a report notifying congress that the navy ships escorting reflagged kuwaiti oil tankers had been sent into hosilities
the case was dismissed late last year by u.s. district judge george revercomb, who ruled that courts did not have jurisdiction to consider the claim
alan morrison, an attorney representing the lawmakers, argued that ``unless we are to say the statute is unenforceable... it seems to me the court has the power to at least require that the president file the report'' with congress
chief judge patricia wald questioned spears' assertion that courts are not qualified to decide what situation amounts to hostilities, which is essentially a military and diplomatic question
recalling vietnam, wald said that if ``people are in jungles fighting and dying ... you would say that is still a political question, if the president did not want to submit the report'' to congress
no matter what's going on overseas, that's a political question,'' spears said. he said congress has the power under the constitution to declare war. ``congress can't take the power that the constitution assigned it and assign it to a court'' to decide the question
judge stephen williams questioned why congress had not passed resolutions declaring that the persian gulf operation was covered by the war powers resolution
the fact that congress hasn't acted is not relevant'' to whether the president must obey the resolution's requirment that he notify congress that a military operation has begun, morrison said
the war powers resolution was enacted because congress was concerned that its role in deciding whether to send u.s. troops into armed conflict had been greatly diminished, morrison said
the whole purpose of the war powers resolution is not to have to pass a new law every time we have a vietnam or a cambodia,'' morrison said
but williams said the lawmakers who filed the suit were ``inviting courts to add a third voice to u.s. foreign policy where events found by a court fitted into the meaning of the resolution.''
the resolution provides that once he has reported that u.s. forces have entered hostilities, the president must withdraw troops in 60 days if congress doesn't formally declare war or the lawmakers take action to extend the deadline
for european leaders, this week's nato summit is a welcome chance to join president reagan in trumpeting alliance unity and highlighting its recent successes
privately, though, the europeans may add some words of worry
the most immediate concern to europeans is a lack of western consensus on how to balance the need to guard against a possible soviet attack with the hope for further reductions in east-west tensions
a more deeply rooted worry is that budgetary pressures may soon compel washington to pull some of its 326,000 troops out of western europe
the summit meeting wednesday and thursday is likely to declare the north atlantic treaty organization united on the need to keep some nuclear weapons in europe. the problem is deciding how many and which kinds
it also is expected to demand that the soviet-led warsaw pact alliance accept proportionally bigger conventional arms and troop cuts than the west, according to nato sources familiar with preparations for the summit
but the summit will sidestep, at least in public, the questions of whether and when to improve nato's very short-range atomic arms, most of which are deployed by the united states on west german soil. smaller numbers are in belgium, britain, the netherlands, italy and turkey
attention has been drawn to these weapons, which include ballistic nuclear missiles and artillery, since reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed a treaty in december eliminating more than 2,000 u.s. and soviet nuclear missiles which have ranges from 300 to 3,000 miles
moscow has suggested scrapping all short-range nuclear arms, of which the east bloc has more than a 10-1 numerical edge in europe, according to nato figures
but lord carrington, the nato secretary general, said in a recent interview that all 16 alliance members are steadfastly opposed to such a complete elimination. alliance members see the short-range weapons as vital to nato's strategy of responding to an attack with a full range of military options
the one thing that everybody is agreed on is that you can't have a third zero,'' carrington said, refering to the inf treaty which eliminates two categories of nuclear missile
west germany, however, wants nato to begin negotiations to bring the soviet total of short-range nuclear arms down to nato's level. but most of the other allies worry that such talks would eventually lead to a total ban on these weapons. they want to hold off until progress is made in reducing soviet advantages in conventional and chemical arms
a further complication is washington's desire, backed most strongly by britain, to upgrade nato's short-range nuclear arsenal, in part by deploying a new, longer-range version of the lance ballistic missile. key factions of the bonn government strongly oppose this, saying it would force west germany to bear too much of the nuclear risk
although bonn and washington appear to have agreed to play down the short-range nuclear issue, british prime minister margaret thatcher is expected to tell the brussels summit that nato must carry through with a commitment, first made in 1983, to upgrade these weapons
french president franoics mitterrand, however, has indicated that he is unhappy with the public focus on improving nato's remaining nuclear arsenal
it would be paradoxical and inopportune to overarm just now'' as washington and moscow are striving to further improve east-west relations, mitterrand said in an interview published monday by france's largest circulation newspaper, oeust-france
the presence of mitterrand at the nato meeting is significant. it demonstrates a growing desire by france to tighten its political links to the alliance
no french president has attended a nato summit since president charles de gaulle pulled french forces out of nato's joint command in 1966
beyond the immediate concerns about how to organize western arms control priorities, the european leaders view the brussels meeting as an opportunity to underscore their support for the u.s.-soviet missile treaty, which must receive a two-thirds vote of approval in the u.s. senate
the europeans also are eager to publicize their support for reagan in advance of his expected meeting with gorbachev in moscow in may or june
inflation has pulled the enforcement teeth from many government safety laws by reducing the impact of fines, a coalition of consumer groups said monday
penalties for violating various health and safety laws have remained essentially unchanged over the years, while inflation has reduced the value of the amounts involved, the consumer federation of america and the u.s. public interest research group said in a report
letting civil penalties be eroded by inflation operates as if there were a built-in depreciation schedule in our key health and safety statutes,'' said michael waldman of the group public citizen's congress watch, in a statement released with the study
examples cited in the study included:
_the occupational safety and health act of 1970 retains its original penalties of $1,000 per violation and $10,000 for failure to provide a safe workplace. to keep place with inflation these would have to increase to $2,970 and $29,700
_the federal aviation act has retained the same $1,000 fine for violations of safety rules since 1958. inflation has reduced its value to one-quarter of the original worth
_the consumer product safety commission act civil penalties of $2,000 per violation up to a maximum of $500,000 have not changed since 1972, with inflation reducing them to 36 percent of their original impact
the consumer groups submitted copies of the study to congress in support of a bill to adjust the civil penalties in federal laws to keep them up to date with inflation
the ability of the soviet union to wage an offensive land war is the ``most destabilizing factor'' in european security and is likely to be a key topic at this week's nato summit, the u.s. ambassador to west germany said monday
ambassador richard burt, in an interview with the associated press, also termed ``a publicity stunt'' last week's removal of some soviet missiles from east germany and czechoslovakia
he predicted that differences of opinion over modernizing short-range nuclear missiles and other points of dispute would not disrupt the atlantic alliance meeting in brussels wednesday and thursday
there is a growing consensus emerging within the alliance _ which i believe will be reflected in the summit _ on the importance now of negotiations on enhancing conventional arms stability,'' burt said
there has been a focus on the nuclear dimension of security in europe,'' he said. ``but there is a growing view that the time has come now to focus on the most destabilizing factor in european security, which is the soviet capability to wage an offensive war against western europe.''
their forces are deployed, structured and trained to fight an offensive war in europe,'' burt said, adding later that he meant an ``offensive land war.''
burt said it was mandatory to address this problem in arms control negotiations
military power casts a political shadow. the threat is not just one of outright invasion.''
there are about 990,000 active duty nato troops in central europe, most of them in west germany. western sources say they face about 1.2 million soviet-led warsaw pact troops in eastern europe
west german leaders already have begun calling on the soviet to reduce their superiority in conventional weapons and undertake other arms control measures
during the pre-summit preparations, washington officials had a highly publicized dispute with west german officials over u.s. insistence on the need to modernize short-range nuclear weapons in western europe
the reagan administration later promised not to insist on the modernization issue as a topic at this week's summit
there are no serious differences between bonn and washington on these subjects,'' added the 41-year-old ambassador, an expert on arms control and european security issues
burt has been speaking out against claims by some politicians in bonn that the intermediate-range missile treaty signed in december leaves west germany vulnerable to soviet nuclear attack
we will continue to be able to deter an attack in europe with u.s. nuclear weapons deployed in europe and at sea,'' he said. ``there is a sense that this agreement leads to the denuclearization of europe. that is not the case.''
in fact ... we should resist a trend towards the denuclearization of europe,'' he added
asked about the highly publicized removal of some soviet ss-12 rockets from warsaw pact members east germany and czechoslovakia last week, burt said: ``i tend to think this was basically a publicity stunt.''
i think they were mainly aiming to win points with western public opinion,'' burt said
the ambassador added that only when the soviets comply with the verification provisions of the treaty will there be certainty that the missiles have been destroyed. the treaty is awaiting ratification by the u.s. senate
a psychiatrist who failed to commit a mentally ill man can not be held negligent in the man's commission of murder three days later, the maine supreme court ruled monday
laurence d. herst was acting in an official capacity on behalf of the state and therefore immune from civil liability when he examined henry a. taylor and determined he did not need to be involuntarily committed to a mental institution, the high court ruled in a 6-0 decision
herst was employed by the maine medical center at the time. while that is not a state-owned facility, herst examined taylor at the request of the cumberland county sheriff's department
even though dr. herst is not employed by a state mental hospital, he is acting in an official capacity on behalf of the state when performing the task of determining, for involuntary commitment purposes, whether a `person is a mentally ill individual and because of his illness, poses a likelihood of serious harm,''' the court said
taylor was arrested nov. 14, 1978, after he drove through toll booths and onto a restricted area at the portland international jetport. he was taken to the cumberland county jail, where he began to show ``erratic and violent behavior,'' the court said
herst examined taylor and found that he did not exhibit tendencies that indicated he was a danger to himself or others. after taylor refused to voluntarily commit himself, he left the hospital
three days later taylor killed louise michaud, 84, during a shooting spree. he barricaded himself in his house but surrendered four hours later when tear gas was used to force him outside
in 1979, he was acquitted of murder by reason of insanity and sentenced to the augusta mental health institute. he was released shortly after a 1984 supreme court ruling that set aside a lower court's denial of taylor's petition that he be released from the institute as an outpatient
no suit had been filed. the supreme court issued its opinion at the request of a lower court with the consent of taylor and herst
taylor's attorney, eugene c. coughlin of bangor, said he had not received a copy of friday's decision and declined to comment. steven j. mogul, an attorney for herst, was in court and could not be immediately reached, his secretary said
protesters hurled bombs at a police jeep and burned other vehicles monday in a new wave of anti-government violence designed to disrupt this week's parliamentary elections, witnesses and police said
three people, including a policeman, were injured in two bomb blasts during a rally called to protest the deaths of three people reportedly killed during demonstrations the day before, witnesses said
meanwhile, an opposition leader called for continued protests to disrupt thursday's parliamentary balloting, charging that a fair election is impossible under the administration of president hussain mohammad ershad
obaidur rahman, general secretary for the anti-government bangladesh nationalist party, told supporters at the rally here to form ``resistance committees'' in the villages to disrupt ``this farcical election called to perpetuate the rule of ershad.''
mohammad ershad, a senior police official posted near the rally site, said ``people threw three bombs at a jeep carrying paramilitary troops. one bomb exploded inside, injuring a policeman.''
four cars were set ablaze by rioters in different parts of the city, police said
in downtown hazari bagh, protesters set fire to three election posts and damaged seven vehicles, witnesses said. they exploded several crude bombs before police dispersed them, the witnesses said
five vehicles were attacked and damaged near the dhaka university, a center of anti-government protests
the opposition has called for a nationwide strike on wednesday and thursday to disrupt the elections. the government has ordered all schools and colleges closed to enable teachers to work at polling places
at least 100 people were killed during local elections feb. 10 in clashes among rival political groups
but government officials said they already were beefing up security at polling places
information minister anis ul-islam said at least 9,000 soldiers would be deployed to help maintain peace on election day, forming part of a 300,000-member force that also includes village defense forces
they are moving out now. in some places they have already moved,'' he said
there are about 50 million voters but only a small percentage is expected to vote, according to political analysts
sheik hasina, leader of the opposition awami league, said three people were killed during a violent clash on sunday. the violence began shortly after hasina and opposition leader khaleda zia addressed separate rallies at the city's main square
the women have led a series of strikes and demonstrations since nov. 10 to try to oust ershad, a former army general who took power in a bloodless coup in 1982
ershad's jatiya party and several minor opposition parties are runningup candidates for the 300 elected seats of parliament, but the main opposition groups have boycotted the balloting
the military has been the driving force in bangladesh's politics. in the country's 17-year history, every change in government has been by coup. ershad, 58, seized power in 1982 and was elected president in a 1986 vote the opposition boycotted and contends was rigged
a 35-year-old white doctor who has worked in black townships since 1980 went on trial monday for refusing to report to a two-week military camp
dr. ivan toms, who opposes mandatory conscription of whites males, faces a jail term of up to three years if convicted
he has refused to apply for designation as a religious objector, the only legal avenue available for those wishing to avoid military service
instead, toms has called on the government to provide some form of alternative national service for young men who object to joining the army. he has urged that alternatives be found for those who do not want to serve in black townships or in the bush wars in angola and south-west africa
toms served as an army doctor for two years following graduation from medical school in 1978. however, he has decided to refuse participation in the annual two-week camps required of all white men who are physically fit
the government said monday it had sent emissaries to talk with exiled president ferdinand marcos, who has praised the aquino government and said he was ready to negotiate his return to the philippines
president corazon aquino said earlier monday she would not yet let marcos come home. but other officials hinted he may be allowed to return if he promises to behave and to return a some of the billions of dollars he allegedly stole during his 20-year rule
in honolulu, where marcos has lived since his ouster in february 1986, a spokesman for the former president read a statement. it said in part:
we must recognize the achievement of the present administration in being able to survive this long when many countries, especially those belonging to the third world, have floundered and gone under water. for this we must openly and candidly congratulate the aquino government.''
the statement said marcos was ready ``to negotiate the details and conditions under which my family and i shall return to the philippines for the salvation of the country from the bloody takeover by communist insurgents.''
marcos spokesman lonnie tan said marcos had held meetings recently in hawaii with philippine reps. francisco sumulong and egmidio tanjuatco, both relatives of mrs. aquino
indeed there were negotiations. they came over here to talk to the president to discuss the subject of him returning to the philippines,'' tan said
he would not say what marcos might offer to secure his return
tanjuatco, a cousin of mrs. aquino, told reporters monday that he met marcos on jan. 26
we met only once,'' tanjuatco said. ``the meeting was between him and myself only. during the meeting, mr. marcos reiterated to me his desire to return to the philippines at the earliest opportunity.''
sumulong, mrs. aquino's uncle and majority floor leader of the house of representatives, said he met marcos separately in february. sumulong said the former president's health was deteriorating and that he wanted to return home ``possibly because he believes he is near the end of his life on earth.''
in a statement issued through her spokesman teodoro benigno, mrs. aquino confirmed she had sent her relatives to honolulu
go there and listen,'' benigno quoted her as saying. ``if we can listen to other people, why can't we listen to mr. marcos.''
benigno revealed no details of the talks but said there was ``no official response to the message as far as i know.''
marcos fled the philippines during a civilian-military revolt in the wake of fraud-tainted feb. 7, 1986 presidential elections in which both he and mrs. aquino claimed victory
mrs. aquino canceled the passports of marcos and his immediate family and banned them from the country. asked by reporters monday if she would lift the ban, she replied, ``not yet.''
but sen. neptali gonzales, a former justice minister, told reporters marcos might be allowed to return if he swears allegiance to the aquino government and settles claims that he plundered billions of dollars from the treasury
emmanuel pelaez, the philippine ambassador to the united states, told reporters in manila that if marcos ``returns the stolen wealth, i think there are good chances for him to come home.''
meanwhile, officials said the name ``imelda marcos'' was on the passenger list of a flight to manila from australia. a marcos spokesman said the former first lady was still in hawaii
immigration supervisor rolando mancilla said the woman arrived saturday on a philippine airlines flight from sydney and gave a home address in ilocos norte, marcos' home province. he said a narcotics command agent found the name during a routine check of the manifest
in honolulu, a servant who answered the phone at the marcos residence said ``she's here, he's here, both of them.'' but he refused to give his name or put either marcos or his wife on the line. graf, ``twenty-nine xxx, to make clear whole senate is hearing impeachment trial</note>
evan mecham today became the first governor in almost 60 years to face an impeachment trial as the state's chief justice convened a jury of 30 state senators to decide whether to remove him from office
first on the agenda was a series of motions, including one to throw out the charges against mecham, a republican whose 13 months in office have also been scarred by a recall effort and a criminal indictment
the senate trial of evan mecham does not concern merely this one officeholder, but instead addresses the very essence of democracy in our state constitution,'' senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, said in a floor speech shortly before the court convened
we are really testing our form of government. will we stand up and do our duty amid calls from the public to intimidate us?''
senate leaders say they'll take up to two months to hear testimony and arguments before deciding whether the governor should be removed and possibly barred from holding elective office
mecham, 63, also faces a march 22 criminal trial on six felony charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, and a may 17 recall election
twenty-nine of the state's 30 senators were at desks in the brown-walled chamber as the presiding officer, arizona supreme court frank x. gordon jr., convened the senate as an impeachment court. a small gallery was packed with reporters and visitors, and the trial was being broadcast on radio and television
the state house was represented by a five member impeachment board of managers, or prosecutors, while mecham himself stayed at his temporary office in suburban glendale and was represented by several lawyers
after the trial began, the senate agreed on a voice vote to let the governor's original lawyer, murray miller, withdraw from the case. miller was replaced by washington attorney jerris leonard last week in a surprise move
a clerk read the impeachment articles, and the senate then considered and denied a defense motion seeking to have consideration of an article referring to the campaign loan delayed until after his criminal trial
the senate broke for lunch at noon while considering a motion to throw out all charges
mecham maintains he'll be acquitted in both trials, win the recall election and return to the office he gave up to democratic secretary of state rose mofford after he was impeached feb. 5 on a 46-14 house vote
the senator absent this morning was republican hal runyan, a republican who suffered a stroke in november
at a news conference saturday, mecham said winning acquittal in criminal court is more important than persuading the senate to keep him in office
i could have my freedom taken away and be sent to jail if i were guilty (in criminal court). doesn't that somehow seem to you ... a little more important than the job as governor? it does to me,'' mecham said
the state supreme court on friday refused an emergency request by mecham to intervene and delay the senate trial until after the criminal trial. the court planned to discuss tuesday whether to grant an injunction, although several justices already have said they believe the court lacks jurisdiction
mecham said he planned to take the issue to federal court. a new attorney hired by mecham last week, thomas crowe, said he would decide by wednesday where the appeal would be filed
the governor claims the impeachment trial threatens his right to a fair criminal trial because the senate proceedings will not be bound by the same rules of evidence as a criminal court but will be widely publicized to prospective jurors
as governor of this state, i ask nothing more than is accorded to every garden-variety criminal,'' he said. ``is this a star chamber or will we proceed under the time-tested constitutional mandate that i be afforded all of my basic constitutional rights?''
the house has leveled 23 charges against mecham accusing him of concealing the $350,000 loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official against a witness before the grand jury that investigated mecham
senate majority leader bob usdane said the senate has decided to hear testimony on all charges even if it appears there could be a vote to convict him on the first charges heard
prosecutor paul eckstein said he and co-counsel william french planned to begin with testimony on the allegation that mecham ordered department of public safety director ralph milstead not to cooperate with a probe of the alleged death threat against former mecham aide donna carlson, who testified before the state grand jury investigating mecham
state official lee watkins, who has since resigned, has denied making the threat
two-thirds of the 30 senate votes are required to convict mecham, who is the first u.s. governor to be impeached since 1929, when huey long of louisiana and henry s. johnston of oklahoma were impeached. long was never tried, while johnston was removed
of the 16 governors in the nation's history to be impeached, six were convicted and removed from office
mecham, who never was considered part of the state's republican establishment, won the governorship in a three-way race 1986 on his fifth try
he immediately became embroiled in controversy when he canceled a martin luther king holiday for state workers, saying it was illegally declared by his predecessor, democratic gov. bruce babbitt
mecham has been criticized for defending the use of the word ``pickaninny'' in a book and for making remarks that angered women, jews, homosexuals and the japanese
nasa announced monday it will acquire a boeing 747-100 jetliner to use as a second space shuttle transporter
the 231-foot-long aircraft will be modified to carry shuttles piggyback from landing sites back to the launch center here. officials said the second vehicle would increase ferrying capability and eliminate a transportation problem that could result if there were only one carrier and it was grounded or suffered a mishap
the three remaining shuttles have not flown since the challenger accident two years ago. when flights resume, presently planned for august, nasa said that, for safety reasons, shuttles will land for the foreseeable future at the dry lakebed at edwards air force base, calif., instead of on the runway here, where there is little margin for error
a letter contract has been signed for the aircraft with boeing military airplane co., a division of the boeing co. of seattle. required modifications and cost are being negotiated, nasa said
police monday looked for suspects who apparently fired a shot from a van on interstate 95, killing a man on his way to a party after taking the florida bar exam
irv ribler, 26, was shot just below his left shoulder saturday. his car sped across the median, three lanes of oncoming traffic and plowed into a gully
friends following ribler's car told police the shot was fired from a van whose occupants had just thrown a small object at the victim's sportscar, but that was unconfirmed, broward county sheriff's spokesman jim leljedal said sunday
no other traffic hit ribler's car and no other injuries were reported
he left me a note before he left saturday,'' ribler's mother, zaida ribler, said sunday. ``it says, `mom, see you in the morning. i love you. irv
he was a good son. he studied so hard. he worked in the yard. he cleaned the house. he didn't drink,'' said his mother, who cleaned houses and worked as a tailor seven days a week to put her only child through florida state university and the university of miami law school. ``now my life has ended. everything is over.''
ribler was graduated from law school in may and initially failed the bar exam. since then, he had studied constantly. after taking the test wednesday, he was elated, certain he had passed, friends said
his whole life was centered on passing the bar and working as a public defender,'' said classmate manny fernandez, 24. ``he had some offers. he was almost there.''
town meeting day is as much a symbol of vermont as the maple sap that flows soon after, but this year's town meetings find vermonters fearful of their state's future because farms are going out of business and open land is sprouting vacation homes
we are losing our farms and we are losing rural vermont at an unbelievable rate,'' says jack starr, a dairy farmer from troy
the changing vermont is evident everywhere:
_ vermont has lost more than 300 dairy farms, 10 percent of its total, in just the last two years;
_ average housing values, fueled by competition from affluent out-of-staters, have increased 48 percent in two years;
_ the annual number of applications for development permits has almost doubled in the past six years;
_ the number of houses being bought by and built for out-of-staters seeking a vacation retreat is skyrocketing. in 1986, 52 percent of all new housing constructed in windham county alone was second homes
the reasons for the development pressure are simple: improved transportation networks have brought vermont closer to boston and new york; a booming economy has provided people with the cash; and vermont's ski resorts are expanding to become more attractive year-round
to help preserve farms, some towns are using the limited clout of their annual town meetings, a new england fixture in which residents vote directly on town expenditures and policy. in pawlet, voters are being asked to exempt farm silos from property taxes, a move that would mean a savings of $200 a year for each of the town's 17 farms
it's going to be a combination of these little things that keep the farmers going,'' said state rep. perry waite of pawlet. ``do you want new jersey or do you want a few farms left? i don't feel we can afford to lose one farm in pawlet.''
and the legislature is considering a controversial $40 million package that includes the first-in-the-nation state subsidy for dairy farmers, to offset cuts in federal milk price supports
it's a radical proposal, but these times demand it,'' said rep. paul poirier, the house democratic leader and chairman of a special house committee on growth
this has become the year of the farmer,'' said rep. michael bernhardt, the house republican leader. ``saving farms seems to be something people can identify with as a way to save vermont.''
the concerns over growth reached a boiling point last fall, prompting gov. madeleine kunin to appoint a special governor's commission on vermont's future
more than 2,000 people attended the commission's 11 public hearings, with several hundred voicing their fears
i don't see a lot of `rural' going on anymore,'' said peter saman of woodstock. ``if vermont is going to be here, i think rural has to exist or we're going to live in disneyland.''
victoria fraser of williston told the commission: ``i am afraid we will obscure the soul of vermont by covering her with parking lots, highways and condominiums.''
too many vermonters in towns near major ski areas and tourist centers are feeling like strangers in their own communities, hesitating to go to the grocery store or post office for fear of sitting in traffic or waiting in line,'' said mary mccallum of proctorsville
kunin, armed with the commission's report, devoted her entire state-of-the-state address in january to detailing ``today's unprecedented growth'' and describing her own fears about the changes
kunin said the only way to regain control is ``to inaugurate a new and tough planning process which will guide vermont into a future that we envision for ourselves.''
the special house growth committee has endorsed a far-reaching proposal that calls for $20 million to go into a special fund to buy up open land and help provide affordable housing. it also calls for stronger planning and would provide for regional tax sharing, under which property-rich resort towns would share some of their tax wealth with outlying communities
but the cornerstone of the legislative proposal is the dairy assistance, prompted by reports that between 10 percent and 40 percent of the state's farmers will be forced out of business in the next two years
the federal price support for 100 pounds of milk paid to farmers now stands at $10.60, almost $3 below what it was in 1980, and the decline has meant the difference to some farms. under the proposal, the state would pay farmers an extra 50 cents per 100 pounds
the october stock market crash will contribute to a significant slowdown in economic growth this year but the country should be able to avoid a recession, economists for top u.s. corporations predicted monday
the national association of business economists said its latest member survey found economists in a more upbeat mood than three months ago when more than half of them said the record fall in stock prices on oct. 19 would lead to a recession in 1988
in the latest survey, the number forecasting a recession this year had dropped to one-fourth, good news for republicans hoping to hold onto the white house. but an overwhelming 83 percent of the anlysts said a downturn was very likely before the end of the next president's first year in office
back in november there was a great deal of nervousness about what oct. 19 meant to the economy,'' said kathleen cooper, who briefed reporters on the new forecast. ``since that time, we have had good christmas sales, good employment growth and consumer confidence surveys have improved. these things make economists feel better about the future.''
while the next president will likely have to deal with a recession early in his first term, the economists said they expected the economy this year to expand at a modest pace of 2 percent, as measured by the gross national product
this would be about half of the 3.9 percent gnp growth turned in during 1987. the reagan administration, by contrast, is more optimistically forecasting 2.4 percent gnp growth this year, when measured from the fourth quarter of 1987
even though most of us don't expect a recession, we will have much slower growth than in 1987,'' said ms. cooper, who is chief economist for security pacific national bank of los angeles. she said the stock market decline had caused many economists to slash their gnp forecasts by between 0.5 percent and 1 percent
in other predictions, the survey results from 200 economists found:
_ unemployment will creep up this year because of the sluggish growth forecasts, rising from the current 5.8 percent level to 6.1 percent by the end of the year
_ inflation will remain under control with consumer prices rising 4.2 percent this year, a bit slower than the 4.4 percent consumer inflation recorded in 1987
_ the federal budget deficit will rise to $157 billion in the current fiscal year, but then resume falling, droping to $140 billion by 1990. this is more pessimistic than the reagan administration, which puts this year's deficit at $146.7 billion, a further improvement from the $150.4 billion 1987 deficit
_ the foreign trade deficit, which hit a record $171 billion last year, will finally start coming down, dipping to $150 billion this year and $130 billion in 1989. half of this year's overall growth will come from improvements in the trade deficit, the economists said
_ interest rates will hold steady, ending up the year about where they are currently. banks cut their prime rate, used to set interest rates on a variety of corporate and consumer loans, to 8.5 percent in early february and analysts forecast this would be the rate in effect at year's end
ms. cooper said that the optimistic outlook for interest rates stemmed in part from a belief that the federal reserve would be easing its grip on the money supply in the first half of the year in an effort to keep the recovery alive
she said over two-thirds of the economists believed the fed would be easing credit conditions in the coming six months with one-fourth of the analysts looking for a cut in the discount rate, the interest the fed charges to make bank loans
ms. cooper said that the economists believe that the dollar, which has at time fallen sharply on foreign currency exchanges, will stabilize this year with only one-fifth of the analysts expecting a decline of 10 percent or more. just three months ago, more than 40 percent of the economists were forecasting a decline in the dollar that was at least that large
southern democratic leaders are discussing the possibility of acting together on a pre-super tuesday endorsement of one of the six candidates pursuing their party's presidential nomination
former gov. charles robb of virginia and sen. sam nunn of georgia confirmed on monday such discussions have taken place but both cautioned against assuming that an endorsement would be forthcoming
it's only a possibility,'' said robb
nunn described it as ``a question that is in considerable doubt.''
robb and nunn discussed the endorsement in separate interviews during a meeting of the democratic leadership council, a group of elected officials who banded together in 1985 to halt what they considered the leftward drift of the national party
robb was chairman of the dlc the past two years and nunn succeeded him at this meeting
the agenda for the two-day meeting included discussions of the economy, but politics was the topic that dominated most conversation, particularly the impact of super tuesday march 8 when 20 states, most of them south of the mason-dixon line, and american samoa will hold democratic presidential primaries or caucuses
in a luncheon speech, nunn, who considered entering the democratic presidential race and decided against it, warned that ``political marketing seems to be replacing political leadership.''
the georgia senator said, ``first, campaign consultants tell the candidates what they think the public wants to hear _ usually more services and less taxes _ then the candidates deliver the message, usually avoiding any implication of short-term individual sacrifice for long-term national gain.''
the art of campaigning,'' he went on, ``is in danger of becoming divorced from the art of governing. the real question of the 1988 election is not who wins, but whether the winner can effectively govern america.''
members of the dlc took the lead in convincing southern legislatures to schedule their presidential primaries on the same day in an effort to give the region a stronger voice in selection of the democratic presidential nominee
robb told the group that super tuesday was important ``because democrats can't win the white house without winning the south _ it's that simple.''
robb noted that one-third of the delegates to the democratic national convention in atlanta in july would be selected on that day and that the 20 states also represented 207 electoral college votes, 76 percent of those needed to be elected president
the general election chances of the democratic party rest with these 20 states. the preliminaries are over and super tuesday is indisputably the main event of the primary season.''
four democratic presidential candidates are in a furious battle for support in the super tuesday states _ gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts, rep. richard gephardt of missouri, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, and jesse jackson. dukakis, gephardt and gore are from super tuesday states, while jackson, a native of south carolina, has a powerful base in the region's black community
sen. bob graham of florida said that 30 days after super tuesday ``there are going to be three candidates left, there'll be dukakis, there'll be jackson and there will be either gephardt or gore.''
the former florida governor described gephardt, who has made trade the central issue of his campaign, as ``the only candidate who is running a message campaign. so he has the benefit of operating almost in a vacuum.''
graham said gore, who has been counting on his southern background to attract votes on super tuesday, ``has got to find some reason beyond geography to get people to vote for him.''
gov. bill clinton of arkansas summed up the debate between gore and gephardt this way:
gore's major argument was vote for me and i won't lose the general election for you because i'm tough on foreign policy. democrats get beat by being weak on foreign policy
gephardt's argument is i'll win the general election for you by having a good economic policy. democrats win on economic policy
both of them are telling the truth. both of them are right.''
clinton said he had not been involved in discussions of an endorsement and said, ``i doubt if we could all agree.''
a recent star wars space experiment has increased the confidence of pentagon scientists that they can defeat attempts to fool a missile defense by using decoy warheads, the head of the program said monday
lt. gen. james a. abrahamson, the air force general in charge of the strategic defense initiative organization, said the so-called delta 181 space experiment conducted three weeks ago had provided a ``tremendous amount of data'' that already was expanding scientific understanding of how objects look as they travel through space
that, in turn, will be crucial to devising infrared, radar, laser radar and other types of sensors that can tell the difference between a real nuclear warhead and a fake one traveling through space, abrahamson said at a pentagon briefing
while months if not years of research are still ahead, ``i think all of our evidence, so far ... is that, yes, we should be able to find effective ways to discriminate'' between decoy and real warheads, he said
the three-star general also acknowledged, however, that budget cuts imposed by congress this year have slowed the star wars program by at least a year and possibly more. the reagan administration had wanted to spend $5.2 billion on research this year, but received $3.5 billion
a future president probably will not be in a position to make a decision on deploying a rudimentary missile defense system until 1993 or 1994, abrahamson said, and actual deployment then could not begin until sometime after 1995
star wars _ known formally as the strategic defense initiative _ is a research program aimed at developing lasers and other types of exotic weapons that could be deployed in space and on the ground to automatically shoot down incoming nuclear missiles
abrahamson and a top program official, maj. andrew j. green, appeared at the pentagon on monday to discuss delta 181, which has been described as the most ambitious star wars experiment ever conducted in space
delta 181 was launched feb. 8 from the kennedy space center in florida. it boosted a special satellite into space that was used for 12 hours to conduct a series of tests
sensors on the 6,000-pound satellite were used to track how a variety of different-shaped objects appeared in space and against various backgrounds, such as the earth's surface and the portion of the atmosphere just above the ground called ``earth's limb.''
data from the tests are still being transmitted back to the ground but that process should be completed by the end of the week, green said
the data already in hand, however, show a laser radar sensor on board the satellite succeeded in highlighting ``vast differences'' in the way various objects looked in space, including contrasts based on the weight of the object, green said
sdi officials consistently have termed the mission a success, but the magazine aviation week and space technology reported on feb. 15 that the satellite had been unable to complete ``battle management fire control computations.''
the magazine blamed the problem on computers, but air force col. john otten, assistant director of the sdi kinetic energy office, said at the time that the problem was caused by an optical sensor trying to lock onto an object beyond its range
some test data were lost when the sensor gave false information to on-board computers. but otten said the losses were minor because the tracking exercise, in which the sensor was to look away from a target and then back to the target, was a secondary objective of the mission
the grass was being cut, the windows washed and the cactus garden weeded as employees hurried to work. just another monday morning at the arizona capitol
except for the governor, who went on trial
only a few of gov. evan mecham's supporters showed up as his trial began in the senate. seats were open in the gallery. three bus loads of schoolchildren made their annual field trip to learn about government, and the plaza in front of the senate was quiet
most of the people are working. i had to take a chance of losing my job to be here,'' said andy cosentino, a supporter of the governor who was carrying a bible and a placard. ``people are going to have to make a sacrifice to make sure justice prevails.''
while mecham's woes have drawn some large and loud rallies, the embattled republican's trial opened with little fanfare. mecham did not attend the opening sesion
by the 9 a.m. scheduled start of his trial, only a half-dozen protesters patrolled the plaza. ``more are due anytime now,'' said cosentino
by 10 a.m., their ranks had swelled to about 20
one woman placed a large radio by her signs so she could hear the proceedings in the senate, which must deliberate 23 charges made by the house
a few retirees milled about. one group laid a paper railroad across the courtyard with a drawing of the governor, gagged and bound on the tracks
he's being railroaded,'' said wilma harm of phoenix. ``the man has done nothing to be called upon like this.''
when the doors were opened to public seating in the gallery, only 15 people were in line. june reynolds, a retired government teacher who lives in scottsdale, arrived two hours early and was first
i'm concerned about what's happening to the state,'' she said
the loudest noises in the plaza came from the lawnmowers. even the air was calm, and the scent of orange blossom suffused the still air
the house impeached mecham on feb. 5, accusing him of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership and trying to thwart an investigation of an allegation that a state official threatened the life of a grand jury witness. two-thirds of the 30 senate votes are required to convict
scott mccartney is the ap southwest regional reporter, based in dallas
the federal government is expanding a program to allow more government services and non-tax debts to be paid for with credit cards, budget officials said monday
under the program, the government is expected to process 130 million credit-card transactions annually by next year, or $6.5 billion worth, said joseph wright, deputy director of the office of management and budget
it will make us the largest credit card user in the world,'' wright said
the government now accepts credit cards for some items, including publications of the government printing office
but wright and budget director james c. miller iii told a news conference this program would be expanded to include a wide array of new items _ from purchasing passports to paying some fines
credit cards will also be more widely used by the government itself, both to pay expenses of officials who are travelling and for some federal procurement, the officials said
everybody uses credit cards _ except for the federal government,'' miller said
the comments came as the white house released president reagan's report to congress on ``management of the united states government.''
the report noted that ``over half of u.s. households own one or more credit cards,'' and that the administration planned to begin making more use of them
for the government, credit cards make collections easier in an electronic environment, reduce delinquencies, cut down on bad checks, eliminate paperwork, and improve information received on collections,'' the report said
the report said that agencies that would start accepting credit cards by this april included:
_ the interstate commerce commission, for duties, fees and fines
_ the national archives, for sales of documents and publications
_ the u.s. courts, for filing fees, fines, opinions, and videotapes of proceedings
_ the federal trade commission, for fines and fees
_ the army corps of engineeers, for permits, fees and map sales
_ the federal emergency management agency, for sale of flood maps
wright said that omb is also working with the irs to develop guidelines that might be used later on to enable taxpayers pay their taxes with credit cards. however, he said to do so would require legislation from congress _ legislation the administration is not currently seeking
the management report also said the government is studying, for possible future use, a system under which ``smart cards'' would be issued by the government to those who receive federal payments and benefits, including social security recipients
these cards (would) have embedded on them information about the cardholder that can be accessed electronically. potentially (the) cards could make available funds for food stamps, social security payments, or grants and control their use electronically through central computers.''

democrats and republicans in 20 states and american samoa will vote in statewide elections or participate in presidential caucuses on march 8, super tuesday
we plan frequent transmission of at least 10 separate tables summarizing the popular vote and delegate allocation both by state and cumulatively for all participating states. in addition, separate formats will summarize activity in five states conducting precinct caucuses that night

all tables will be transmitted at least once an hour, and more frequently as circumstances warrant

our lineup includes the following:

_ primary vote state-by-state. summary packages displaying the latest popular vote, by state. separate packages will cover democratic and republican candidates. these tables are slugged bc-pp-dem-pres-all and bc-pp-gop-pres-all

_ caucus results state-by-state. identical in format to the primary vote state-by-state tables, with separate transmissions for democratic and republican caucuses. since caucus rules may differ from state to state, the numbers in each of the summaries may not mean exactly the same thing. these tables are slugged bc-pc-dem-pres-all and bc-pc-gop-pres-all

_ super tuesday delegates state-by-state. packages displaying the latest delegate allocation by state, with separate packages for the two parties. the formats are similar to the primary vote formats. these tables are slugged bc-pp-dem-deleg-all and bc-pp-gop-deleg-all

_ super tuesday delegate summary. cumulative summary of delegates allocated in all states holding elections and caucuses on super tuesday, with a separate summary for each party. these summaries are slugged bc-pp-dem-deleg-sum and bc-pp-gop-deleg-sum

_ super tuesday vote. cumulative summary of the vote in all states holding primary elections on super tuesday, with a single summary for both parties. these summaries are slugged bc-pp-pres-totvot-sum

_ national delegate table. an update of the overall delegate summary table that has been moving on national wires for several weeks. it gives the breakdown of the presidential preferences of all national convention delegates selected or allocated thus far, plus trend information. a single table contains totals for both parties. this table is slugged bc-us-deleg-sum

_ u.s. senate state-by-state. summary package displaying the latest popular vote in u.s. senate races in maryland, mississippi and texas, with a separate package for party. these tables are slugged bc-dem-senate-state-by-state and bc-gop-senate-state-by-state

depending on election-night developments, we may transmit single-state summaries on some presidential primaries

samples of the first four formats listed above will follow this advisory. sluglines contain the word ``sample'' but otherwise are as indicated above. for illustration only, the summaries and tables include mock votes and percentages rather than zeroes

the samples contain the candidate names in order and total precincts as they now exist for each state. that information may change before election day

please call tom jory at 212 621-1614 if you have questions

the ap
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primaries tuesday

2,184 of 4,368 precincts reporting - 50 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,815 of 2,815 precincts reporting - 26 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

433 of 4,329 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
undecided, 234,567 - 12 percent

252 of 2,526 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,240 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
kay, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
martin-trigona, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,235 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
ahern, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
kay, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
martin-trigona, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,568 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,193 of 2,193 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
didonato, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,864 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

408 of 4,079 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
kay, 234,567 - 12 percent
koczak, 234,567 - 12 percent

238 of 2,378 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

237 of 2,372 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
doty, 234,567 - 12 percent
koczak, 234,567 - 12 percent

531 of 531 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,415 of 2,415 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

6,856 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
doty, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
williams, 234,567 - 12 percent

196 of 1,958 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent 
jesse jackson's strong second-place finish in maine, following respectable showings elsewhere, proves he is attaining what he lacked throughout 1984 _ expansion beyond his black base of support
in a state with a 1 percent black population, jackson got 28 percent of the vote on sunday after campaigning for only two days in maine. winner michael dukakis, well known to maine voters as governor of nearby massachusetts, garnered 42 percent
on monday, addressing cheering students at pembroke state university in north carolina, jackson shouted, ``talk about mainstream; try the state of maine.''
political consultant ann lewis, who has informally advised the jackson campaign, called maine ``the most significant breakthrough state for him so far.''
in iowa and new hampshire he finished fourth out of seven contenders, she noted, after devoting considerable time and resources. in minnesota he was second with 20 percent in last week's caucuses, thanks to the state's liberal activists, she said
but in maine, where jackson's 28 percent contrasted to the 1 percent that he got when he ran in 1984, she said, ``the force of his message produced votes for him in a state in which he has been unable to make a major commitment of resources.''
in maine, jackson did buy $10,000 worth of tv ads in the days before the caucuses
bob beckel, a top political adviser to walter mondale's 1984 camapign, called jackson ``one of the best hidden political stories of the year.''
i would say it's a sign of a growing movement among non-black supporters of jackson, and for people to try to ignore it, they're making a great mistake,'' he said
people don't want to buy the notion that jesse jackson has got a message that people listen to and that has begun to rise above his blackness,'' he added. ``somebody in this party has to to recognize that this is a significant guy in the party.''
jackson carried two of maine's largest cities, portland and bangor, and won considerable support among the gay community and students. in his bid to expand his base, he has targeted those groups as well as poor people, blue-collar workers and farmers
he beat rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., handily in the mill town of jay. both candidates went to jay last fall to show solidarity with workers of international paper co. who have been on strike since last june. the company has hired replacements in the meantime
gary mcgrane, jay democratic chairman, commented that jackson ``said a scab is a scab. he didn't call them replacement workers. people understand plain talk.''
political analyst william schneider said that while jackson has gotten white votes, there is evidence the votes come not so much from the economically oppressed as from ``the radical chic.''
it could be the village voice crowd instead of the downtrodden,'' he said, citing exit polls from iowa and new hampshire that showed a good portion of jackson's white supporters were upscale well-educated liberals
but he and other analysts also said that besides being better known nationwide than the other candidates _ excepting former colorado sen. gary hart _ jackson has a clear, strong message that does not change from state to state
there is no other candidate in the race who really stands for the old politics ... what i would call democratic fundamentalism,'' as espoused by the late sen. hubert humphrey, sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., and new york gov. mario cuomo, said schneider
beckel added, ``i think people consistently underestimate him. they forget one important thing in politics. that is that message matters. he has got a message ... and it appeals to a lot of people.''
rick barton, democratic state chairman, who had predicted jackson would do as well in maine as he had a week earlier in minnesota's caucuses, contended that timing was a key to jackson's success
jackson's successful appearance at the university of maine in orono on feb. 11, just after iowa's caucuses and just before the new hampshire primary, was ``just the right time ... when maine democrats were starting to lock in,'' he said
barton said the scaling back of the paul simon and hart campaigns also helped jackson. he suggested that defections from those candidates inflated jackson's support by 5 percentage points
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primaries tuesday

2,184 of 4,368 precincts reporting - 50 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,815 of 2,815 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

433 of 4,329 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

252 of 2,526 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,240 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

324 of 3,235 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

1,568 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,193 of 2,193 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,864 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

408 of 4,079 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

238 of 2,378 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

237 of 2,372 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
masters, 234,567 - 12 percent

531 of 531 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,415 of 2,415 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

6,856 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

196 of 1,958 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses tuesday. the votes in each jurisdiction may differ in meaning, depending on state rules and level of caucus

1 of 1 precincts reporting - 26 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

103 of 201 precincts reporting - 52 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

45 of 45 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

917 of 917 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent
note: no timely results are available from the washington democratic precinct caucuses
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential caucuses tuesday

6,176 of 6,176 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
here are the latest, unofficial delegate results in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses tuesday

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 56

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 3

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt 10
biden 10
dukakis 10
gephardt 10
gore 10
jackson 10
uncommitted 10
dennerll, 10
duke, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 38

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
undecided, 10
total at stake - 136

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 77

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 20

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 18

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
kay, 10
larouche, 10
martin-trigona, 10
total at stake - 55

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
ahern, 10
duke, 10
kay, 10
larouche, 10
martin-trigona, 10
total at stake - 63

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 67

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
larouche, 10
didonato, 10
total at stake - 98   

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 40

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
dennerll, 10
duke, 10
kay, 10
koczak, 10
total at stake - 77

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 16

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 82

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
dennerll, 10
doty, 10
koczak, 10
total at stake - 46

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 22

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 70

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
dennerll, 10
doty, 10
larouche, 10
williams, 10
total at stake - 183

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 75
here are the latest, unofficial delegate results in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses tuesday

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 38   

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 27

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 82

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 48

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 38

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 41

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 41

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 52

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 31

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 47

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 54

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
masters, 10
total at stake - 36

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 21

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 33

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 111
no delegates are at stake in the virginia gop primary
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday

babbitt, 67
dukakis, 67
gephardt, 67
gore, 67
hart, 67
jackson, 67
simon, 67
uncommitted, 67
others, 67
total at stake in 21 events, 1,307
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday

bush, 67
dole, 67
du pont, 67
haig, 67
kemp, 67
robertson, 67
uncommitted, 67
others, 67
total at stake in 17 events, 712
hooligans'' went on a rampage in a city in azerbaidzhan, tass reported monday. an armenian dissident said ``thugs'' beat and knifed armenians as the ethnic hatred kindled by a territorial dispute spread in the caucasus republics
a soviet deputy prosecutor general said over the weekend that two people in another region of azerbaidzhan had been killed in ``disorders'' sparked by armenian demands that a part of azerbaidzhan be reattached to their republic
street demonstrations, in which some witnesses said more than 1 million people participated, took place in the armenian capital of yerevan last week to call for the annexation of the nagorno-karabakh region in azerbaidzhan, whose 157,000 inhabitants are mostly armenian
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed friday to the people of armenia and azerbaidzhan for ``civic maturity,'' but state-run media reports and accounts reaching dissident circles in moscow on monday indicated he had failed to quell the dispute
the official tass news agency said a ``group of hooligans provoked disturbances'' sunday in the industrial city of sumgait, 1,150 miles south of moscow on the caspian sea. ``rampage and violence followed,'' it said
the tass dispatch on the unrest in sumgait was the first official report of civil disturbances in the soviet union since it reported that 3,000 people rioted in alma ata, capital of the central asian republic of kazakhstan, in december 1986. two people died and hundreds were injured in those riots
tass gave no indication what led to the violence in sumgait, a chemical and steelmaking center that is azerbaidzhan's most important industrial city after its capital, baku
a moscow-based dissident said the disturbance was sparked by tensions between azerbaidzhan's dominant ethnic group, the azeris, and armenians. azeris are predominantly moslem, while armenians are predominantly christian
thugs in sumgait went up to people and asked them if they were armenian or not,'' said sergei grigoyants, who is of armenian origin. ``they started to beat up people who said they were armenian. several people were knifed.''
grigoyants, who said he had received information on the unrest from sources in yerevan, said apparently no one was killed in the sunday fracas. he said ``several dozen'' azeris reportedly were involved in the attacks
tass indicated that authorities in sumgait, a city of more than 160,000 people, fear a resurgence of violence
measures have been taken to normalize the situation in the city and safeguard discipline and public order,'' tass said, adding that an investigation was under way
the watch officer at the ministry of internal affairs in baku, reached by telephone monday evening, said he had no information on the disturbances in the city 22 miles to the northwest. an azerbaidzhan government official in moscow refused comment
sumgait is 150 miles northeast of the disputed region of nagorno-karabakh, a region smaller than the u.s. state of delaware, which traditionally had been part of armenia until the soviet government put it under the jurisdiction of azerbaidzhan in 1923
deputy prosecutor general alexander katusev was dispatched from moscow last week to investigate reports that the clash over nagorno-karabakh had led to ethnic bloodshed between azeris and armenians
in a weekend report on baku state-run radio, katusev said two people in a district of azerbaidzhan that borders the contested region ``fell victim to murder'' in disorders linked to the territorial dispute
katusev identified the dead as bakhtiar uliyev, 16, and ali gadzhiyev, 23, both of the agdamsky district. several other people, he said, ``suffered bruises, beatings and injuries that do not threaten their life and health.''
the prosecutor spoke over baku radio on saturday, in a report that was monitored by the british broadcasting co. in london
there are no other victims or people who were maimed either in nagorno-karabakh or any other part of the republic (of azerbaidzhan),'' katusev said
however, valery senderov, another moscow-based dissident, said friday that there had been street scuffles in baku when armenians demonstrated outside three downtown movie theaters last week to demand that nagorno-karabakh be made part of armenia
blood was spilled,'' senderov said, citing telephone reports he received from sources in azerbaidzhan. he said no serious injuries were reported
gorbachev told the party leadership in a feb. 18 speech that relations among the more than 100 ethnic groups that make up the soviet population is the country's greatest problem. he said the party central committee would hold a meeting to discuss those relations
armenian broadcasts friday also said the central committee would reconsider whether it should reattach nagorno-karabakh to armenia. it refused such a request in january
an unsuspecting pilot wound up with his face in the dirt, m-16s pointed at his head and his ruined plane upside down on the runway after drug agents mistook him for a cocaine smuggler
gustavo viera, a miami accountant, has received an apology from vice president george bush's anti-drug task force, the drug enforcement admimistration and the u.s. customs service
however, he said monday he had received no compensation and plans to file a claim against the government
viera said he did not see or hear the customs service helicopter that followed him to the airport, and worries what would happen if the service's controversial proposal to shoot down suspected traffickers is adopted
had that been in effect, i wouldn't be here talking to you today,'' said viera. ``when you're in one of these airplanes and the engine is loud and they shoot a warning, you're not going to hear it.''
the incident occurred july 9 when viera flew his piper cherokee _ bought only three weeks before _ over biscayne bay. he then headed for a small airport south of miami
a subsequent letter from william rosenblatt, an assistant commissioner in the customs service enforcement office, explained what happened next
rosenblatt said customs service radar had lost a suspected trafficker in flight, then picked up viera's plane
it was incorrectly assumed that your aircraft was in fact the suspect,'' rosenblatt wrote
according to friends of viera who witnessed the incident, a customs service blackhawk helicopter followed viera's plane as it touched down at the kendall glider port, but stayed behind him. viera said it was impossible to see or hear the helicopter in that position
when (viera) was turning left to get out of the runway, presumably the pilot of the helicopter thought gus was trying to run away,'' said rene betancourt. ``he made a maneuver with a blast of the prop, and turned gus's plane upside down.''
viera first thought his nose gear had collapsed, then he realized the danger he was in
i'm upside down on my runway, fuel was pouring out and the thing was about to blow,'' said viera. then he saw the helicopter land beside him and several men rush toward his plane
i thought they were going to rescue me,'' he said. instead, as he pleaded with them to pull him out of the plane, someone smashed in his window and hit him in the back of the head, he said
the next thing he knew he was lying face down with a foot on his back. two bahamian agents who accompanied the customs team were pointing their m-16s at his head, said viera
they never identified themselves as customs agents, they never read me my rights and they illegally searched my plane,'' said viera
he was held for about 45 minutes until computer checks established the error
the viera wrote to customs and the dea, but only began to receive apologies when he finally wrote bush's task force
a letter from howard gehring, director of the task force's national narcotics border-interdiction system, said ``any inconvenience that this incident has caused is unfortunate.''
rosenblatt also apologized in a letter
as a resident of dade county, fla., you are in a position to view firsthand the drug-related violence that occurs almost on a daily basis,'' said rosenblatt, adding that the danger results in actions which ``might seem excessive.''
viera said the company which insured his plane paid off quickly and he has bought a new plane
roger garland, chief of the customs air branch at homestead, said as far as he knew, the viera incident was the first of its kind
normally, we wouldn't even do that to a bad guy,'' said garland. the''</note>
republican presidential candidate bob dole said monday that the reagan administration was sending mixed signals about panama's strong man manuel antonio noriega, and he suggested the united states ``may want to go back and take another look'' at treaties turning over the panama canal to panama
say no to drugs. say no to noriega, and no, maybe, to giving them the canal,'' dole said at a news conference
dole, the senate's gop leader, said that when he voted against the panama canal treaties 10 years ago in the senate ``we knew about'' drug trafficking by members of the panamanian military
he said that while the reagan administration has accused noriega of dealing in drugs it has also been sending a different signal to the panamanian leader. ``it seems to me we have one signal saying noriega ought to stay, noriega isn't such a bad guy,'' dole said
referring to the panama canal treaties, dole said, ``we may want to go back and take another look at that.''
sen. thad cochran, r-miss., appeared with dole at a news conference and offered his endorsement. ``the reason can be described in two words _ effective leadership,'' cochran said
earlier, in atlanta, dole jabbed at george bush and the other republican presidential contenders, declaring himself the tough candidate for president and calling toughness ``a quality that some may be lacking.''
trying to beat bush in the big southern presidential primaries, which are one week away, dole went before the predominantly democratic georgia state house and senate for separate addresses
dole, the republican leader in the u.s. senate, proclaimed an affinity with the georgia democrats through his rural kansas background, his start in rural politics and his legislative career. by comparison, that underscored the point he has often made that the vice president has had a more privileged background _ though he didn't mention bush by name
i got here just like you did. i got here the old fashioned way _ i earned it,'' dole said. ``nobody gave it to me.''
it was unmistakable who his target was as he stressed his ability to work with congress and said candidates shouldn't be judged on ``who has the longest resume and most impressive resume.'' bush often notes the high-level government posts he has held
there's one candidate and only one candidate with experience in dealing with congress and making tough decisions,'' dole told the georgia senate
i believe that i have a certain quality that some may be lacking,'' he told the house. ``i am tough. i understand you have to be tough to make tough choices
you have to be tough to deal with the legislature or to deal with congress or to deal with (mikhail) gorbachev or to deal with (daniel) ortega,'' he said, referring to the soviet and nicaraguan leaders
dole strongly criticized noriega, saying the united states should impose a ``full-scale embargo'' on panama if noriega doesn't give up power in 30 days. he said the united states should use ``whatever force is necessary'' to protect the panama canal and other u.s. interests there
we don't need noriega peddling drugs to our children,'' dole said. ``he's a bad influence and he has been a bad influence for 10 years.''
dole was making a series of campaign stops across the southeast on monday as he campaigned toward the southern primaries on super tuesday, march 8. from atlanta he flew to jackson, and was going on to florida and to north carolina
more than one-third of the gop nominating delegates are at stake in the contests on tuesday, including races in most of the south
bush leads dole in most of the super tuesday states, according to most polls. dole aides said they were planning to begin airing new television ads contrasting dole and bush's records in selected southern states
dole repeated his call for a one-year budget freeze to reduce the federal deficit, a proposal that he and bush tangled over in the republicans' debate on sunday. dole said ``there is a bipartisan majority for that kind of action.''
he was accompanied to the georgia legislature by his wife elizabeth
a former navy pilot testified monday that he made six cocaine flights for reputed colombian drug lord carlos lehder rivas in 1979
lehder, 38, reputed to be one of the leaders of colombia's violent medellin cartel, is on trial on charges he and others conspired to smuggle 3.3 tons of cocaine into the united states from colombia via norman's cay in the bahamas from 1978 to 1980
leverett francis, whose testimony opened the 14th week of the trial, is described in the indictment against lehder and co-defendant jack carlton reed as working with ed ward in flying cocaine for lehder
francis, 66, said he began working for ward, an admitted marijuana smuggler, and then switched to flying cocaine, making three trips from norman's cay in the bahamas to colombia and three flights from the island to astor park, fla
as a marijuana smuggler, francis said, he was paid $30,000 a flight. on his cocaine runs from colombia to norman's cay, he received $100,000 a flight, then $30,000 more to fly cocaine into the united states, he said
u.s. attorney robert w. merkle questioned francis about his contacts with defense attorneys and asked if he had wanted to testify against lehder
nobody does. it's distasteful,'' said francis
merkle asked francis if he had concealed illegal drug earnings from the government because he wanted to avoid paying taxes. the witness replied he had
did you say that if you didn't get a promise, you would take contempt instead of testifying?'' asked merkle
francis replied that his cooperation in the ed ward case had earned the government a lot of money and he felt that had discharged his obligation
when asked why he became a smuggler, francis replied, ``i was kind of wondering the same thing. it was the thrill of doing something, in addition to the money.''
francis was shown a photograph of a stack of money and replied that it was $88,000 given to him by ward
he had allowed federal agents to take a picture in 1980
i understood that mr. lehder was the gentleman for whom mr. ward was flying,'' he said
when asked to identify lehder in court, francis said he had developed vision problems over the past few months. he was allowed to leave the witness stand to get closer to the defendant
he walked up to attorney stephen weinbaum, who represents reed, and said, ``is that you, joe?'' joe is lehder's nickname
he also said he couldn't recognize reed
reed, 57, is charged only with being part of the alleged conspiracy
lehder is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
the chairman of president reagan's aids commission said monday he expects the panel to adopt his interim recommendations, including a $1 billion boost in federal spending on the disease, without substantive change
retired adm. james d. watkins outlined the commission's activities in an appearance at the national press club a day before the panel embarks on three days of hearings on some of the most controversial aspects of dealing with the disease
surgeon general c. everett koop is scheduled as the leadoff witness at tuesday's session, and education secretary william bennett will testify thursday morning
the two have differed on the best ways to combat the spread of the fatal disease, most notably in what emphasis to place on recommending use of condoms to prevent its transmission sexually
watkins, a former chief of naval operations, said he does not believe koop and bennett, or their followers, are as far apart as often perceived
my feeling is our job is to try to bring ... things together,'' watkins said during a question-and-answer session. ``i don't see that we have such obstacles ... we can't reach consensus. i wasn't so sure four months ago, but now i am.''
still, he said the commission is ``not going to shy away from anything'' such as touchy legal issues regarding confidentially of aids test results and discrimination protection for people with the virus
i think it's going to be a donnybrook in there, but i think something useful will come,'' he said
watkins' remarks about the commission's willingness to adopt his interim recommendations were limited to his call last week for spending an additional $1 billion a year in federal funds to fight the spread of aids among intravenous drug abusers and several other suggestions on developing drugs to treat the disease and revamping the system of caring for aids patients
the commission began considering those recommendations earlier monday _ with no hint of substantive differences _ and will meet thursday night to adopt the version that will go to the white house the following week
the panel's final report, which watkins said will address the more controversial issues, is due june 24
responding to a wide range of questions about aids in general, watkins said he agrees with those who do not foresee a dramatic spread of the disease into the general population in the immediate future
but he cautioned against complacency, particularly concerning the possibility that the virus could be spreading undetected among sexually active adolescents
we don't know what it is in adolescents,'' he said. ``there may be lurking on the horizon a real problem that has yet to unfold.''
he also renewed his call for those physicians who do not specialize in aids _ acquired immune deficiency syndrome _ to become more familiar with it
the medical education horse has got to get in front of the general education cart,'' he said
a dying boy who needs a bone marrow transplant will go to seattle for the treatment next week, even though a court battle still is being waged over his father's health insurance coverage, officials said monday
jim lacina sued nationwide life insurance co. of columbus, contending the company mistakenly canceled his health insurance policy without notifying him
attorneys had rushed to bring the lawsuit to trial monday because doctors said lacina's 11-year-old son, jamie, needed a bone marrow transplant by march 15 to survive more than a few months. the boy has leukemia
but the trial was postponed until june 27, visiting cuyahoga county common pleas judge george g. mcmonagle said, adding that lacina, of geneva, had found a way to pay for the treatment at the fred hutchinson cancer research center in seattle
i understand medicaid is taking care of the arrangements,'' the judge said
officials of the cuyahoga county department of health and human services declined comment, saying medicaid applications are confidential
there was no answer at lacina's home monday in geneva, and lacina's attorney, gerald jeppe, didn't return phone calls. but jeppe said last week that his client was applying for medicaid
edward e. duncan, attorney for nationwide life, also declined to comment
lacina was an agent for nationwide life until five years ago, when his job was terminated because of company cutbacks. because of his son's health, he paid to continue his health insurance after he left the firm, attorneys for both sides agree
however, the policy lapsed in late 1983. lacina said he never got a copy of his policy, a notice that his premium was due or a termination notice, jeppe said in court last week
lacina sued nationwide life on april 24, 1986. while the case has been pending, his son has received chemotherapy treatments at rainbow babies' and children's hospital in cleveland. court documents show lacina, who is unemployed, owes the hospital more than $24,000
the lawsuit became more urgent when doctors advised lacina to take his son to the fred hutchinson cancer research center by march 15 for a bone marrow transplant. the center requires patients to have $100,000 or proof of insurance coverage before it will treat them
susan edmonds, hutchinson spokeswoman, said jamie lacina is scheduled to arrive at the center on march 7. she said she hasn't received word from the boy's father that he has made arrangements to pay for the procedure
president abdou diouf declared a state of emergency monday and truncheon-wielding police battled rioting gangs of young people after news reports said diouf was winning re-election easily
opposition leaders denounced the early returns of sunday's voting, which had diouf getting 77 percent of the vote, as violence spread throughout the city
police arrested the presidential candidate of the major opposition party, abdoulaye wade of the senegalese democrafamily said monday night. the wife of ousmane ngom, a party press secretary, satic party, his id 20 men had come to her home, searched it and arrested her husband
diouf declared a state of emergency in the area around the capital ``in response to grave troubles this morning,'' according to a broadcast on national radio, which said all public meetings were now banned
a 2{-mile stretch of boulevard general de gaulle, one of the city's main thoroughfares, was littered with fire-gutted vehicles, spent tear gas canisters and shattered glass
young rioters burned a stack of tires at one traffic circle, windows were smashed in many houses and large granite stones that had been pulled from a monument lay in the street after they had been thrown at police
merchants in the downtown plateau districtains to senior citizens seated at long tables
at the school, robertson was met by students shouting ``go pat go!'' some students held signs passed out by campaign staffers
when a student asked if robertson would ever renew diplomatic relations with cuba, he replied: ``i don't think we should have diplomatic relations with a butcher and a tyrant!''
robertson began his florida tour in jacksonville monday and arranged a rally in miami monday night, followed by breakfast tuesday in fort lauderdale and stops in hollywood, fort myers, sarasota, gainesville and orlando
in jacksonville, robertson told about 500 supporters that ``along with texas, florida is one of the two most pivotal states.''
he added:
we've got one week to the most crucial election, i believe, in the history of america, certainly this century and maybe since its beginning
we're at a crossroads in america. we're either going to return to the ways that made this nation great, or we're going to go down the road.''
robertson mentioned a gun problem experienced this year in several florida schools
how can a child study when he's living in mortal fear of somebody shooting him with a handgun in the halls of the school? we owe our children an education in a crime-free, drug-free school environment,'' said robertson
if we want to see this country strong. there's only one way in my estimation to do it. we will restore the greatness of america through moral strength,'' he added
robertson also said that ``we've got to go back to a time in our educational system when once again we teach our kids moral values. we've got to bring god back into the public schools of america.''
on trade, he said: ``there isn't one country that is treating us fairly. ... as president of the united states, i'm not going to shut down american factories and put americans out of jobs to improve the standard of living in communist china and communist russia.''
at a news conference following his address, robertson called panama military strong man manuel antonio noriega ``a bandit,'' but added that ``i don't see us sending troops (to panama). i don't think it is necessary.''
on south africa, robertson said, ``i am totally opposed to apartheid ... but the thing i'm concerned about is turning south africa into a bloody battleground.''
i don't want to see a marxist state in south africa,'' robertson said
the flashing billboard broke down but at least two wedding offers still stood monday, a day that leap-year lore supposedly gives women the right to propose marriage
four women were scheduled to have their marriage proposals flashed on an electronic board in london, but british telecom's giant ``message master'' suffered an electrical glitch, said spokesman peter chandler
the couples, who stood on a street corner waiting for the proposals, were whisked to a nearby hotel for a consolation lunch
two couples walked away without announcing their intentions, but the other two said they would tie the knot
donna walker, 20, turned to her boyfriend, mark beva, 22, and said ``everything's gone wrong, but anyway will you marry me?''
a stunned beva blurted yes. aides; sub 6th-7th graf pvs with 4 grafs new to explain bgng ``dukakis and...</note>
george bush and pat robertson will skip next sunday's debate in tennessee, putting that pre-super tuesday confrontation in jeopardy, and richard gephardt has backed out of the democratic version the same day in rival albert gore jr.'s home state, aides said today
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis' staff debated the debate, with one aide saying he would not go and another saying the decision on the league of women voters' forum in nashville was still under consideration
word of candidates no-debate decisions tumbled out as the presidential contenders themselves plunged into their final week of campaigning before the biggest delegate day of the primary season
meanwhile, dukakis was celebrating another new england victory, in maine, saying he will ``surprise some people in the south'' next week on super tuesday. vice president bush claimed victory in maine on the gop side
the gop presidential hopefuls split up today after criticizing each other on taxes and trade in a debate sunday in atlanta
robertson, in jacksonville, fla., told about 500 people today, ``i've got a feeling we're going to win in florida and we're going to win in the south. ... we've got one week to the most crucial election, i believe, in the history of america, certainly this century and maybe since its beginning.''
dukakis and gephardt, the winners of the major democratic contests so far, skipped a democratic debate in houston on sunday. gephardt aides said today that he wouldn't show up for a debate in opponent albert gore jr.'s home state
gephardt, who had said last october he would participate in the debate, sent word last week that he would not, noting that it was to be in gore's home state, said janice kaplan, a spokeswoman for the league of women voters' presidential debates
dukakis aides passed out conflicting word on his intentions. political director paul jensen said he would not attend the debate; communications director leslie dach said ``no official decision had been made'' on whether or not to attend the sunday debate
league officials said dukakis had told them last fall he would participate and they have heard of no change in that stance
she said robertson _ as well as bush, who announced his plans earlier _ would not take part in the gop debate the same day. bob dole has not formally agreed to attend, and the republican debate will be called off if he decides against debating, she said
it was a son of the south, jesse jackson, who pulled the weekend's surprise, finishing a strong second to dukakis in the maine democratic caucuses on sunday
with super tuesday looming barely a week away, republican jack kemp sought to pump up his fading campaign with direct attacks on bush and senate gop leader dole, saying they will not be true to ronald reagan's legacy
they sound alike. they talk alike. they've supported every single tax increase over the last eight years,'' kemp said in a testy gop debate sunday in atlanta. ``if they're nominated, the reagan revolution is over, gone, dead.''
harsh rhetoric did not dim the good news from maine for bush and dukakis
bush's campaign claimed victory in the gop caucuses on sunday. with no official count available, his campaign gave out figures saying he more than doubled his rivals' totals in the city and town meetings
on the democratic side, dukakis won the maine caucuses easily, relying on a strong organization and his neighborly ties. he took better than 40 percent of the delegates to the state convention and at least 10 national convention delegates
today's victory gives our national campaign another push towards success on super tuesday,'' dukakis said
earlier, he told a crowd in maryland _ where he hopes to do well on march 8: ``you're an important super tuesday state. ... i think we're going to surprise some people in the south.''
dukakis' win was expected. jackson's strong second-place showing was not
the black civil rights leader campaigned relatively little in the state, but showed strength in many parts of the new england countryside to win nearly a third of the vote. a block of uncommitted delegates was in third place with the rest of the democratic field trailing
both dukakis and bush hoped to put another victory in their column on tuesday, when the non-binding vermont primaries are scheduled
the democratic candidates gather for another pre-march 8 debate tonight in williamsburg, va., before the members of the democratic leadership council. it was dlc members who put together the idea of a southern regional primary and then pushed state legislatures across the region to move their primaries to the early march date
the republicans' debate sunday in atlanta may be their last full-scale confrontation before super tuesday
bush, who is skipping the league of women voters' debate next sunday in nashville, told his three rivals that intra-party sniping is not useful
there's no point in republicans going around criticizing each other or certainly criticizing the president of the united states. what we want to do is go after the people you had here yesterday,'' bush said, referring to the democratic candidates who debated in the same hall on saturday. ``that's easy. that's slow-motion, slow targets to go for.''
kemp attacked hardest during the debate sponsored by the atlanta newspapers, accusing his opponents of sounding like democratic hopeful gephardt on trade
pat robertson and bob dole sound like dick gephardt to me on trade, and george bush and bob dole say the budget deficit is public enemy no. 1. i want to say i believe the soviet union is public enemy no. 1,'' kemp said
for his part, dole attacked bush for the reagan administration's decision to trade arms for hostages in the iran-contra affair
we never should trade arms for hostages. we shouldn't issue these reports and say we shouldn't trade arms for hostages _ the vice president's report _ and then later go to a meeting and say it's all right. we shouldn't do those things,'' dole said, holding up a report on terrorism that was written by a commission headed by bush
bush did not respond directly, but did say ``mistakes were made'' in the iran-contra affair. he has maintained throughout the affair that he did not know the arrangement was an arms-for-hostage deal
saudi arabia said monday it would not bar iranians from making a pilgrimage to mecca, islam's holiest shrine and scene of violent rioting last year
there is no trend ... to bar any moslem from performing the pilgrimage rites,'' a government official was quoted by the saudi press agency as saying
dates will be announced soon by the responsible authorities regarding the commencement of entry formalities, said the official, a representative the ministry of pilgrimage and wakf, religious endowments
the agency did not provide the official's name, but said he made the statement in response to ``recent claims by some iranian responsible officials regarding a trend to bar iranians from this year's pilgrimage.''
the saudi cities of mecca and medina harbor islam's most sacred shrines, and moslems from all over the world converge on the kingdom for the annual pilgrimage, falling this year in the latter part of july, according to the lunar calendar
thousands of iranian pilgrims staged a political demonstrations last year and more than 400, most of them iranians, were killed in subsequent clashes with saudi riot police
saudi interior minister prince nayef has issued stern warnings that no political activity would be allowed during pilgrimage
iranian minister of culture and islamic guidance hojatoleslam mohammed khatami challenged the saudi statements recently, insisting that iranian pilgrims were planning political rallies again this year
iran is persian and shiite, while the sunni sect generally dominates in persian gulf arab nations. the deep division between shiites and sunnis began with a split in islam centuries ago
prices farmers got for raw products in february declined an average of 0.8 percent from january but still were 6.6 percent above those a year earlier, the agriculture department said monday
the department's agricultural statistics board said lower prices for lettuce, tomatoes, cotton and milk contributed most to the february decrease. higher prices for cattle, hogs, corn and soybeans helped soften the declines for the other commodities, however
most commercial vegetable prices dropped sharply from a month earlier as supplies became plentiful,'' the report said. ``warm weather in the southwest pushed vegetable crops to maturity.''
but cattle and calf prices ``were the highest since may 1979'' and hog prices rose for the second month in a row, the report said. corn prices at the farm were the highest since july 1986, while soybean were the highest in more than three years
department economists say net cash income of farmers set a record in 1987 of about $57 billion. this year's net _ the difference between cash receipts and cash expenses _ may be in the range of $50 billion to $55 billion
consumer food prices are expected to rise 2 percent to 4 percent this year, compared with a 4.2 percent average increase in 1987
according to the preliminary february figures, based mostly on mid-month averages, the index for crop prices was down 4.3 percent from january but averaged 11 percent more than a year ago
commercial vegetable prices dropped 33 percent from january and were down 2.2 percent from february 1987. sweet-corn prices rose from january, while all other vegetables declined. lettuce prices dropped to $11.90 per 100 pounds from $35.60 in january
feed grains and hay, collectively, showed a 3.2 percent price gain from january, averaging 23 percent more than a year earlier. corn, sorghum, oats and hay were up, while barley prices declined from january levels. cotton prices were down 6 percent from january but averaged 22 percent more than a year earlier
the index for livestock and livestock products was up 2 percent from january and 4.2 percent above februrary 1987. prices were higher for beef cattle, calves and hogs, which more than offset declines in milk, poultry and egg prices
prices of beef cattle averaged $67.90 per hundredweight, up $2.50 from january. calf prices, at $93.10, were up $4.90 per hundredweight. market hog prices rose $3.60 from january to $47.50 in february but were still below a year earlier
february farm commodity prices averaged 130 percent of a 1977 base used for comparison, according to the preliminary figures, down from a revised january reading of 131 percent. a year ago, the february index was 122 percent
no new figures for farm production costs were included in the report. those have been confined to quarterly averages because of budget cutbacks
in january, however, farm expenses were up 0.6 percent from last fall but averaged 1.4 percent below a year earlier. the next quarterly figures will be reported in april
the report said:
_cattle averaged $67.90 per 100 pounds of live weight nationally, up from $65.40 in january and the $58.80 reported for february 1987. those are averages for all types of cattle sold as beef
_hogs averaged $46.70 per 100 pounds, compared with $43 in january and $48.20 a year earlier
_corn, at $1.83 a bushel, was up from $1.77 in january and the average of $1.42 per bushel a year earlier
_wheat prices at the farm, according to preliminary figures, averaged $2.83 per bushel, compared with $2.75 in january and $2.58 a year earlier
_rice averaged $7.85 per 100 pounds, compared with $7.70 in january and $3.83 a year earlier
_soybeans were $5.90 per bushel, compared with $5.73 in january and $4.69 a year earlier
_upland cotton was reported at 57.1 cents per pound, compared with 60.6 in january and 46.4 cents in february 1987
_eggs were 46.9 cents per dozen, compared with 49.3 cents in january and 58.3 cents a year earlier
_milk was $12.30 per 100 pounds, compared with $12.50 in january and $12.90 a year earlier
_broilers were 25.7 cents per pound, live weight, compared with 27.1 cents in january and 30.1 cents a year ago
edna brown turned 25 on monday, according to leap year standards, but lots of relatives gathered to help her celebrate her 100 years on the planet
but mrs. brown can't claim the distinction of being the only person in her family born on feb. 29, which comes around only once every four years
her great-great grandson, david jacobs, 20, is celebrating the date of his birth for only the fifth time. and her nephew, rex napier of visalia, was having his 19th leap year birthday, although he's really 76
eula jones, one of mrs. brown's 10 children, said her mother has been resting up for her party. she just had a cast removed from an arm that was broken around christmas
mother's real spunky, real sharp,'' mrs. jones said. ``we're going to take her down and get her hair done and get her ready.''
a driver whose vehicle struck a bicyclist has been sentenced to community service, most of which could be waived with a bicycle ride on a narrow highway near crested butte
it might be a real eye-opener for you,'' gunnison county court judge gerry reese told bruce hartel at his sentencing last week. ``riding a bicycle along the highway while three-ton vehicles hurl by can only be appreciated by experiencing it.''
reese decided that if hartel, 59, of littleton, rides a bicycle on a section of the highway between crested butte and crested butte south within 90 days, 100 hours out of 124 hours of court-ordered community service will be waived
reese told hartel he can walk part of the way if he gets tired, as long as he has a bicycle with him. colorado 135 is a two-lane, narrow, winding mountain highway with no shoulders
in a plea bargain, hartel pleaded no contest to careless driving and driving too fast for conditions
the charges stemmed from a sept. 22 collision with bicyclist eliane wiscocq of crested butte. she was knocked off her bike and suffered facial lacerations, a broken wrist and whiplash
hartel apologized in court and presented his driving record, which was clean
he was sentenced to 90 days of unsupervised probation and fined $561, and said his insurance company has agreed to pay wissocq's lost wages, property damage and medical expenses up to $50,000
hartel left court without commenting on the sentence
president reagan is taking a decongestant for a cold that left him with a hoarse voice for a speech monday to the annual convention of the american legion
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan's physician, col. john hutton, said, ``it wasn't a flu, just a cold.'' he said reagan did not have any fever
the cold comes as reagan prepares to depart tuesday for brussels, belgium, and a two-day summit beginning wednesday with nato allies
two sisters' homes burned within a day of each other, bringing to six the number of residences they have lost to fire
pat rader and her family have lost four trailers, the most recent on wednesday
the first three burned on the same spot,'' she said. ``the one that burned (wednesday) was on the same property, but not on the same place. ``i don't know if i'll ever live in another trailer, but i won't go back there.''
on thursday, fire hit a frame home owned by her sister, wanda pratt, and her family. mrs. pratt said the house may be salvageable
the house stands near the spot where the pratts lost a mobile home to fire about three years ago
my uncle was living with us then,'' mrs. pratt said. ``he was 85. the fire started in his room, but we never knew what started it.''
mrs. rader, her husband and three children are staying with her parents in kingfield for now
i'm going to try to get me a house,'' she said. ``my stepfather and my mother own the property my trailers have been on. they're giving us a couple of acres, and we're going to try to build on it.''
capt. keith crowell of the williamson county rescue squad said monday authorities don't know what caused either fire
the streets were awash with dress blues and angry tears monday as 10,000 police officers attended last rites for edward byrne, a 22-year-old policeman killed while protecting a witness in a drug case
it was the largest police turnout for a fallen colleague in the history of the new york city police, authorities said. they came from texas and ohio, maryland and rhode island, and they lined the eight blocks approaching st. james church
eddie's murderers need to be pitied and also prayed for,'' the rev. thomas devita said in his homily during mass. ``they do not know about the sanctity of life. they cannot really know or understand what they have done, even though this is such a terrible sin.''
byrne was slain early friday as he guarded a witness who had complained to police about crack dealers working in the south jamaica section of the borough of queens. there have been no arrests. byrne, eight months on the force, was struck by three shotgun blasts
eight officers carried the coffin, draped in the green-and-white flag of the department, into the church as a police bagpiper played ``when the battle is over.'' the family followed; his father, a former city police lieutenant, carried a color photograph of his son
today we commit eddie back to our god and father, to god who gave us ed 22 years ago. ... if only it could have been longer,'' the priest said
he remembered byrne as a smiling storyteller, an enthusiastic friend, relative and police officer. byrne turned 22 nine days ago
maybe eddie has done more in eight short months than other people will do in a lifetime,'' devita said. ``he sacrificed his life trying to protect the lives of others.''
six police helicopters followed overhead as the body was taken to st. charles cemetery for interment
after the mass, the rev. charles norris of bethesda missionary baptism church, located in the 103rd precinct where byrne served, climbed to the altar to speak in support of police who are fighting drugs _ ``this venom.''
mayor edward i. koch also spoke from the altar after the service. he said he felt the same sadness he felt upon the deaths of franklin d. roosevelt, john f. kennedy and martin luther king jr
in a strange way, edward byrne's death has the same importance,'' koch said. ``if drug trafficking has become so bold that they can engage in the assassination of a police officer, then our whole society is at risk. ... that is why his death is so important.''
all four republicans and at least one democrat appear to be passing up sunday's presidential debates in nashville, a league of women voters spokeswoman said monday
republicans george bush and pat robertson sent word they would not participate, nashville president carole bucy said. jack kemp had never accepted the debate invitation, she said
the fourth epublican, bob dole, said he was willing to attend, but only if robertson and bush participated. ``i'm not sure i want to spend an hour with jack kemp,'' he said in jackson, miss
democrat richard gephardt advised the league he would not attend the nashville debate
aides to michael dukakis were sending out conflicting signals. political director paul jensen said he would not attend the debate; communications director leslie dach said ``no official decision had been made'' on whether or not to attend the sunday debate
gephardt and dukakis skipped a democratic debate in houston on sunday, leaving the forum to sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, jesse jackson, sen. paul simon of illinois and gary hart. problems</head>
as a general rule, the agriculture department is making progress but still lags in expanding jobs and services to black americans, a special review panel said monday
in 1986, agriculture secretary richard e. lyng directed all agencies in the department to carry out new guidelines to improve usda compliance with civil rights and equal opportunity standards
as part of the department's february observance of black history month, five study groups looked at how usda has performed since then
black employees continue a modest but upward movement in all occupational categories,'' the report said. ``some increases have been realized both in absolute numbers and as a percentage of total usda employment. this is especially important because the increases have occurred at a time when overall employment in usda was declining.''
the usda employs the equivalent of approximately 102,000 full time employees, according to recent budget documents. the task force report said blacks comprise 8.4 percent of the department's employees, up from 8.1 percent in 1986. but that ``is low compared with other federal agencies,'' it added
to continue to improve its equal opportunity posture, usda must realize larger increases in the number of blacks hired, promoted and trained,'' the report said. ``and such increases mus be realized at a faster pace. additionally the department must place emphasis on retention strategies once black employees are recruited at hired.''
the task force report said there are ``encouraging signs'' that usda agencies are beginning to address the complex problems of black farmers and their declining numbers
coordinated efforts between the soil conservation service, farmers home administration and extension service are just beginning to show limited success at eliminating the historical factors militating against small and economically disadvantaged farmers,'' the report said
the mediator of peace talks between the government and the contra rebels said the sandinistas' insistence on a limited agenda for the discussions is a step backward
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the mediator, broke off the last round of meetings in guatemala on feb. 19, saying the two sides remained far apart on ways to end the 7-year-old war
since then, the roman catholic prelate has charged the leftist sandinista government with failing to compromise and president daniel ortega has criticized the ``abrupt'' end to the second set of direct talks
ortega, in a speech sunday, reiterated that the discussions should be limited to how to arrange a truce. the u.s.-backed contras and obando y bravo are seeking to discuss political reforms as well as a cease-fire
earlier sunday, the cardinal said the government's position represented ``a step backward'' for his plan. the cardinal declined to say whether further talks would be held, saying, ``we'll have to reflect on that.''
agreement on details of a cease-fire could deter congress from voting for non-lethal aid for the rebels
the democrat-controlled house on feb. 3 narrowly voted down president reagan's proposal for $36.2 million in funding, including $3.6 million in military financing
in the recent talks, obando y bravo expanded his role by offering his own peace plan. in addition to cease-fire proposals, it calls for complete press freedom, renewed talks with internal opposition parties, a revision of the military draft law and a total amnesty, reforms long sought by the contras
the sandinistas agreed to discuss the sections of the cardinal's proposal that had to do with a cease-fire, but they have refused to enter into what they call a ``political dialogue'' with the rebels
in a peace plan signed aug. 7, the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, costa rica and honduras committed themselves to implementing cease-fires, amnesties and greater democracy and called for an end to outside aid to insurgencies
nicaragua has permitted the reopening of some newspapers and radio stations it had closed. the government maintains that a full amnesty will be granted when there is a cease-fire
talks with the internal political opposition parties _ also mandated by the peace plan _ broke down in december when the government refused to discuss a new constitution
the sandinistas accuse the cardinal, often harshly critical of the government, of siding with the contras
the cardinal called on those attending his sunday mass to pray for peace. he estimates that 15 nicaraguans die each day because of the war
nicaragua's internal problems have been increasing. opposition parties, taking advantage of new freedoms since the state of emergency was lifted in january, have staged several demonstrations against the sandinistas
the sandinistas have held their own marches to show their strength and at times have quelled opposition demonstrations
the sandinistas came to power in a 1979 revolution that ousted pro-american dictator anastasio somoza
only three applicants for concealed weapon permits under florida's new gun law have been turned down because of previous crimes, but officials said monday many convictions don't show up because of loopholes
as of thursday, 20,393 floridians had received concealed weapons permits under the law effective oct. 1, state records show. a total of 26,086 applications have been received, and of those only 20 have been denied, said marilyn thompson, chief of the bureau of concealed weapons
thirteen were rejected because of documentation problems, four for other reasons and three because of a criminal history, ms. thompson said
under certain circumstances, the state cannot deny permits to admitted felons, people with a history of violent crimes and those with drinking and psychological problems, said ms. thompson
unless a judge formally hands down a guilty verdict, a defendant who pleads guilty or no contest to either a felony or a misdemeanor has not been formally convicted, she said. such withholding of adjudication, which does not create a criminal record, is usually part of a plea bargain on first offenses or lesser offenses and often is accompanied by probation
i can only deny a permit under the law if they have been formally convicted of a felony by a judge,'' ms. thompson said
unadjudicated cases are not entered into the florida department of law enforcement computer system, which the bureau uses to check criminal backgrounds
no adjudication means there is no guilt,'' marion hammer, a lobbyist for unified sportsmen of florida, a group backed by the national rifle association. ``and if there is no guilt, you can't take a person's rights away _ whether that's the right to vote or the right to bear arms
stewart schurr of the fdle said he doubted that unadjudicated defendants receiving concealed weapon permits would lead to a murder increase
the sort of people who do these crimes don't go get a permit so that they can conceal the gun and sneak up on someone,'' he said. ``in other words, i wouldn't be comfortable saying the law has had any kind of effect.''
but some people, including tourism officials, fear florida could develop a ``wild west'' image
here in canada, anything to do with florida makes front page _ especially bad news,'' said ellis webber, the florida tourism department's marketing director for canada, which ships the sunshine state 1.5 million tourists yearly
before lawmakers closed a legal loophole allowing open carrying of firearms, ``we got telephone calls from people concerned about going to florida and seeing people strolling down the shopping mall with guns on their hips,'' he said
president reagan, who is of irish ancestry, paid tribute to the irish monday in a st. patrick's day message
two and a half weeks ahead of time, reagan took note of the commemoration of st. patrick's day on march 17, saying ``i seek to remind america and the world of the debt we owe to the irish people.''
through the ages, he said, the irish people ``have created and perpetuated a unique heritage of faith and freedom, of humor and hope, of scholarship and sanctity and sacrifice.''
with faith and fearlessness, st. patrick brought christianity to ireland a millennium and a half ago,'' reagan's message said. ``the annals reveals the irish people's eagerness to embrace the faith and to keep it; that trait remains to this day, a tribute to the apostle of ireland and to his flock in every generation.''
may america and ireland always cherish each other and the kinship in which we hold st. patrick's day,'' he said
rain was scattered over parts of the west on monday, with some snow around the great lakes, and record high temperatures were reported on the northern plains
rain was scattered over west-central california and western washington state during the morning. rain and thundershowers also extended over northwestern utah
santa maria, calif., got 1.01 inches of rain in the six hours up to 1 p.m. est
snow fell along lake superior, over northwestern lower michigan and across much of northern new york state, but no measurable snowfall was reported in that same six-hour period
elsewhere, showers were scattered over east-central texas
on the northern plains, aberdeen, s.d., reached a record 45 degrees under a sunny sky, and bismarck, n.d., posted a record 46 degrees
advisories for strong, gusty wind were posted over the mountains of central california, where gusts to 40 mph were measured at sandberg
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 11 degrees at sault ste. marie, mich., to 86 at alice, laredo and mcallen, texas. the low for the day was 9 degrees below zero at houlton, maine
for tuesday, scattered showers were forecast from southern idaho across arizona and western colorado
highs in the teens and 20s were predicted over the great lakes and northern new england; in the 30s and 40s from central new england across the virginias, the ohio valley, from southern minnesota across northern iowa, over the northern plains and the upper missouri basin, and from southern colorado into central arizona; in the 70s over much of florida and the desert southwest, and the southern plains; near 80 across southern texas; and in the 50s and 60s over the remainder of the nation
gov. evan mecham faces charges detailed in 23 counts in his impeachment trial before the arizona senate
the articles of impeachment brought against him by the house are the equivalent of an indictment in criminal court. the specifics center on three alleged violations of law _ misuse of $80,000 in state funds, concealment of a campaign loan and obstruction of justice in trying to thwart investigation of an alleged death threat
briefly, these are the accusations:
_ misuse of state funds
in may 1987, a governor's protocol fund was created from funds raised by the governor's inaugural ball. the funds had been earmarked to pay off mecham's campaign debts, but a state law limiting campaign contributions precluded that use. two months after the protocol fund was established to promote interests of the state, $80,000 from it was loaned to mecham's automobile agency. the loan has been repaid, but prosecutors contend mecham, with his son, dennis, tried to conceal an illegal loan of state funds
mecham says the protocol fund was private, not state money, and that he broke no law by loaning it to his dealership
_ concealment of a $350,000 campaign loan
in october 1986, tempe developer barry wolfson loaned $350,000 to the mecham for governor campaign. the loan, which has been repaid, was not reported properly on required disclosure statements
mecham says he didn't try to conceal the loan but contends his brother, willard, who was his campaign treasurer, tried to save time by lumping it in with other funds on the financial statements without including wolfson's name
_ obstruction of justice by thwarting investigation of a death threat
on nov. 12, 1987, lee watkins, an assistant director of the department of administation, allegedly threatened to harm donna carlson, the governor's former legislative liaison who then was expected to testify in a grand jury investigation of mecham's reporting of the $350,000 campaign loan
watkins is alleged to have said if ms. carlson did not keep her mouth shut, she would ``take a long boat ride'' from which she wouldn't return. ralph milstead, director of the department of public safety, says mecham ordered him not to cooperate with the arizona attorney general's office in its investigation of the death threat allegation
mecham says he had already checked out the alleged death threat and considered it ``a lot of hot air.''
the new york board of elections ruled monday that former sen. gary hart, d-colo., failed to qualify for the state's april 19 democratic presidential primary ballot
petitions meant to put hart on the ballot contained only 6,864 signatures, more than 3,000 under the required number, said board spokesman steven lafever
to get on the ballot, democratic candidates must file petitions bearing signatures of at least 10,000 registered democrats and at least 100 of those must come from each of 17 of the state's 34 congressional districts
he has 14 days to go into court with an appeal,'' lafever said. ``but it's really difficult (to win in court) if you don't even have the 10,000'' signatures, he added
among other democratic candidates, jesse jackson has collected more than 64,000 signatures, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis got 42,615, rep. richard gephardt of missouri collected 22,477, sen. paul simon of illinois had 22,076, and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee had 21,759
a group of democratic county clerks filed petitions containing more than 18,000 signatures to get a spot on the ballot for ``uncommitted.'' most of those clerks want new york gov. mario cuomo to run
while cuomo has said he is not a presidential candidate, he has refused to rul out accepting a draft for the nomination if there is a deadlocked national convention when the democrats meet in atlanta in july
political extremist lyndon larouche filed petitions containing 23,061 signatures. those petitions may be challenged by mainstream democrats
georgia's law banning exit polls within 250 feet of voting places violates the constitution's free-speech guarantee, an attorney representing three major television networks argued in court monday
the 1985 law does not define exit poll and therefore ``allows certain types of speech but not others,'' said floyd abrams
reporters ``can ask questions and take notes as long as they don't do it in a systematic way,'' abrams told u.s. district judge robert hall in a hearing on a lawsuit filed by abc, nbc and cbs against georgia and fulton county election officials
but patrick mckee, an assistant attorney general representing state elections officials, said poll workers have interpreted the law as disallowing anyone from questioning voters about their vote within 250 feet of the polling place
former state rep. claude bray, d-manchester, who headed the house state governmental affairs committee when it considered the exit poll bill, said election officials mostly in metropolitan atlanta complained that voters were being intimidated by exit poll takers
this was a bill to help the voters keep their privacy so they could vote and leave without being harassed,'' he said
supporters
supporters of rep. richard gephardt attended news conferences around his home state monday to give endorsements to the democratic presidential candidate
simultaneous news conferences at court houses, public meeting places and campaign headquarters in at least 50 counties brought hundreds of local officials out to show support for gephardt's campaign, members of his campaign staff said
supporters held rallies at campaign headquarters in springfield, kansas city and columbia, while in some rural counties, supporters joined forces to hold combined rallies on what they called ``dick gephardt endorsement day in missouri.''
in st. louis, lt. gov. harriett woods told supporters who gathered at the foot of the gateway arch that missourians should be proud of gephardt and could expect him to serve their country well. fired at tehran, acknowleding late-night explosions.</note>
iraq said it retaliated for pre-dawn missile attacks on baghdad by firing long-range rockets into the heart of tehran monday. iran reported 16 people killed in the bombing of a hospital
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said its gunners fired five surface-to-surface missiles into tehran after two similar projectiles had exploded in baghdad, killing and wounding ``many civilians.''
iran's islamic republic news agency irna, also monitored in nicosia, said in urgent dispatches that ``two loud explosions'' were heard after nightfall in tehran and ``there may have been casualties and damage.''
it said the blasts, 10 minutes apart, were ``from fresh iraqi attacks'' but gave no other details
earlier, irna said tehran was bombed twice in iraqi air raids but made no mention of missile attacks on the city
it said in one of the raids, 16 people were killed and ``dozens wounded, including newborn babies,'' at a tehran hospital
irna did not identify the hospital but said several people were buried under the debris. tehran radio urged iranians to take refuge in bomb shelters
the later communique carried by irna indicated there was confusion over the iraqi attacks, possibly because iraq had not previously used surface-to-surface missiles against tehran in the war that began in september 1980. instead it had relied on its warplanes to strike deep inside iranian territory
the iraqi rockets will reduce the iranian capital to rubble,'' the iraqi news agency said, quoting an unidentified military spokesman. ``the iraqi rockets will fall on tehran all night until the city is demolished on the heads of its rulers.''
it said three missiles were fired at 5:45 p.m., 5:55 p.m. and 6:08 p.m., followed by two more at 11:10 p.m. and 11:20 p.m
iraq was not known to have any surface-to-surface missiles capable of reaching the iranian capital about 200 miles east of the iraqi border
the iraqi news agency quoted a military spokesman as saying the missiles fired monday ``had been designed by iraqi minds and put together by iraqi hands as a gift to the leader of iraq (president saddam hussein) and the people of iraq.''
iraq's attacks began about 12 hours after iranian missiles hit baghdad
irna quoted a revolutionary guards communique as saying the iranian missiles were aimed at the headquarters of iraq's state-run television and radio network and two military targets in baghdad
state-run baghdad radio said two missiles exploded in the city of 5 million people. it reported a military communique said: ``many iraqis were killed, among them women, children and old people. many more were wounded and many houses were destroyed.'' no casualty figures were given
the iraqi news agency also reported that iranian artillery shelled residential areas in the southern port of basra, the border town of khanaqin and sirwan in northeast iraq throughout the night. it made no mention of casualties
it was the third day of attacks on population and industrial centers. the attacks began saturday when iraqi warplanes bombed tehran for the first time since january 1987
on sunday, iran said its forces fired three surface-to-surface missiles in 40 minutes in retaliation for the iraqi air raids on ``non-military areas.'' it said 28 civilians were killed and scores were wounded in the iraqi raids
the exchange of attacks and reported use by iraq of long-range missiles heightened fears that the persian gulf foes are locked in a fresh round of the ``war of the cities.''
iran has fired 37 missiles into baghdad since that phase of the war began in march 1985, but had not targeted baghdad since nov. 8
meanwhile, president ali khamenei of iran warned the u.n. security council not to approve any resolution imposing an arms embargo on iran for failing to agree to cease-fire calls
irna quoted khamenei as saying such a move would mean ``the end of all political solutions to the war, imposed by iraq.''
the united states and its allies have been lobbying for an arms embargo against iran because of its refusal to agree to security council resolution 598 adopted in july. iraq has said it would agree to the resolution, which calls for a cease-fire, if iran did
khamenei said again that iran would not accept any settlement until iraq has been condmned as the aggressor and punished by the international community, according to irna. schools</head>
about one non-school building in seven contains potentially dangerous asbestos that's been damaged and one in 11 has significant damage, the environmental protection agency told congress on monday
however, administrator lee m. thomas said it might do more harm than good to begin a major regulatory program affecting such buildings while epa, states and communities are trying to deal with asbestos in schools
the asbestos in question is ``friable'' _ it can be crumbled by slight pressure, such as a hand squeeze, and release fibers to the air. though asbestos has not been permitted in new buildings since 1978, it was used in millions of structures from the 1920s on
the fibers, if breathed, can cause lung cancer and other illness. the cancer may not show up for 40 years, and the danger increases the earlier the exposure _ which is why school children are such a concern
thomas did call for increased grants to states to improve enforcement of existing regulations and funds to advise building owners, to increase the supply of inspectors and to develop guidance for dealing with pipe and boiler insulation. his estimates totalled $6.6 million a year for the next three years
rep. james florio, d-n.j., whose pressure has helped win passage of existing asbestos-in-schools programs, said in a statement, ``everything in this report points toward aggressive federal intervention except epa's recommendations, which amount to nothing more than sweeping this alarming problem under the rug.''
congress required the report on the status of asbestos in non-school buildings in 1986. in partial response, epa subjected a 1984 building survey to more detailed analysis, reporting for the first time the condition of asbestos it found
the agency had reported that about 20 percent of the buildings contained friable asbestos. about 35 percent of schools, however, already were known to have such asbestos, and congress has required tighter school regulations
by october 1988, all schools must adopt asbestos management plans to take effect in july 1989. ``the successulf implementation of this school program should remain our first concern, and we all have much to learn from it,'' wrote thomas. ``i fear a major initiative in other buildings could do more harm that good.''
john a. moore, assistant administrator for pesticides and toxic substances, ``we've got finite resources ... a finite number of people who are experts.''
the report said carrying out the school regulations will cost about $3 billion and a similar program for other buildings could cost $51 billion
epa's 1984 survey did not cover elementary and secondary schools, state and local government buildings or apartment buildings of fewer than 10 units, leaving 3.6 million buildings to be sampled. an estimated 14 percent of the buildings, 501,000, contained damaged friable asbestos, and 9 percent, or 317,000, contained significantly damaged friable asbestos
since only 231 buildings were tested, the range of uncertainty in the results was wide. epa said there was a 95 percent chance the figure reported as 20 percent was somewhere between 14 percent and 27 percent; the 14 percent damage figure was between 6 percent and 22 percent and the 9 percent significant damage could be anywhere from zero percent to 19 percent
this and other statistical points were criticized by the safe buildings alliance, a trade association of former asbestos product manufacturers, which said, for example, that epa's surveyors disagreed with each other 95 percent of the time on the condition of the asbestos they were looking at
moore, however, said the agency's methods had been approved by outside experts
bill borwegen, health and safety director of the service employees international union, said, ``the gut level issue here is the right to know. it's federal policy that workers have the right to know what dangerous chemicals they're dealing with. ... we want to inform building occupants if there's a hazard.''
jean-bedel bokassa, a village chief's son who made himself president for life and then emperor, was spared the death penalty monday for murders committed during his 14-year reign
president andre kolingba commuted bokassa's sentence in an order announced on the national radio
bokassa was convicted june 12, 1987, of ordering the murders of at least 20 political opponents. he also was convicted of diverting huge sums from the state treasury
the former leader, who had changed the name of his country to the central african empire and proclaimed himself bokassa i, unsuccessfully appealed the verdict to the supreme court
during the course of this trial i discovered crimes of which i know nothing,'' he said. ``i assume the moral responsibility. i affirm my innocence of the facts against me. i was motivated only by the desire to serve my country. today, i only want to live in peace as a simple citizen.''
western governments and some african leaders had asked gen. kolingba to spare bokassa. kolingba previously commuted other death sentences imposed in this former french colony, and is said to oppose capital punishment
bokassa went into exile after he was overthrown in september 1979 in a french-backed coup after the deaths in custody of 100 schoolchildren who protested a government order to wear expensive uniforms produced at a factory run by the emperor's wife. bokassa was alleged to have personally beaten 17 of them to death
a court in this nation of 3 million people, which he had ruled since 1966, convicted him in absentia and sentenced him to death in 1980
in late 1986, he returned from france unexpectedly ``to be judged'' by his countrymen. he was tried for offenses ranging from corruption to murder and cannibalism
during the six-month trial, prosecutor gabriel mbodou said: ``there were no extenuating circumstances whatever in the odious acts committed by the accused, his atrocities and his greed which plunged the entire country into a nightmare throughout the 14 years of his bloody reign.''
the french legal system used in the central african republic obliged the government to try bokassa again
officials and western diplomats said privately last year that kolingba probably would commute a death sentence for fear execution would stir unrest among bokassa's minority m'baka tribe in the southwest corner of the landlocked nation
bokassa, 67, was educated in roman catholic mission schools. he joined the french army, won a dozen combat medals in indochina and achieved the rank of captain
when the country became independent in 1960, president david dacko asked bokassa to form an army. he led a coup against dacko in december 1965
after bokassa proclaimed himself emperor, he was crowned in a 1977 ceremony that cost more than $200 million, one-quarter of the nation's annual revenue
president reagan says he hopes the summer olympics in seoul, south korea, will be incident-free and that he has confidence in newly inaugurated president roh tae woo
in responses to questions submitted by the south korean newspaper, dong-a ilbo, reagan said a smoothly run olympics competition in september ``is in everyone's interests.''
the prospect of north korea, or anyone else's, attempts to disrupt the games through violence is a danger that we and the soviets can agree to work against.''
the key problem in korea is north korea's proclivity to use violence,'' reagan said, noting the bombing last november of a south korean airliner off the coast of burma. ``the world was shocked again by the recent murder of 115 innocent people aboard kal-858 by north korea.''
we hope that moscow will use its close relations with pyongyang to urge moderation and to encourage the resumption of direct north-south contacts on practical ways to reduce tension,'' the president said. ``it is time for the north to eschew violence and get down to the serious business of resuming dialogue with seoul.''
reagan, in response to a question about whether he will meet soon with roh, replied that ``talk now of the details of summits and such seems a bit premature.''
as you know, i met president-elect roh in washington last year,'' he said. ``he impressed me as a man committed to the democratization of your country because he knew that was what koreans, including himself, wanted.''
north korea has been demanding to be a co-host of the olympics, but the international olympic committee and south korea have rejected the demand
a woman who claimed she was a north korean agent, kim hyon hui, made a televised confession in seoul last month in which she said she destroyed the kal flight to disrupt the olympics
north korea has denied it had anything to do with the bombing. shore</head>
a small boat said to be carrying about 40 illegal aliens from the dominican republic sank in rough seas just off the west coast, but a survivor said monday he believed most made it to shore
one person was in custody, another hospitalized, two bodies were recovered and a third was spotted but washed away before it could be retrieved, said luis garcia, an agent of the u.s. immigration and naturalization service
garcia spoke in a telephone interview from aguadilla, about five miles from aguada
hundreds of dominicans leave in wooden boats each year on the dangerous, 90-mile journey to puerto rico in search of a better life. estimates by u.s. officials of the number of dominicans living illegally in puerto rico range from 40,000 to 160,000
the bodies were of two girls, one 14 and the other 16, police in aguada said. the boat, estimated at 20-30 feet long, sank sunday evening off aguada, about 85 miles west of san juan
garcia said miguel bigay, a survivor who was with him during the interview, reported seeing most of the passengers scramble ashore and flee
he said most were able to get to shore with him,'' garcia said. ``the people who got to shore ran off and hid in the brush.''
bigay, who gave his age as about 30 and said he was a part-time truck driver, said the boat left a beach saturday night in the southeastern dominican province of higuey with 40-45 passengers, including eight women
it crossed the 90-mile mona passage between the dominican republic and puerto rico in good weather, but then the see became rough and a big wave overturned the boat about one-eighth of a mile from aguada, bigay said
garcia quoted him as saying: ``people were screaming and calling for help.''
bigay said he managed to swim ashore but ``thought he was going to drown because the waves pushed him down every time they passed over him,'' garcia said
those in the boat were from different towns and did not appear to know each other, bigay said. police caught him on shore and garcia said he would be returned to the dominican republic
officials continued searching, but garcia said he doubted more survivors would be found because they ``managed to get somewhere else ... and escaped detention.''
pieces of boards believed to be from the boat were on the beach, along with articles of clothing and a plastic bag labeled ``dominican republic.''
at least 16 dominicans drowned in december 1986 off rincon, a few miles away, when their boat capsized near shore. last october, 50 or more dominicans are believed to have died when their boat sank about three miles off the northeast coast of the dominican republic
sen. albert gore jr.'s presidential campaign on monday took out a loan to pay for media saturation going into next week's super tuesday primaries, a campaign spokesman said
we have borrowed some money,'' said press spokesman mike kopp. but he declined to say how much, saying that was confidential campaign strategy information
we're gong to saturate super tuesday ... we want to pour it on,'' before the march 8 series of 20 primaries and caucuses on which gore has staked his democratic campaign, kopp said
he insisted, however that the campaign is not in financial trouble and only borrowed the money as ``icing on the cake'' for the extensive media buy the tennessee senator already has in place
in tennessee, his state campaign treasurer johnny hayes said monday that gore has taken a $1 million line of credit against which money will be borrowed for a tv blitz in 20 states
he said part of the credit line was established with tennessee banks
kopp reiterated gore's pledge to spend more money on the super tuesday contests than any other candidate
gore's public financial statement through jan. 31 showed that he had just over $2 million in the bank at that point, considerably less than the $4 million that money leader michael dukakis had on hand. kopp said gore has raised about $1.2 million in february
the campaign has declined to give any specifics on its spending, saying it does not want to tip off its rivals
kopp said new commercials will go on the air tuesday, following on the biographical spots that have been running on cable tv nationwide and on local markets in 14 southern and border states for the past three weeks
the ads are produced both by the campaign group, gore's initial media consultants, and by raymond strother, a media consultant hired last week
kopp said the new ads will be message-oriented, touting gore's record. he said they do not include attacks on other candidates
strother traveled with gore last tuesday, and the candidate has been giving a new emphasis in recent days to his congressional record being one of championing ``the average working man and woman.''
kopp would not rule out the possibility of such ads, which was essentially the same stance he took last week when asked to comment on the $1 million loan
television advertising is seen as a major factor to reach the voters across the vast super tuesday spread of states
dukakis, the massachussetts governor, was advertising on prime time television during the olympics in miami last week. it was also a biographical commercial
dukakis aides said commercials were also running in texas and maryland
aides for u.s. rep. richard gephardt of missouri said his commercial promising trade retaliation to open up foreign markets was going on the air in the south over the weekend
hundreds of vatican lay employees pledged to donate part of their day's salary monday to pope john paul ii in a labor protest which a vatican official denounced as ``completely unacceptable.''
mario cerullo, president of the association of lay vatican workers, said preliminary counts showed more than 90 percent of the 1,800 lay employees took part. the employees work at vatican museums, the post office, main library, the daily newspaper l'osservatore romano, vatican radio and many offices
workers performed their jobs as usual but signed a special form promising to donate their first three hours' pay to the pope to help feed the poor, cerullo said. he estimated donations would total about $40,000
the labor action _ called by the association an ``active strike'' _ was called to protest plans to change the vatican workers' pay schedule and to demand creation of a special office to resolve labor disputes in the world's smallest city-state
the vatican employees want dignity and respect,'' cerullo said in an interview. ``we hate to bother the holy father but we had to do something to show our unhappiness. i hope this is the first and last time.''
archbishop jan schotte, a belgian who handles labor relations for the vatican, said in letters to cerullo and vatican-based cardinals that the protest was unjustified, extreme and ``completely unacceptable.''
he said salary and work conditions were ``superior to those existing in comparable work places'' and that negotiations could lead shortly to creation of a special labor office
cerullo said vatican employees' salaries range from $927 a month to $1,370. the workers are exempt from italian taxes, work a 36-hour week and have one month of vacation and 26 paid holidays
the strike was triggered by the vatican's recent decision to pay workers at the end of each month instead of at the beginning
people in other countries are becoming less willing to lend money to the united states, the head of the international monetary fund said monday
the congressional joint economic committee has predicted that u.s. debt would reach about $400 billion at the end of last year. it is growing at about $150 billion annually
i have looked at a very long historical set of figures,'' said michel camdessus, the fund's managing director. ``and i have to tell you that there are no precedents. each time similar imbalances have been... reduced, it was through recession ..
our latest projections suggest that, on present policies and exchange rates, the imbalances would still continue to be very large over the medium term,'' he told a conference sponsored by the overseas development council, a private study group concerned with problems of the third world
for some time, the growth of u.s. debt has not been matched by the willingness of business people in other countries to lend more, he said
the risks that this portends for renewed disturbances in financial markets, for increased protectionist pressures, and for a weakening in global economic activity need no elaboration here,'' said camdessus, who is french
he said the job of the fund is to help all 152 member countries in setting strategy that will make them grow
he suggested that for a long time u.s. output must grow faster than spending and that countries with surpluses have to do the reverse. the process, camdessus said, should take place without either a slow-down in business or increased inflation
he did not name the surplus countries, but japan and west germany are the major nations which in recent years have been selling more goods than they buy. surpluses have also been mounting in taiwan, south korea and other newly industrializing areas
camdessus went on to say that nothing can be done without reducing the u.s. budget deficit
no reasonable policy instrument that can contribute to this end should be ignored,'' he said
the u.s. treasury must borrow to meet the deficit, and much of the money it borrows comes from abroad. for the year ending last sept. 30, the deficit was about $149 billion
camdessus called for new proposals that would help cut the debt of third world countries
any ... proposal that would be market-based and would share in a mutually agreed fashion between debtors and creditors the discount on debt and the benefits of adjustment ... could only be welcome,'' he said
also addressing the conference was american express chairman james d. robinson iii, who suggested creation of a new international financial organization to help ease the debt crisis of developing nations by buying their loans
robinson said the organization, which he named ``the institute of international debt and development,'' would buy outstanding third world loans at a discount
one possibility, he suggested, would be for the loans to be acquired at about 60 percent of face value
the organization would then offer the banks which had held the loans ``new, long-term, high-quality obligations,'' including bonds and certain forms of stock, robinson said. to update with reagan to issue no new sanctions against panama; picks up 10th graf pvs, bgng: over the; adds 1 graf to include embassy plans to announce legal action against noriega government</note>
panama's ambassador the united states, proclaiming his loyalty to president eric arturo delvalle, refused to relinquish the embassy on monday to an envoy designated by the military controlled government to replace him
the second-ranking panamanian official at the country's united nations mission, leonardo kam, showed up at the embassy to assume his duties, but ambassador juan b. sosa refused to turn the mission over to him
kam was appointed last friday by the new government that was formed after delvalle was ousted by the national assembly, which is dominated by supporters of military strong man gen. manuel antonio noriega
after what kam described as a ``frank'' discussion monday, he departed the embassy. since friday, sosa has maintained that the vote to oust delvalle was unconstitutional and he has refused to step down
delvalle's dismissal was touched off by his bid thursday to fire noriega, who ignored the order and then rallied his followers in the assembly to replace delvalle with the former education minister, manuel solis palma
before his encounter with kam, sosa was asked by a reporter about the position of other embassy diplomats. ``the panamanian embassy is loyal to its ambassador and the ambassador is loyal to president delvalle,'' he said
reagan administration officials, meanwhile, said delvalle's attempt to reinstate himself as president has been strengthened by going into hiding and refusing to flee the country. he has been at an undisclosed location in panama since the weekend
delvalle is viewed in washington as a more effective symbol for opposition forces by being inside panama than he would if he had left the country
the administration has been pursuing other means to restore delvalle to office and to end noriega's five-year domination of the country's political life. a number of economic sanctions, including a trade embargo, are under consideration, and high-level meetings on that subject were held monday
a u.s. official said monday that president reagan planned no new economic sanctions against panama, even though he has determined that panama has not been cooperating in curbing drug trafficking to the united states
the official, speaking only on condition of anonymity, said penalties to be announced tuesday already have been applied against panama and thus will have no material impact on that country
under a 1986 law, countries which do not take steps to halt drug trafficking to the united states are no longer eligible for u.s. aid and are not entitled to u.s. support for their assistance requests to international lending institutions
noriega was indicted by two u.s. grand juries on feb. 5 on charges that he is a major figure in an international drug smuggling conspiracy
over the weekend, noriega won a credentials skirmish at the organization of american states when his oas ambassador, ricardo leyton, was permitted to occupy panama's seat for a meeting on the panamanian crisis
the united states had supported the seating of lawrence chewing fabrega, a panamanian diplomat who broke with noriega two weeks ago
although the oas refused to take a stand on the panamanian situation, a number of latin american governments have backed delvalle. they include el salvador, argentina, venezuela, uruguay, the dominican republic, bolivia and ecuador
some officials have been anxious about the safety of the 10,000 u.s. military personnel in panama and the thousands of other americans there in civilian capacities but noriega has said all americans in panama will be safe
meanwhile, panamanian opposition leaders in washington have been stepping up their activities against noriega. they have been telephoning panamanian diplomatic missions around the world asking them to withhold the fees they receive for consular services and other activities instead of sending the money back to panama for use by the new government
embassy officials said that on tuesday they would reveal ``legal steps that have been taken against the dictatorship of noriega.'' crime</head> samford in alabama, sted south carolina</note>
nancy reagan said monday that casual users of drugs are an ``accomplice to murder'' because they help finance traffickers willing to commit brutal crimes to keep supply lines open
kicking off a white house conference for a drug-free america at which the federal government's anti-drug efforts were criticized, mrs. reagan dramatized her ``just-say-no'' campaign with a speech focusing on those whose lives have been ruined by drugs
with president reagan serving in the unusual role of warm-up speaker, the first couple talked about the drug problem from both the supply and demand vantage points
with all the headlines about how we're losing the drug war, let's keep in mind the progress we've made,'' the president told conference participants at a local hotel. he ticked off statistics he said show the united states is making headway, saying ``drug seizures are at an all-time high.''
but as significant as stopping smugglers and pushers is, ending the demand for drugs is how, in the end, we'll win,'' the president said
mrs. reagan picked up the subject there, saying that while progress has been made, ``many ignorant ideas persist. and one of the worst is the casual user's justification that drug use is a victimless crime, that drugs don't hurt anyone except the person who's using them.''
she called attention to several people in the audience who lost loved ones because of drug abuse and cited the murder of colombia's chief prosecutor, attorney general carlos hoyos, who was abducted by a half-dozen gunmen whom the government accused of working for local cocaine barons
hoyos' bullet-riddled body was was found blindfolded and handcuffed
the government blamed his abduction and death on the medillin cartel, which u.s. officials say controls 80 percent of cocaine entering the united states
the people who casually use cocaine are responsible,'' mrs. reagan said, ``because their money bought those bullets. they provided the high stakes that murdered those men, plus hundreds of others in colombia.''
she dismissed ``the notion that the mellow marijuana user doesn't hurt anyone,'' pointing to the murder of american drug agent enrique camarena salazar in the aftermath of the eradication of a 10,000-acre plantation in mexico
the casual user may think when he takes a line of cocaine or smokes a joint in the privacy of his nice condo, listening to his expensive stereo, that he's somehow not bothering anyone,'' she said. ``but there is a trail of death and destruction that leads directly to his door.''
the casual drug user cannot morally escape responsibility for the action of drug traffickers and dealings,'' she said. ``i'm saying that if you're a casual drug user, you're an accomplice to murder.''
while the reagans helped kick off the drug conference, the administration came in for some criticism on its anti-drug abuse efforts, with marion barry, the mayor of the district of columbia, complaining that not enough was being done
barry, facing a record murder rate in nation's capital fueled by warring drug dealers, said the problem in cities has reached ``catastrophic dimensions.''
we're beginning to lose the war on drug and alcohol abuse,'' barry said in his welcoming remarks, telling the conference his was the ``view from the cities. the united states government has not done enough to stop drugs from coming into this country.''
we must say to colombia, peru and mexico, we're not going to take it anymore. heroin and cocaine does not grow here, it's brought here. we must stop it, stop it, stop it from coming here,'' barry said
a private study released last week said the washington area's drug problem is almost unrivaled among large cities and that drug abuse has grown in the area's suburbs more than in any other suburban area in the nation
in her address, mrs. reagan alluded to this problem, saying that ``in saturday's washington post, there was one page in which every article was a local drug story _ and there was another local drug story on the front page.''
we must face the fact that drugs are tearing our communities apart.''
rep. charles rangel, d-n.y., chairman of the house select committee on narcotics abuse and drug control, said in advance of monday's conference: ``advances in stopping drugs _ we haven't made any.''
if we didn't have nancy reagan, we wouldn't have anything,'' he said in an interview with the post
attorney general edwin meese iii, during an appearance at samford university in birmingham, ala., said drugs are the nation's no. 1 social problem, but said some progress is being made, particularly in high schools
but, he acknowleged, ``we still have a long way to go.''
cocaine seizures by u.s. authorities have risen by 1,822 percent in the past seven years, according to the drug enforcement administration
in fiscal 1981, 1,872 kilograms was seized, compared with 35,970 kilograms in fiscal 1987, the dea said on feb. 4. a kilogram is equal to 2.2 pounds
during the same period, marijuana seizures went down 42 percent, from about 1 million kilograms in fiscal 1981 to 632,000 kilograms last year. it peaked at 1.4 million kilograms seized in fiscal 1984, the dea said
the dea increased the number of its agents 34 percent, from less than 1,500 to about 2,000, from fiscal 1981 to fiscal 1987, the agency said
the world bank, largest source of aid loans to the third world, announced monday that it made a profit of $679 million for the last six months of 1987, up from $655 million for the same period the year before
the bank's profits come largely from its ability to borrow money at low rates of interest, because its funds are guaranteed by the 152 member governments. the bank lends money at varying rates, depending on how poor the country is
in the period, the bank borrowed the equivalent of $7.7 billion in 17 currencies at an average cost of 6.92 percent. its rate of return on $20.8 billion worth of investments at the end of the year was 8.88 percent
the profit helped it make $3.6 billion worth of new loans to third world countries, reducing the interest rate it charges them to an annual 7.72 percent for the first six months of this year from a previous 7.76 percent
gov. evan mecham, absent from the opening day of his impeachment trial in the state senate, blasted his former attorney for remarks to lawmakers on monday, and vowed he will be found innocent
the governor said he had a falling-out with murray miller, his lead attorney until last week, when washington attorney jerris leonard was brought in to lead the defense
miller, who appeared at mecham's senate trial to formally withdraw from the case, monday told senators that he was pushed aside by leonard, calling his arrival in phoenix last week ``a one-man coup.''
responding to question by sen. tony west, r-phoenix, miller hinted that the sudden change in legal counsel could weaken mecham's defense
responding to miller's comments from his suburban headquarters, mecham said, ``i'd both disappointed and disgusted by the prejudicial and unnecessary grandstanding by murray miller before the arizona state senate today.''
i deeply resent the possible prejudice to me by mr. miller's remarks to the state senate and do not believe his actions were in my best interest. ... i don't feel too good about what he did.''
the governor said he began a search for more attorneys when it appeared trials in the senate and state court might overlap. when leonard was hired as chief counsel because ``i felt we have to have a lot more horsepower,'' miller decided to leave, mecham said
i suggested if he did not want to work in a cohesive group then let's part as friends,'' mecham said
mecham said he will not attend the impeachment trial until his attorneys tell him to. he said he hasn't spent much time tracking the proceedings
he did say he expects to be acquitted
i remain convinced that if i receive a fair trial, the truth will prevail and i will be acquitted,'' the governor said
mecham said miller has been paid in full, but he declined to say how much the attorney received
the governor also denied a published report that top fund-raisers were promised jobs
one of the things we can prove was that at every finance meeting, everyone was told, `you get nothing but better government,'' mecham said. ``it was the cleanest campaign this state has ever seen.''
mecham said he had had no recent direct contact with acting gov. rose mofford
britain said monday a special commission will investigate complaints against the royal ulster constabulary, the predominantly protestant police force in northern ireland
the announcement was made by tom king, northern ireland secretary. it prompted speculation that the commission might supervise a disciplinary inquiry about officers involved in the killings of six unarmed roman catholics in 1982
britain's top official for the province said in a written reply in the house of commons the independent commission for police complaints will make ``a material contribution to strengthening good relations between the ruc and the whole community in northern ireland.''
king and the northern ireland police authority, a police-civilian watchdog body, will be able to have the commission supervise investigations of any complaints against police involving death or serious injury
according to the northern ireland office, the province's administrative authority, cases that are not the subject of formal complaints but ``indicate that a member of the police force may have committed a criminal or disciplinary offense'' could be included
on feb. 17, northern ireland police announced an inquiry into police shootings of six catholics in three separate incidents in late 1982
the investigation led by charles kelly, chief constable of staffordshire, will look into a controversy that has been revived this year and seriously damaged relations between britain and the irish republic
john stalker, then assistant chief constable of manchester, investigated the shootings for two years. he published a book in february claiming he was removed because his findings threatened senior officers of the royal ulster constabulary
on jan. 25, the government disclosed that evidence had emerged of perjury and subversion of justice in an alleged coverup related to the shootings, but said no officers would be prosecuted
two men have been hanged in a tehran square where they planted bombs last year, iran's official news agency reported monday
the executions occurred sunday, the day after five people were hanged in another square, also for terrorist bombings, the islamic republic news agency said
hojatoleslam serajeddin musavi, commander of neighborhood islamic revolutionary committees, announced saturday that 30 people responsible for recent bomb attacks in tehran and western iran had been arrested
neighborhood committees are vigilante groups that handle some security duties
according to irna, musavi told a news conference those arrested were ``paid iraqi agents,'' who were promised 30 million rials ($470,000) for each bomb exploded in a busy area of tehran and 6-10 million rials ($94,000-$156,000) for each one that went off in an area less densely populated
he said they arrived in the capital feb.1 to plant bombs during the 10-day celebration surrounding the anniverary of the fundamentalist moslem revolution that ousted the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi in 1979
irna said the bombers were found and arrested by musavi's organization soon after a booby-trapped car exploded feb. 13 and wounded 10 people on martyr bahonar avenue a few hundred yards from the residence of revolutionary patriarch ayatollah ruhollah khomeini
the last bombing reported in tehran was a car that exploded on an expressway on feb. 16, wounding two people
in its dispatches monday, irna did not say whether the five people hanged saturday were among the 30 musavi said were arrested that day
iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980 and iranian authorities refer to members of iranian resistance groups fighting the khomeini regime as iraqi agents. mujahedeen khalq, the main iranian resistance group, has its headquarters and bases in iraq
opposition leaders said the government arrested more than 150 activists who were organizing a strike monday to protest suspension of six local officials, all of them members of the outlawed nepali congress party
only a few shops were closed in this capital city on monday despite the general strike called by the opposition
all political parties were banned in 1960 following nepal's dissolution of a western-style parliamentary system. the congress party, led by krishna prashad bhattarai, has for years sought to change the present system of government through a disobedience movement
the government said monday it arrested about 60 strike organizers
bhattarai, however, told reporters more than 150 of his party's members were arrested monday. congress party leaders said 35 other members were arrested in recent days, including the man elected mayor of katmandu in elections last march
the mayor, his deputy, and four presidents of district and town assemblies were suspended indefinitely from their offices for boycotting constitution day observances last dec. 16
the government said the six had pledged to work under the non-party system when they filed nomination papers
nepal, a constitutional monarchy, is governed by a complex system of district councils and a national legislature.  
more than 300 winners in bulgaria's first election with multiple candidates did not receive the majority needed to gain office, the official bulgarian news agency bta said monday
it said 99.15 percent of bulgaria's 6,652,792 registered voters participated in sunday's election of mayors and local and regional councils. they were the first elections held since the law was changed in december to allow more than one candidate for each post
the agency report said 66,048 candidates were registered in 55,539 electoral districts. it said up to 1.47 percent of the electorate voted against candidates who were elected, but was not clear on whether those voters cast their ballots for alternative candidates
in 302 electoral districts ``the candidates did not collect the necessary number of votes,'' bta said
to win, a candidate must have more than 50 percent of the vote if more than half of the electorate has taken part in the election. the new law does not require bulgarians to vote
bta said 13 seats in regional councils and sofia were among those not filled, along with 31 mayors' offices. elections were not held in five districts because ``the candidates died after they were registered,'' it said without elaboration
by-elections will be held to fill all the vacant posts, the agency said, but did not give a date. graf pvs bgng ``robertson campaigning...</note>
republican presidential candidate pat robertson revived his charge that there are soviet missiles in cuba on monday, producing a cuban refugee who said he had seen the weapons
since robertson first raised his claim two weeks ago, denials have been issued by the white house, congressional experts on u.s.-soviet affairs and cuban president fidel castro, who robertson called ``a butcher and a tyrant.''
robertson visited privately with the refugee, who identified himself only as e. rodriguez, saying he feared family members still in cuba would suffer retribution if he gave his full name
robertson has yet to offer documentation to back up his claim other than a miami cuban-american newspaper, diario libre, which has printed copies of maps drawn by rodriguez to pinpoint missile sites
ninety-five percent of the cuban-americans in miami believe there are missiles in cuba,'' robertson said at a news conference where he held up a copy of the newspaper
rodriguez, speaking through an interpreter, said his job in cuba as an agricultural planner gave him access to aerial photographs and to areas where the missiles were based. he said he saw 60 long-range surface-to-surface missiles as well as air defense and anti-ship missiles. he said he did not know if the missiles had nuclear warheads. rodriguez left cuba three years ago
robertson, campaigning for support in the balloting on super tuesday, was on a two-day swing through florida, one of the biggest prizes in the 16-state round of republican primaries and caucuses march 8
he was greeted by about 400 mostly cuban-american senior citizens at the allapattah community center and about the same number of students at heavily hispanic la salle high school
i will work with you to see cuba independent and democratic,'' robertson said at the community center. ``today i say it, tomorrow i say it, the next day i say it, viva cuba libre!'' _ long live a free cuba
he put on an apron and passed trays of chicken, rice and fried plantains to senior citizens seated at long tables
at the school, robertson was met by students shouting ``go pat go!'' some students held signs passed out by campaign staffers
when a student asked if robertson would ever renew diplomatic relations with cuba, he replied: ``i don't think we should have diplomatic relations with a butcher and a tyrant!''
robertson began his florida tour in jacksonville monday and arranged a rally in miami monday night, followed by breakfast tuesday in fort lauderdale and stops in hollywood, fort myers, sarasota, gainesville and orlando
in jacksonville, robertson told about 500 supporters that ``along with texas, florida is one of the two most pivotal states.''
he added:
we've got one week to the most crucial election, i believe, in the history of america, certainly this century and maybe since its beginning
we're at a crossroads in america. we're either going to return to the ways that made this nation great, or we're going to go down the road.''
robertson mentioned a gun problem experienced this year in several florida schools
how can a child study when he's living in mortal fear of somebody shooting him with a handgun in the halls of the school? we owe our children an education in a crime-free, drug-free school environment,'' said robertson
if we want to see this country strong. there's only one way in my estimation to do it. we will restore the greatness of america through moral strength,'' he added
robertson also said that ``we've got to go back to a time in our educational system when once again we teach our kids moral values. we've got to bring god back into the public schools of america.''
on trade, he said: ``there isn't one country that is treating us fairly. ... as president of the united states, i'm not going to shut down american factories and put americans out of jobs to improve the standard of living in communist china and communist russia.''
at a news conference following his address, robertson called panama military strong man manuel antonio noriega ``a bandit,'' but added that ``i don't see us sending troops (to panama). i don't think it is necessary.''
on south africa, robertson said, ``i am totally opposed to apartheid ... but the thing i'm concerned about is turning south africa into a bloody battleground.''
i don't want to see a marxist state in south africa,'' robertson said. war ii</head>
an official monthly acknowledged about 500,000 poles were deported to the soviet union from territories occupied by the red army at the outbreak of world war ii, and said many died as a result of harsh conditions
the unusual account of the fate of the poles came in an article in the february issue of konfrontacje (confrontation). it is published by the patriotic movement for national rebirth, a national front organization
the article said much was written about the wartime deportations of poles to nazi germany
but it said ``the fate of polish people in the east has been unnecessarily covered in a mist of secrecy, although it was known that there were hundreds of thousands of witnesses of those events living who probably haven't concealed them from relatives.''
it was the first time a widely circulated official publication offered a detailed breakdown of the number of poles deported to the soviet union in world war ii, although polish underground and western publications have described the large-scale suffering of poles at soviet hands
last year, polish leader gen. wojciech jaruzelski criticized abuses against poles committed by soviet dictator josef stalin in an article in the soviet communist party journal kommunist. he said thousands of poles suffered deportation and repression in territories occupied by the soviets
after the germans attacked poland in september 1939, soviet troops invaded from the east and occupied eastern polish territories under provisions of the nazi-soviet non-aggression pact
konfrontacje said poles in the soviet-occupied territories ``found themselves in a difficult situation'' suffering from police harassment and restrictions on civic rights
about 4 million poles lived in the eastern territories before the war, along with millions of ukrainians, byelorussians and jews
the article said a ``safe'' estimate indicates the soviets deported 500,000 poles from the eastern territories in four mass transports from february 1940 to june 1941, when the nazis launched a surprise attack on the soviet union
those deported included state clerks, farmers and their families, refugees who fled nazi-occupied poland, intellectuals and workers, both leftists and right-wingers, the monthly said
it said an additional 200,000 poles were recruited into the soviet army and later evacuated to the soviet union
about 270,000 of the poles deported or evacuated ``died in different circumstances _ in fighting with the red army, during long and exhausting transports, as the result of difficult conditions in siberia and in other areas'' or else ``did not come back to poland'' after the war, it said
the monthly said that overall, about 600,000 to 800,000 poles from the eastern territories died during the war, almost half of them killed in a terror campaign launched by nazi-collaborating ukrainian nationalists in 1943
polish and soviet historians began a weeklong meeting in warsaw on monday, a follow-up to a moscow session last year devoted to ``blank spots'' in polish-soviet relations, referring to topics so controversial they are unmentioned or distorted in official histories
participants told polish television they would discuss the fate of poles in the soviet union during the war, including the deportations, and would have at their disposal ``valuable and important documents'' previously kept secret
the meeting is an outgrowth of an agreement signed last year by jaruzelski and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev on ideological and cultural cooperation which discussed the necessity for a more truthful history of polish-soviet relations
gorbachev has encouraged greater examination of history through his policy of glasnost, or openness
spokesmen for solidarity said management promised to consider pay increases for employees of a railroad car repair plant who stopped work to protest price increases
solidarity's national executive commission accused the communist government of ``alarming ineptness in the economic realm.''
spokesmen for the outlawed independent labor federation in wroclaw, a southwestern industrial city, said about 1,500 people joined the job action at the railway rolling stock repair plant _ about half the work force. plant officials declined comment
a government spokesman denied such a large number of people participated, and said the stoppage ended when managers dispelled a misunderstanding about how the annual profit bonus would be paid
it appeared to be the biggest work stoppage in poland since the government imposed major price increases earlier in february
government spokesman zbigniew augustynowicz said plant workers were disturbed over profit-sharing. he said distribution of the annual bonus based on profits began last week but many workers found it too small
about a third of the staff stopped work at various times monday morning but resumed after plant officials explained how the bonus was calculated, he said
jozef pinior, a wroclaw leader of solidarity, said about half the plant's 3,000 workers downed tools at 9 a.m. in response to a solidarity call
pinior said plant director wojciech zmyslony pleaded with workers to return to their jobs and said management would consider increasing monthly pay by the equivalent of $8 to $11
union members said sunday plant workers were in a ``combative mood'' because of price increases imposed feb. 1
besides claiming too much bonus money was going to managers, they said raises given to offset price increases were inadequate
prices of staple goods were increased 40 percent, with increases in school tuitions and energy prices set for march 1 and april 1, as part of an economic reform program aimed at reviving the economy
in its statement monday, the solidarity national executive commission said: ``drastic price increases have lowered the living standards of all society, pushing low-income groups to the level of subsistence.''
union adviser jacek kuron read the statement, which accused police of tightening surveillance of commission members and said the number of activists jailed, ``often under criminal pretext,'' is growing. with police describing intended target. pick up 4th graf pvs, the ira ...</note>
a huge explosion in the south armagh border area killed two irish republican army guerrillas monday in ``an unfortunate accident,'' the ira said
the blast destroyed a van and a barn about two miles outside crossmaglen village, badly damaged two cars and left a crater
police said four armed and masked men hijacked the van and a car shortly before the blast. authorities speculated that ira guerrillas were installing explosives in the van when the explosives accidentally detonated
a police officer, speaking anonymously in keeping with british practice, said it was believed the ira's intended target was an army observation post near the border with irish republic
the ira later issued a statement saying two of its men died in the blast, which it described as ``an unfortunate accident.'' the group gave no details, and said names and ira ranks of the dead men would be released after families are notified
police said human remains were found at the site and walkie-talkies and a notebook were among the debris
helicopters brought security forces into the surrounding fields to seal off the area overnight. police said they would not move in until tuesday, after army bomb disposal experts made sure no booby-trap bombs were around
the mostly roman catholic ira often uses explosives in its violent campaign to drive the british out of the predominantly protestant province and unite it with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic. after 15th graf pvs, ``lobbyists would</note>
democratic presidential contender richard gephardt came under attack from rivals in a debate monday night for taking contributions from special interest groups, with michael dukakis saying gephardt had accepted the money and raced ``around the country beating up on the establishment.''
when gephardt replied that he had often voted against the policies advocated by people who had given him contributions, dukakis scoffed
`this isn't a fairy tale; this isn't kindergarten; you're talking politics,'' he said
gephardt fought back. ``to suggest that ... you're going to take direction on how to vote is an affront,'' he said
he said he was sure that dukakis, as governor of massachusetts, had taken contributions from firms doing business with the state. ``does that make you less of a public servant?''
yes, said dukakis, but ``i am not running around the country beating up on the establishment.''
gephardt accepted $341,000 in contributions from political action committees last year
the exchange during the debate at the college of william and mary, came eight days before voters in 20 states, most of them in the south, make their decisions in primaries and caucuses on super tuesday. the debate, the democrats' third in three days, was, by the count of moderator judy woodruff, the 24th time the democrats had met in debate
the candidates, at jesse jackson's suggestion, wore yellow ribbons on their jackets in protest of the arrest of anglican archbishop desmond tutu in capetown, south africa, on monday
to gary hart, who joined in the criticism of gephardt for taking money from political action committees, the missourian retorted: ``you took contributions for your senate campaign.''
nonetheless, hart said, reform is needed: ``the system is out of control.''
gephardt, on the defensive, said, ``we all understand the need for reform, but to suggest that people have voted according to the wishes of people who have given them money, i just think is out of touch with reality. i haven't done that and i know you haven't done that.''
hart said he hadn't and hoped gephardt hadn't
but jackson said gephardt's contention that he ignored the wishes of his contributors was unrealistic
lobbyists would lose their jobs if they gave money continuously against the interests of who they were working for,'' jackson said
at another point, jackson seized an opportunity to say he was being treated differently than the other candidates because he is a black
he cited a poll which he said nbc took after the new hampshire primary. in it potential voters were asked if they could support a black for president
i said did you ask how many would vote for a greek?'' said jackson, a reference to dukakis, whose parents were greek immigrants
they said no. i said why even bring race into it. my race is self-evident and my leadership is obvious. let's take the issues to the people.''
for the most part, the candidates wrangled over familiar issues, with gephardt belittling dukakis' plans for increasing government revenues without a tax increase and dukakis saying gephardt has changed his positions
in iowa, dick was telling us i'm sorry for that vote,'' dukakis said of gephardt's vote for the 1981 tax cut proposed by president reagan _ a bill that other democrats say led to the huge deficits that followed. ``that was the iowa gephardt. now we have another one here,'' dukakis added
i'm trying to figure out which one i'm debating.''
gephardt defended his vote for reagan's tax cuts, saying they had reduced taxes for the average american
and he said the dukakis plan to collect taxes now evaded by many americans _ the new englander says billions of dollars are involved _ won't do much to combat deficits
sure we want revenue agents but that is not going to solve the problem,'' gephardt said
dukakis attacked gephardt on another front, saying the oil import fee that gephardt advocates would damage mexico
you're going to kill mexico,'' dukakis said
asked gephardt: ``are you running for president of mexico or president of america?''
that drew a gasp from the audience and then applause. but more applause came when dukakis replied: ``if i'm president of the united states, i'm going to pay attention to that country.''
gore, stressing the harder line he takes on defense issues in comparison with his rivals, defended the decision by the reagan administration to send american ships to protect kuwaiti tankers
when the ayatollah said he was going to shut down our access to 70 percent of the oil available to the free world, no one else (among the candidates) was willing to say we had a right to keep the sea lanes open,'' he said
the only democratic candidate who didn't take part in the debate was sen. paul simon of illinois
the affair's sponsor was the democratic leadership council, an organization of moderate democrats who decided after walter mondale's 49-state loss in 1984 to seek to move the party somewhat toward the right. rejected</head> optimistic, senator's comments; picks up 10th graf, `mecham, a ...'; inserts 1 graf after 13th graf, `mecham also ...' with supreme court decision expected; subs penultimate graf with 3 grafs to add response of mecham to miller comments.</note>
the arizona senate on monday opened the first impeachment trial of a u.s. governor in six decades, and within hours an attorney for gov. evan mecham lost a plea for dismissal of the charges against the first-term republican
this man hasn't dipped his hands into public funds,'' attorney jerris leonard said. ``he hasn't ripped off the treasury. he hasn't committed high crimes in office, and i urge you to dismiss these articles of impeachment.''
but the 29 voting senators gave mecham an overwhelming rejection. on 11 different motions to dismiss portions of the charges, the largest number voting for mecham was seven and the smallest was two
the rest answered firmly, ``no,'' when asked if they would drop the challenged articles of impeachment. they also refused to recess early at leonard's request and continued to address motions brought by the governor's laywer
attorney paul eckstein, one of the prosecutors, had responded to leonard that even if it turned out that mecham didn't violate state laws, his conduct would be ``grossly offensive to the people of this state.''
the articles of impeachment ... cry out for conviction,'' eckstein said. he urged speedy resolution of a raft of pending motions to allow testimony to begin
at the conclusion of monday's session, senators said they expected opening statements and testimony to begin tuesday
mecham, who was not required to be present when the senators convened, stayed at the suburban glendale offices of his ``government in exile,'' and said he was too busy to watch the proceedings on television. he told reporters that he remained optimistic
i remain convinced that if i receive a fair trial, the truth will prevail and i will be acquitted,'' mecham said
of his absence from the trial, he said, ``when my attorneys tell me to be there i'll be there.''
his absence was not mentioned during the proceedings on the senate floor
following monday's session, sen. jeff hill, a republican who once strongly backed mecham, said that judging from the heavy vote against him on dismissal, things looked bad for the governor
i think it's not likely he's going to prevail,'' he said
mecham, a 63-year-old auto dealer who won election after five tries, is accused of ``high crimes, misdemeanors and malfeasance in office.''
twenty-three articles of impeachment approved by the state house alleged three broad areas of misdeeds. the articles said mecham concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, wrongly loaned $80,000 from his protocol fund to his car dealership and obstructed justice by discouraging a public official not to cooperate in the investigation of an alleged death threat to a grand jury witness
if convicted by the senate, mecham would be removed from office and could be permanently barred from holding elective office. he is the first u.s. governor to be impeached since 1929, when huey long of louisiana and henry s. johnston of oklahoma were impeached. long was never tried; johnston was removed
mecham also faces a march 22 criminal trial on six felony charges of concealing the campaign loan, and a may 17 recall election
meanwhile, the arizona supreme court was expected to rule tuesday on a defense claim that the impeachment trial should be delayed until after mecham's criminal trial
mecham, a political outsider, has drawn criticism for comments which critics considered slurs against blacks, homosexuals, jews and the japanese. he spurred controversy by eliminating the state's martin luther king holiday on his second day in office and defending an author's use of the word ``pickaninny'' in a history book
leonard, who took over mecham's defense only last week, addressed his major concern to mecham's failure to report the $350,000 loan. he challenged the senators to recall whether they themselves hadn't committed similar acts and accused them of putting the governor to a stricter test than other officials
the rules of the game have been changed overnight,'' leonard said. he contended mecham should have been given a second chance to amend his disclosure forms
i think you're applying a legal standard here to an act i'm not going to condone but is commonplace,'' leonard said. ``if there are members of this senate who haven't had to file an amendment, god love you
you are applying a standard to one public official that has not been applied to others.''
eckstein responded that he was ``in no small amount of shock'' at such an argument
that's commonplace?'' he said. ``god save us all. and if it is commonplace, that conduct must be offensive to the people as a whole.''
the impeachment proceeding opened with an air of high solemnity after senate democratic minority leader alan stephens told the 29 other senators who sit as judges and jury: ``we are about to embark on an arduous duty
the senate trial of evan mecham does not concern merely this one officeholder,'' stephens said, ``but instead addresses the very essence of democracy in our state constitution
we are really testing our form of government,'' he said. ``will we stand up and do our duty amid calls from the public to intimidate us?''
the first action taken by the senate as the impeachment court convened was to accept the substitution of leonard for murray miller, mecham's original attorney. miller, who left the case last week, made a brief speech saying he had not willingly abandoned it
mecham criticized miller for making the remarks before the senate
i'm both disappointed and disgusted by the prejudicial and unnecessary grandstanding by murray miller before the arizona state senate today,'' mecham said
during the impeachment proceedings, a handful of mecham supporters gathered outside the senate building. some carried placards demanding justice. others laid a paper railroad track across the courtyard with a drawing of the governor, bound and gagged on the tracks
he's being railroaded,'' said mecham supporter wilma harm of phoenix. ``the man has done nothing to be called upon like this.''
the irish republican army is equipped with soviet-made sam-7 anti-aircraft missiles, irish and british authorities acknowledged in a tv program broadcast monday
the surface-to-air missiles were contained in more than 100 tons of weaponry sent by libya to ireland for the ira in four shiploads in 1985 and 1986, according to the british broadcasting corp.'s ``panorama'' program
the program said british army helicopters operating along northern ireland's border with the irish republic would be the most likely targets. the helicopters are the army's main mode of transport in ira-plagued border regions
the irish justice minister, gerry collins, said some of the missiles ``may very well be'' in northern ireland already. the ira, outlawed in britain and ireland, is fighting to drive the british out of the province
john hermon, chief constable of the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, said he had ``no reason to doubt'' the sam-7s are hidden somewhere in ireland
as to where they are precisely, there's an element of doubt,'' he said. asked how many there were, he replied, ``that's not a question i'd be prepared to answer directly, but i'm satisfied that they exist.''
collins said he was puzzled over how the ira apparently was able to unload in one night in october 1986 an estimated 105 tons of libyan-supplied arms using an isolated jetty near arklow, 40 miles south of dublin
that is something that is causing us concern, putting it very bluntly,'' collins said. ``at the particular time we did not have any intelligence that this was about to happen nor indeed did we know that it did happen.''
the october shipment contained an unknown number of sam-7s, the program said, quoting unidentified british and irish security sources. a shipment in july 1986 included four sam-7s, it said
gen. sir james glover, british army commander of land forces in northern ireland in 1979-80, said army countermeasures against sam-7s have been prepared but have not yet had to be tested
three shipments that reached ireland were loaded off the mediterranean island of malta and one 15 miles off libya, the program said
last oct. 30, authorities seized a ship, the eksund, and its five irish crewmen in french waters. the ship was carrying about 150 tons of weapons, including 20 sam-7 missiles, apparently destined for the ira, the program said. the first of the four shipments to reach ireland was delivered in august 1985 and contained seven tons of arms, including pistols and 70 soviet-made ak-47 assault rifles, the program said
a shipment in october 1985 contained 10 tons of arms, including 100 ak-47s and 10 machine guns, and a third in july 1986 contained 14 tons and included four sam-7s
the three shiploads were landed using inflatable dinghies at clogga strand, an isolated beach near arklow
in august 1986, apparently in response to the u.s. bombing raid on libya the previous april, libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi bought a ship that in october that year was used to deliver an estimated 105 tons of weaponry to the ira, the program said
the arms apparently were trucked inland and hidden in already prepared bunkers. police have uncovered some of the weapons recently in both the irish republic and northern ireland, but no sam-7s have been found
on monday, a huge explosion in the south armagh border area in northern ireland killed two ira guerrillas in ``an unfortunate accident,'' the ira said
police believe the ira men were installing explosives in a stolen van about two miles outside crossmaglen village, intending to attack an army observation post, when the explosives accidentally detonated. sted ophrah</note>
oprah winfrey bought a mercedes and a jaguar when a syndicated television deal made her a millionaire, but the talk-show host laughs at the notion that fame and fortune may spoil her
my feet are still planted firmly on the ground,'' winfrey said in an interview published in tv guide. ``they're just wearing more expensive shoes.''
winfrey's lifestyle reflects her success. she lives in a luxury apartment with a wraparound view of lake michigan, and owns a mercedes-benz 560 sel and a jaguar
gayle king bumpus, an anchorwoman in connecticut, does not think wealth and fame have gone to her friend's head. as a fifth anniversary present, winfrey sent bumpus and her husband to paris, rome and venice
i remember once she came to visit us in connecticut in a stretch limo,'' bumpus said. ``she was wearing one of her five fur coats, probably a $25,000 number, and white tennis shoes with rhinestones on them and a red sweat shirt that said `husbands can be temporary but best friends last forever.'''
sikh gunmen killed seven members of a family in the bloodiest attack on christians in punjab state since sikh militants began a campaign for autonomy in 1982, police reported monday
it is a gruesome killing, the assailants systematically wiped out the entire family of kulwant massiha,'' said j.p. virdi, police chief of gurdaspur district where the attack occured late sunday. gurdaspur is 40 miles south of the sikhs' holy city of amritsar
virdi said the motive for the killings was not known. there have been several cases in recent years of sikh extremists killing the entire families of hindus or sikhs suspected of being police informers
four gummen entered the massiha house and opened fire with automatic rifles on the victims who were sitting in one room, according to virdi
he said the seven killed were massiha, three brothers, one sister, their 70-year-old mother and massiha's 7-year-old son
massiha's wife was away in the village of kalibramnia when the terrorists struck, virdi added
he said that as the killers fled they wounded seven people in kalibramnia
sikhs, who make up about 2 percent of india's 780 million people, claim they are discriminated against by hindus who form about 82 percent of the population. punjab state is predominantly sikh, and separatists are demanding an independent homeland there
christians compose 2.5 percent of india's population, and most of the few who live in punjab are in the gurdaspur district that borders pakistan. many of the christians in punjab are immigrants from predominantly moslem pakistan
police say sikh extremists have killed at least 313 people in punjab this year. last year they were blamed for more than 1,000 killings in the state
sikhism is an offshoot of the hindu religion
a cab jumped a downtown sidewalk monday and struck four pedestrians before it slammed into a pole, authorities said. all four pedestrians and the driver were hospitalized
the pedstrians were standing on the sidewalk waiting for a light to change, police investigator j.m. smith said
when we first arrived here, one of the victims was under the cab,'' police officer j.a. miller said. ``myself and a couple of citizens lifted the cab off her, and pulled her out.''
the 29-year-old driver, whose name was not released, was unable to explain what happened, and was taken to ben taub hospital for treatment, smith said. charges might be filed following further investigation
juanita barrett, 42, was listed in good condition, while gertrudis abdel-khaliq, 37, was listed in guarded condition at hermann hospital, a spokeswoman said. anna hornac 66, was listed in stable condition at st. luke's hospital, a spokeswoman said
dianna bradford, 41, underwent surgery monday night at ben taub hospital, and a hospital spokeswoman would say only that she was ``doing fine.'' name of officer receiving document, waldheim post at time.</note>
a key nazi document made public monday shows that kurt waldheim signed a german letter seeking approval for mass deportation of greek civilians in 1943 in a ``cleansing operation.''
the document, found in u.s. national archives, was vital in the justice department's decision to place waldheim, now austria's president and formerly u.n. secretary-general, on a ``watchlist'' barring him from the united states
the document was one of those used in making the watchlist decision,'' justice department spokesman john russell told the associated press by telephone from washington monday
that u.s. government decision said in part that waldheim ``assisted or otherwise participated'' in ``mass deportation of civilians.''
the document, dated aug. 15, 1943, was made available to the ap by the world jewish congress and its authenticity was confirmed by justice department sources
waldheim says he was innocent of war crimes. he was serving as deputy operations officer of the german general staff attached to the 11th italian army in athens at the time the document was sent
the document shows waldheim, while not authorizing the deportations, received the communication via radio, transcribed it and forwarded it, the world jewish congress said
in the message, a german army officer in the field was seeking authorization from headquarters to deport all the male civilians in northern greece where the division was operating. the request was sent to a gen. gyldenfeldt who subsequently approved the deportation, the world jewish congress said
however, the order was countermanded before it could be used to deport any greek civilians, the world jewish congress said
the communication mentions ``heavy bandit concentrations'' and says, ``bridgehead formations by groups seem particularly promising, for which reason scheduled cleansing operations in this area are deemed necessary
(there is) hope of success only if all male civilians are seized and deported.''
the nazis often used the term ``cleansing operations'' to refer to destruction of towns and mass execution of inhabitants as a warning to others to report partisans to german authorities. deported greek civilians were generally sent to german labor camps
the document also says the ``jewish committee'' operating in the town of joannina, greece, ``must be regarded as a center of preparations for a resistance movement.''
the following march, the nazis deported 1,860 jews, virtually the entire jewish population of joannina, to auschwitz death camp in poland, the world jewish congress said. the document signed by waldheim did not seek authorization to deport the jews
the austrian government has complained that the justice department has not turned over all information on which it based its decision to prohibit waldheim's entry into the united states
the u.s. government said it is not up to the united states to do austria's investigation. it said the documents are available to the austrian government and that waldheim can appeal the watchlist decision if he wishes
he has not done so
a commission of six international historians appointed by the austrian government found in february that as a german army officer, waldheim knew about nazi war crimes and could have done more to prevent atrocities. it said it did not have evidence he actually committed atrocities, but left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime
waldheim said he was vindicated by the commission
under the nuremberg charter, the deportation of civilians is both a war crime and a crime against humanity, the world jewish congress said in a statement
elan steinberg, executive director of the world jewish congress, said monday his organization provided the document to the justice department in 1986
the translation of sections of the document from german into english was done by the world jewish congress. it was not questioned by the justice department
in london, the british defense ministry appealed to the public monday for information about waldheim's wartime activities that might help its investigation into the nazi executions of six british commandos in 1944
the commandos, a raiding party captured in the balkans off alimina island in april 1944, were handed over for interrogation to the unit in which waldheim served
they refused to talk and were executed by the nazis _ a war crime under the geneva convention on prisoners of war
the conservative government ordered an investigation two weeks ago to try to pin down whether waldheim interrogated the six men
ian stewart, minister of state for the armed forces, announced in a written reply in the house of commons that ``anyone who has concrete evidence that might be relevant to the review is encouraged to submit it to the ministry of defense for examination.'' mission</head> opposing closure. picks up 4th graf pvs, later this ...; insert 2 grafs after 12th graf pvs, the united ... updating with walters' remarks. picks up 13th graf pvs, zehdi labib ...</note>
the american intention to close the plo mission by march 21 jeopardizes u.n. independence, arab and western diplomats told a special general assembly session monday
representatives of the 21-nation arab group, the plo and the 45-nation islamic conference urged the united states to submit the dispute to binding arbitration, and asked the assembly to request an advisory opinion from the world court in the hague
u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar also recommended arbitration and said the integrity of the world organization was at stake
even close u.s. allies such as canada, members of the european community and the scandinavian countries urged the united states not to close the plo mission and joined in the call for arbitration
at stake at this point are the effective functioning of the united nations and the right of the organization to hear the views of those invited to attend as observers,'' canadian ambassador stephen lewis said, speaking also on behalf of australia and new zealand
later this week, the 159-nation general assembly is expected to approve resolutions echoing all those recommendations. a resolution passed in december asked the united states not to close the mission of the palestine liberation organization, which has non-voting, observer status
the confrontation over the plo mission, which congress has ordered closed by march 21, has become the bitterest argument ever between the united nations and the host country
several speakers said monday the dispute could hurt u.s. peace efforts in the middle east, where secretary of state george p. shultz has been on a shuttle mission
u.s. prestige at the united nations already was waning when the plo issue arose, primarily because washington's failure to pay its full share of u.s. expenses for the several years has contributed to the worst financial crisis in the organization's 42-year history
peter florin of east germany, president of the general assembly, opened the monday session with a reminder by citing a charter provision saying a member can lose its vote if arrears grow too large
the united states, which is assessed a quarter of the u.n. budget, now owes more than $535 million in dues and contributions to peacekeeping forces. at the current rate of funding by congress, the united states could face losing its vote in 1990
last week, u.s. ambassador vernon walters said: ``we cannot continue to neglect our financial commitments to the united nations and then expect that our opinions, policies and positions will carry their former weight in the world body.''
arab diplomats said monday the credibility of the united states and the independence of the united nations are at issue, not just the fate of the 13-year-old plo mission
the united nations and u.s. state department both say the anti-terrorism bill ordering the plo mission closed violates the 1947 u.s.-u.n. headquarters agreement, but attorney general edwin meese iii is said to be planning to implement the legislation
walters told a news conference monday he didn't know what meese was going to do
he said a ``series of discussions is going on within the u.s. government as to what is the appropriate action to take under the circumstances and i am not aware the various agencies in the u.s. government have reached some decision in this matter.''
zehdi labib terzi, plo representative at the united nations, said monday: ``will the u.n. headquarters in new york be in a position to continue operating in the absence of a respected and adhered-to headquarters agreement?''
karim ebrahim al-shakar, ambassador of bahrain and chairman of the arab group, said the decision to close the mission was ``part of a feverish zionist campaign against the palestinian people.''
the belgrade district court on monday banned another book by dissident sociologist vojislav seselj, saying it could ``imperil public peace,'' the state's tanjug news agency reported
the book, titled ``the books for the pyre,'' deals with court documents and proceedings from several previous trials involving seselj's works
yugoslav courts have banned at least five of the sociologist's books
seselj was convicted in july 1984 of counter-revolutionary activity, largely on the basis of an unpublished manuscript that took a critical look at yugoslavia's economic and social problems. he served nearly two years of an eight-year prison sentence
tanjug said seselj's latest work slandered josip broz tito, founder and leader of communist yugoslavia who died in 1980. by law, anyone publicly denigrating tito is liable to criminal prosecution
tanjug did not say if further action might be taken against seselj
a violent white supremacist group targeted several prominent people for assassination, including henry kissinger and top television executives, a witness testified monday in a federal sedition trial
denver parmenter, who is serving a 10-year prison sentence after pleading guilty in 1985 to racketeering, testified that members of the order planned robberies, guerrilla warfare and murders to further their goal
our purpose was to kill important people in government or other important institutions in this country to create havoc, disorder, destruction,'' parmenter said. order members took an oath which included the words, ``i have no fear of death.''
ten of the 14 men on trial are accused of sedition, or plotting to overthrow the government by illegal means; two are charged with interstate transportation of stolen money; and five are charged with conspiring to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent. neither the judge, the fbi agent nor any of the celebrities mentioned in the trial monday were harmed
parmenter said he was a former member of the church of jesus christ christian (aryan nations) at hayden lake, idaho, which is run by defendant richard butler
parmenter said butler frequently spoke of his racial and political viewpoints in sermons. he said butler said the u.s. government was ``basically a government that wasn't supporting its race.''
parmenter said he and eight others, including defendants david lane and bruce pierce, formed the order in september 1983 in metalline falls, wash., home of the late robert mathews
mathews outlined six goals for order members, including developing a war chest through illegal means such as robbery and counterfeiting, parmenter said. each member was given a target to kill, parmenter said, including david rockefeller, television producer norman lear, kissinger and the three major network tv presidents
parmenter previously outlined the assassination plots during the 1985 trial of order members in seattle. union</head>
hungary's official trade unions on monday denounced a proposal by a group of academics to consider establishing the country's first independent union
in a statement carried by the government news agency mti, the central council of hungarian trade unions said the group seeks ``to destroy the unity of trade unions and set up organizations outside the movement.''
on feb. 19, some members of the hungarian academy of sciences met to discuss the possibility of establishing an independent union, well-informed sources in budapest said monday
several hundred people attended the meeting to consider creating the tudosz union of scientific workers, said the sources who spoke with the condition they not be identified. they were contacted by telephone from vienna
the sources said after the meeting, academics from several universities, including the karl marx economics university, expressed in university newspapers their support and their intention to join the new union if it were completely independent
some academics have criticized the official unions in communist hungary for not protesting a government decision to cut the nation's scientific budget by 15 percent
according to the sources, a committee of about 30 people was set up at the feb. 19 meeting to determine under what conditions the union could operate
the scientists currently belong to the union of public employees, which is under the umbrella of the central union council
the sources said the preparatory committee has sent a report to scientific insititutions across the country asking them to recommend delegates to the committee to ensure broad representation
there are no independent trade unions in hungary
the first independent union in the soviet bloc was solidarity, formed in poland in august 1980 during nationwide strikes. it was chartered by the government but then suspended in december 1981 and subsequently outlawed
mti reported the union council statement did not directly mention the academics, but referred to ``a limited group'' that it said was ``motivated by ill-willed political considerations.''
the agency quoted the statement as saying the council rejects ``the intentions of those who make an attempt to set up organizations opposing the trade union movement.'' with meeting ending, official saying national headquarters also represented at meeting. picks up 5th graf, `leaders of...'.</note>
officials of the assemblies of god met monday to discuss the future of tv evangelist jimmy swaggart, who stepped down from his pulpit amid allegations of immoral conduct
a police officer guarded the parking lot of the assemblies' state headquarters, and officials issued a statement saying the denomination would have no comment
decisions made by the louisiana district presbytery today will be returned to the executive presbytery. there will be no further announcement or comment from the louisiana district counsel,'' district superintendent cecil janway said in the statement
there was no indication swaggart, who confessed a week ago to committing a sin, was present
the meeting broke up at 7 p.m. seen leaving the office building were the rev. jim rentz, who is substituting for swaggart at the family worship center in baton rouge, and forrest hall, secretary-treasurer of the assemblies of god louisiana district council
rentz had no comment, but hall acknowledged that the meeting had ended and that executive officials from springfield, mo., where the church is based, had attended at the meeting
leaders of the pentecostal denomination are considering a rehabilitation plan that will suspend swaggart from preaching, reportedly because he paid a prostitute to pose naked and tried to make a deal with a minister who confronted him about it
last week, louisiana church officials recommended barring swaggart from preaching for three months, but national denomination officials asked for reconsideration after receiving hundreds of calls protesting the penalty as too lenient
the state denomination also was criticized for publicizing its recommendation before it was reviewed by the national office
during a brief appearance sunday at the jimmy swaggart world ministries center, swaggart thanked about 4,000 worshipers for their backing
i'll never have the words to express to you how much that i care, my concern, for you and my thanksgiving. if it hadn't been for you, we would not have made it. it's just that plain and simple,'' said swaggart
swaggart again was not specific about his wrongdoing, but said he had received support and sympathy from members of various denominations
the founder of an evangelical empire worth an estimated $150 million said his worldwide ministry would continue
first of all, this ministry belongs to god. secondly, this ministry will continue. and last, but certainly not least, this ministry will be what he wants it to be,'' swaggart said
marvin gorman, the defrocked assemblies of god minister who reportedly confronted swaggart with photographs of him entering and leaving a new orleans motel room with a prostitute, asked his own congregation sunday for prayers for swaggart
i want you all to pray for jimmy swaggart and his family because we know that they're going through a lot right now. and i want you to know that i know that a lot of miracles will come out of this,'' gorman, who now preaches independently, said at his metropolitan christian centre in new orleans
in a $90 million lawsuit filed last year, gorman alleged that swaggart and 13 others had destroyed his ministry by spreading false rumors of adulterous affairs
guenther tschanun, former head of the city building inspector's office, was sentenced monday to 17 years in jail for fatally shooting four of his colleagues in 1986 at his office
a zurich court convicted tschanun, a 47-year-old austrian-born architect, of voluntary homicide and attempted voluntary homicide
tschanun told the court he committed the april 16, 1986, slayings during a psychological breakdown and without premeditation
state prosecutor marcel bertschi had demanded a life sentence for murder, saying tschanun deliberately set out to kill after becoming embroiled in conflicts with his co-workers
tschanun fled after the killings. he was arrested in france three weeks later
presidential hopeful gary hart, mired in the back of the democratic pack, failed to qualify for new york's democratic primary ballot, the state board of elections ruled monday
board spokesman steven lafever said petitions meant to get the former colorado senator a spot on new york's april 19 primary ballot contained only 6,864 signatures, more than 3,000 less than required
to qualify for the statewide primary ballot, democratic candidates must file petitions containing the signatures of at least 10,000 registered democrats and at least 100 of those signatures must come from each of 17 of the state's 34 congressional districts
the other five announced major candidates and political extremist lyndon larouche all filed petitions last week with more than enough signatures to qualify for the ballot
jon kaiman, new york coordinator for the hart campaign, said a court appeal of the board's ruling would be considered
we don't know what to make of it,'' said kaiman of the board's finding. ``we were under the impression we had them (enough signatures).''
lafever said the hart petitions were received in the mail monday morning. the deadline for getting a postmark on the petitions was midnight thursday
hart dropped out of the presidential race in may amid reports of his relationship with a miami model and rejoined the race in december. he has been running well behind the rest of the field in early contest states
remember the '70s?,'' asks one of the three rapidly aging young men who dominate the action in ``boys' life,'' a brittle, boorish and unappealing comedy that stumbled into the mitzi newhouse theater at lincoln center on monday night
all that another member of this troubled trio can recall about the decade is watergate and the sex pistols, but then he's not having such a great time in the 1980s either
all three guys have women problems, and playwright howard korder examines their woes in numbing detail. phil (steven goldstein) is a good-natured schmo, still trying to score with a girl who already has dumped him. don (jordan lage) is equally dim-witted, but he manages to find a woman who will put up with his jock mentality
the most interesting _ and sarcastic _ character in the play is jack (clark gregg) who already is married but willing to fool around. his mean-spiritedness gets a workout during the evening at the expense of the other characters
some of jack's comments are funny, but he's really a nasty fellow. the playwright finally gives him his due in the last scene, a wedding reception. between sips of champagne, jack gets to confront the emptiness of his own life. by then, the audience doesn't care. they have had to confront the emptiness of korder's play for some 90 minutes
the large cast _ some 13 actors, in all _ works hard and undoubtedly will go on to better things. so will director w.h. macy who at least keeps the actors in motion on james wolk's mobile set. it's the play that never goes anywhere at all
a man accused of killing 16 people, including 14 members of his own family, is competent to stand trial, a judge ruled monday before setting a may 9 trial date
circuit judge john patterson accepted a state mental hospital finding that r. gene simmons was competent to aid in his own defense
the state hospital in little rock also found that simmons, 47, was sane at the time of the slayings, but that ultimately will be decided by a jury, defense attorney john harris noted
simmons was transferred monday to the pope county jail at russellville from the state hospital, where he has undergone a psychiatric examination since late december
on dec. 28, simmons surrendered to police in russellville after a 45-minute shooting spree in which two former co-workers were killed and four people were wounded
police then searched simmons' rural home near dover where, over a two-day period, they found 14 bodies _ simmons' wife, four daughters, three sons, two spouses of his children, three grandchilden, and a child who officials say simmons fathered by his oldest daughter
dr. roy ragsdill, director of the hospital, said the agency answered yes to both questions asked by the judge: first, whether simmons was competent to stand trial and, second, whether he had an ability to appreciate his actions and conform his behavior within legal limits
but simmons may still plead innocent by reason of insanity, harris said. simmons could contend either he was unable to tell right from wrong at the time of the killings or if he was, he was nonetheless unable to conform his behavior to the law
they said he was responsible; that means he's not legally insane,'' prosecutor john bynum said. ``we thought all along he was competent to stand trial. ... we're real pleased with the ruling.''
harris said he visited simmons monday and that he seemed in good spirits. harris said more psychiatric tests are needed, and that it could take a couple of months to get the results back
psychiatrists are like lawyers,'' harris said. ``you get a different one, you get a different opinion.''
simmons has not been arraigned. lt. jay winters of the pope county sheriff's office said the arraignment may occur tuesday. bynum said it should be soon, but said he didn't know if it would be tuesday
two tamil women ended their 10-day fast for peace monday by taking water mixed with salt and sugar, witnesses said
the hunger strikers, anama david, 58, and nesamma vadival, 50, are members of the tamil mothers front and had vowed not to eat until indian troops ceased anti-rebel operations and tamil separatist guerrillas agreed to negotiations
the witnesses spoke on condition of not being identified
there was no indication the women's demands had been met
an official at the indian high commission, or embassy, in colombo said indian troops had reduced operations in northern and eastern sri lanka, zones where the tamil minority form a majority
but the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the move was not related to appeals from the two women and he insisted the scaling down did not amount to a cease-fire
in new delhi, foreign ministry spokesman gopalaswami parthasarthy said operations against the tamil rebels were continuing. he said india would agree to talks with the rebels only after they surrendered their weapons
a senior sri lankan military official, who also spoke on condition that he not be identified,, said, however, that indian soldiers suspended operations in eastern batticaloa district in a bid to save the lives of the women, who were reported in poor condition before abandoning their fast
officials at the sri lankan military headquarters in colombo said there was no fighting between indian troops and tamil rebels for the previous 24 hours. the officials, who cannot be identified under briefing rules, said indian soldiers were continuing search operations and patrols, however
more than 45,000 indian soldiers are in sri lanka to enforce an indian-sponsored peace accord signed last july 29 with the sri lankan government to try to end the rebels' four-year war for an independent tamil homeland in the northern zone of this island off india's southern coast
a spokesman for the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the largest rebel group, said sunday the tigers were prepared for unconditional talks with the indian government
more than 8,000 people have been killed in sri lanka since the tamil insurrection began. tamils, most of whom are hindus, comprise 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people. they claim the sinhalese buddhist majority discriminate against them
moses gunn is such a good actor that when he's speaking, as the blues singer-musician in the new play ``tapman,'' he makes the character credible
however, the play, which opened sunday at the off-broadway hudson guild theater, holds together about as well as a cookie that has been stepped on
the plot focuses on tapman, who's nearing 50, thinks of himself as old, ruminates about death and worries because he never has made a recording
tapman recently has married a chic, well-dressed woman (kim hamilton), after his first wife died. his daughter (seret scott) from his first marriage dislikes the new wife and has a chip on her shoulder. it's an awkwardly written part awkwardly acted
tapman gets drunk when it's time to go on stage, so the other three members of his band perform without him and they lose jobs. he then misses three dates entirely. his musicians, dean irby, helmar augustus cooper and guy davis, venerate him but resolve to work without him
the band finally gets a chance to play at the opening of a huge blues club in houston, and tapman rejoins them for the night. but the play drifts pointlessly, as tapman begins drinking again and sends his daughter, who hates blues, on to sing with the band. he says she is his legacy
author karen jones-meadows has had one other play produced off-broadway. samuel p. barton directed. bail</head>
police are conducting a criminal investigation to discover why a judge set bail of only $100 for a man accused of attempted sexual assault on television actress tracy scoggins, authorities said monday
one of those under investigation is associate municipal magistrate rodolfo romero, police lt. j.r. grijalva said
pedro concepcion padilla, 35, of el paso was arrested and charged with attempted sexual assault after miss scoggins, in town to serve as co-host of the miss usa pageant, was attacked in a hotel elevator thursday night
the assailant tore miss scoggins' clothes and pushed her into the back of the elevator. she fought the man off and padilla was detained by hotel guests and security before police arrived and arrested him
romero set $100 bail on the third-degree felony; prosecutors normally ask for $15,000 bail in similar cases. the decision drew strong criticism from miss scoggins, best known as for her role as monica colby in the television show ``the colbys.''
police are investigating ``the actions of the parties involved in setting the bond,'' grijalva said
we received information over the weekend that there may have been collusion between the subjects involved,'' he said. ``we may be looking into some type of misconduct charges.''
grijalva would not elaborate on who else is being investigated. padilla was represented by lawyer jose montes
padilla, who had given police an alias and a false address, surrendered to police saturday after district judge brunson moore issued a new warrant that carried a $100,000 bail. padilla posted the required 15 percent of that amount and is free
romero has not returned telephone calls to his office seeking comment on the case. his home telephone number is unlisted. to $100,200 sted $300,000; update with cooks being returned from houston. picks up 17th graf, `mccarthy was...'.</note>
an off-duty policeman shot during an attempted robbery was remembered monday as a ``hero in the strictest sense'' at a memorial service for the third dallas officer slain in six weeks
hundreds of officers, some weeping and others with their badges taped in black, filled the eagle's nest cathedral at a memorial service for gary d. mccarthy, a former missionary who joined the force 14 months ago
at least 2,200 people attended, police spokesman ed spencer said
he left the foreign mission field but he found another mission field,'' said the rev. clyde box, pastor of brook hollow baptist church in desoto where mccarthy, a husband and father of two children, attended church
while gary was a policeman, the streets became his mission field. last friday he gave his life on that field.''
mccarthy's funeral will be tuesday in his hometown of amarillo
police were holding three men in connection with mccarthy's death friday, but the district attorney's office said none had been formally charged by monday afternoon. the three were arrested on capital murder warrants
one of them, vincent edward cooks, 23, was paroled aug. 4 from the texas department of corrections less than a year after he began serving a five-year sentence for aggravated assault of a police officer
cooks had originally been charged with attempted capital murder after apparently shooting at an off-duty police officer outside a club in houston
houston police sgt. v.w. west said cooks pleaded no contest to the reduced aggravated assault charge and began serving his sentence in december 1986
cooks was arrested sunday at a houston apartment where he tried to escape from a second-story window, said dallas police lt. ron waldrop
another man arrested in the case, tony ray harvey, 23, of houston, was paroled jan. 18 after serving 18 months of a six-year sentence for aggravated robbery and unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, police said
the third man, tracy dewayne stallworth, 27, of irving, has no prior convictions
police would release few details in the case
we'd rather not get into specifics about what we're going to allege that any of the participants did because, obviously, this case is coming back to dallas for trial and we want to protect as much of the investigation as we can,'' waldrop said
harvey was held monday on $500,000 bond, while stallworth's bond was set at $100,000, plus an additional $200 bond for possession of a controlled substance. cooks was moved from houston to dallas on monday but bond was not immediately set, a jail spokeswoman said
mccarthy was escorting a grocery store manager back from a bank visit when a man jumped out of a car to rob the manager, police said
the off-duty officer was shot three times, including once in the heart, but was able to return fire, police said. he died several hours later
mccarthy's death was the seventh in six shootings involving police this year. in addition to the three dead police officers, four civilians have been killed by police
two former lebanese students of hostage professor thomas sutherland said monday that the u.s. government has failed to provide leadership in solving the hostage problem and lebanon's civil war
farij el-awar and basil hamdan, who studied under the colorado state university professor when he was agriculture dean at american university in beirut, spoke at a news conference announcing csu activities planned this week to mark sutherland's 1,000th day of captivity friday
both el-awar and hamdan are graduate students at csu
hamdan said sutherland believed his role as a professor extended beyond the classroom to helping underdeveloped countries
but, hamdan said, ``the u.s., as a government, is not providing the leadership it needs to solve the problem. ... they have chosen to ignore it because of political reasons.''
sutherland, 56, was abducted in beirut on june 9, 1985. he was working at the beirut university while on leave from csu
el-awar said sutherland ``introduced a new spirit to the school'' and obtained a new computer for the university in beirut
csu has planned a number of activities in honor of sutherland this week, including the distribution of yellow ribbons wednesday, thursday and friday; a video with statements by former hostages friday; and a ceremony and reception friday to include appearances by two of sutherland's daughters and the rev. lawrence martin jenco, a former beirut hostage held captive with sutherland
csu president philip austin has proclaimed thursday as ``tom sutherland awareness day'' on campus
hamdan said he thinks the reagan administration is too afraid of risking small setbacks in the middle east to begin the complex strategy required to solve the region's problems
there is no easy answer to the lebanese problem. it would be really childish to say the u.s. could solve the problem tomorrow ... but the government has to have some large vision. if it built one thing at a time, it would come to a solution,'' hamdan said
a man armed with a toy gun tried to rob a bus but was overpowered by a passenger who pushed him out the door and held him on the ground until police arrived, officials said monday
the suspect, leon reddick, 32, of camden, was charged with robbery following the attempted holdup sunday, said camden police lt. thomas long. he was in critical but stable condition at cooper university medical center with a head injury, a hospital spokeswoman said
long said a man boarded a new jersey transit bus, showed a gun and demanded money from the bus driver, jeannette rodriguez
she hit the brakes, he fell forward,'' long said
the hapless robber first hit his head on the windshield when he fell. then passenger william bonet approached, long said
he grabbed reddick and struck him in the head several times with the gun, which turned out to be plastic and broke,'' long said. the man fell out of the bus when the door opened and struck his head on the ground, long said
bonet, whose age and address were not disclosed, then held the man on the ground until police arrived, long said
no charges were filed against bonet
we told him, `atta boy,''' long said
a federal appeals court monday revived a lawsuit aimed at creating a black-majority district for the election of louisiana supreme court justices
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled that the 1965 federal voting rights act applies to judicial elections as well as to elections of legislators and executives. the decision reversed a lower court ruling in may that had dismissed the suit
where racial discrimination exists, it is not confined to elections for legislative and executive officials; in such instance, it extends throughout the entire electoral spectrum,'' the appeals court said in its 23-page opinion that sent the suit back to the district court for trial
activist ronald chisom filed the suit to make new orleans, with its majority-black population and voter registration, a separate district for the election of justices
the seven justices on the louisiana supreme court are elected from six judicial districts _ one each from five of the districts and two from the first district, made up of orleans, st. bernard, plaquemines and jefferson parishes
chisom's suit seeks to have orleans parish split off into one district, with the other three parishes becoming a separate district
it is particularly significant that no black person has ever been elected to the louisiana supreme court, either from the first supreme court district or from any one of the other five judicial districts,'' the appeals court said
in dismissing the suit in may, the u.s. district court judge in new orleans had ruled that section 2 of the voting rights act of 1965 does not apply to judicial elections. section 2 makes it illegal to set up or maintain voting qualifications that might exclude voters on the basis of race, creed or color
the lower court judge had ruled that the section covered elected representatives, and said judges were not representatives
but the appeals court rejected that interpretation
the right to vote, the right to an effective voice in our society, cannot be impaired on the basis of race in any instance wherein the will of the majority is expressed by popular vote,'' the court said. colombia also to be certified as cooperating.</note>
president reagan plans no new economic sanctions against panama, even though he has determined that panama has not been cooperating in curbing drug trafficking to the united states, a u.s. official said monday
the official said that penalties to be announced on tuesday have already been applied against panama and thus will have no additional impact on that country
a 1986 u.s. law decreed that countries which do not take steps to halt drug trafficking to the united states are no longer eligible for u.s. aid and are not entitled to u.s. support for their assistance requests to international lending institutions
tuesday is the deadline for certifying that foreign countries have complied in combating drug trafficking. countries which are ``decertified'' are subject to the penalties
the source, who asked not to be identified, noted that u.s. economic and military aid to panama was cut off last year and that the united states has not backed panama's requests in the lending institutions because its repayments are in arrears
the institutions involved are the world bank, the inter-american development bank and the international monetary fund, the official said
under reagan's finding, mexico was ``certified'' as cooperating in drug enforcement efforts, the official said. cbs news and the washington post reported that colombia was also likely to be certified as cooperating in drug enforcement efforts
the official said government lawyers are studying the possibility of excluding panamanian participation from a system of tariff preferences the united states accords to most third world countries
in addition, the lawyers are reviewing panamanian membership in the caribbean basin initiative, under which nations from that region are given duty-free access on most products to u.s. markets
according to the official, panama's record on drug enforcement may be such that it cannot legally participate in either program based on membership requirements
on feb. 5, panama's military strong man, manuel antonio noriega, was indicted by two federal grand juries on charges that he is a major figure in an international drug smuggling conspiracy
colombian drug traffickers were alleged to have paid noriega more than $5 million in return for permission to use panamanian airstrips to fly cocaine to the united states
the sanctions decision comes at a time when the administration is seeking to force noriega out as commander of panama's defense forces, in which he has dominated panama's political life
late last week, noriega ignored an order by president eric arturo delvalle that he step down as defense chief and moved quickly to depose devalle with the help of allies in the national assembly
delvalle, calling his ouster illegal, has said he still considers himself panama's president, a position supported by the reagan administration
meanwhile, sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., a leader of the anti-noriega forces in congress, introduced a resolution asking the reagan administration to consider imposing economic sanctions against panama, including a trade embargo. an official said the administraion is not contemplating any such action
the resolution also asks that the united states cut off all contacts with noriega because he is ``no longer the lawful commander'' of the defense forces
in a brief speech on the senate floor, kennedy said that noriega ``is a threat to peace and security in the region.''
when a drug trafficker gets control over the governmental powers of a nation, it's a threat to other nations,'' kennedy said. thursday</head> later comment from union. picks up 7th graf, `the writers...'.</note>
major issues were unresolved monday just hours before the expiration of a contract between the 9,000-member writers guild of america and movie and television producers
negotiations between the two sides were expected to continue until early tuesday, and union officials declined to say what they would recommend to members until after the producers' final offer was on the bargaining table. the union's contract was to expire at midnight, but the earliest a strike could begin is thursday, officials said
but it doesn't look optimistic,'' said cheryl rhoden, spokeswoman for the wga, which represents about 6,500 writers on the west coast and 2,500 on the east coast
herb steinberg, spokesman for the alliance of motion picture and television producers, agreed, saying, ``the situation is not good.''
west coast union members are to vote tuesday evening on whether to accept what emerges from the latest round of talks or reject it and go on strike. east coast members vote wednesday, and results of the votes aren't expected to be available until midday wednesday. the walkout could come as early as thursday, ms. rhoden said
a strike by writers would be felt first by daily daytime programs and talk shows that go through many scripts, ms. rhoden said. it would take longer for a walkout to affect shows that need fewer scripts and have a longer lead time
in what he said would be the final public statement before meeting with the membership on both coasts, the guild's chief negotiator said monday evening that the wga will stay at the bargaining table as long as necessary
perhaps something will break in the next 12 hours or so,'' said brian walton, also the executive director of writer's guild west. ``at the moment, the companies and the networks have still declined to meet us in finding reality-based solutions to our concerns in many areas.''
he accused the alliance and the networks of ``continuing to promulgate press releases with doomsday statistics about how the film and broadcast industries are in disastrous shape.''
the writers union, which has a reputation as one of hollywood's most militant, last went on strike three years ago. that walkout lasted for two weeks before writers voted to accept a package offering them essentially the same terms as the one they had earlier rejected
the median annual income for writers is $40,000 a year, but about half of the wga's members are unemployed at any given time, ms. rhoden said
main issues separating the two sides are disputes over creative rights, residuals from foreign markets and residuals for one-hour programs
on the creative-rights issue, the union wants original writers to have the power to do the first rewrite of any material, plus the right to be on the set when the program is being produced
sometimes,'' ms. rhoden complained, ``original writers aren't even notified when rewrites are being done.''
however, steinberg said such issues are appropriately handled in individual negotiations when writers agree to terms on which they will sell their work, not in a national contract. embargoed until 10 a.m. est. this package does not contain the following items from the news digest: wash _ irrigation subsidies; portland, maine _ maine caucuses; clinton, s.c. _ south carolina gop; wash _ meese-pipeline; huntsville, texas _ death penalty case; frankfurt, west germany _ nazi-debate; philadelphia _ philly cops; tuscaloosa, ala. _ hostage memories; santiago, chile _ chile-human rights; and atlanta _ flag flap.</note>
the u.s. economy has shrugged off the worst effects of the october stock market collapse and should be able to escape a recession this election year, economists for top u.s. corporations predicted today
the national association of business economists said optimism among its members has risen appreciably since the last survey conducted in the month following the oct. 19 plunge in stock prices
in november, more than half of the business economists were predicting a recession would begin before the end of 1988, an outlook that could have spelled bad news for republican hopes of holding onto the white house
opposition leaders called for a general strike to demand the resignation of gen. manuel antonio noriega, but they said fear of a government crackdown and financial hardship could limit its success
the opposition asked the nation's businesses and industries to close today and remain shut indefinitely
in another development, deposed president eric arturo delvalle stayed in hiding sunday and defied noriega, panama's military strongman who ousted delvalle and ordered him out of the country
secretary of state george p. shultz returned to jerusalem to meet with israeli officials after his regional peace plan won the support of egyptian president hosni mubarak, a senior u.s. official said
mubarak, who met with shultz on sunday, became the first leader in the middle east to support the plan. jordan and syria have rejected it, and prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel has publicly opposed its key elements
they liked the package,'' a senior u.s. official said sunday after shultz outlined his peace proposal in a three-hour meeting with mubarak in cairo
police arrested a jewish settler in connection with the shooting deaths of two arabs in the west bank, and israeli cabinet ministers suggested closing the occupied lands to media coverage
the settler, from neve tzuf, was arrested sunday, according to adi gonen, national police spokesman. the man, whose name was not released, is suspected of killing two palestinians from the neighboring village of abud after villagers blocked the main road on saturday, gonen said today
the army today charged three soldiers, including a sergeant-major, with aggravated assault and brutality for allegedly burying alive four palestinians in the west bank village of kfar salem, an army spokesman said
israel's state-run television and radio have been accused of playing down the extent of palestinian unrest in the occupied lands
since the violence in the west bank and gaza strip began, israeli viewers only once saw troops beat protesters and rarely see pictures of arabs wounded by gunfire. tv anchors often refer to the situation as ``relatively quiet.''
by contrast, tv viewers in the united states often see soldiers beating arab protesters and palestinians who have been wounded or killed by gunfire
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has another new england victory and says he will ``surprise some people in the south'' on super tuesday. the gop presidential hopefuls are gearing up for next week's big southern test by hitting each other on taxes and trade
it was a son of the south, jesse jackson, who pulled the weekend's surprise, finishing a strong second to dukakis in the maine democratic caucuses on sunday. vice president george bush claimed the victory on the gop side
with super tuesday looming barely a week away, republican jack kemp sought to pump up his fading campaign with direct attacks on bush and senate gop leader bob dole, saying they will not be true to ronald reagan's legacy
even before the start of his historic impeachment trial today, embattled republican gov. evan mecham predicted the state senate will deny him a fair hearing
senate leaders say they'll take up to two months to hear testimony and arguments before deciding whether the first-term governor should be removed and possibly barred from holding elective office
what we're doing today is history,'' said senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat. ``in 20 years people will be looking back and this will be the definitive way to impeach a governor, i hope.''
the cia and the agriculture department have teamed up to report that the cabbage is king in the soviet union, while americans bow to the tomato
the study of food supplies in the united states and the soviet union says that radish and carrot tops are common fare among soviet consumers but are rarely found on american grocery lists. but then, the united states has the sweet potato while the soviet union doesn't
on the other hand, the overall nutrient levels in the two nations are not too far apart. on the average, the soviet union supplies about 3,200 calories per day to each citizen, compared with 3,500 for the average american. news digest: panama city, panama _ panama; jerusalem _ israel; jerusalem _ shultz; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham impeachment; cape town, south africa _ south africa; moscow _ soviet-unrest; wash _ reagan-nato; undated _ political rdp.</note>
israelis in this communal farm expressed shock monday over the arrest of one young member in the beating of two arabs, but they said government policy in the occupied territories placed soldiers in an untenable position
sgt. saguy harpaz, a gesher resident, was detained in the communal dining hall friday night after a cbs news videotape showed that he and three other soldiers beat two bound arab protesters with rocks for more than half an hour in nablus
people who saw the film were shocked,'' said catherine gur, 38, who taught harpaz in elementary school. ``it was very brutal. he did not act according to the values we impart on our children.''
the grass was being cut, the windows washed and the cactus garden weeded as employees hurried to work. just another monday morning at the arizona capitol
except for the governor, who went on trial
only a few of gov. evan mecham's supporters showed up as his trial began in the senate. seats were open in the gallery. three bus loads of schoolchildren made their annual field trip to learn about government, and the plaza in front of the senate was quiet
nancy reagan said monday that casual users of drugs are an ``accomplice to murder'' because they help finance traffickers willing to commit brutal crimes to keep supply lines open
kicking off a white house conference for a drug-free america at which the federal government's anti-drug efforts were criticized, mrs. reagan dramatized her ``just-say-no'' campaign with a speech focusing on those whose lives have been ruined by drugs
with president reagan serving in the unusual role of warm-up speaker, the first couple talked about the drug problem from both the supply and demand vantage points
the supreme court on monday set the stage for its first ruling on mandatory drug testing, agreeing to decide whether the u.s. customs service may force applicants for drug-enforcement jobs to be tested
the court said it will hear a challenge by a federal workers union that denounces as a humiliating invasion of privacy the taking of urine samples from employees
the testing is defended by the reagan administration as a necessary step in fighting drug smuggling
for european leaders, this week's nato summit is a welcome chance to join president reagan in trumpeting alliance unity and highlighting its recent successes
privately, though, the europeans may add some words of worry
the most immediate concern to europeans is a lack of western consensus on how to balance the need to guard against a possible soviet attack with the hope for further reductions in east-west tensions
jesse jackson's strong second-place finish in maine, following respectable showings elsewhere, proves he is attaining what he lacked throughout 1984 _ expansion beyond his black base of support
in a state with a 1 percent black population, jackson got 28 percent of the vote on sunday after campaigning for only two days in maine. winner michael dukakis, well known to maine voters as governor of nearby massachusetts, garnered 42 percent
on monday, addressing cheering students at pembroke state university in north carolina, jackson shouted, ``talk about mainstream; try the state of maine.''
michael dukakis walked aboard his chartered jet with a smile on his face. ``they don't know what a frappe is here in texas,'' he said, ``but i got one.''
dukakis didn't come all the way from the gold-domed statehouse in boston to the heart of texas for the thick milkshake that every soda jerk in new england knows how to make
but if he can find one in the land where lyndon johnson once reigned, can the massachusetts liberal also find enough votes to establish himself as a democratic presidential candidate of nationwide appeal?
colorado's first experiment with high-oxygen fuels ended monday, without the epidemic of clogged fuel injectors and stalled cars predicted by opponents of the smog-control program
we were very surprised _ we thought there'd be more consumer backlash,'' said jerry levine of amoco corp. in chicago. levine had opposed the mandatory program in hearings last year before colorado's air quality commission
it will be another month, however, before state officials know whether the experiment reduced levels of carbon monoxide along the eastern slope of the rockies
pittsburgh-area residents should wake up if they're still dreaming that empty steel plants will come back to life, say city planners from an international architecture conference
you've got to face reality. they're gone,'' said tony mcgann, whose hometown of liverpool, england, lived through the decline of dockyard industries. ``if you wait for the steel industry to come back, you'll wait forever.''
the planning team, 12 americans and five britons, toured monongahela valley communities whose economies have been gutted by the decline of steelmaking. they addressed about 100 mon valley residents saturday in homestead and released a report monday suggesting how the once-thriving steel centers of homestead, duquesne and mckeesport could recover
town meeting day is as much a symbol of vermont as the maple sap that flows soon after, but this year's town meetings find vermonters fearful of their state's future because farms are going out of business and open land is sprouting vacation homes
we are losing our farms and we are losing rural vermont at an unbelievable rate,'' says jack starr, a dairy farmer from troy
the changing vermont is evident everywhere:
protestant fundamentalism is growing rapidly in this predominantly roman catholic nation, and american missionary don exley's yellow and white revival tent symbolizes the movement
one night last week, 63 people crossed a muddy field in a hard rain to hear exley, who represents the assemblies of god, preach a spirited sermon in spanish. he told them god would save their souls if they prayed hard enough and sang loud enough
before the two-hour revival ended in the tent in suburban martinez, many of the men, women and children, had ``spoken in tongues'' and eight bowed before exley to be saved. exley said his revival attract crowds of up to 200 people. february to march.</note>
michael caine has just made his eighth film in three years and has a tv miniseries set to roll, but the oscar-winning star of ``sherlock and me'' says he still worries about being out of work
you feel uneasy if you haven't got something to do,'' caine said in an interview in north london's camden town, where the $8.5 million-movie was concluding its nine-week shoot
people say i work all the time, but i don't. what they (distributors) do is always put the bloody things out at the same time.''
the actor's on-screen good cheer has been one of the few constants in the ever-changing hollywood scene
last year, he played sally field's love interest in ``surrender'' and a british intelligence agent in ``the fourth protocol.'' he starred in films as quintessentially american as ``jaws iv _ the revenge,'' and as quintessentially english as ``the whistle blower,'' a political thriller
in 1986 he was a british diplomat romantically linked with call girl sigourney weaver in ``half moon street,'' and had vivid supporting roles in ``sweet liberty'' and ``mona lisa.''
then, too, there was his academy award last year for best supporting actor for his performance in ``hannah and her sisters.'' the erstwhile cockney, who was born maurice joseph micklewhite in 1933, the son of a porter at billingsgate fish market in london, had integrated himself into the bittersweet world of woody allen's manhattan neurotics
i'd known woody for years, and i knew new york so well,'' said caine. ``i don't have a voice which is posh british, anyway
my attitude is that i'm more like an american, coming from a working-class background. lots of americans think i'm australian, or something like that _ crocodile dundee's father.''
caine's previous oscar nominations were for ``alfie'' in 1966, ``sleuth'' in 1972 and ``educating rita'' in 1983
in his new film, he impersonates that celebrated sleuth, sherlock holmes. caine is a boozing, down-on-his-luck actor who is hired by dr. watson to play the famed fictional detective to prove him real
i get to play two parts and a particular hero of mine, which i like, because i've always been a great fan of holmes,'' he said
we have the pipe, the magnifying glass, everything,'' said caine, referring to the traditional holmes accoutrements. ``it's a chance to play a hero who i'm not really right for and to do it in an entirely different way, as a comedy.''
the film, due out in the fall from orion pictures, co-stars oscar winner ben kingsley (``gandhi'') as dr. watson, who is forced by public demand to find a real-life holmes to match the figure he has been writing about in a magazine
caine compared his creation to the part of the inimitable inspector clouzot, created by the late peter sellers in the popular pink panther series. ``peter would have laughed at some of the physical humor i do. the character is such a putz,'' caine said. ``i'm having fun; i'll tell you that.''
on march 14, caine moves on to his next assignment: a cbs miniseries, ``jack the ripper,'' which marks his first tv work since he played horatio to christopher plummer's hamlet in a 1966 production of shakespeare's tragedy
caine will play the fictitious inspector frederick abberline of scotland yard in the $5 million show
said to be based on confidential police and government files, the show will be aired in the autumn to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the notorious mass murderer, who terrorized victorian london in the late 1880s
caine said he's made a conscious effort to vary his parts and his performances. ``it gives you cachet as someone who can play anything,'' he said
i've been a leading actor, not a movie star who comes on and does the michael caine personality performance like a cary grant or a john wayne, although i admire both of them very much.''
his salary, he joked, reflected this attitude: ``i know a lot of actors like dustin hoffman, jack nicholson, who don't do pictures for years, but they get $6 million, $7 million, $15 million a picture.''
i don't. i get $1.98 and a bollocking (a reprimand) for being late on monday morning,'' he joked. caine is one of the few british actors who reportedly commands around $1 million a movie
caine said the british had reacted oddly to his decision in june 1986 to return to his native country with his wife, the indian model shakira baksh, and their 14-year-old daughter, natasha, after living for nine years in los angeles
people here treat me as if i'd just come back from some fearsome jungle and survived,'' he said. ``americans are just like we are, except they work harder _ that's what frightens the british. you've got to get up at 8 o'clock monday morning and go out and do something; you can't just sit there.''
caine is glad to be home. he divides his time between an apartment in london's elegant knightsbridge and a 15th-century manor house in rural oxfordshire northwest of the capital city
as for the sometimes brutal english class system, caine said it's no problem
years ago, all the people who wouldn't have spoken to me are now people i wouldn't want to speak to because they're so boring,'' he said
i've gone beyond class. i go with anybody, from the queen down.''
assuming johnny can read, the question remains: what should he read?
the times of london and the daily telegraph have tried to answer the question with lists of classics recommended for children from 3 to 18. apart from a few books, notably j.d. salinger's ``the catcher in the rye'' and the basic works for children, the lists had little in common
the papers revealed a powerful pro-british bias, with david holloway, one of the conservative telegraph's panel of experts, commenting: ``american universities tend to supply their students with reading lists containing thousands of titles. this is not only daunting but counterproductive.''
so the telegraph suggested the 100 books every youngster who has gone to school ought to have read by the time he or she finishes. the times' panel of teachers, writers and critics came up with 50 titles
the times went by age group and stuck to fiction, while the telegraph cast a wider net: modern fiction, classics, translations, poetry, drama and entertainment
the two papers found the most agreement on books for young children, with the times recommending, among others, the ``winnie the pooh'' stories, rudyard kipling's ``just so stories,'' ``charlotte's web'' by e.b. white and maurice sendak's ``where the wild things are.''
the telegraph, altogether weightier in its approach, opened with a category called cornerstones that included the bible, homer's ``iliad,'' horace's ``odes,'' geoffrey chaucer's ``canterbury tales'' and all of shakespeare's plays
don quixote,'' by miguel de cervantes, john milton's ``paradise lost,'' boswell's ``the life of samuel johnson and charles darwin's ``the origin of species'' rounded out the list
however, against such high-brow fare as bertrand russell's ``history of western philosophy,'' the telegraph also suggested an entertainment list that ranged from arthur conan doyle and edgar allan poe to ``the big sleep'' by raymond chandler and agatha christie's ``the murder of roger ackroyd.''
its children's category included one american work, mark twain's ``the adventures of tom sawyer.'' many of the others in the category were the same as chosen by the times
in its 12-18 category the times ignored shakespeare and the ancients but suggested twain's ``huckleberry finn,'' george orwell's ``1984,'' ``the diary of anne frank,'' ``jane eyre'' by charlotte bronte and ``pride and prejudice'' by jane austen
there was robert louis stevenson's ``treasure island'' alongside ``the lord of the flies,'' william golding's frightening tale of power-corrupted children. salinger's ``catcher in the rye'' rubbed shoulders with ``emil and the detectives'' by erich kastner
the telegraph recommended 13 translations, among them boris pasternak's ``dr. zhivago,'' gustave flaubert's ``madame bovary,'' ``the three musketeers'' by alexandre dumas, ``the plague'' by albert camus, franz kafka's ``metamorphosis'' and gabriel garcia marquez's ``one hundred years of solitude.''
war and peace'' didn't make the list but ``anna karenina'' did
the telegraph's longer list found more room for american works, mentioning f. scott fitzgerald's ``the great gatsby,'' margaret mitchell's ``gone with the wind,'' ernest hemingway's ``a farewell to arms,'' john steinbeck's ``the grapes of wrath'' and saul bellow's ``the adventures of augie march.''
vladimir nabokov's erotic masterpiece ``lolita'' also was recommended
poets on the telegraph list included john keats, william wordsworth, samuel t. coleridge, lord byron, alfred tennyson, t.s. eliot, w.h. auden, philip larkin and charles baudelaire, plus ``the rubaiyat of omar khayyam.''
its recommended plays were moliere's ``tartuffe,'' william congreve's ``love for love,'' richard brinsley sheridan's ``the school for scandal,'' oscar wilde's ``the importance of being earnest,'' henrik ibsen's ``the master builder,'' anton chekhov's ``the cherry orchard,'' george bernard shaw's ``saint joan'' and samuel beckett's ``waiting for godot.''
but as the telegraph's holloway acknowledged in his introduction: ``it would be an ideal child who had read the lot, and a pretty remarkable one who could score more than 50 percent. certainly, none ... could, hand on heart, say that he or she had read the whole list before leaving school.''
sex is out in swaziland. ``dallas'' is tops in zimbabwe. but ``hill street blues'' is africa's overall television favorite
that's how foreign tv programs rate among the 5 percent of africa's 550 million people who regularly watch the tube, according to the people who buy the shows
program chiefs from across the continent gathered recently in zimbabwe's capital, harare, for the first buyers' convention for africa's mostly state-owned tv stations
we would not want to show anything that ridicules or criticizes socialism or allows our people to be influenced by the cultural dominance of others,'' said nebiyu eyassu, head of state-owned ethiopian television
african stations face wide political censorship and the constant dilemma whether imported shows are likely to offend traditional customs or propagate western values that african bureaucracies publicly disavow
nebiyu sees television as a powerful propaganda medium when examining foreign offerings for viewers of the 70,000 television sets in his country of 42 million people
materialism depicted in many western shows was confusing to ethiopian viewers, he said as program chiefs settled into armchairs to watch excerpts from 1,000 hours of shows
the first preview of its kind in africa brought the west's most popular programs to a continent where local producers lack money and expertise to make their own. imported programming costs between $100 and $200 an hour _ up to 20 times cheaper than local production costs
before the convention, individual buyers flew to such places as london and new york to decide what they wanted for their screens at home
market research in zimbabwe shows ``dallas'' has the highest viewership of any program screened in this southern african nation. more than 510,000 people watch it each sunday after the evening news
wendy layzell, program buyer for state-owned zimbabwe television, attributed the popularity of ``dallas'' to escapism
it shows a lifestyle that no one will ever have. it is fast-moving and essentially non-political,'' she said
despite repeated government calls for more local and culturally relevant programming, foreign shows account for more than 70 percent of the station's airtime
ztv is strapped for cash and depends on commercials, license fees and a hefty government subsidy
nigerian buyer oluyole fadola said only 5 percent of his west african nation's 100 million people own television sets, although public viewing centers are being set up in isolated areas
when you take tv to the people you have to be particularly selective,'' fadola said
better educated urban dwellers are less likely to come under the spell of television than the rural poor, he said
as program coordinator at nigeria's federal television authority, he is concerned by explicit sex and the level of violence in western tv
we have had a wave of armed robberies at home and i believe tv stimulates armed robbery and propagates crime,'' fadola said
in swaziland, sex on screen is taboo because of cultural taboos common in southern africa
we don't like nudity at all. we shy away from it,'' said wellington sukati, head of programming at the swaziland television and broadcasting corp
you may breastfeed in public, but the exploitation of nudity on the screen is out.''
but official swazi prudery does not extend to screens in nightclubs frequented by tourists, many from south africa, which brazenly feature explicit soft pornography
sukati said he was buying about 500 hours of programs
alexandera taylor, sales director of the british-based distribution company that staged the harare convention, said programs popular among african buyers included a british series based on jeffrey archer's novel ``first among equals,'' ``the bob newhart show,'' ``st. elsewhere'' and a dramatization of last year's superpower summit in reykjavik, iceland
taylor said her company, african and caribbean program services, could not estimate the value of business transacted in harare, nor rule out surprises in forthcoming bookings
in 1987, ``hill street blues'' was a best seller in africa. but kenya, one of the west's staunchest allies in africa, rejected it
they didn't like the negative way police were portrayed,'' taylor said
thais have normally reacted to corruption with a fatalistic shrug, but a racket involving false royal decorations has raised a public outcry and spurred the government into action
some call this a hopeful sign in battling what has been an endemic problem
the racket had allowed hundreds of people to obtain prestigious royal decorations by making phony donations to charities. the web of corruption, according to police, involves officials of the cabinet and the education ministry, as well as a now defrocked buddhist monk, deputy abbot pasuk kaopong
police say that nearly 20 people have been detained, some on suspicion of forging the signature of king bhumibol adulyadej, regarded by many thais as a near divinity. one senior civil servant in the cabinet secretariat killed himself after being called in for questioning
the result is that even bona fide royal decorations, once proudly worn at every opportunity, are now viewed with some cynicism
so is the government's fortnightly lottery. late last year, 15 senior officials were arrested on charges of rigging the lottery wheels via radio-controlled devices
from forestry department officials who illegally chop down trees to police officers smuggling refugees, ``corruption'' _ the english word is frequently used _ has become a daily staple of local newspapers and private conversation
amnouy vongvichian, who heads the commission of counter corruption, said in an interview his agency investigated 3,418 civil-service corruption cases last year and found about 10 percent of the suspects guilty
some thais believe corruption stems from greed spawned by the rapid destruction of traditional thai values. others believe corruption may well be on the decline in thailand, but is merely getting greater exposure through a freer press and the efforts of prime minister prem tinsulanonda, who took office in 1980 and recently stepped up his anti-corruption drive
however, surin pitsuwan, a member of parliament, says prem has yet to move against powerful figures, including allegedly corrupt senior officers in the armed forces
there is a thai proverb which says: `you put fear into the monkeys by slaughtering the chickens,' '' surin said in an interview. ``the prime minister may only be able to go so far, but he is saying: `we should not be fatalistic about corruption. hey no, i'll show you something can be done.' ''
prem is a staunch royalist and it is said he was particularly incensed by disclosures that for 150,000 baht ($6,000) an application for a royal decoration could be processed _ complete with fake documents citing large donations to charity _ all the way to his own cabinet
also recently exposed was a massive racket involving officials and police in trat province near the cambodian border smuggling in vietnamese ``boat people,'' running guns and engaging in illegal trade with what is an enemy nation. the trat governor has resigned and six police officers have been transferred as the investigation continues
over the last five to 10 years morality has lost its force. it has been replaced by coveted status symbols,'' says dr. chira hongladarom, vice rector of bangkok's thammasat university. ``what reward does an honest person get in this society?''
but chira sees some hopeful signs. he and other analysts say corrupt officials must now move more cautiously and employ more subtle techniques than in the past
arrayed against the so-called ``influential people'' are a few apparently incorruptible officials, politicians and military men who have won wide admiration
one is chamlong srimuang, the mayor of bangkok, who donates his salary to charity, sleeps on the floor at home and wears simple clothing
the hero in the trat case is a low-ranking official named surachet supathit. according to newspaper accounts, he tried vainly to expose illegal activities to his superiors and refused a large bribe offered by ``influential people'' who wanted him to register six vietnamese refugees as thai nationals
shortly thereafter, two men entered his house, held his wife at gunpoint and shot him to death
today is sunday, march 6, the 66th day of 1988. there are 300 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 6, 1836, the alamo in san antonio, texas, fell to mexican forces after a 13-day siege. all 187 defenders of the mission compound, including davy crockett and james bowie, were killed
on this date:
in 1806, poet elizabeth barrett browning was born in durham, england
in 1834, the city of york in upper canada was incorporated as toronto
in 1853, verdi's opera ``la traviata'' premiered in venice, italy
in 1857, in its dred scott decision, the supreme court held that scott, a slave, could not sue for his freedom in a federal court
in 1933, a nationwide bank holiday declared by president franklin d. roosevelt went into effect
in 1935, retired supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes jr. died in washington
in 1944, u.s. bombers staged a daylight raid against berlin during world war ii
in 1957, the former british african colonies of the gold coast and togoland became the independent state of ghana
in 1967, the daughter of josef stalin, svetlana alliluyeva, appeared at the u.s. embassy in india and announced her intention to defect to the west
in 1981, walter cronkite signed off for the last time as anchorman of ``the cbs evening news.''
in 1982, author-philosopher ayn rand died in new york at age 77
in 1983, in a case that drew much notoriety, a woman in new bedford, mass., charged she had been gang-raped atop a pool table in a tavern called big dan's. two men were later convicted of the crime
ten years ago: president carter invoked the taft-hartley act in an effort to force striking soft-coal miners back to work. ``hustler'' magazine publisher larry flynt was shot and left crippled by a sniper outside a courthouse in lawrenceville, ga
five years ago: west german chancellor helmut kohl and his conservative coalition swept to victory in elections that also brought the greens, a pro-environment, anti-nuclear party into the lower house of parliament for the first time
one year ago: 189 people lost their lives when water rushed through the open bow doors of the ``herald of free enterprise,'' causing the british ferry to capsize off the belgian port of zeebrugge
today's birthdays: television personality ed mcmahon is 65. conductor sarah caldwell is 64. cia director william webster is 64. the chairman of the federal reserve, alan greenspan, is 62. the first woman in space, soviet cosmonaut valentina tereshkova, is 51. actor ben murphy is 46. actor-director rob reiner is 41
thought for today: ``the value of marriage is not that adults produce children, but that children produce adults.'' _ peter de vries, american author
today is monday, march 7, the 67th day of 1988. there are 299 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 7, 1926, the first successful trans-atlantic radio-telephone conversation took place, between new york and london
on this date:
in 1849, horticulturist luther burbank was born in lancaster, mass
in 1850, in a three-hour speech before the senate, daniel webster endorsed the compromise of 1850 as a means of preserving the union
in 1875, composer maurice ravel was born in cibourne, france
in 1876, alexander graham bell received a patent for his telephone
in 1911, the united states sent 20,000 troops to the mexican border as a precaution in the wake of the mexican revolution
in 1936, adolf hitler ordered his troops to march into the rhineland, thereby breaking the treaty of versailles and the locarno pact
in 1945, during world war ii, u.s. forces crossed the rhine river south of cologne, germany
in 1965, a march by civil rights demonstrators was broken up in selma, ala., by state troopers and a sheriff's posse
in 1975, the senate voted to revise its filibuster rule, allowing 60 senators to limit debate in most cases, instead of the previously required two-thirds of senators present
in 1986, former sen. jacob k. javits, r-n.y., died in palm beach, fla., at age 81
ten years ago: president carter welcomed yugoslav president tito to the white house, praising him as a ``true friend'' of the united states, thus reaffirming support for yugoslavia's role as a non-aligned communist state
five years ago: during a visit to guatemala, pope john paul ii made an impassioned appeal to the country's military leader, efrain rios montt, to protect human life and due process of law
one year ago: britain's queen elizabeth ii and prime minister margaret thatcher led their nation in grieving for the 189 people who died when a british ferry capsized off the belgian coast the day before, claiming 189 lives
today's birthdays: the former husband of britain's princess margaret, photographer lord snowdon, is 58. auto racer janet guthrie is 50. actor daniel j. travanti is 48. actor john heard is 43. rock singer peter wolf is 42. football player franco harris is 38. football player lynn swann is 36. tennis player ivan lendl is 28
thought for today: ``history is principally the inaccurate narration of events which ought not to have happened.'' _ ernest albert hooten, american anthropologist (1887-1954)
today is tuesday, march 8, the 68th day of 1988. there are 298 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 8, 1782, the gnadenhutten massacre took place as some 90 indians who had converted to christianity were murdered by militiamen in gnadenhutten, ohio, in retaliation for raids carried out by other indians
on this date:
in 1702, england's queen anne ascended the throne upon the death of william iii
in 1841, supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes jr. was born in boston
in 1854, commodore matthew c. perry made his second landing in japan. within a month, he concluded a treaty with the japanese
in 1874, the 13th president of the united states, millard fillmore, died in buffalo, n.y
in 1894, new york state enacted the first dog-licensing law in the nation
in 1917, the first of two russian revolutions began with rioting and strikes in st. petersburg
in 1917, the senate voted to limit filibusters by adopting the cloture rule
in 1930, the 27th president of the united states, william howard taft, died in washington
in 1942, the japanese captured rangoon, burma, during world war ii
in 1965, the united states landed about 3,500 marines in south vietnam
ten years ago: defense secretary harold brown assured visiting israeli defense minister ezer weizman of u.s. concern for israel's military security, but made no commitments on israel's bid for an additional $13.5 billion in arms
five years ago: the house foreign affairs committee endorsed a call for a nuclear weapons freeze with the soviet union. president reagan, addressing christian evangelists in orlando, fla., denounced the freeze proposal as a ``very dangerous fraud.''
one year ago: the emotional process of identifying victims from the british ferry disaster continued in zeebrugge, belgium, two days after the ``herald of free enterprise'' capsized, claiming 189 lives
today's birthdays: retired sen. jennings randolph, d-w.va., is 86. actress claire trevor is 79. actress-dancer cyd charisse is 67. actress sue ane langdon is 52. singer charley pride is 50. former baseball player and author jim bouton is 49. actress lynn redgrave is 45. actress susan clark is 44. actor mickey dolenz is 43. actress jaime lyn bauer is 39. baseball player jim rice is 35
thought for today: ``we must not waste life in devising means. it is better to plan less and do more.'' _ william ellery channing, american clergyman (1780-1842)
today is wednesday, march 9, the 69th day of 1988. there are 297 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 9, 1954, cbs newsman edward r. murrow critically reviewed wisconsin sen. joseph r. mccarthy's anti-communism campaign on the television program ``see it now.''
on this date:
in 1661, cardinal jules mazarin, the chief minister of france, died, leaving king louis xiv in full control
in 1796, napoleon bonaparte married josephine de beauharnais
in 1822, charles m. graham of new york was granted a patent for artificial teeth
in 1860, the first japanese ambassador to the united states, niimi buzennokami, and his staff arrived in san francisco
in 1862, during the civil war, the ironclads ``monitor'' and ``virginia'' (formerly ``merrimac'') clashed for five hours at hampton roads, va. neither vessel won
in 1916, mexican raiders led by pancho villa attacked columbus, n.m., killing more than a dozen people
in 1933, congress, called into special session by president franklin d. roosevelt, began its ``hundred days'' of enacting new deal legislation
in 1945, u.s. bombers launched incendiary bomb attacks on japan, causing widespread devastation. in tokyo, at least 120,000 people died
in 1964, in its ``new york times versus sullivan'' decision, the supreme court narrowed the definition of libel, ruling that a public official, in order to collect damages, must prove ``actual malice.''
in 1975, work began on the alaskan oil pipeline
in 1977, about a dozen armed hanafi moslems invaded three buildings in washington, killing one person and taking more than 130 hostages. the siege ended two days later
ten years ago: a federal judge ordered coal miners to report to work and temporarily end a 94-day strike under the taft-hartley act. the order was largely ignored, but a new contract settlement was reached a few days later
five years ago: anne m. burford resigned as head of the embattled environmental protection agency. president reagan expressed regret over burford's departure, saying she had been ``unjustly attacked.'' margaret heckler was sworn in as secretary of health and human services
one year ago: chrysler corp. announced it had agreed to buy the financially ailing american motors corp. for a total of $757 million in cash and stock
today's birthdays: author mickey spillane is 70. actress joyce van patten is 54. actor-comedian marty ingels is 52. actor raul julia is 48. actress trish van devere is 45. chess player bobby fischer is 45. actor emmanuel lewis is 17
thought for today: ``we do not acquire humility. there is humility in us _ only we humiliate ourselves before false gods.'' _ simone weil, french philosopher (1909-1943)
today is thursday, march 10, the 70th day of 1988. there are 296 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 10, 1876, alexander graham bell made the first telephone call, telling his assistant in an adjoining room in boston, ``mr. watson, come here. i want you.''
on this date:
in 1496, christopher columbus concluded his second visit to the new world as he left hispaniola for spain
in 1629, england's king charles the first dissolved parliament. he would not call it back for 11 years
in 1785, thomas jefferson was appointed minister to france, succeeding benjamin franklin
in 1848, the senate ratified the treaty of guadalupe hidalgo, ending the war with mexico
in 1864, ulysses s. grant became commander of the union armies in the civil war
in 1880, the salvation army arrived in the united states from england
in 1948, the anti-communist foreign minister of czechoslovakia, jan masaryk, plunged to his death in prague
in 1949, mildred e. gillars, who had made wartime broadcasts for the nazis under the name ``axis sally,'' was convicted of treason in washington
in 1969, james earl ray pleaded guilty in memphis, tenn., to the assassination of civil rights leader martin luther king junior. ray later repudiated that plea
in 1980, the author of the ``scarsdale diet,'' dr. herman tarnower, was shot to death at his home in purchase, n.y. jean harris was arrested and later convicted of the crime
in 1985, soviet leader konstantin u. chernenko died of emphysema as well as heart and liver complications at the age of 73
ten years ago: the government reported the nation's jobless rate fell in february, to a seasonally adjusted 6.1 percent, compared to 6.3 percent in january
five years ago: pope john paul ii returned to the vatican from an eight-day tour of central america, telling reporters aboard his special jet that his tour had been a ``great experience.''
one year ago: the vatican issued a 40-page document stating the roman catholic church's position on scientific techniques involving procreation. the document condemned such things as surrogate motherhood, test-tube births and cloning
today's birthdays: playwright david rabe is 48. newspaper columnist bob greene is 41. britain's prince edward is 24
thought for today: ``journalism largely consists in saying `lord jones is dead' to people who never knew lord jones was alive.'' _ g.k. chesterton, english writer (1874-1936)
today is friday, march 11, the 71st day of 1988. there are 295 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
one hundred years ago, on march 11, 1888, the famous ``blizzard of '88'' struck the northeastern united states. in the days that followed, some 400 people died as a result of the harsh weather
on this date:
in 1810, emperor napoleon of france was married by proxy to archduchess marie louise of austria
in 1847, john chapman, better known as ``johnny appleseed,'' died in allen county, ind
in 1861, the confederate convention in montgomery, ala., adopted a constitution
in 1865, during the civil war, union forces under general william t. sherman occupied fayetteville, n.c
in 1930, former president and chief justice william howard taft was buried in arlington national cemetery
in 1941, president franklin d. roosevelt signed into law the lend-lease bill, providing war supplies to countries fighting the axis
in 1942, during world war ii, general douglas macarthur left bataan for australia
in 1954, the u.s. army charged that wisconsin sen. joseph r. mccarthy and his subcommittee's chief counsel, roy cohn, had used pressure to obtain favored treatment for private g. david schine, a former consultant to the subcommittee
in 1965, a white boston minister, the rev. james j. reeb, died after being beaten by whites during civil rights disturbances in selma, ala
in 1977, more than 130 hostages held in washington by hanafi moslems were freed after ambassadors from three islamic nations joined the negotiations
in 1982, protesting his innocence, sen. harrison a. williams jr., d-n.j., resigned after 23 years in the senate rather than face expulsion in the wake of his ``abscam'' conviction
in 1985, the soviet union announced the death of its leader, konstantin u. chernenko, and said that politburo member mikhail s. gorbachev had been chosen to succeed him as communist party general secretary
ten years ago: 34 israelis were killed as palestinian guerrillas went on a bloody rampage on the tel aviv-haifa highway, commandeering vehicles and opening fire. nine of the 11 raiders were killed by army troops
five years ago: president reagan held a news conference in which he renewed his plea for $110 million in increased military aid to el salvador, saying the situation there was ``a threat to the western hemisphere, to our own security.''
one year ago: the house of representatives approved a resolution calling for a freeze on $40 million in aid for the nicaraguan contras for six months
today's birthdays: bandleader lawrence welk is 85. former british prime minister harold wilson is 72. civil rights leader ralph d. abernathy is 62. newspaper publisher rupert murdoch is 57. abc correspondent sam donaldson is 54. supreme court justice antonin scalia is 52
thought for today: ``among famous traitors of history, one might mention the weather.'' _ ilka chase, american author and actress (1905-1978)
today is saturday, march 12, the 72nd day of 1988. there are 294 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 12, 1912, juliette gordon low founded an organization in savannah, ga., called the girl guides, which later became the girl scouts
on this date:
in 1664, new jersey became a british colony as king charles ii granted land in the new world to his brother james, the duke of york
in 1925, chinese revolutionary leader sun yat-sen died
in 1930, mohandas k. gandhi began a 200-mile march to protest a british tax on salt
in 1932, the ``swedish match king,'' ivar kreuger, committed suicide in paris, leaving behind a financial empire that turned out to be worthless
in 1933, president franklin d. roosevelt gave the first of his ``fireside chats,'' telling americans in a radio broadcast what was being done to deal with the nation's financial crisis
in 1938, german troops entered austria, completing what adolf hitler described as his mission to restore his homeland (he had been born in branau) to the third reich
in 1939, pope pius xii was formally crowned in ceremonies at the vatican
in 1940, finland surrendered to the soviet union during world war ii
in 1947, president harry s. truman established what became known as the truman doctrine to help greece and turkey resist communism
in 1959, the house joined the senate in approving statehood for hawaii
in 1969, beatle paul mccartney married linda eastman in london
in 1980, a chicago jury found john wayne gacy guilty of the murders of 33 men and boys
ten years ago: israeli prime minister menachem begin held a news conference in which he denounced a palestinian guerrilla raid the day before that claimed the lives of 34 israelis, and hinted at retaliation for the ``architects of the bloodbath.''
five years ago: secretary of state george p. shultz opened a new diplomatic drive to get foreign armies out of lebanon as he met at the state department with lebanese foreign minister elie salem
one year ago: a federal judge in washington dismissed lawsuits by lt. col. colonel oliver north seeking to stop an independent counsel's investigation of his role in the iran-contra affair
today's birthdays: afl-cio president lane kirkland is 66. former astronaut wally schirra is 65. the president of argentina, raul alfonsin, is 61. playwright edward albee is 60. atlanta mayor andrew young is 56. former nbc newsman lloyd dobyns is 52. actress barbara feldon is 47. actress-singer liza minnelli is 42. singer-songwriter james taylor is 40
thought for today: ``my life needs editing.'' _ mort sahl, american comedian
with february's cold and snow past, gardeners are turning their thoughts to home-grown vegetables. while it may not be time to plant yet in most areas, some projects can be started right away
right now, the first thing they ought to do is decide what to grow and order the seeds,'' says charles a. mcclurg, a vegetable specialist with the university of maryland
while family preferences dictate most decisions, ``many people like to grow something new they've never tried,'' he said
there are always new varieties coming out. ones that have received the all-american selection award are those best adapted, and most commercial seed companies have them in their catalogs,'' he said. ``most people have better success with hybrids, even though they cost more.''
besides armchair gardening with catalogs, folks anxious to get to work can start soil preparation in their gardens as soon as the ground is dry enough. many still have plant supports and trellises in place, and this is the time to clean up and get the ground ready
about six weeks before the last frost is a good time to start seedlings indoors, mcclurg says, and cold weather vegetables like broccoli, cabbage and cauliflower can be started even sooner
any prepared starting mix with a combination of perlite and vermiculite plus peat moss is better than soil for starting seedlings,'' mcclurg said. ``you may need supplemental fertilizer a few weeks after plants start to grow.''
the biggest problem we have with people is light. they tend not to have adequate light in the house for transplants,'' he added
give the transplants full sun from the time that the seeds emerge. if you don't have a sunny window available, provide supplemental lighting with a grow lamp.''
avoid overwatering by allowing the soil surface to dry out between waterings
a temperature of 70 degrees to 75 degrees is best for germination and growth
a cold frame can be useful, mcclurg said, but you have to be careful not to let it get too hot on a sunny day. and make sure the plants are not subjected to freezing temperatures
container gardening is losing its popularity somewhat, he noted, but is ``still an excellent way to grow a few things for people without space. we suggest they make the containers as large as practical. they need adequate drainage, and should try to select plant types that are fairly small,'' he said
cool-season crops that can go in quite early include such vegetables as asparagus, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, celery, chives, endive, garlic, horseradish, rhubarb, kale, leek, lettuce, onions, garlic, parsley, parsnips, peas, potatoes, radishes, shallots, spinach and turnips
cabbage and head lettuce are best handled as transplants, mcclurg says, but never try to transplant peas
peas and radishes are very good short season crops, and should be seeded in successive groups to help assure a steady crop. later the same garden space can be used for a late season item
the first-run situation comedy may have peaked in the television syndication market, and ``reality'' programming _ talk and information shows _ seems to be the trend for the fall
the national association of television program executives has just concluded its 25th-anniversary convention in houston, and a number of the new programs being offered are reality based, such as ``usa today,'' a news show designed to be a tv version of the newspaper
an estimated 8,000 people attended the five-day meeting at the george r. brown convention center. the convention is the major arena for producers to show off their new programs and for station program executives to pick and choose syndicated shows for the next television season
altogether, between 300 and 400 shows are being offered to the program executives. the shows include reruns of network shows and packages of motion pictures
what i see is a movement toward reality programming,'' a. philip corvo, executive director of natpe said in an interview before leaving for the convention. ``it seems to be bigger than any move in that direction we've had in the past.''
other ``reality'' shows being offered include ``group one medical,'' from mgm, ``public people, private lives,'' from orbis communications, ``the howard cosell show,'' from casablanca, and ``on trial,'' from republic. ``usa today'' is from gtg entertainment
i think this trend will pick up speed if any of these shows are successful,'' said corvo. ``another trend i see is that some shows are leaning toward horror and science fiction.''
lorimar has ``nightmare on elm street'' and mca has ``the munsters,'' a revival of the horror spoof from the 1960s. already o the market are paramount's ``star trek'' and ``friday the 13th.'' another new show will be paramount's `war of the worlds,'' based on the novel by h.g. wells and the award-winning 1953 movie by george pal
mgm has 30 new episodes of ``the twilight zone,'' in addition to 64 vintage shows from the rod serling classic series
by far the most successful of the distributors is king world, which has ``wheel of fortune,'' ``jeopardy'' and ``the oprah winfrey show.''
there doesn't seem to be a dent in the popularity of those shows,'' said corvo. ``stations are buying them three or four years in advance. in the old days you never bought a game show more than a year in advance. most didn't last that long
the popularity of the original situation comedies has leveled off and may even be going into a decline. `the munsters' is the only new comedy show. stations tried a checkerboard arrangement with the comedies, with a different show each night, but they seem to be getting away from that. i think they'll go back to stripping game and reality shows (running them each night of the week). i think that's what grant tinker's looking for with `usa today.'''
that doesn't mean reruns of network comedies aren't selling, however
bill cosby is going into syndication in 1988 or '89 with the highest-priced off-network show in the history of television,'' said corvo. ```who's the boss?' is also going into syndication and that is getting some very high prices. in fact, the off-network stuff is so expensive that it's helping the sale of first-run syndicated shows. it's making them more attractive economically.''
corvo said he also sees renewed interest in hourlong, off-network shows, which have not done well in syndicated sales in recent years
the usa network has picked up `miami vice' and `murder, she wrote,''' he said. ``this is a cable network, but it programs just like an independent station and sells commercial time. it's just like a superstation.''
elsewhere in television:
for kids _ fourteen-year-old tina yothers of nbc's ``family ties'' is the host of the pbs special ``it shouldn't hurt to be a kid,'' which will be telecast on march 25. the show will look at the various problems teen-agers face growing up, from family troubles to alcohol to drugs to sex
presenters _ among the presenters announced for the 14th annual people's choice awards are danny devito, kirk douglas, howard hesseman, bronson pinchot and james stewart. the show will be presented live on sunday, march 13, on cbs
women in film _ the arts &amp; entertainment cable network is providing funding for the american film institute's directing workshop for women, a 14-year-old program whose alumni include dyan cannon, lee grant, marsha mason and joanne woodward. the program provides women directors with backing for videotape projects that may then get an airing on a&amp;e. ^by john cunniff</byline>
wherever it exists, rent control is an issue that splits public opinion, penetrating deep beneath individuals' mere political instincts into their philosophical marrow
it is viewed as the most effective protection the poor have against greedy landlords. it is seen by others as a violation of private property rights by governments that should, constitutionally, be protecting them
the issue attracts as much emotion as reason. in every city where it exists, it is defended as needed to protect the poor _ and simultaenously damned as the cause of inferior housing, and too little housing, for the poor
never dormant, the issue has been heated to a boil again by a feb. 24 supreme court ruling that seems to reaffirm a municipality's right to consider a tenant's finances before allowing or disallowing a rent increase
in the specific case, pennel v. city of san jose, calif., the court upheld the constitutionality of an ordinance in which a city official would deem whether or not a tenant could afford an increase of more than 8 percent
under the ordinance, if the city hearing officer so ruled, the allowable rent increase could be rolled back to 5 percent, plus an amount needed for improvements, maintenance and rehabilitation
landlords boiled over, since most have for years contended that their industry has been singled out for exceptional treatment, that treatment being an unconstitutional taking of private property _ that is, theirs
but, as usual, even the institution of the surpeme court couldn't deal with the issue without splitting sharply. chief justice william rehnquist wrote the majority opinion, but justice antonin scalia wrote a scathing critique
said rehnquist: ``we have long recognized that a legitimate and rational goal of price or rate regulation is the protection of consumer welfare.'' but in scalia's view, such regulation permits unfair transfers of wealth
moreover, said scalia, these wealth transfers have added dimensions that make them cause for additional concern
they are, for instance, relatively invisible, he said. they have ``relative immunity from normal democratic processes.'' and as a consequence, they allow government to subsidize a social group ``off budget.''
the national association of realtors filed a brief that added a practical dimension. rent control, it said, it inherently irrational, since it exacerbates rather than relieves a shortage of affordable housing
the nar can support its contentions with independent studies; it is no secret to anyone familiar with rent control that it scares apartment builders away and can cause landlords to abandon properties
those who defend rent control contend that theirs is the best way since, as they see it, those members of society who need protection are granted it, while landlord interests are secured by regular and fair, albeit limited, increases
but william north, nar executive vice president, states that the court has ``created the ultimate oxymoron: compulsory charity.'' rental hardship cases, he argues, are a responsibility of the community, not just of landlords
danny the red, leader of student revolts in france and west germany in the 1960s, jokingly says he was never quite as leftist as his nickname implied
they only meant my hair color,'' said daniel cohn-bendit, referring to his rust-colored hair during an interview in his frankfurt office. ``i've always been an anti-communist, more of one than reagan.''
he's now 42 years old and an active member of west germany's anti-establishment, environmentalist greens party _ the moderate wing _ and publishes a left-leaning regional magazine in frankfurt
he ran unsuccessfully for mayor of frankfurt in 1986 in a purely symbolic move, he said. but he is considering seriously running for frankfurt's city council next year
cohn-bendit has also become an author. a collection of interviews with other 1960s activists around the world was published in west germany in september
american activists featured in the book include jerry rubin and abbie hoffmann, leading yippies of the era, and the black panther activist, bobby seale
the book, ``we loved it so, the revolution,'' portrays rubin as a yippie-turned-yuppie and seale as hoping for commercial success as a cookbook author
his book isn't the only look back: west germany's news media have carried numerous articles on the tumultuous times of 1968
cohn-bendit said that he has basically remained true to many views he had 20 years ago
i believe that i can still legitimize everything i do from my standpoint in 1968,'' cohn-bendit said
as a moderate member of the greens, cohn-bendit favors forming coalitions with west germany's liberal social democratic party, which the greens' radical wing opposes. nor does cohn-bendit favor a west german withdrawal from nato, as some of the radicals do
west german militarization is more dangerous on its own than embedded in a larger context,'' he said. ``that's the lesson of world war ii.''
cohn-bendit has always been a figure who defied traditional national, political, and religious labels. he was born in montauban, france, on april 4, 1945, the son of german jews who fled hitler's persecution in the 1930s
his parents moved to west germany when cohn-bendit was 13. in 1961 cohn-bendit became a west german citizen
i did it only for pragmatical reasons,'' he said. ``i didn't want to serve in the military.''
jews whose parents or siblings were persecuted under the nazis are by west german law exempted from the country's mandatory military service
cohn-bendit, who speaks french and german fluently, said he doesn't assign his national identify to either country. as a french citizen, he would have been subject to the military draft in france
i'm just me. i'm not german or french,'' he added. ``i don't need a national definition.''
cohn-bendit's views have led to occasional flaps with frankfurt's jewish community. in a highly publicized dispute in 1985 he publicly supported the city playhouse in presenting a play by rainer werner fassbinder, which many jews wanted banned as anti-semitic
in the feb. 18 issue of his magazine ``pflasterstrand,'' cohn-bendit described himself as a ``convinced anti-zionist.''
in the interview, he said he favored the existence of israel but also a separate palestinian state and ``a limitation of zionism.''
tenants' housing rights and terrorist amnesty are among other issues that have made cohn-bendit a household name
but the era that propelled the activist to world fame, the 1960s, is a topic cohn-bendit said he no longer wants to talk a lot about
in his book, originally published in france, he writes that people have used him ``like a machine that turns back time.''
cohn-bendit captured world attention as a university student in france, at a time when youth protests were rocking the globe
he was a spokesman for students whose demands included greater social equality and an end to war, in vietnam and elsewhere. danny the red became the leader of paris' tumultuous _ and occasionally bloody _ student revolts
we had the will to change our lives, to participate in history right at the moment it happened,'' cohn-bendit writes of his revolutionary days
in may 1968 french authorities expelled him from the country on grounds of disturbing the peace. the ban was not officially lifted until 1978, cohn-bendit wrote in his book
cohn-bendit lives with his girl friend, but he said he doesn't intend to get married
it was 4 a.m., and the line of brazilians seeking tourist visas had already formed outside the u.s. consulate in rio de janeiro. it started near the front door and before long wound around the corner
ever since the brazilian government on jan. 1 rescinded a 25-percent surtax on overseas airplane tickets and on u.s. dollars purchased for foreign travel, the consulate has been besieged with visa requests
on this particulary morning, one man in the line _ he refused to give his name _ had no intention of going to disneyworld or looking out over new york city from the top of the empire state building. he was there, he said, because he can sell his place in line later for 10,000 cruzados _ about $100
the desire of brazilians to travel to the united states is growing, not only because it is cheaper nowadays, but because at least some hope to stay there, even if illegally
in 1987 the number of those seeking u.s. visas averaged 300 a day. now it is 450, sometimes more than 600
there has been an increased demand for services, but our resources have not expanded accordingly,'' clyde bishop, the head of the consular section, said in an interview
the consulate has just one u.s.foreign service officer to handle non-immigrant visas
me,'' bishop said
the result is delay, and grumbling and dissatisfaction on both sides
our people are working 10 to 12 hours a day processing visas,'' bishop said. ``often they go without lunch.''
the consulate's air conditioning broke down recently, and the temperature inside reached 100 degrees
the situation is serious,'' said oscar dalsenter, president of the brazilian association of travel agencies. ``we have people with reserved flights and booked hotels who miss their trips because of the visa delay,''
most of the visa seekers are legitimate travelers, happy about the repeal of the tax and hoping to take advantage of cheap charter flights to the united states
a brazilian can fly to disneyworld in florida and back in a charter group for $650. the normal round-trip economy fare from rio de janeiro to miami is $1,600
the price drops even more if a tourist _ ticket and visa in hand _ decides to buy the permitted $1,000 for foreign travel at the official government exchange rate. near the end of february, for example, a traveler could have bought the $1,000 for 97,000 brazilian cruzados and immediately sold the dollars back in rio's loosely controlled black market for 121,000 cruzados. the profit then goes to offset the cost of the plane ticket
but some in the lines are brazilians hoping to use tourist visas to stay in the united states as illegal aliens. the u.s. state department has reported that the number of illegal brazilians in the united states recently has been on the rise
according to newspaper polls, a growing number of brazilians want to leave the country for good because of serious economic and political problems
among the measures the u.s. consulate has taken is to require potential tourists to show proof of income to pay for an american vacation. it also has stopped issuing visas assigned just to ``the bearer'' and requires photographs with each application. all this has slowed the process
the prime duty of a consular officer is to make sure foreigners do not get into the united states under fraudulent pretenses,'' bishop said. ``on the other hand, u.s. policy is to facilitate matters for legitimate tourists who want to visit our country. so we have to carefully go over each request.''
the travel agents have proposed, and the consulate is considering, separate visa handling, en masse, two days a week for brazilian passports submitted by registered travel agencies
the travel agents association has promised to police its own ranks
dalsenter, the association's president, maintained the travel agencies' proposal would reduce the confusion in the visa lines and discourage the selling of places
bishop said, ``we have heard reports of money changing hands out there, but we have no concrete proof.''
it goes on every day,'' dalsenter said. ``everybody knows it.''
on the day an associated press reporter and photographer arrived at the consulate at 4 a.m., no one on line would agree to be interviewed or give his or her name. many turned their backs or covered up documents they were holding
a brazilian policeman then came by and chased away the photographer, citing reasons of ``security.'' photo, 1 drawing. colorfoto subscribers get 2 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ with civilization encroaching on the amazon rain forest at the rate of 80,000 square miles a year, ap special correspondent hugh a. mulligan decided he'd better go see the world's longest river before it's too late. here's his journal of a recent cruise 1,200 miles up the amazon on a small passenger ship
aaaah-yeeee-haaaaa.'' tarzan cries upstage the incessant caw of birds, the chatter of monkeys and peeping of frogs in the vine-tangled rain forest
in the morning mist on the amazon river, dozens of dugout canoes dart out from a thatched village hugging the muddy bank, where a scrawny pig and a few frazzled chickens scurry beneath the banana trees
the cries of the canoeists, paddling furiously toward us with what seemed to be long-handled, gaily painted pingpong paddles, brought out more boats from houses on stilts farther upstream and in the side creeks
they come to greet us but also to keep their boats from being smashed against those little wooden docks by our bow wave,'' says capt. harry biehl, looking down from the bridge wing of the 10,000-ton mv berlin, a small west german passenger ship
most of the 270 passengers desert morning bouillon on the lido deck to hug the rails with their cameras and shower down chocolate bars, fruit from the dining room, soap from their cabins, cigarettes and ball point pens in plastic bags on the indian families, from toothless grandmothers down to the tiniest infants, bobbing about in the mini-armada that soon slid by in our churning wake
around the next bend, where a generator throbs and a tv antenna rises improbably above the flame and rubber trees, the excited yells of a small boy out on the landing empties out the clapboard casa de sao jeronimo mission, leaving the preacher waiting at the altar on a steamy sunday morning, as his parishoners took to their boats
what next?
first came the conquistadors, dropouts from francisco pizarro's expedition against the incas. then the bandeirantes, the slave traders, followed by the diamond hunters and the garimpeiros, the gold prospectors. next the rubber barons, who were crueler and greedier than the slavers, then the loggers and ranchers, soon joined by the industrialists and power dam builders, chewing up the rain forest with their voracious machines at the rate of 80,000 square miles a year
and now tourists
the amazing amazon, the widest, wettest and, so national geographic now affirms, the longest river in the world (4,007 miles, 51 longer than the nile), boasts the longest snake, the most venomous viper, the biggest rat, beetle and ant, along with razor-toothed piranhas that can reduce a brahman steer to raw bones in minutes and electric eels delivering 640 volts, enough to drive a metro-north commuter train. this surging, swarming stream, veined by 1,000 tributaries, that on its majestic march from the andes to the atlantic carries one-fifth of the fresh water discharged into the sea by all rivers of the world, now has seen it all
tourists, yet. no wonder the crocodiles stared with jaws agape from the seclusion of gigantic victoria regia lily pads, and the pumas and jaguars fled into the forest fastness
the strange thing is that our mini-liner, small enough to navigate the amazon's side channels, avoiding the freighter and barge traffic in the broad mainstream, was as much a novelty to the natives unencumbered by cameras as they were to us
smiling and wide-eyed, they swarmed about with blowguns, javelins, bows and arrows to sell for only a few dollars or barter for the clothes off your back. mask makers, a declining skill, offered replicas of the palm fiber yagua headdress, framed with shoulder-length blonde braids, that erroneously gave the amazon its name. gaspar de caravaj, a dominican friar who accompanied the conquistadores in 1541, mistook the local tribesmen in their shoulder-length headdresses for women warriors. in his journal he gave the name amazon to the river, after the lady legionnaires of greek legend, writing of ``battling warrior women who fought as 10 indian men.''
the tourist incentive is to see it all before it is too late
the forest is all gone south of here. who knows what will be left by the end of the century?'' lamented serafim bastedo, a dock crane operator at belem, 90 miles from the mouth, the largest city on the amazon
now a city of l.2 million, with 24-story high-rise apartments, a huge manganese plant, open-pit iron mines, modern hospitals and a six-lane highway to brasilia 1,000 miles to the south, belem is a boom town of jarring contrasts
the luxurious hilton hotel is flanked by side streets of narrow portuguese houses, a door and two windows wide, out of the l7th century. its shopping district pulsates to a samba beat broadcast at top volume from municipal loudspeakers
brazilians can't live without noise,'' serafim shouts over the din
the yacht club shares the riverfront with a rickety fishing fleet out of another century, jungle medicine stalls selling dried snakeskins filled with herbs, bones and feathers, and a sprawling outdoor market with hundreds of tarpaulin-covered restaurants redolent of roasting cassava and pato no tucupi, duck stewed in a tangy yellow soup. on the far shore lies marajo island, bigger than denmark, rangeland for 400,000 brahman cattle
belem's excellent goeldi nature preserve keeps alive in a jungle setting the amazon's more bizarre residents: the 38-foot-long anaconda, the deadly bushmaster, the endangered manatee, the 4-foot-long rat called the capybara, exotically plumed and beaked parrots and toucans, long-tailed squirrel monkeys and lumbering, leathery tapirs, the brazilian mammal that looks like the love child of dumbo and miss piggie
a few miles upstream the street lights vanish and the rain forest resumes
two brazilian pilots, sharing four-hour shifts, keep watch for shifting sandbars, sudden current shifts where tributaries enter and the writhing limbs of partially submerged trees toppled from the eroding red clay banks as we negotiate the narrow breves-macacos channel
like the mississippi, the river is always changing,'' observed first officer andreas jungblut, who has taken freighters up to baton rouge, la. ``but in the amazon there are no buoys or channel markers, except for a rare light marking a sharp bend.''
at least,'' adds capt. biehl, ``there are no bridges to worry about all the way to peru.''
flocks of yellow-bellied birds called bem-ti-vi, ``i see you,'' dart along the shore, and baldheaded vultures with enormous wingspreads glide lazily overhead in the faint equatorial air currents. the sailor on bow watch spots a trio of red freshwater dolphins frisking just ahead
night brings the telegraph-wire whine of cicadas, the shrieking of nocturnal dourcouli monkeys, a sudden boom of thunder or another falling tree, a solitary silver nighthawk soaring beneath the southern cross and, so the first mate insists, the mating yowl of a jaguar
sunrise finds some passengers down on all fours photographing the huge moths, fat beetles and slant-faced grasshoopers attracted to our decks. a barman shimmies up the radio mast to pin a mammoth purple and gold butterfly for his collection
before noon, the city of santarem, 700 miles from the sea, breaks the monotony of forest and savanna. settled by confederate veterans of the civil war, this gateway to the gold fields has false-front cafes right out of the american west, signboarded with names like higgins, jackson and macdonald
a torrential downpour cancels a barbecue at alter do chao, a nearby pink ribbon of beach. then a rainbow arches over the river, and the berlin lowers her motor launches so passengers can swim in the amazon and walk out for nearly a mile on a narrow, curling sandbar
where have all the piranhas gone?'' an elderly lady inquires
fled for their lives,'' answers ship's surgeon heinz wehselau
next morning the boats are lowered again for a visit to boca de valeria, a native village of thatched huts on stilts and a red mud trail through tangled wetlands teeming with exotic flowers, brilliantly plumed birds and strange insects, like a 4-inch-long crawling something brightly banded in black and yellow with a red head and tail. the landing party returns with bows and arrows, spears and a variety of tick and mosquito bites
some 1,200 miles up river, just below manaus, nature stages a spectacular for the film buffs on board. on our left, the coffee-brown solimoes river, flowing a mile wide out of lush lowlands, meets the broad black rio negro, fed far upstream by the snows of the andes
for a dozen miles they flow side by side without mingling, like competing oil slicks. the banks of the solimoes swarm with leeches and insects, while the rio negro is almost pest free
even the fish swim aloof in their different colored currents,'' the brazilian pilot informs us
the two eventual mix at the ``wedding of the waters'' to form the amazon's final surge to the sea
at manaus, the berlin ties up to the floating dock built by british engineers at the turn of the century and assembled piece by piece to accommodate the 45-foot rise and fall of the river
the custom house and ``little ben,'' the clock chiming in the plaza before the cathedral, also were prefabricated in europe in the days when rubber was king and manaus glittered like the el dorado dreamed of by the conquistadors
workmen were busy restoring the italian frescoes in the gold-domed teatro amazonas, the 1,000-seat opera house that showcased jenny lind, the ballet russe and string quartets playing liszt for the rubber barons, whose decaying mansions are now subdivided into tenements. in 1910, manaus boasted french modistes, british tailors, 15 miles of streetcar track and cafes with fountains gushing champagne
such luxury in the middle of a rain forest was purchased at a terrible price in human suffering. the indians who tapped the white latex from the wild rubber trees were kept in virtual peonage by their white and mestizo patrones
penned up at night, underpaid for their labor, overcharged at the company store, often sick with malaria and dengue fever, the tappers were kept to a quota by guards armed with clubs and guns. the first failure to meet the quota resulted in a beating. the tapper lost an ear for the second failure, his other ear for the third and was killed for the fourth
international commissions met to protest the brutality. then henry wickham, a british biologist, solved the problem by smuggling out seeds of the wild rubber tree to the royal botanical gardens at kew for cultivation as a plantation crop in the malaysian states
by 1915, the boom was over. cheaper, asian rubber dominated the market. manaus receded to a town on stilts at the water's edge with suburbs of ``flutuantes,'' floating houses, as the rain forest reclaimed the cobblestone streets leading to the candy-colored villas on the cliffs
but now with an oil refinery, a 60,000-ton steel plant, huge sawmills and government-decreed duty-free shops to bolster its economy, manaus is making a comeback. jumbo jets fly in daily from miami and rio
the sprawling tropical hotel, cleared from the jungles along the rio negro, is attracting conventions from around the world, along with jet setters and antwerp diamond dealers to its arcade of boutiques and jewelry stores
at the height of the rubber boom, 400 passenger ships a year left liverpool for manaus
two or three cruise ships a month call here now, but we are hoping for many more,'' says godfrey springer from tooting bec outside of london who settled in the amazon with his brazilian wife. he makes his living taking tourists up the side creeks of the solimoes in a frail putt-putt boat to view crocodiles lurking among the victoria regia lily pads, broad enough for a small, brave child to use as a float for sun bathing
one would think that like joseph conrad's hero, mr. kurtz, the natives would cry, ``the horror, the horror,'' at the first sight of tourists invading the heart of their dark rain forest. instead they smile and offer snakeskin handbags and masks made of turtle shells that will certainly be confiscated by u.s. customs agents
the amazon indeed has seen it all
belem, brazil _ some droll, delightful or deadly denizens of the amazon rain forest:
anaconda _ the world's super snake, a 38-foot constrictor that suffocates rather than crushes its prey, the distinction usually being lost on the victim
bushmaster _ twelve feet of vicious, venomous viper
capybara _ king rat, 4 feet from pointy nose to lack of a tail
crested toucan _ birdland's pinocchio, the perennial cover star of nature magazines and travel folders
dinoponera gigantea _ world's biggest ant at 1{ inches long
electric eel _ it's a carp, not an eel, delivering 640 volts, enough to power a commuter train. indians believe its most jarring jolt is saved for fishermen who catch more than they need
fer-de-lance _ hissing cousin of the copperhead, but faster and fiercer with the fang
jaguar _ this loud-mouthed cat out-roars and out-runs the larger lion and tiger
manatee _ harmless, hapless and hunted, a flippered, whale-tailed mammal that grazes on waterlilies; known locally as the sea cow
morpho didius _ monarch of all the butterflies with a 7-inch wingspread
peccary _ a red-eared distant relation of the wild hog, cute but pugnacious
paiche _ a 400-pound catfish, succulent but seldom pan-ready
piranha _ only 4 to 15 inches, these ravenous, razor-toothed fish, with a school enrollment into the thousands, can skeletonize a cow or a cowhand in a matter of minutes
tapir _ a lumbering, leathery mixture of hog and rhino that's got to be seen, but not up too closely, to be believed
three-toed sloth _ upside down tree-snoozing quadruped of legendary lethargy; may be self-endangered for preferring siesta to sex
titanus giganteus _ a half-foot long, hard-shelled beetle, the global giant of its genus
vampire bat _ count dracula's late-night drinking buddy with a thirst for blood light; its dagger-sharp central incisors spread rabies throughout the amazon. photos. colorfoto subscribers get 2 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ when it comes to finding homes for orphaned pets, the north shore animal league is big league indeed. a combination of operational savvy, a gift for fund raising, and large doses of affection for its charges enable the league to place more than 40,000 cats and dogs each year, including animals regularly rescued from the pound
mehitabel, a calico cat, arrived by taxi from new york city with a $100 bill around her neck. the note asked the north shore animal league to find her a good home
the anonymous owner knew that this non-profit organization, totally supported by voluntary contributions, never destroys an animal
others do not arrive in such style. they are simply tied outside in the cold of night. no note, no donation, just a trusting dog waiting for an owner's return, a return that will never happen. that final pat, if there was one, was goodbye
and if that's not enough to handle, north shore has five vans that daily go to dog pounds to rescue animals on ``death row.'' the league spends $60,000 a year in pound fees alone gathering the doomed. some of them, anyway
what sets the north shore animal league apart from other equally noble operations throughout the country is sheer volume. its directors say it places more animals in homes than any other shelter in the world. consider these statistics:
_it placed more than 43,000 animals in 1987, although it can only kennel 400 animals at a time, with another 100 in its foster home system
_an animal's average stay at the league is less than three days
_the kennel operation runs a $3.5 million deficit each year, but its creative fund raising and direct-mail campaigns pull in $5 million
_the league spends half a million dollars a year placing ads and mails out over 30 million pleadings to potential donors each year
_it is open 12 hours a day, seven days a week
_the average contribution by adopters is $17
despite the good work, the league's animal-loving staff is quick to point out that their effort scarcely makes a dent in the slaughter of unwanted pets in this country
the american humane society, based in denver, estimates that about 20 million unwanted dogs and cats are put to death each year
the league works hard to educate people to neuter their pets and its credo is that there is no such thing as an unadoptable animal. it's their job to match the right animal with the right person. they matched a deaf dog with a deaf woman who was not only able to teach it tricks by hand signals, she also taught it to bark, just as she had been taught to talk
while the great majority of their animals are perfectly healthy, the league has managed to place three-legged dogs, a 12-year-old newfoundland, a giant pyrennees that couldn't walk and a cat with a bladder problem. on one freezing day recently, a cat lover named donna taffen of queens came in and asked for the least adoptable cat. she took home a 7-month old calico with a prolapsed eye
when an animal has been here for a while, the associates ask me to help. if i can get its picture in the paper or call it `pet of the week,' that usually works,'' says betty rosenzweig, the director of adoptions who has worked at the shelter for nearly 20 years
she's also a born saleswoman as she roams the compound, with praise for this dog or that cat
we are all salesmen in a sense, except that our commission is the satisfaction that up to 300 dogs and cats are adopted on some days,'' says michael arms, director of operations
some big hound and shepherd mixes, all-americans as the league calls the non-breed, have been waiting five or six months. but, the league knows eventually someone will fall for one of these big mongrels
some breeds, like yorkshire terriers and poodles, move so fast they often never see the inside of a cage. ditto purebred persian and siamese cats
alan cooper, 24-year-old graduate student in psychology and currently kennel manager, says that when he walked in the league five years ago, it was the best thing he ever did
he has seen cruelty and animal abuse, but also nobility he never expected
one man came in one day and asked for the ugliest dog we had. he wanted to adopt it and he did,'' recalls cooper. ``actually, was a 5- or 6-year-old terrier mix and it was so ugly, it was almost cute.''
another asked for the dog that had been there the longest. another requested the fattest cat. a blind man specified he wanted the dog with the most beautiful eyes.   
when cooper began here, he drove one of the vans that rescue doomed dogs from the pounds. workers on that duty usually burn out quickly, he said
they're told they can only bring 10 dogs back and the pound might have 40 dogs that are going to be put to sleep. it's awful to make that choice,'' he says. ``they usually bring back 14 instead of 10, but they know there is no room for all 40.''
the north shore animal league is truly a national organization. contributions and animals come in from many parts of the country, and because of the league's reputation, people often adopt their pets here while on vacation
the not-so-secret ingredients behind its success are alex and babette lewyt, a well-to-do couple who came to port washington to retire in the late '60s. lewyt made his fortune as an inventor, with 200 patents to his credit, including the lewyt vacuum cleaner. babette lewyt took one look at the old north shore league, a down-at-the-heels operation that was about to go under, and set out to transform it
both of them would work here from dawn to dusk, cleaning out cages, and doing everyting that needed to be done,'' says ms. rosenzweig. ``he took out the first ad in the new york times under the adoption columns, advertising a free golden retriever and some other purebreds. the ad cleared out the shelter
in business since 1944, the physical plant is not much to look at _ a gerrymandered hodgepodge of rooms with cages stacked atop each other. it's on a side street in a long island bedroom community some 20 miles from manhattan. the original building was donated by a san francisco woman. one individual left the league $200,000 in a will
the league has strict guidelines. one out of five potential adopters are turned down. it is no coincidence that the man working the parking lot is an off-duty policeman. punches have been thrown when someone was rejected
besides precautions, there is a ``dowry,'' including a leash, collar, id tag, starting food, a training book and a 30-day health insurance policy. but they also check references right there on the spot, making one area resemble a bookie operation. on occasion, they make on-site follow-up calls. this accounts for a return rate of only 6 percent
arms, partial to newfoundlands, worried when his favorite was adopted by a queens couple. he drove by the house and found the dog chained outside on cement with the new owners at work. an 8-foot cyclone fence enclosed the area
arms telephoned the pair, fibbing about a faulty blood test, and asked the couple to bring the dog in for further checking. then he snatched the newfie back and delivered a lecture to the highly displeased couple
arms can be a tough guy when it comes to rescuing dogs. when he worked for the american society for the prevention of cruelty to animals in the bronx, he was stabbed by three men who were betting on how long a wounded dog would live. they objected to arms' interference with the outcome
the league also backs their orphans. for $15 you can bring your dog back for obedience training for as long as it needs it. such training can cost as much as $50 an hour elsewhere
the league will also neuter your animal for a token fee _ $30 for a female, $20 for a male. ``and if you can't afford that, it gets even cheaper,'' says arms. ``free.''
once in a while, workers let instinct replace checking
such was the case with bruce and monsita abramski and their three children of central islip, n.y
both adults were experienced dog owners, the children all loved grandma's dog, and they were about to move into a larger and more secluded home where mrs. abramski would be all alone with the kids. they wanted a puppy to grow up with the kids, but mature into a big watchdog
they settled on a chubby, big-boned, mostly black pup, about 6 weeks old, with telltale big paws, and to judge by looking, lots of shepherd genes
jessica, the eldest at 8, took over as family spokesperson and declared the puppy would be named ``tramp.''
we will all vote on the name,'' her father corrected as six little hands all reached in unison to pet the new addition, whose sad brown eyes looked a bit overwhelmed
monsita abramski shook her head
do you think the puppy is up to these kids?''
if puppies are puppies and kids are kids, mrs. abramski, it's a sure thing. illustration.)</note>

editor's note _ there are still a lot of lakes and mountains and such in alaska without proper names, but not because no one has any ideas. naming geographic features simply gets bogged down in red tape, with both state and federal agencies to satisfy. and some of the suggestions seem frivolous at best
a fisherman's pet dog dies, dead blackfish are found floating on a lake, a college student loses his a skiff in a storm, british paratroopers scale an alaskan peak
those are some of the events that inspired requests from people who want the state of alaska to name a lake, stream, creek, island, mountain or some other landmark in honor of someone or something
don lallemand from the state of washington buried his dog mitzi on an unnamed southeast alaska island 12 years ago. he wrote the state geographic board in 1986 asking that the two-acre island be named in honor of mitzi
we buried a small dog who had traveled with us for years aboard the boat and loved the area as much as we do,'' he wrote
lallemand included a picture showing the sign he posted on the island, naming it for mitzi. he plants flowers and trees near the grave site every year
but lallemand has not heard anything from the state board in the two years since he submitted his request. ``we're very disappointed,'' he says
he is not alone
the board has almost 100 requests on file, waiting for action
the board last met in august. before that, it met in march 1985
we are swamped,'' says gladyce williamson, secretary to the board
williamson serves as secretary to the state community and regional affairs commissioner, who chairs the geographic board. she said there is no extra staff for the board, and she must process the applications while also handling her regular duties for the commissioner
the eight-member board, comprised of state officials and one public appointee, reviewed 10 requests at the august meeting. ``the federal people had really been pushing and really wanted some action on the oldest cases,'' williamson says
the oldest cases date back six or seven years, she says
all recommendations from the state board go to the u.s. domestic geographic names board for final approval
one of the priority cases was a request from the u.s. army corps of engineers to name a mountain near the interior brooks range for a federal geologist. his name is reuben kachadoorian. for ease of pronunciation, williamson said, the corps proposed reuben's peak
most requests come from individuals, not government agencies. some landowners get upset when the board refuses to allow them to name features on their own property
a home-site owner had asked that a lake be named for dead blackfish found floating on the surface. his nomination of deadfish lake southwest of fairbanks was deferred by the board
homesteaders north of anchorage want to pick their own name for a small lake on their property. ``we felt it was not only our responsibility to the community, but also our privilege to name a feature on our property,'' they wrote in their nominating letter
the backlog of nominations includes the expected personal requests such as otto's lake and moore's mountain, and also some unexpected ones
in 1985 a 24-year-old college student from the lower 48 wrote a sad tale of losing _ and finding _ a skiff while crab fishing in the aleutian islands
his crew lost their skiff in a storm and then recovered it. ``now, when we happen to anchor at this cove, we affectionately refer to it as skiff cove.''
the board also deferred action on skiff cove
williamson said nominations must meet certain criteria to win the board's approval. commemorative names get the most thorough review
_the person for whom the feature is to be named must be dead at least one year
_the application must include a biography and the person's length of stay in alaska
_the nomination must have local support and the native corporation in the area must be consulted
the person must have made a substantial contribution to a city or the state or their rural area,'' williamson says
some commemorative requests appear to fall a little short of that criterion
a small creek northeast of fairbanks has been nominated as pete bloom pup, after a trapper who killed himself in 1937
according to the nominating letter and a 1937 newspaper article accompanying the request, pete bloom had fallen into the ice and knew that even if he lived he would lose his hands and feet to frostbite. ``he took a snare and put it around his neck and then attached it to his dog sled. he then told his dogs to mush, thereby choking himself to a fast death.''
a kenai peninsula resident wants the board to name a lake in the kenai national moose range as dangerous lake. the person had once found a cow moose near the lake, killed by a bear, and must have figured it was a dangerous spot to be
a fairbanks resident wants a waterway near the dalton highway named solitude creek
this wayward wandering hall of wonder does not entertain the aspects of fear, only unpolluted silence. this is a fitting name as it will no doubt draw others who will be searching for that very avenue of adventure.''
an anchorage resident nominated tranquility lake northwest of town
a kenai resident likes the name of the greek goddess of the sea
giving a lesson in mythology the person wrote, ``thetis, the mother of achilles, saved him by hanging onto his foot and the lake is shaped like a foot.'' therefore, he proposes the name lake thetis
never mind that thetis is also the kenai man's first name
a 12,060-foot peak in denali national park was scaled in 1956 by members of a british parachute regiment. the regiment's symbol is pegasus, the flying horse
although the regiment may have named the peak in their honor, the federal review board in 1985 rejected pegasus peak. the state geographic board still has the file open
tired of butterfly lake and butterfly creek, of which there are several in the state, one nominee suggested the french name for the insect _ papillon pond
even children get into the act. ``my daughter thought of the name after my mustache and a moose,'' said a proud parent in asking that the state name a small lake moosestache lake. illustration.)</note>

editor's note _ it's the southernmost inhabited point in canada, an island on lake erie virtually isolated in the winter. but the island's population has dwindled as farms become more mechanized and today local officials are looking for ways to keep the young folks at home
they sometimes call it canada's key west, but until the spring thaw comes, the 195 year-round residents of pelee island on ice-crusted lake erie are virtually cut off from the outside world
from mid-december, when the last tourist boats head home, until the ice pack breaks up in late march, commuter flights to windsor, ontario, and sandusky, ohio, are the only direct link with the mainland
pelee island, 16 miles south of the canadian mainland and 22 miles north of sandusky, is the southernmost inhabited point in canada
the only problem with pelee island is you either love it or hate it,'' says donna olsen, who runs a bait and tackle shop with her husband, svend. the olsens are among the year-round residents of the island, 11,000 acres of farmland, scrub and beaches
about 300 people consider it their primary residence and up to 1,500 people crowd its 17 square miles during the summer, when the ferries mv pelee islander and mv upper canada ply their regular routes between the island, kingsville and leamington, ontario, and sandusky
visitors are few in the winter months, mostly small groups of hunters who want to make use of one of the few decent spots within hundreds of miles for shooting pheasant
i don't have an attitude that it's an isolated place,'' says helen mccormick, owner of the pelee passage restaurant, which offers the island's only year-round food service
the island's hotel, motel, bar and other two restaurants close for the winter
the pelee passage restaurant is the site of a tuesday night card game and the canadian legion hall hosts a friday night gathering
seated at the restaurant one recent afternoon were four pheasant hunters who had flown over that morning on the six-passenger piper navajo that makes twice-daily flights to the island
we're friends and we go up north every fall, moose hunting and bear hunting,'' says dudley sparks of merlin, ontario
if you want to hunt pheasant, you have to go to pelee,'' said one of his companions, gary ryckman of muirkirk, ontario
farming has dominated the economy of pelee island since the first european settlers arrived in the 1820s. while fields of soy beans, wheat and corn still cover about 7,000 acres, the population has dropped sharply as mechanization has increased the acreage one farmer can plant and harvest
there were close to 1,000 people here when i was growing up,'' says don gow, a retired postmaster born on the island in 1902. ``if you had 50 acres and a team of horses, you were pretty busy all summer. if you work it with a tractor, that's a day's work.''
more typical today is the 540-acre spread farmed by bill krestel, the ``reeve'' or supervisor of the township of pelee island. krestel was born on the island to a farm family that emigrated from romania before world war ii
as is common among farmers everywhere, he holds several jobs to supplement his income, working as a telephone repairman for bell canada, deputy game warden and occasional hunting guide
his post as the island's top elected official brings him about $1,200 a year
krestel says lack of employment opportunity drove most of his classmates off the island. he wants that to end
when i went to school, there were 13 kids in my class and about 130 in the school,'' he says. now there are 25 in kindergarten through eighth grade at the two-room pelee island public school
five young people from the island attend high school in kingsville on the canadian mainland, boarding with local families and flying home on weekends
what you've got to have is a job that a kid who has gone to school can be proud to do,'' krestel said. ``you can look at a million things and it always comes back to tourism.''
he and other island officials and merchants are at work on a number of projects to boost pelee's tourist trade
key to the expansion is the introduction of a larger, 400-passenger ferry, with space for 45 cars, to replace the mv upper canada, which can carry a maximum of 100 people and 10 vehicles
the mv pelee islander, with capacity for 267 people and 15 cars, will continue to run
we'll almost double our capacity,'' he says
getting tourists to the island is only half the battle. krestel and others are trying to drum up more things to keep visitors busy while they're here
a pelee heritage center, featuring exhibits on the island's history and economy, is to open on may 1. the town council will experiment with a third pheasant hunt, importing adult birds to supplement the 20,000 raised each year on the island's pheasant farm
the 1,600 permits for the two hunts sell out within days
recently, krestel and peter pfeifer, vineyard manager for the pelee island winery, sat at pfeifer's kitchen table and discussed plans for a tasting center that would allow visitors to sample products of the island's grapes and tour the nearby pheasant farm
pfeifer took the job in february 1986 after answering an advertisement in a west german wine magazine, bringing his wife, inge, and their two daughters from heppenheim, a city of 36,000, to the island community
the moderating effect of lake erie gives pelee island an average of 19 more frost-free days than the mainland and its rich dark soil yields hearty, sweet grapes that are shipped to the winery in kingsville for processing
while pfeifer talks, daughter alice, 4, wanders in from the living room where she is watching cartoons on television, clutching a stuffed bear
daddy, i'm thirsty and baby bear is thirsty,'' she said. pfeifer gets them a drink
island life has been good for alice and her big sister, denise, 7, a second-grader at the island's two-room school. other children live just across the road
the remoteness has been harder on his wife, who had stayed on in windsor after a family trip to the mainland earlier in the week
it's a little more difficult for the women out here,'' pfeifer said. ``there is no shopping. it can be isolating out here.''
occasionally, if the lake freezes hard and deep enough, snowmobilers will trek from pelee south to put-in-bay on south bass island, a part of ohio
lisa nageleisen came to pelee island to teach in 1981, met and married a ferry worker. she teaches 11 children in grades four through eight while in the next room, debbie janzen teaches 14 children from kindergarten through third grade
it's a juggling act,'' nageleisen said as she and janzen watched from a classroom window as the children frolicked outside. ``the kids learn to work a little more independently. the older ones will sometimes help the younger ones
they're not as segregated in terms of grades. at lunch, the whole school was playing soccer.''
because the children spend years with the same teachers, they often become very close
nageleisen says she stays in contact with former students who have gone away to college on the mainland
i hope that they come back and find something here and remain pelee islanders,'' she says. photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ over the past two decades he has written some of america's most popular songs, starting with ``up, up and away'' in 1967. but jimmy webb has not been able to get off the ground on broadway, even while working with some of the top names in the theater. he's still trying, with three productions in the works
ace songwriter jimmy webb, who has returned to performing, is still trying to crack broadway after several frustrating years of trying
so many of these things, you can work on them for years and you don't get to see anything,'' he says. ``someone told me it took eight years to get `annie' on broadway. it's a tough business.''
webb is also not forgetting the record market, his bread and butter. he alternates, writing one song for records, one for a broadway show
nobody pays anybody to write broadway shows,'' he says. ``there's nothing up front. and i think it's dangerous to work 15 months on a musical and not write one song for the record market. record people say, `is he still alive?'''
after 1967, when his ``up, up and away'' became the first big hit for the fifth dimension and his ``by the time i get to phoenix'' put glen campbell on the charts, webb concentrated on the record market. campbell scored again with webb's ``wichita lineman'' and ``galveston.'' actor richard harris had record hits with webb's ``macarthur park'' and ``didn't we?''
but in the 1980s, webb has concentrated on writing for broadway. three productions are planned for next season _ on broadway, off-broadway and in dublin, ireland
so far, nothing webb has written has been performed on broadway. the shows he worked on, with some of the top names in the theater, never opened
webb composes in a studio in a manhattan building that was owned by the late michael bennett, the master director of ``a chorus line'' and ``dreamgirls.''
the first musical i did with michael, `scandal,' i spent 14 months in this room writing, almost every day,'' webb recalls. to no avail. 
i got kind of uncomfortable with that. i feel i have to get back to these individual songs. but they're harder. i think it's easier to write songs when you know the plot than sitting down with a blank piece of paper and going, `let's write a hit, here.'''
webb accomplished the latter this winter with ``still within the sound of my voice,'' glen campbell's first hit record in 10 years. it was campbell, a friend for 20 years, who in 1985 suggested webb's four-verse ``the highwayman'' to waylon jennings, willie nelson, johnny cash and kris kristofferson
at 41, webb also is singing in cabarets, accompanying himself on the piano. during january and february he performed at jan wallman's and the ballroom in new york and at the hollywood roosevelt hotel's ``cinegrill.''
i'm just not ready to pack it up yet,'' webb says
he performed with a rock band in the early 1970s, but stopped after a second tour as opening act for the group america. he made six record albums in the 1970s but none sold exceptionally well
amy grant sings webb's ``if these walls could speak'' on her next album. webb co-wrote ``home of the brave'' with david paich of toto for that group's new album. ``his father, marty paich, arranged `up, up and away.''' webb says. david was about 12 then
in 1980, webb moved to tuxedo park, n.y., and began writing ``tuxedo,'' a show based on the history of the once-fashionable suburb of new york city where the dinner jacket that bears its name was introduced. ``i was wasting time,'' webb says. ``i knew nothing about what i was doing.''
then recording mogul david geffen introduced webb to michael bennett and webb started working on ``scandal.''
but bennett announced the postponement of ``scandal'' two weeks before scheduled rehearsals in broadway's mark hellinger theater
we call it black monday,'' webb recalls. ``we had treat williams and swoosie kurtz and most of the great dancers and singers from the original `chorus line' and some others from `dreamgirls.'''
webb says that bennett probably decided the times were not right for a show about infidelity
next they started working on another musical together called ``children's crusade.''
there was a mass uprising of children in france and germany, twice, 40 years apart in the 13th century. huge groups of children left their homes and banded together and declared their intention to go to the holy land. and did it. people would ask where they were going. they'd say they were going to heaven, to see jesus. there were hundreds of thousands of them, white-robed children carrying little wooden crosses with this light in their eyes
one of the last conversations i ever had with michael, he wanted me to go ahead with it. he still thought it was the best idea he'd ever had for a broadway show.''
webb hopes it'll arrive on broadway next season
last summer webb wrote the music and he and ray bradbury collaborated on lyrics for a musical, based on bradbury's novel, ``dandelion wine.'' it's planned for off-broadway next season
it's about learning as an adult to face yourself as a child,'' webb says. ``that way you find out a lot about why you are the way you are and maybe you can become happier with yourself
ray and i have a song, `kangaroo tennis shoes,' in which this 11-year-old has his first pair of tennies and all the things he is going to do in them.''
and, webb is working with dale wasserman, librettist of ``man of la mancha,'' on a george bernard shaw play, ``the shewing up of blanco bosnet.''
it's a one-act play about the old west, about which shaw knew absolutely nothing, which makes it hilarious,'' webb says. ``we have a commitment from the abbey theater in dublin.''
webb says he has also written eight chapters of a novel about a boy of 12 growing up in southwest oklahoma. ``it is about me, quite a lot about my grandfather and my sons are woven in there, as well,'' he says
webb and his wife patsy got married under a big oak tree, on musician jimmy messina's ranch in ojai, calif. the composer of ``up, up and away'' had a balloon for guests to ride in at the wedding reception
they now have five sons, chris, 15, justin, 12, james, 9, corey, 5, and charles, 9 months. photos.)</note>

editor's note _ early this century, railroads looking for cheap labor brought mexicans to an illinois town where they lived first in boxcars and later in cramped bungalows along a narrow street. but that winding lane has earned the name hero street for the patriotism of its residents, and some think it should be made a national monument
for more than 40 years, scores of mexican-americans have gone off to war from a winding drive of tiny wood-frame houses perched on a hillside rising from an old rail yard in this illinois town
eight have returned in caskets
and since 1968, the street has been named hero street u.s.a. in honor of the 110 young warriors who have left it for the armed forces since 1941. now a move is under way to get congress to name the former dirt path a national monument
for joe munos and his family, life on hero street always meant serving their country. not only did munos and his three brothers all fight for the united states _ his younger brother johnny died in korea _ but his three sons and his daughter joined the armed forces, as well as his grandson
that's the tradition of hero street,'' munos says. ``it must be in our blood. it's an honor for me to be a veteran of foreign wars.''
for georgia sandoval herrera, growing up on hero street meant watching a half-dozen brothers leave during world war ii and seeing two return in caskets. brothers joe and frank died 10 months apart and portraits of them in uniform still hang on her living room wall
it seemed like a ghost town during the war because so many of our boys were gone,'' she recalls. ``but we were one big family on hero street. the losses pulled us together. we're still a very close community
my son says, `why don't we move?' and i say the only place i'd want to live is hero street. there's no place like hero street.''
another sandoval family sent seven boys into world war ii and suffered one death
those kinds of statistics are common on hero street
no other single block in america has made so great a sacrifice, according to local officials. although the defense department can't confirm the claim, it's never been disputed in 20 years
a memorial park was built on the site in 1971 and now a city alderman is leading the drive to have congress declare hero street a national monument as a tribute to all who died in service _ especially immigrant soldiers
these men walked into this country and picked up arms without a complaint,'' says alderman joe terronez, 58. ``some weren't even citizens when they joined the armed forces. this is a great story about great heroes and it should be a national monument.''
located between billy goat bluff and honey creek, hero street is a small mexican barrio that winds its way back up a dead-end hollow near the rail yard in this town of 7,200
some of its 36 tiny bungalows sit precariously on the steep terrace of the bluff while others are perched just above the creek and appear to be sinking into the gully
many of the wood-frame homes are long and narrow, like the railroad boxcars they replaced. until a few years ago, the street was a dirt path that turned to mud and trapped hearses as they brought home dead soldiers
when terronez was growing up, hero street was simply 2nd street and a ``tough neighborhood.'' living conditions were poor for the large mexican families crowded into the cramped houses
the mexicans were brought to silvis early this century by the railroads who were looking for cheap labor. originally, they lived in boxcars in the nearby rail yard but were moved to 2nd street when townspeople complained about the growing mexican population in the yard
this is a story of our parents coming to the united states and adopting it,'' terronez says. ``although we were all viewed as aliens, the boys of hero street proved this was their country.''
the fight for national monument status is more than just a battle for recognition of the contribution made by eight dead soldiers or even 110 men and women who joined the armed forces
for terronez, it epitomizes the struggle of hispanic americans everywhere for appreciation and respect as first-class citizens. he's enlisted the help of u.s. rep. lane evans, a democrat from nearby rock island, in achieving national recognition in congress
hero street's residents hope for tangible benefits from elevating the street to a national monument
federal money would be available for maintaining the memorial, built on a bluff to resemble a mayan temple. residents also hope it would become a tourist attraction after placement on national parks system maps
steve vetzner, an aide in evans' washington office, said the congressman plans to work with the illinois delegation to get some sort of designation for hero street, such as a national monument, historic site or historic landmark
let's be honest _ naturally this would be a shot in the arm to hispanics,'' terronez says. ``sometimes, we feel we are second-class citizens. but when you look at the blood shed by hispanics on that one street you know we are real americans. it would be a source of great pride for all mexican-americans.'' photo.)</note>
actor kirk douglas says he learned just how controversial ``inherit the wind'' is when the movie company was turned away from filming at a private school in oregon
this is a play about the scopes monkey trial in 1925, but the issue is as relevant today as it was then,'' he says
the best example of that came when we planned to shoot a scene in a schoolhouse in a small town in oregon. we had made arrangements with the school's board to film scenes of the young teacher teaching darwin's theory of evolution. but when they found out what we were going to film they threw us out. they said they only teach biblical creationism.''
douglas, jason robards, jean simmons and darren mcgavin star in the new two-hour production of ``inherit the wind.'' david greene directed from a screenplay by john gay, based on the play by jerome lawrence and robert e. lee
douglas plays matthew harrison brady, a brilliant orator and fundamentalist politician invited to prosecute a teacher for bringing darwin's theory into the classroom. robards is henry drummond, a liberal lawyer who defends the teacher. simmons is brady's wife and mcgavin is a cynical reporter named e.k. hornbeck
the play, of course, is based on the trial of john scopes in tennessee. brady is really william jennings bryan, the three-time democratic presidential nominee. drummond is clarence darrow and hornbeck is h.l. mencken. it was made into a movie in 1960 with spencer tracy as drummond, frederic march as brady and gene kelly as hornbeck
it's interesting for an actor to play a role with a point of view you don't believe in,'' douglas says. ``i think he was very sincere. he wasn't a charlatan, he wasn't a buffoon. he believed every word in the bible should be accepted as it was written
that's what creates the dramatic friction between my character and jason robards'. they were both sincere in their beliefs. the pathetic quality which we develop is that these two men had been friends. clarence darrow had backed bryan in his first run for the presidency. it's touching because these two men are now bitter enemies.''
douglas says he wasn't interested when his son, peter, the executive producer, first brought the idea to him. he didn't want to do a remake of the movie, in which brady was more buffoonish
i never thought he should be played as a fool,'' he says. ``i played him as a mixture of pat robertson, billy graham and jimmy swaggart. brady wasn't gluttonous and eating all the time, the way he was in the movie.''
he also began to see how relevant the subject was because of the ongoing debate, evolution vs. creationism
the time of the trial was also moved to the fall
in the movie you see a hundred extras fanning away because of the summer heat,'' douglas says. ``we didn't want that. we also went back to the original trial transcript and picked up a few things. brady dies in the courtroom, but in reality bryan died five days after the trial ended. the play was never an attempt to be exact history.''
inherit the wind'' is douglas' second movie with son peter. the first was called ``amos,'' which was set in a home for the elderly
that's the exciting thing about doing movies for television,'' he says. ``you can deal with subjects you can't do for theatrical films. theatrical films seem to fall into certain formulas _ wild comedies, violence or young kids finding out about sex
on television you can do something with substance. this is the first program in the new `at&amp;t presents' series. what i like about that is that we have fewer commercial breaks.''
douglas' last theatrical film was ``tough guys,'' which also starred burt lancaster
i've got several projects pending, but i've been devoting my time to my autobiography,'' he says. ``i've just finished it and simon &amp; schuster will publish it. it was interesting to write, like taking a self-inventory. it was hard work. i found it painful. i wrote it by myself
one of my motivations for the book is that i have four sons. i'll say something and one of them will say, `gee, dad, i didn't know that.' i think this book is my chance to say who i am.''
douglas believes that the public has a different image than the one he has of himself
before `champion' in 1949 i'd played an intellectual schoolteacher, a weak schoolteacher and an alcoholic. after `champion,' i was a tough guy. i did things like playing van gogh, but the image lingers. that's one of the things i loved about `inherit the wind.' it was a battle of ideas rather than of physical violence.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>
second stage has devoted an entire theater season to the plays of michael weller, a rare honor for playwrights these days
since november, the enterprising off-broadway company has presented ``moonchildren'' and ``loose ends,'' two of weller's best-known efforts. in april, it will offer the world premiere of his latest drama, ``spoils of war,'' at the troupe's small theater in what was once an old gymnasium on the upper west side
and in between there will be staged readings of other weller plays, panel discussions about weller and his work and viewings of ``ragtime'' and ``hair,'' two movies for which weller wrote the screenplays
for weller, the second stage celebration is a homecoming of sorts. since its start nine years ago, the company, which specializes in second looks at plays that may not have been successful the first time around, has been receptive to the playwright's writing
mike is one of the people who started the theater with us,'' remembers robyn goodman, one of the company's two artistic directors. ``he was one of the first people to write a play for us.''
and he's doing it again this year. ``spoils of war,'' the story of a mother and son in the 1950s, was commissioned by goodman and her second stage partner, carole rothman. kate nelligan plays the mother
one of the enticements in writing a new play was that mike would be cushioned to a certain extent by having his other plays done during the same season,'' rothman says. ``new york has kind of a hit-or-miss mentality. with our current season, people will be able to see a body of work. it's not as frightening for a playwright to premiere a new play when it's surrounded by plays that have been done before.''
the object of these theatrical festivities is a boyish, 45-year-old writer who does his writing out of an east village studio
the man is surprisingly low-keyed, considering he is under deadline to get ``spoils of war'' finished before it goes into rehearsal and considering he is juggling phone calls from texas where his latest screenplay actually has gone into production. it's a movie _ as yet untitled _ directed by hugh hudson and starring donald sutherland and adam horovitz of beastie boys fame
the film is about kids whose parents don't supervise them too much,'' weller says. ``the movie follows one boy through his adventures with a gang and getting into trouble with the law.''
he had no problem taking a new look at his old plays and was closely involved with the casting and directing of each revival. weller found the experience a pleasant one and didn't feel compelled to rewrite what he had written years ago
it's like going into your old neighborhood again,'' weller says. ``i usually work out of a real emotional knot and once that's untied, i don't feel much inclination to go back to a play.''
moonchildren,'' a look at college students in the 1960s at the beginning of the vietnam war protests, was his biggest success. it flopped on broadway in 1972 but had a successful off-broadway run the following year and has been a staple of regional theaters and acting classes ever since
loose ends'' examined the same generation 10 years later, when they were struggling to sort out their lives and loves. it was a harder play to write, weller says
for one thing, i knew more,'' weller says. ``the more deliberate you are in your writing, the harder it is. when you're a kid, you think no one's ever done this before. but the next time, you realize it's been done a million times.''
weller didn't start out to be a writer. he wanted to be a composer and studied music composition at brandeis
i wasn't a good musician,'' he admits, but when an opportunity came up to write a college musical, he enrolled in a playwriting course. writing eventually took precedence over composing and weller went off to england to study playwriting before eventually coming back to the united states
a handwritten copy of ``spoils of war'' lies on the desk in weller's study. the penmanship is small and precise
i write quite a bit every day but i hardly use any of it,'' the playwright says. ``i keep going back and poring over it, pulling things out. in that way, i am very slow to select what i'm finally going to use.''
weller's parents were both painters, so artistic discipline was in his blood. and success wasn't what counted the most
i saw people who went off to their workshop every day and painted,'' he recalls. ``for some of them, the glory train came in and for others, it didn't. you couldn't allow that to hinder your daily output. you couldn't allow yourself to get thrown by it.''
for that reason, weller, when he isn't helping take care of his young son, keeps to a rigid writing schedule. he jots down in notebooks ideas and notes for projects he will get to when he has time
i think the only hard lesson is not to have any big expectations,'' he says. ``just concentrate on what you are doing and get it right.''
the nazi occupation in world war ii and a lingering anti-semitism left the jews of france in disorder and disarray _ so much so that many renounced their heritage and took french names. but more recent years have seen a rebirth of jewry in a nation that is largely roman catholic, and a new era for jews has set in
friday is a busy day on the rue des rosiers, a narrow street in the heart of paris' oldest jewish quarter. it is there that shoppers preparing for the sabbath find everything from kosher chickens to prayer books and sacramental wines
this colorful neighborhood, and many others like it throughout predominantly roman catholic france, have come alive again as the jewish community revels in a new era of jewish pride and an upsurge of judaism
traumatized by world war ii, which saw the virtual dismantling of french jewry and the deportation of some 117,000 jews to nazi gas chambers, the community of guilt-ridden survivors lived in fear of anti-semitism and new persecutions
many renounced their jewish identities, changing their names, refusing to circumcize newborn boys as prescribed by their faith or to give their children jewish educations
today, those are just bad memories
jews again are playing major roles in the upper levels of french life _ government, industry, the intelligentsia, entertainment and the media
the change is largely due to the 150,000 sephardic jews from algeria, morocco and tunisia who poured in during the 1950s and 1960s as the french colonies in north africa gained independence
the sephardim are jews who originated in spain in the middle ages and who migrated to north africa after the spanish inquisition in 1492. many also moved to the middle east and the term now refers to all jews who are not of askenazic, or eastern european, origin
the sephardim make up more than 60 percent of france's population of 650,000 jews, the world's fourth-largest jewish community after the united states, israel and the soviet union
no one was as startled as today's sephardic jewish community when word came from washington earlier this year that they were considered wretched enough to warrant $8 million in emergency relief from the united states
sen. daniel k. inouye, d-hawaii, one of the measure's congressional backers, said the money for schools for north african jews in paris was earmarked for ``these unfortunates, these jews . .. who have not been absorbed or assimilated.''
the american funding, later cancelled by congress, was to build schools for ozar hatorah, a non-profit organization that promotes education, assistance and charity in 20 countries
globally, you can say that the integration of north african jews into french society has been a real success story,'' said emile touati, director of consistoire, the religious governing body for french jews
besides their own folklore, culinary habits, tight-knit family stucture and so-called ``mediterranean mentality,'' north african jews brought their unconditional devotion to judaism and a demand for jewish culture
in the past 15 years, the number of synagogues in the paris region has increased from 30 to 70. in 1950, paris had just three kosher butchers; today they number more than 100
touati says it has become virtually impossible to keep track of the dozens of restaurants, grocery stores, professional caterers, supermarkets and fast-food outlets serving kosher fare. before the coming of the sephardim, there were virtually none
there was a time when you couldn't even find a bottle of kosher wine for the sabbath meal,'' touati said in an interview. ``now, the finest chateaux in burgundy, bordeaux and champagne produce kosher wines which we export all over the world.''
the ``pletzl'' in the marais, a ghetto-like haven for poor askenazic jews since the middle ages, has seen an influx of sephardim too, and the shops that once sold chopped liver and gefilte fish have been joined by fast-food joints serving falafel and kosher couscous
these places are filled with young people looking for their jewish identity and a sense of community,'' said eric ghebeli, fomer president of france's jewish student union. ``they are mini-cultural centers where people get together to enjoy a dish their mothers once made. but there is also a thirst for knowledge.''
enrollment in jewish schools is higher than ever, with 10 percent of school-age children, about 15,000 enrolled full-time in one of france's 33 jewish schools. an equal number attend sunday school
a century ago the watchword was assimilation. today, it is the preservation of jewishness among france's 55.5 million people. the lucien de hirch school, founded in the early 1900s to help new immigrants adapt to french life, has done an about face: today it teaches the principles of judaism to its 850 students, 75 percent of whom are north african sephardim
since the arrival of the sephardim, more than 6,000 study groups, with different goals and religious tendencies, have sprung up around the country, along with countless adult education courses teaching hebrew and yiddish
in a country where jews have long believed that flaunting their jewishness was asking for trouble, the lubavitch, ultra-orthodox hasidic jews originating in 18th century poland, have seen their memberships swell, thanks to new sephardic recruits
dressed in long black coats, wearing beards and earlocks, some have even learned yiddish to read in the original the works of rabbi menachem mendel schneerson, head of the sect who lives in the brownsville section of brooklyn, n.y. in december they plastered billboards around paris with posters telling jews to light hanukkah candles and installed a giant menorah at the place de la concorde
jews around france can tune in to any of 13 radio stations playing hebrew and yiddish songs and broadcasting cultural programs and news commentaries. the three paris stations claim a daily audience of 37,000
jewish publications also have more readers than ever. numerous weeklies are distributed free in jewish centers and shops. the monthly ``l'arche,'' geared to france's educated middle class, reaches 10,000 subscribers. it was joined in december by ``passages,'' a magazine offering what it calls a jewish point of view on the news
the jewish community as a whole has been deeply troubled by the recent events on the israeli-occupied west bank in the middle east
we deplore the violence, but our support of israel is unconditional,'' said roger pinto, president of siona, a zionist group made up of north african sephardim. ``unlike many askenazim, we support israel first, and then ask questions.''
in a recent statement, an umbrella organization of jewish institutions known as crif, reiterated its support of israel and condemned its arab neighbors for ``refusing a real and useful dialogue ... to solve the problems of the region.''
in an editorial in the monthly ``information juive,'' the consistoire's touati asked, ``under the circumstances, what army in the world would have behaved better than tsahal (the israeli army)?''
nonetheless, nearly a dozen jewish groups have publicly called for a peaceful and political solution to the violence
(the french government strives for even-handedness in relations with israel and the arab nations of the middle east, where historical ties translate today into what france considers ``special relationships'' with several of the arab nations. france supports the convening of an international conference with all parties represented to resolve the middle east conflict
many french intellectuals of jewish origin have begun identifying with judaism, some for the first time
benny levy, militant founder of the proletarian left and close friend and secretary of the author-philosopher jean-paul sartre in the years before his death, has abandoned politics completely and embraced a life of piety and study of the torah, judaism's holy scriptures
philosopher jacques derrida, the father of deconstruction, a textual analysis based on the theory that language refers to itself, has been discussing jewish and biblical themes in seminars at the elite ecole normale superieure and at yale university in new haven, conn., for several years
intellectuals bernard-henri levy, andre gluckmann and alain finkielkraut, once committed leftists and later the major force behind the new philosophy movement of the mid-1970s, are among france's most visible jews, publicly rediscovering their jewish roots, writing on jewish issues and supporting jewish causes
but for joseph sitruk, france's newly installed grand rabbi, they are hardly examples of what he calls in hebrew ``teshuva,'' or return
many of them are interested in judaism the same way they would be interested in buddhism or leninism,'' he said in an interview. ``they may be going through an identity crisis, and that's respectable, but they're not calling themselves into question and going all the way.''
rabbi michael williams, of the ``liberal'' copernic synagogue, said he understands the cyncism of the religious establishment
how can the so-called return be anything but superficial when its standard-bearers don't respect the very basic rules of judaism, and marry out?''
williams maintains that french jews are ``going through an intense crisis of love.'' he says he regularly meets with observant young people planning to marry gentiles
indeed, studies show that intermarriage is on the rise, at about 50 percent. among the sephardim, the figures are only slightly lower
the family structure among north african jews is still quite strong, and plays an important role in influencing decisions made by family members,'' touati said. ``the increase in intermarriage is one of the consequences of rapid assimilation and integration into french society.''
yet sitruk maintains the current upsurge in judaism is not superficial but profound, touching all classes and backrounds, rich and poor
it comes in the wake of the holocaust, the birth of the state of israel, the new positions of power held by jews worldwide and the profound and far-reaching need to identify with the jewish biblical message,'' sitruk said
reform jews too, have been swept up in the trend towards orthodoxy. five years ago, friday night services at copernic, france's largest reform community, were mostly in french. today, three-quarters of the service is in hebrew
there is definitely an unspoken demand for a return to jewish knowledge and values,'' williams said. ``but we must be careful that it doesn't come at the expense of a new ghetto-like mentality.''
from the conviction of the army officer alfred dreyfus nearly 100 years ago to the french police zealously rounding up jews during world war ii, france has a long and sordid history of anti-semitism
today, however, jewish leaders say it is on the wane
the bombing of the copernic synagogue in 1980 and a terrorist attack on a kosher-style delicatessen two years later were not the work of frenchmen, but of palestinian terrorists, who are still at large
according to the b'nai brith anti-defamation league office in paris, the number of anti-semitic acts of violence has dropped considerably in recent years. in 1986, it recorded two, though the desecration and vandalism of jewish tombstones remains frequent
recent polls indicate that jews are better accepted than ever before in france. in 1946, 37 percent of the population thought jews were like any other french citizens. in 1987, that figure rose to 94 percent
i certainly look jewish when i walk down the street,'' said joseph sitruk, france's grand rabbi. ``i've been in marseilles for the past 12 years and have heard only two remarks. that's two too many, of course, but not very much.''
nevertheless, french jews remain vigilant and many express concern over the growing popularity of jean-marie le pen, leader of the extreme right-wing national front that rallies roughly 10 percent of french voters around an anti-immigrant ``france-for-frenchmen'' platform
le pen prides himself on ``saying out loud what everybody thinks to himself.'' he caused a storm of controversy last year by referring to the nazi gas chambers as ``a detail,'' adding their existence was still being ``debated by historians.''
for decades french jews didn't like themselves much either
anatole france summed up a whole mentality when he said that if alfred dreyfus had been on his jury, he would have convicted himself,'' said rabbi michael williams of the copernic synagogue
robert goldman, spokesman for the b'nai brith anti-defamation league, says the age-old cliches of the jew as the dangerous, money-hungry foreigner with the long noses are dead, but they have been replaced by anti-zionism
he called french press coverage of violence in the israeli-occupied west bank biased and said israel has taken an ``excessive drubbing.''
being harsher in judging israel than other western countries is a new form of discrimination,'' goldman said. ``it deeply affects jews in the diaspora, given the role israel plays in the minds of jews after the holocaust.''
wheel a baby down any street in italy and you'll never walk alone
fussing over children seems like a national pasttime, but if present trends continue italians will have fewer and fewer toddlers to dote on
to the concern of politicians and sociologists, the italian family is steadily shrinking. the latest statistics say each family has an average of 1.27 children, the lowest in europe
children are still king in italy. but, these days, one king is enough, not two or three,'' said renato tagliani, a father who has just one little emperor in his household, 11-year-old, chubby-cheeked gianbattista
family is practically a sacred institution in italy. it's certainly the most enduring one in a country that has seen invaders conquer and crumple and governments rise and fall
the value of family as an institution hasn't changed,'' said lorella spinelli, a 30-year-old roman, who had her first child in the fall. ``but to create a world for children these days is very difficult.''
fingers point to the slow but steady changing of women's roles, the difficulty of finding jobs and housing and the irritations of daily life that are particularly italian and particularly frustrating if you want to have children
to have more children signifies being penalized, suffering the lack of services, inadequate salaries,'' said demographer antonio golini, who directs a national center for population research
what's especially intriguing is that surveys show the practice of birth control is low in italy compared to other western european countries
less than 12 percent of women use the pill, more than 60 percent don't use any contraceptive,'' said panorama, an italian news weekly, in a recent issue
are italians not making love any more? have they all become sterile?''
studies are under way here to see if italians are indeed becoming infertile
for laura spinelli, just starting out as a parent, and renato tagliani, with more than a decade of experience, the reluctance of so many italians to be parents once, let alone more than once, seems understandable
having children once was the goal of an italian woman's life. you married, had kids, stayed at home,'' said mrs. spinelli
now the role of women is more like men's. you go to university and finish when you're 25 or 26. then it's usually a year or so before you find a job. once you find one, you're reluctant to leave it to have a child.''
her husband's success in business allowed her to give up her job after childbirth, but he's on the road a lot
i'm lucky to have my mother at home,'' mrs. spinelli said
her 67-year-old mother helps with the care of grandson luca
i have a friend whose mother lives on the opposite end of the city,'' mrs. spinelli said. ``she leaves her 7-month-old baby with her mother all week because with all the traffic it would take her too long to get there and back.''
such daily trials mean ``nonna'' (grandmother) is rapidly replacing ``mama'' as the anchor of the italian household
nonna is in special demand because babysitters are hard to find and can be expensive
many italians won't let their teen-agers work because they are obsessed with ``brutta figura'' _ making a bad impression _ and neighbors might gossip that your children have to work because you don't earn enough
with no grandma handy, the taglianis, a two-career couple with their own business, a media agency, feel the shortage of babysitters daily
italian schools close at 1:30 p.m. so where do you put your child when he gets out?'' said clemenzia tagliani
in italy, stores are closed at lunchtime, in the evening and on sundays and public schools are open saturday mornings
so if you have to buy a pair of shoes for your son you drag him out of school on saturday, when you're off, and make a mad dash to the store before they pull down their shutters at 1 p.m.,'' mrs. tagliani said
miriam mafai, a journalist who has written extensively on italian women, finds it curious that an overwhelmingly roman catholic country, where the pill was illegal until the early 1970s and where christian democrats are the dominant party, doesn't have a policy to make it easier to raise a family
some political debate has begun about what to do, but so far no legislation has been adopted
among suggestions are financial incentives, but none so ambitious as the family program in neighboring france. gen. charles de gaulle, after becoming president in 1959, used monthly allowances to encourage the french to have more children. the result is that a french couple with two children today collects more than 1,200 francs (about $200) a month from the government
ms. mafai said such ideas invoke the ``stigma'' of benito mussolini, italy's fascist dictator who tried to swell the population for his glory, his army and his dreamed-of imperial colonies
war is to man what motherhood is to woman,'' mussolini once said. he introduced family allowances in the 1930s and made bachelors pay a heavy tax. but the birth rate actually fell for several years under his rule
golini, the demographer, predicts italy's child population will swell in the next few years, but that will be only a consequence of the 1960s economics boom babies reaching child-bearing age
in the first six months of '86, the average number of children per family was 1.33; at the end of the year, we went down to 1.32. in '87, in the same period, the average was 1.29; in december, 1.27. you see, we're always going down.''
but remove the cause and italy will grow again,'' golini said
it's the kind of place englishmen left to join mad dogs in the noonday sun or perhaps strike out on the road to mandalay. the more sensible sat around sipping singapore slings
it's raffles hotel, which has survived for 102 years _ ceiling fans still whirring, grillwork elevator clanking up and down, dark paneling and long corridors with creaking floors, wide verandas and elderly waiters shuffling around the palm court garden
dear as it was to the hearts of many, raffles in recent times has become a bit seedy, and the talk was that it would come down because the land on which it sits is extremely valuable. one plan to renovate it was scrapped in 1983 because tourism had slumped and thousands of rooms in singapore's more modern hotels stood empty
but another chance has come for the legendary raffles, with the announcement by its owners that it will be restored to some semblance of its old self in a two-year, $27.3-million face lift
a tourist industry study two years ago had suggested that the ``national asset'' might make it if turned into a suites-only establishment for state guests and vips
the 127-room hotel will remain open during the renovation, which will be done in phases, according to the bankers that now own it
the central block will remain but the old ballroom and courtyard wing are to be demolished to make way for a basement parking garage, function rooms and a bedroom wing
raffles is in many respects the antithesis of a standard modern hotel, with its french renaissance architecture and palm trees all around
the atmosphere is still tropically relaxed, but with a residual whiff of stiff-upper-lip british colonial
raffles dates to the early 1800s, when it was founded as a ``tiffin house,'' or lunchroom in a private home. the actual hotel in beach road was started in 1886 by three armenian brothers and named for the founder of singapore, sir stamford raffles
by the turn of the century it was the social center in a key outpost of the british empire. rubber planters, merchants, military officers, ships' captains, remittance men and other colonials stayed there. the years have left legends
one says that c.m. phillips, the principal of a nearby school, was summoned in 1902 to shoot a tiger that had taken refuge under the billiard table at the hotel. a stuffed tiger on the premises keep that legend alive today. then, there's the hotel's tiger tavern, which serves the locally brewed tiger beer
bartender ngian tong doon is credited with mixing the first singapore sling 73 years ago. the hotel sells more than 1,000 glasses of the gin-based cocktail each day
lounge lizards who kept their elbows on the bar gave cad's alley its name. it was later changed to gin's alley to honor bartender ngian and his concoction
another legend has it that joseph conrad got the idea for ``lord jim'' while on the veranda reading a newspaper story about a british crew that abandoned ship and left 200 passengers to die
feed at raffles when visiting singapore,'' was rudyard kipling`s advice. but he found the beds less than comfortable and suggested sleeping elsewhere
those were the days of awesome appetites and massive meals. one dinner menu surviving from 1900 lists 18 courses
a typical breakfast of that period: porridge, fish, mutton chops, deviled fowl, cold beef, salad, boiled eggs, cheese, toast, tea or coffee and benedictine
when japanese bombers attacked at the start of world war ii, raffles' band played on in the ballroom behind blackout curtains. singapore surrendered to the japanese on feb. 15, 1942, and with occupation imminent the staff buried the hotel's silver in the palm court garden
hotel records show high-ranking officers of japan's occupation army lived there. when the war ended in 1945, former inmates of changi prison and other japanese internment camps were taken in by the hotel. the silver was dug up and raffles reopened for business again in 1946
somerset maugham, the late british novelist and short-story writer, once had said raffles ``stands for all the fables of the exotic east.''
the hotel uses that as its motto today and has a plaque outside one of its rooms in maugham's his honor
here's a switch: the two-hour movie pilot for nbc's ``aaron's way'' is set in pennsylvania and california, but it was filmed in australia
we had to have a grape harvest when we filmed it last march,'' said merlin olsen, who stars in the new series as aaron miller
we were able to duplicate parts of california and pennsylvania in southeastern australia. we shot the entire pilot there. we did all the episodes at the lorimar studios and in the santa ynez valley near solvang. we have our own grape vineyard and home there.''
olsen stars in ``aaron's way'' as an amish farmer who is suddenly forced to leave his sect and confront the modern world. miller leaves his peaceful pennsylvania amish village to run a california vineyard, yet tries as much as possible to cling to his religion and his traditions
the series also stars belinda montgomery (early ``miami vice''), jessica walter (``play misty for me'') and kathleen york. the series is from william blinn and jerry thorpe, producers of nbc's ``our house.'' blinn, who wrote ``brian's song'' and co-wrote ``roots,'' wrote the pilot with reno down
the series is in the tradition of ``little house on the prairie,'' ``the waltons'' and ``our house,'' although olsen said it's probably slanted more toward adults
the pilot premiered last week. the hour-long series begins a spring tryout on wednesday
it's the fourth series for the 6-foot-5 olsen, selected to the pro football hall of fame after being an all-pro defensive tackle for the los angeles rams. for several years he has been an nbc football analyst, and is probably best known as the spokesman for the ftd florists group
immediately after retiring from pro football, olsen became jonathan garvey on ``little house on the prairie'' in 1977 and stayed for four years. he then starred for a year in ``father murphy,'' a spinoff series. another series, ``fathers and sons,'' ran briefly in 1986
in the pilot, miller goes to california after his son noah, who has left the amish ways, is drowned in a surfing accident. there he learns that noah had a common-law wife who is pregnant and owns a vineyard that needs to be harvested
aaron feels that he must help her and the whole family shows up on her doorstep one day,'' he said. ``i say that we just happen to be in the neighborhood. although he's amish, aaron is a man who's looked over the fence and accepted some things that are not amish if they suit the needs and lifestyle of his family.''
olsen said he knows that the amish want to be left alone and were unhappy about how they were portrayed in the movie ``witness.''
we did some research because it's our desire and our responsibility to present the amish as honest and as respectfully as we can,'' he said. ``but the amish, like any other faith, have members with different levels of adherence. aaron miller was in danger of being `shunned' because he kept in contact with his son.''
olsen said the show would deal with many contemporary and adult problems. many of the problems will arise from miller trying to hold onto his traditions, yet having to make concessions to survive. ``it will ask very serious questions about the values and morals of an old world family suddenly brought face to face with the modern world,'' he said
he concedes that his role as aaron miller is not that different from jonathan garvey on ``little house'' or john murphy on ``father murphy.''
it's deliberate in a way,'' he said. ``there are some things i'm not eager to do. on the other hand, these are roles that came looking for me. partly because of my size. it reminds me of what happened when i first went out for football. the coach asked me what position i wanted to play. i said quarterback. the coach took one look at me and told me to play tackle
i don't think i'm being stereotyped. each role is different, but there is a thread of similarity. i want to do roles that i can sit down and watch with my children. i want to be able to point to the screen and say, `that's your father.' i'm afraid there's a lot of things on tv i wouldn't want to watch.''
olsen said he filmed 13 episodes of ``aaron's way'' while continuing his full schedule of sportscasting for nbc's pro football coverage. ``that was a tough fall,'' he said. ``i don't want to do that again. if the show is picked up i'm going to have some conversations with nbc sports about cutting back,'' he said. ``i love doing this show. i look forward to getting up in the morning and going to work. i love working with belinda montgomery and jessica walter.''
western banks and brazil have reached agreement on important elements of a loan restructuring package for the third world's most indebted country, providing it with more money at lower interest rates
banking sources familiar with the agreement say the negotiations reflected a surprising level of cooperation from brazil, which last year toughened its position over loan repayment terms and aroused considerable concern in the banking industry
fernando milliet, president of brazil's central bank, and william r. rhodes, chairman of the bank advisory committee for brazil, said sunday that under the agreement reached in new york, brazil will get more than $6 billion in new financing to help make debt payments through the first half of 1989
the u.s. economy has shrugged off the worst effects of the october stock market collapse and should be able to escape a recession this election year, economists for top u.s. corporations predicted today
the national association of business economists said optimism among its members has risen appreciably since the last survey conducted in the month following the oct. 19 plunge in stock prices
consumer prices rose a moderate 0.3 percent in january, but a decline in energy costs cloaked increases in many other areas, the government said
the january increase reported friday in the labor department's consumer price index followed a revised december increase of 0.2 percent. the december rise initially been reported as 0.1 percent
the advance equaled an annual inflation rate of 4.2 percent. that compares with the 4.4 percent rate of inflation in 1987 and with the reagan administration's projection of 4.3 percent inflation for 1988
sales of existing single-family homes suffered their third consecutive monthly decline in january, a 3.6 percent drop which pushed activity to its slowest level in 2{ years, according to a real estate trade group
the national association of realtors said friday that sales dropped to a seasonally-adjusted annual rate of 3.21 million units last month, following declines of 1.2 percent in december and 2.9 percent in november
the association said consumer fears raised by the collapse of the stock market in october partly caused the slowdown
americans' incomes rose 0.3 percent in january, matching the gain in consumer spending during the month, the government has reported
the commerce department said friday the 0.3 percent rises in incomes and spending followed identical 0.7 percent advances in both categories during december
the gains were taken as positive signs that consumer spending will grow enough this year to prevent a recession
the value of newly started construction fell 8 percent in january from the previous month, led by a steep drop in non-residential buildings, according to a report by a construction research concern
the f.w. dodge division of mcgraw-hill information systems co. said sunday the latest decline continued a downward drift from highs reached last august
the report said the annualized value of new construction contracts fell to $228 billion in january from $247.3 billion in december 1987
former stockbroker peter brant has been sentenced to 120 weekends in jail and fined $10,000 for his role in the insider-trading scandal involving a former wall street journal reporter
u.s. district judge charles e. stewart on friday also put brant on probation for five years and ordered him to do 750 hours of community service. brant, 35, a former broker at kidder peabody &amp; co., pleaded guilty july 12, 1984 to conspiracy and securities fraud. he admitted his part in a scheme to trade stock based on information to appear in the journal's influential ``heard on the street'' column
u.s. companies surveyed by the government reported a loss of $23.8 billion in 1986 because of foreign piracy of u.s. patents, trademarks and copyrights, according to a u.s. international trade commission study
the itc said friday that actual losses are much greater because not all companies filled out questionnaires on the subject
the commission said it received responses from 431 companies. the questionnaire was sent to 736 u.s. companies, including all those on the fortune 500 list
champion spark plug co. plans to lay off nearly 20 percent of its 1,700 production workers nationwide because of overcapacity in the auto parts industry
the bulk of the cuts announced friday, which will begin march 22 and will be phased in over the next four months, are being made at the plant here
the layoffs come just one month after workers at four u.s. champion plants approved a new four-year contract that includes a provision that the company try to increase production at two of its domestic plants
metromedia co. has agreed to acquire the ponderosa inc. restaurant chain for an undisclosed amount
metromedia, a privately-held telecommunications and technology holding company, said friday it planned to keep ponderosa management in place and anticipated no changes in the company's operation
ponderosa, which was taken private in a $331 million buyout led by new york investor asher b. edelman in january 1987, is one of the nation's largest steakhouse chains, with annual sales of $500 million
three companies accused of selling thousands of pounds of non-kosher poultry as kosher to customers in up to 22 states have agreed in a legal settlement to get out of the kosher business
we wanted to make sure something like this never happened again,'' said rabbi victor segal, president of goldman-segal kosher caterers of chicago, which had accused the three companies of fraud in a federal lawsuit
segal said friday it was the largest case of fraud involving mislabeling of kosher foods, and potentially affected jewish families in 22 states where the companies' kosher poultry products were sold
the stock market closed a choppy week with a small gain in quiet trading friday. the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 5.64 points to 2,023.21, finishing the week with a net gain of 8.62 points
bond prices rose in thin trading
the dollar slipped against most major currencies in quiet trading. gold prices declined
cocoa futures prices dropped sharply, energy futures mostly were lower, soybeans rose while grains were mixed, and cattle and pork futures were mixed
western banks and brazil have reached agreement on important elements of a loan restructuring package for the third world's most indebted country, providing it with more money at lower interest rates
banking sources familiar with the agreement, who spoke on the condition they not be identified by name, said the negotiations reflected a surprising level of cooperation from brazil, which last year toughened its position over loan repayment terms and aroused considerable concern in the banking industry
fernando milliet, president of brazil's central bank, and william r. rhodes, chairman of the bank advisory committee for brazil, said sunday that under the agreement reached in new york, brazil will get more than $6 billion in new financing to help make debt payments through the first half of 1989
both sides also agreed that the interest rate for repaying that money will be 13-16ths of 1 percent over the london interbank offered rate, a commonly used benchmark for determining foreign debt payments. brazil has been paying 1[ percent above the so-called libor rate because of its high-risk status
under the agreement, brazil also will make a payment next week of about $700 million from its reserves to cover unpaid interest on foreign bank loans for january and february, milliet and rhodes said in a press statement
the amount of (delinquent) interest they're paying is considerably more than the market had expected,'' said one source knowledgable about the negotiations. ``the market had expected they would wrap up the month of january, but they're adding the month of february. they're starting to make interest payments more often and in larger amounts than we'd foreseen.''
concerned about its deteriorating economy and reliance on outside money, brazil hasn't repaid any principal on its $114 billion foreign debt since 1983. in february 1987 it decreed a moratorium on interest payments but late last year agreed to resume them
with the agreement announced sunday, the country's interest payments will be current for all 1988 and the last quarter of 1987. brazil still owes back-interest from feb. 20, 1987, when it first declared the moratorium, up to sept. 30, 1987
plans for repaying the remaining delinquent interest are still under negotiation as part of a broad plan to restructure a foreign bank financing package for brazil
the banking sources said the package should be ready by the time a meeting of foreign bank creditors and latin debtor nations convenes march 20 in caracas, venezuela
this accord marks the end of a period of great uncertainty,'' brazil's finance minister mailson de nobrega told a news conference in brasilia. ``we should have all the details smoothed out by the end of march.''
the agreement also is expected to help brazil in negotiations with the international monetary fund that were scheduled to begin monday in washington. brazil was expected to ask the imf for $1.7 billion in standby loans
rhodes said in the statement that the negotiations and the $700 million interest payment represent ``significant progress in restoring brazil's traditionally good relations with its commercial bank creditors.''
about 25 perent of brazil's foreign bank debt is held by u.s. lenders. concern about the country's ability or willingness to repay has caused many u.s. banks to reclassify some loans as possibly uncollectable and raised concern about the health of banks with large brazilian loan portfolios
negotiations over restructuring brazil's loan repayments began in october between brazilian finance officials and the 14-member bank advisory committee, which represents 700 creditor banks
one of alpine county's main industries is a silver mine, but neither silver ore nor a gold mine of ski business are enough to keep the county's only bank from checking out
bank of america will close its markleeville branch tonight, 30 years after the county tax collector cajoled the banking giant to set up shop in california's least populated county
the bank says the closure is a cost-cutting move forced by keen competition following deregulation of the banking industry. it promises to continue serving alpine county customers at its south lake tahoe branch, about 35 miles away
the move angers many customers, who lament bygone days when resident bank managers would open the bank and approve loans after hours, attend neighborhood potlucks and host an annual holiday buffet in this sierra nevada community
they claim the bank would have done well in the county had it made efforts to secure accounts such as the kirkwood ski resort and the washoe indian tribe. now, alpine is the only one of california's 58 counties without a bank
it's not the community failing the bank,'' said don jardine, one of five members of the alpine county board of supervisors. ``it's the bank failing to aggressively go out and just provide basic services.''
corporate spokesman richard beebe said ``it's not our intention to abandon anyone.''
beebe said alpine county clients won't see any interruption in their accounts and will be able to do much of their banking, including loan applications, by telephone
although some customers are grumbling they'll bank in nevada, 20 minutes away by car, the county doesn't have that option
state law requires that local governments bank in california. alpine county, which has cash assets of $3 million and an annual budget of $5 million, is considering hiring an armed transport service for $70 a trip to deposit its money at south lake tahoe
dee rudden, who moved here two years ago from san jose with her husband, bob, and bought the markleeville general store, said the bank's closing ``is really going to be a problem for everyone
i guess what we're going to do is buy a safe,'' rudden said. ``we're going to have to do something.''
in markleeville, the economy seems as slow as the pace of life. welcome signs on the edge of town boast a population of 165 in a county of 1,200 people. work is seasonal at the silver mine, four miles south of town
doranna tognotti, deputy treasurer-tax collector, said the estimated $755,00 it would cost to start a new bank in alpine county may be prohibitive
you can't help but wonder if we're going to end up being a ghost town,'' she said
the mexican government said it would raise by 3 percent the minimum daily wage in march and freeze officially regulated prices under its inflation-fighting program
it also said the value of the peso currency against the dollar would be maintained in march at the level reached today. the government had been paring the currency's value by 3 pesos per trading day
the national motto is no increase in prices in the month of march,'' president miguel de la madrid said sunday, in announcing that the government was stepping up the pace of its anti-inflation program
he said the decision was made after fresh inflation figures showed ``an important de-acceleration'' in february
the inflation tally for february, he said, will be about half the record 15.5 percent posted in january. consumer prices rose 8.7 percent in the first half of this month, the government reported last wednesday
in outlining inflation-fighting steps for march, the presidential office said the prices of government-produced and -controlled goods and services, such as gasoline, telephones and electricity, will be frozen
private companies, it said, will be urged to absorb the increase in the minimum wage and not pass it along to consumers in the form of higher prices
moreover, it said, the government will push ahead with plans to reduce the government's red-ink spending
the government had been expected to announce over the weekend a target for boosting wages and prices in march, under an indexation plan scheduled to go into effect on tuesday
under that plan, wages and prices of government-regulated goods and services were to be increased by a set amount, based on projected inflation
but officials decided instead to raise only the minimum wage, which will move from 7,765 pesos a day to just under 8,000 pesos, or about $3.50 at the current exchange rate. the higher pay will go into effect tuesday
the small increase dealt a setback to labor. labor officials had called for a gain of at least 10 percent to help workers keep pace with the sharp rise in prices in recent months
but during a meeting at the presidential office, labor chief fidel velazquez said he believed the fresh steps would help ``attack inflation.'' he said workers had, once again, ``placed the interests of the country ahead of their own interests.''
the inflation rate in all of last year was a record 159.2 percent, up sharply from the 105.7 percent of 1986
de la madrid unveiled the anti-inflation program, called the economic solidarity pact, in mid-december in an effort to prevent the nation from spinning into hyper-inflation. officials have predicted that the plan will reduce the monthly inflation rate to just 1 percent to 2 percent by year's end
as part of the solidarity pact, the government authorized sharp increases in the prices of a variety of officially controlled goods and services, which kicked up costs throughout the economy
the exchange rate on friday was 2,270 pesos to the dollar in the controlled market, which is regulated by the government and used in about 75 percent of commercial transactions
the rate in free-market trading, used in tourism and transactions along the u.s.-mexico border, was 2,327 pesos to the dollar
in february, the bank of mexico, the central bank, sliced the currency's value by an average of 3 pesos per working day. the rate had held fairly steady from mid-december to february
japanese automakers exported 9.1 percent fewer cars, trucks and buses in january, largely because the yen's rise against the dollar shrank shipments to the united states, an industry association announced monday
exports to the united states dropped 19.4 percent from a year earlier to 199,904 units, according to the japan automobile manufacturers association
japanese companies exported a total 524,785 units in january
an association spokesman, who requested anonymity, said there was no single reason for the drop in shipments to the u.s. market. he added that the higher value of the yen, which makes cars exported from japan more costly to american buyers, was an important factor
the united states is the largest market for japanese car exports
exports to the united states in the first 10 months of fiscal 1987, which ends in march, were down 5.4 percent compared with a year earlier, to 1.978 million units
total exports to the u.s. market for fiscal 1987 will probably not exceed the 2.3 million unit quota set in japan's voluntary export restrictions, the spokesman said
the stock market staged a broad advance today, making another run toward new highs for the year
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 11.27 to 2,034.48 in the first half hour of trading
gainers outnumbered losers by about 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 699 up, 340 down and 490 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 61.56 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street. but more than half of that activity came in a few high-yielding stocks, representing plays on their impending dividends
analysts said optimistic traders still had their sights set on the 2,051.89 level in the dow jones industrial average, where it closed jan. 7 for its highest closing reading since the crash last october
the average failed in a bid to surpass that point last week, but brokers argued that it might be ready to make another try
one concern facing the market is the report due tuesday from the commerce department on the index of leading economic indicators for january
analysts generally expect the figure to show a decline. but the firm of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. said the 0.2 percent drop originally reported for december might be revised to show a gain
that would mean that the index would no longer have a string of three consecutive monthly declines, a phenomenon which is traditionally regarded as a potential recession warning
gainers among the blue chips included general electric, up { at 44[; eastman kodak, up ] at 42~; international business machines, up ] at 116[, and american telephone &amp; telegraph, up \ at 29\
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .89 to 148.59. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .43 at 284.75
on friday the dow jones industrial average rose 5.64 to 2,023.21, finishing the week with a net gain of 8.62 points
advancing issues outpaced declines by about 5 to 4 on the nyse, with 804 up, 655 down and 483 unchanged. big board volume totaled 158.06 million shares, down from 213.89 million in the previous session
continental airlines is seeking to open a hub in west berlin to serve destinations in west germany and others parts of europe
an application has been filed with air attaches in west berlin for permission to serve several west german cities, including frankfurt, stuttgart, cologne and dusseldorf, and flights to london and paris, said c.w. ``pete'' runnette, vice president of continental's international division
the proposal was filed 10 days ago and is expected to be acted on in several months, the houston chronicle reported today
we feel there is a lot of opportunity in west berlin right now,'' runnette said. ``continental is considering expansion in europe, and west berlin seems like a suitable entree. we will bring low-cost, high-quality service to the european market.''
under the proposal, continental would use airbus 300s and 737-300s in west berlin, with four flights a day to munich, seven to frankfurt, and five to dusseldorf, stuttgart and cologne
two flights a day to london's gatwick would also be scheduled, in addition to service from west berlin to paris
the west berlin-london route would connect with the carrier's non-stop london service from houston, miami, denver and newark, n.j., as well as its newark to paris flight
under an agreement signed at the close of world war ii, only american, french and british airlines can land in west berlin, which is the non-communist part of the divided city in east germany
the air attaches for the united states, britain and france control the west half of the divided city and regulate air routes and fares, and those three will make a decision on who obtains west berlin service, runnette said
pan american, the major american carrier in and out of west berlin, is developing a hub at west berlin's tegel airport. trans world airlines and american airlines have sought permission for flights in west berlin, and delta air lines and northwest airlines are also reported to be interested in gaining rights to fly from west berlin, the chronicle reported
the supreme court today asked the reagan administration for its opinion of a ruling that states indirectly may tax interest paid to financial institutions from investments in federal home loan bank (fhlb) bonds
the court said it wants to hear from justice department lawyers before saying whether it will review fully a challenge to a maryland bank franchise tax
the maryland national bank challenged the tax, seeking a refund of $197,310 it paid under protest to the state for the years 1979 through 1982
during that period, the bank reported $2.82 million in interest from fhlb bonds
the sum was included in the bank's net earnings that were subject to maryland's franchise tax, which is imposed on financial institutions for the privilege of doing business in maryland
the difficulty over whether earnings from fhlb bonds are taxable arises because of two apparently conflicting federal laws
the 1932 law that created the fhlb generally exempts the bonds from taxes
but a law enacted in 1862 permits states to levy a ``non-discriminatory franchise tax'' on ``stocks and obligations of the united states government'' that generally are exempt from state and local taxes
the maryland court of appeals upheld the state franchise tax, ruling in october that the 1862 law takes precedence
the state court based its ruling in part on a 1975 opinion by the general counsel's office of the federal home loan bank board
the state court said a franchise tax paid for the privilege of doing business in the state is not the same as a direct tax on a bank's income
the state court also said the tax does not violate the constitution's supremacy clause, which binds states to adhere to federal law
the case is maryland national bank vs. state department of assessments, 87-1080.   
fidelity investments, the nation's largest mutual fund firm, today announced plans to lay off about 800 workers, with more than 70 percent of the cuts in its boston area offices
the company attributed the 10.5 percent workforce reduction to a slump in new stock transactions and slower money management business since the oct. 19 stock market crash
the layoffs, to take effect immediately, include 530 workers in greater boston, about 150 in dallas and about 50 in new york, said fidelity spokeswoman karen ernst
the remainder of the cuts will come from other offices around the country, she said
the action reduces fidelity's nationwide staff to approximately 6,850, about the same number of workers employed by the firm in mid-1987. since the early 1980s, fidelity experienced significant growth as the economy improved
most of the layoffs were from corporate staff department and ``volume-sensitive'' areas, such as telephone representatives and order takers, said the corporate announcement. no investment personnel were effected
fidelity, which operates 54 offices in the united states, presently manages about $80 billion in assets, down from a peak of about $85 billion in mid-1987
the company dismissed about 300 part-time and 50 fill-time workers feb. 11, including 50 in boston and 125 each in dallas and salt lake city
earlier this year, fidelity laid off 32 workers at investment centers nationwide
among fidelity's other services include discount stock brokerage and institutional pension management
eric kobern, a former fidelity employee who publishes an independent newsletter that monitors the company, predicts future layoffs if business does not accelerate
this is a first step,'' said kobern. ``i would not be surprised if we see further cuts after the ira season if business stays at the same pace. this may be the first round of cuts, and they will digest it and see how they are doing then proceed with others.''
stop &amp; shop cos. inc. announced today it would go private in a $1.23 billion leveraged buyout by kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. the deal could thwart dart group inc.'s attempt to take over the supermarket and department store chain
the buyout agreement, signed after several days of negotiations between stop &amp; shop directors and several interested firms, calls for a kohlberg kravis subsidiary, ssc holdings corp., to purchase all 28 million outstanding stop &amp; shop shares at $44 each, stop &amp; shop said in a statement
kohlberg kravis is an investment company specializing in management-led acquisitions, including the $6.2 billion leveraged buyout of beatrice cos. in 1986. in a leveraged buyout, investors borrow heavily to buy out a company and then pay off the debt with the target company's cash flow or the sale of its assets
stop &amp; shop's board had rejected as inadequate dart's offer of $37 a share, or a total of $1.03 billion
officials of dart could not be reached for comment today, but a spokesman had said they would likely make a counter offer
other companies reportedly interested in stop &amp; shop were thomas h. lee co. of boston, and riordan, freeman &amp; spogli inc. of los angeles
stop &amp; shop has 113 supermarkets and 169 bradlees in 12 states in the northeast
the company's stock has gone up more than $25 a share since dart first announced its takeover intent in january. in early new york stock exchange trading today, it was up another 75 cents to $43.37{ a share
the sale, which must be approved by a majority of stop &amp; shop shareholders, is expected to commence on or before march 4, stop &amp; shop said. kohlberg kravis has received a financing commitment from manufacturers hanover trust co., the retailer said
stop &amp; shop said it will retain its present management and remain based in braintree
on friday, dart said it would launch a proxy fight and called for a special meeting of stop &amp; shop shareholders at which it would move to replace the directors
dart, based in landover, md., is known for a series of unsuccessful but profitable bids to gain control of other companies, and its chairman, herbert haft, and president, robert haft, have acquired reputations as corporate raiders
their most recent targets include supermarkets general corp. and dayton hudson corp
the stock market gained ground today in a session enlivened by heavy takeover activity
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 8.95 to 2,032.16 by 11 a.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 5 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 787 up, 453 down and 506 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 100.09 million shares at midmorning. nearly half of that activity came in a few high-yielding stocks, representing plays on their impending dividends
analysts said optimistic traders still had their sights set on the 2,051.89 level in the dow jones industrial average, where it closed jan. 7 for its highest closing reading since the crash last october
the average failed in a bid to surpass that point last week, but brokers argued that it might be ready to make another try
one concern facing the market is the report due tuesday from the commerce department on the index of leading economic indicators for january
analysts generally expect the figure to show a decline. but the firm of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. said the 0.2 percent drop originally reported for december might be revised to show a gain
that would mean that the index would no longer have a string of three consecutive monthly declines, a phenomenon which is traditionally regarded as a potential recession warning
on the takeover scene, rorer corp. jumped 10| to 36}. the company agreed to be acquired by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
homestake mining climbed 4] to 18~. mesa limited partnership made a $20-a-share offer for the company
stop &amp; shop gained ~ to 43{. the company, fighting a hostile bid by dart group, reached agreement on a buyout at $44 a share by a group organized by kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .56 to 148.26. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.75 at 286.07. applicants</head> other cases; also running on general news wires.</note>
the supreme court agreed today to consider barring the u.s. customs service from conducting drug tests for people seeking drug-enforcement jobs, setting the stage for its first ruling on the constitutionality of mandatory drug-testing for public employees
the court said it will hear a challenge to the testing program by a federal workers labor union that says taking urine samples from employees violates their privacy rights
the outcome will carry no direct effect on such tests conducted by private, non-governmental employers
president reagan signed an executive order in 1986 calling for drug testing of government employees
the transportation department, with 30,000 employees, became the first cabinet-level department to adopt random testing for civilian workers. the program covers those in safety-related jobs such as air traffic controllers, federal aviation administration pilots and workers with high-rated security clearance
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last year that the customs service tests, which are not administered randomly, are lawful
the appeals court said the tests may be considered searches but do not intrude unnecessarily on the privacy rights of workers
because of the strong governmental interest in employing individuals for key positions in drug enforcement who themselves are not drug users and the limited intrusiveness of this partricular program, it is reasonable and, therefore, is not unconstitutional,'' the appeals court said
the national treasury employees union challenged the testing program, which requires some workers to provide urine samples in restroom stalls as a person overseeing the test waits outside the stall. the tests are conducted by an independent company hired by the customs service
the union said the tests are a ``humiliation'' for workers, and are being administered indiscriminately to employees who otherwise are thought worthy of promotion and are not suspected of drug use
the tests are given to those in the customs service applying for promotion to drug-enforcement jobs, and for outside applicants for those jobs
the union president, robert m. tobias, praised the high court's decision to hear the case, saying its ruling ``should clarify the constiutional boundaries of drug testing for federal employees and, we hope, destroy reagan's plans for wholesale testing of the federal work force.''
in other action today, the court:
_ refused to revive lawsuits charging the government and federal contrctors with negligently causing deaths and disease among people exposed to open-air atomic tests
the court, without comment, let stand a federal law that effectively spared the government from having to defend itself against claims seeking billions of dollars
_ agreed to consider letting the federal government apply retroactively a formula that limits reimbursement paid to hospitals treating medicare patients
the court said it will hear reagan administration arguments that some hospitals could reap a windfall from the ban on retroactive application of the formula
_ let stand rulings that threw out a reporter's attempt to force the state department to release documents from u.s. embassies around the world
the lawsuit by donald f. goldberg, a reporter on the staff of syndicated columnist jack anderson, had been filed under the freedom of information act. he had sought from the state department responses to an unclassified 1982 questionnaire on foreign governments' diplomatic practices
_ asked the reagan administration whether it thinks high-stakes bingo games run by indian tribes are subject to state sales taxes
the court said it wants to hear from justice department lawyers before it says whether it will review an attempt by oklahoma officials to tax revenue from a bingo game in tulsa run by the muscogee creek nation
the reagan administration said the drug tests are needed to prevent drug enforcement agents who used drugs from being bribed or blackmailed
justice department lawyers said, ``any affront to privacy felt by those applying for the affected positions is outweighed by the service's interest in ensuring that officials responsible for the interdiction of drug smuggling are not themselves drug users.''
customs employees are not ``immune from a problem that is ravaging the society at large,'' the government lawyers said in urging the court to reject the union's appeal
they said the tests are particularly important now because the customs services plans to recruit some 3,000 new employees, including many in the 18-to-25 age range in which use of illegal drugs is most prevalent
the tests were halted in 1986 after a federal judge ruled they are unconstitutional and ordered them stopped
the 5th circuit court then overruled the judge, and the supreme court last may permitted the tests to resume
drug testing policies also have come under legal attacks led by the american civil liberties union
the case is national treasury employees union vs. von raab, 86-1879
the number of local businesses bankruptcies reached an all-time high in 1987, and increased for the fifth consecutive year, according to an accounting firm's report
there were a record 1,688 bankruptcies in houston last year, a 4 percent increase from the previous year, a price waterhouse-houston study showed. the small percentage increase indicates a stabilization of the business climate, the company said
price waterhouse said the number of bankruptcies increased by 17 percent in 1986 and 33 percent in 1985
we expect bankruptcies in houston to decline in 1988,'' said carol bennett, senior manager and economist with price waterhouse. ``such a decline would be the first we have reported since we began these bankruptcy analyses in 1982.''
in its survey last year, the company predicted houston bankruptcies had peaked in 1986
retail businesses represented the largest industry segment in the bankruptcy figures with a 41.5 percent share, the study said
but the beleaguered oil and gas industry improved dramatically in its survival statistics, showing a 53 pecent decrease in business failures and bankruptcy filings last year compared with 1986. the 59 filings in the energy sector last year were the fewest since 1982
the possibility of a bidding war for federated department stores inc. arose today after the nation's fifth-largest retailer announced that another party in addition to campeau corp. was presenting an acquisition proposal to the federated board
federated did not identify the new bidder, but said it had been advised that the party planned to submit a proposal that appeared competitive with campeau's $6.1 billion, $68-per-share bid to buy federated
federated's board of directors, meeting today to consider campeau's proposal, was to consider the rival bid as well, the retailer said
the cincinnati-based federated, which owns chains including bloomingdale's, filene's and burdine's, declined to say where the board was meeting, or when it would announce a decision
representatives of federated and campeau negotiated over the weekend on a merger plan. however, the retailer said last week there was no guarantee its directors would agree to a merger with campeau, which owns store chains including jordan marsh, ann taylor and stern's
federated stock was up $1.50 to $66.25 a share in late morning trading on the new york stock exchange today
federated ended weeks of fending off campeau's takeover attempts by announcing friday that its board of directors authorized merger negotiations after the toronto-based development company offered $68 per share
the directors previously rejected lower campeau offers and ordered managers to study alternatives to a takeover
analysts speculated that federated decided to negotiate with campeau because it could not find a favored buyer to acquire the company or develop a restructuring plan that would pay shareholders what campeau was offering
most analysts said that if an agreement was reached, campeau probably would sell some federated divisions to help pay off the $4.5 billion in debt it would incur to make the acquisition
campeau took similar steps after acquiring allied stores corp. in december 1986 and sold off 16 of 24 store units
campeau has already indicated it would sell federated's non-department store operations, which include gold circle discount stores based in columbus and ralph's supermarkets in los angeles. it indicated it would combine headquarters operations of federated and allied stores
some analysts said the cincinnati-based lazarus department store chain is considered among federated's weaker performing units and could be sold
there have been rumors that a number of other retailers, such as may department stores, would step in and buy federated. william smith, a retail analyst with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., said st. louis-based may would be interested in acquiring some of federated's stores, ``but they don't have to buy the whole company to do that.''
federated had $11 billion in sales last year. it operates 650 stores nationwide. its holdings also include abraham &amp; straus, rich's, bullock's and bullocks wilshire and i. magnin
campeau said last week it would raise a substantial amount of equity for its proposed buyout of federated by selling the brooks brothers division of allied stores to britain's marks and spencer plc for $770 million. the brooks brothers sale was conditioned on campeau acquiring federated
britain's merchandise trade deficit soared 33 percent to a record 1.5 billion pounds in january as exports fell more sharply than imports, the government said monday
the latest seasonally adjusted figure, equal to about $2.7 billion, compared with a deficit of 1.01 billion pounds in the previous month and 597 million pounds in january 1987, the department of trade and industry said
britain's current account deficit, which includes invisible trade such as services and overseas investment earnings, more than doubled to a record 905 million pounds, or $1.6 billion, in january from a deficit of 410 million pounds in december
the current account deficit was 28 million pounds in january 1987
the invisible trade in janaury was estimated to be in a surplus of 600 million pounds
exports fell 9 percent to 6.2 billion pounds, or $11 billion, in january from 6.8 billion pounds, or $12 billion, in december
imports fell 1.3 percent to 7.7 billion pounds, or $13.6 billion, from 7.8 billion pounds, or $13.8 billion, in december
the stock market headed higher today in a session enlivened by brisk takeover activity
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 15.75 to 2,038.96 by noontime on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 5 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 858 up, 475 down and 492 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 133.99 million shares at noontime, up from 85.53 million at the same point friday. a big chunk of that activity came in a few high-yielding stocks, representing plays on their impending dividends
analysts said optimistic traders still had their sights set on the 2,051.89 level in the dow jones industrial average, where it closed jan. 7 for its highest closing reading since the crash last october
the average failed in a bid to surpass that point last week, but brokers argued that it might be ready to make another try
one concern facing the market is the report due tuesday from the commerce department on the index of leading economic indicators for january
analysts generally expect the figure to show a decline. but the firm of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. said the 0.2 percent drop originally reported for december might be revised to show a gain
that would mean that the index would no longer have a string of three consecutive monthly declines, a phenomenon which is traditionally regarded as a potential recession warning
on the takeover scene, rorer corp. jumped 10| to 36}. the company agreed to be acquired by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
homestake mining climbed 3~ to 18]. mesa limited partnership made a $20-a-share offer for the company
stop &amp; shop gained ~ to 43{. the company, fighting a hostile bid by dart group, reached agreement on a buyout at $44 a share by a group organized by kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .90 to 148.60. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.60 at 285.92
a pair of connecticut entrepreneurs have in hand the blueprints they think will alter the popular image of modular homes as boxy structures that sway in the breeze
harvey f. gerber jr. and his wife, wendy a. horgan, have formed a company that will sell modular houses designed by an architect to look like and compete with the best custom-built homes
it's a new market with few competitors
the incentive to homebuyers is that so-called ``high-end modular homes'' can be built at a lower cost and much faster than comparable stick-built homes that are constructed from the ground up, gerber said
the four styles offered by gerber builders inc. are two-story homes, with large porches, 9-foot ceilings, family rooms, multiple bathrooms and at least three bedrooms. the houses also allow for personalized touches, such as a choice of flooring, siding and trim molding
the price ranges from about $70,000 to $130,000 for a 2,000-square-foot house, depending upon whether a buyer purchases an unfinished model or a completed home. the price of land isn't included
what we have here is a product that is aimed at a high-end market. it is going to be indistinguishable from te best stick-built homes,'' gerber said during a recent interview
gerber, 39, and his wife are both former wall street attorneys. they got their start in construction 10 years ago when they began renovating historic buildings in new york city. they had branched out into condominium construction in new jersey when they decided to focus on modular homes
they chose connecticut because of their connections to the state. ms. horgan, originally from new canaan, received her master's and law degrees from the university of connecticut. gerber attended yale and got his law degree from fordham university
the company has constructed a victorian-style model on its 11-acre headquarters site in newtown, an affluent suburban community about 70 miles north of new york city. the firm is constructing three other models on a parcel in sussex county, n.j
the completion of the model was the culmination of three years of design work and planning that has cost the company about $1 million, gerber said
the company's goal is to sell at least 100 homes the first year and begin construction of connecticut's first modular home factory at the newtown site
if all goes well, ground could be broken on the proposed 57,000-square-foot factory this summer. the factory would produce 300 homes a year and the product line would be expanded to include lower-priced and more expensive models along with the intermediate-priced models now being offered
the gerber homes currently are constructed by contempri homes in taylor, pa., and shipped to connecticut. all the gerber homes have been designed by deborah berke, who teaches architecture at yale university and runs a business in new york city
modular homes account for about 5 percent of all housing starts nationwide, and perhaps 15 percent of new houses in the northeast, where most modular home factories are located, said barbara martin, special projects consultant for the buildings systems council of the national association of home builders in washington, d.c
she could name only three companies selling high-end modular homes
george oswald of techno craft inc., another modular home company, predicts that 50 percent of the housing starts in the northeast will be modular homes by the year 2000
techno craft, which opened a 100,000-square-foot factory in mcelhattan, pa., last year, already has about $80 million in orders for its luxury homes
we're the ones who broke the sound barrier by going into the high-end (modular home) market,'' oswald said
the smallest techno-craft home is 2,600 square feet, with its colonial mansion models ranging up to 7,000 square feet, oswald said. the cost averages about $50 a square foot. the homes are sold finished and are available only through developers
gerber plans to sell to individual home buyers and small contractors
his current models cost about $65 a square foot completed, or about $130,000. it would take a crew several days to assemble the six pieces of each model and then about three more months to complete the home, gerber said
to those wanting to save money, the company will sell unfinished homes for about $35 a square foot, or about $70,000. for that price, the home comes with much of the work done, such as all the plumbing and electrical wiring run, and the insulation and wallboard installed. but an unfinished house has no roof, no siding, and the plumbing and wiring need to be hooked up
the company also will sell kits to those more than 30 miles away from its newtown office
we've gotten universal praise from every bank, appraiser, engineer, contractor and prospect who has visited the house (in newtown) prior to its formal opening,'' said gerber. ``at the same time, we haven't had the ultimate test, which is market exposure. we can't conclusively say we've designed a hula hoop, although that's what we believe.''
futures prices for corn and soybeans were higher while wheat prices were mixed in early trading today on the chicago board of trade
analysts said negative news was relatively light in the corn and soybean pits
the cash soybean market continues to show strenth, and increases were expected in export demands for the crop, traders said
taiwan and south korea are looking for corn, but were expected to buy less than expected, they said
in early trading, wheat was } cent lower to } cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.16 a bushel; corn was { cent to } cent higher with may at $2.07\ a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to \ cent higher with march at $1.90{ a bushel; and soybeans were 1\ cents to 1{ cents higher with march at $6.27 a bushel
futures prices for livestock were mixed today in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
in early trading, live cattle were unchanged to .50 cent a pound with the contract for delivery in april at 72.05 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .05 cent higher to .52 cent lower with march at 80.30 cents a pound; live hogs were unchanged to .60 cent lower with april at 43.85 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .07 cent lower to .25 cent higher with match at 52.20 cents a pound
on friday, futures prices for frozen pork bellies were lower while cattle and hogs were mixed
officials from leading cocoa producers and consuming countries began two weeks of talks monday on measures to support world prices against the background of a renewed slump in the market
cocoa bean prices have declined by more than seven per cent since the start of the year, with contracts for may delivery dropping the equivalent of $26.40 to touch a five-year year low of 995 pounds, or $1,751, per metric ton, dealers said
cocoa prices have been undermined by a world surplus following four seasons of overproduction, and the ending of intervention buying to support the market
intervention buying of cocoa by the 37-nation international cocoa organization was halted indefinitely last week because purchases had reached the maximum 250,000 tons permitted under the price-stabilization treaty
dealers said that the market's weakness also reflected doubts whether cocoa organization members can agree on supplementary measures to support the market at the talks that opened monday
the cocoa treaty allows the introduction of a stock withholding process to restrict supplies when intervention purchases have been halted
under the procedure, the organization's leading producers _ the ivory coast, brazil, ghana, nigeria and cameroon _ can hold back up to 120,000 tons of cocoa. the beans would be put into storage and only released when prices were rising strongly
industry sources said that although it was likely to come into force this week or next, there were doubts whether all producers would operate it
holding back cocoa will mean lost export revenue and that is something that some countries may not be able to afford,'' said one analyst
he noted that most of the producers are massively in debt and making huge interest repayments
the talks will be complicated by a call from cocoa organization consumers for a cut in the support price, said delegates to the meeting who spoke on condition of anonymity
norway's labor government proposed a wage freeze monday in an emergency measure to put a lid on inflation, which leaped to 8.7 percent last year
the government said the freeze, which also covered stock dividends, would be temporary until economic planners can prepare a more comprehensive program to regulate salaries
the second stage was due to be introduced in about two weeks and would keep salaries under control at least until 1989
norway's inflation rate has grown steadily over the past three years, from 5.7 percent in 1985 to 7.2 percent in 1986 and 8.7 percent last year. by comparison, the average rate in european in 1986 was 3.8 percent, according to the organization of european cooperation and development
under the proposed bill, prices would be controled but not frozen. an already existing monitoring agency would be instructed to ensure prices were not raised unreasonably
it was the most extreme anti-inflation measure since another socialist government froze prices and wages ten years ago
on saturday, prime minister gro harlem brundtland said she would introduce the wage legislation after the national employers' organization closed a deal with the country's federation of trade unions giving workers wage increases and benefits amounting to roughly five percent
the agreement affected 350,000 union members in the private sector, but the proposed wage freeze would extend the agreement to most of norway's work force
the bill raised a cry of protest from other unions that their own negotiations were cut off and superceded by a deal in which they had no say
exemptions were made for teachers and nurses, who have staged sporadic strikes over the past several weeks and who were holding separate pay negotiations
although mrs. brundtland's government lacks a majority in the 157-member parliament, the storting, the legislation was almost certain to win approval in a vote later this week with the likely support of the opposition conservative party
mrs. brundtland told a news conference the bill was designed to bring inflation down to the level of other european countries and make norway's industry more competative. general news wires</note>
two financial company executives were sentenced to prison today for their roles in bilking mortgage company investors of millions of dollars
oakland county circuit judge norman l. lippitt sentenced barton greenberg to the maximum six years, eight months to 10 years in prison, and sentenced gary l. mitchell to 16 months to three years in prison
scattered applause broke out as the two former executives of a.j. obie &amp; associates and diamond mortgage corp. were led away in handcuffs
lippitt gave the two 56 days to appeal
the pair were accused of defrauding 1,600 investors of about $47 million in what state attorney general frank kelley has termed michigan's largest mortgage scam
greenberg and mitchell were charged last year with 18 counts of securities fraud. greenberg also was charged with two counts of obtaining money under false pretenses
in a plea bargain arranged before trial, greenberg pleaded no contest to one count of obtaining money under false pretenses and mitchell no contest to a count of securities fraud. the other counts were dropped
kelley has said that greenberg, former board chairman of diamond and former obie president, used corporate accounts for personal purposes while drawing a $1 million annual salary
mitchell owned no stock in either company, had little control over bank accounts and drew a $100,000 annual salary, kelley wrote lippitt in a letter last week. kelley said while mitchell knew of two of the fraud schemes, he was not the primary instigator and did not benefit nearly as much as greenberg
diamond and obie were charged with arranging high-risk mortgage loans at above-market rates that obie then resold to investors
because they had more investors than borrowers, obie frequently gave individual mortgages to several investors. diamond also was accused of failing to account properly for escrow money to pay taxes and insurance
the chairman of prudential-bache securities inc. has agreed to a censure by the new york stock exchange for failing to oversee e.f. hutton &amp; co. properly when he was president of that firm during an illicit overdrafting scheme, sources familiar with the settlement said monday
the sources, who spoke on condition they not be identified, said the exchange determined george l. ball wasn't aware of the scheme, which was conducted in the early 1980s and played a role in hutton's later demise. but the exchange felt ball still bore some responsibility, the sources said
hutton's former chief financial officer thomas lynch also will be censured, and hutton must pay a $400,000 fine to the exchange, among the largest ever levied, the sources said. because hutton was acquired by shearson lehman brothers inc. late last year, shearson will pay the fine
norman epstein, a former hutton executive responsible for overseeing some of its operations, also faced discipline by the exchange but reportedly has been resisting a settlement
ball was away from his office and did not return telephone messages for comment, but a prudential-bache official said the chairman agreed to the settlement in order to put the matter behind him
this is the mildest form of action available to the exchange,'' said the official. ``there is no fine, no restrictions, it's a censure.''
the action by stock exchange investigators is regarded as largely inconsequential. it isn't expected to have any effect on ball's position at prudential bache
what they're saying is, `we realize and acknowledge you weren't aware of any of the improprieties,'' the prudential bache official said
stock exchange spokeswoman sharon gamsin declined comment in accordance with its policy on investigations that haven't been concluded
shearson officials did not return calls for comment, and the whereabouts of lynch and epstein weren't clear
shearson has said previously that in acquiring hutton, it scrutinized the firm's legal history and potential liabilities
the exchange's investigation stemmed from a 1985 check-overdrafting scheme that hutton orchestrated through its retail brokerage network. the firm earned up to $8 million in interest income at commercial banks by deliberately overdrawing checking accounts and putting the money to use elsewhere
hutton pleaded guilty to 2,000 federal fraud counts and paid a $2 million fine in may 1985 because of the scheme, which exposed serious management lapses at the firm and led to a chain of events that forced hutton to sell itself
ball departed hutton for prudential-bache in 1982, after a federal probe of the overdrafting scheme had begun
the stock exchange routinely disciplines member firms for violating its rules of conduct, with punitive actions ranging from expulsions for severe infractions to fines or censure for less serious offenses
previous large fines levied by the stock exchange included $400,000 against first wall street settlement in 1981 and $400,000 against bache halsey stuart shields in 1982
carlo de benedetti reached a partnership agreement with two belgian firms monday, bringing the italian investor closer to gaining control of societe generale de belgique sa, belgium's biggest holding company
de benedetti, belgian industrialist andre leysen of gevaert nv and pierre scohier of cobepa sa, a belgian investment firm, said they agreed to form a new holding company with 4.5 million, or about 16 percent, of societe generale shares
the group's aim is to control a stake of 20 to 25 percent of societe generale shares, scohier said
de benedetti, together with allies, already claims to control 45 percent of societe generale's 28.2 million shares but it was unclear monday whether the new partnership could give him a majority stake in the company at the expense of an alliance of mainly french and belgian companies that claims 52 percent of the shares
the alliance, built around the french investment cie financiere de suez and belgium's biggest insurer, groupe ag, wants to keep societe generale, which has a stake in a third of the belgian economy, anchored in belgium
de benedetti wants to use the 166-year-old firm as a platform for a pan-european holding company
but in the deal with the two belgian companies he seemed more willing to let societe generale maintain its belgian identity
de benedetti's french investment firm cerus sa will have a stake of 55 percent in the new holding company and gevaert and cobepa holdings of 22.5 percent each
scohier said copeba, the belgian subsidiary of the french investment group paribas, currently did not own shares of societe generale, but that it planned to buy about 1 million. he did not elaborate
paribas and suez are fierce competitors on the french investment market and are in opposing camps in the battle of societe generale
the three parties said in a statement the new holding company will ensure that societe generale will have a belgian base and invited other belgian as well as international investors to join the holding company
societe generale has interests in some 1,400 companies world-wide and in about half of belgium's top 50 firms. it has such pervasive influence in the national economy that it is sometimes identified with belgium itself
leysen told the west german magazine der spiegel the importance of societe generale was reflected in its stake in ``all vital economic sectors of belgium: the energy sector, gas, electricity, petroleum and (belgium's) largest bank.''
the announcement further said that de benedetti will be president of the new holding company with leysen and scohier vice-presidents
de benedetti's insistence on having personal control over at least day-to-day management of societe generale had been a stumbling block when he failed to forge a partnership with leysen last month
but the statement released monday said ``the decision-making center of the company will remain in belgium and the essential interests of belgium will be preserved,'' which had been a constant demand by leysen
de benedetti said prior to monday's agreement he controlled 45 percent while the alliance opposing him claims 52 percent
maurice lippens, managing director of belgium's groupe ag, said on belgian rtbf radio the shareholders meeting would not be called to assess the size of the two factions trying to take control of the company
lippens further said he and officials of the suez group, which holds the largest single known bloc of shares within the coalition, had met with belgium's caretaker prime minister wilfried martens over the weekend
no details of the meeting were available
the battle for control of societe generale started jan. 18 when de benedetti announced he was seeking effective control of the holding company in view of the completion of the european internal market of 1992
by that date, the common market hopes to free all movement of goods, services and people within the 12-nation european economic community
the value of midwestern farmland is up about 7 percent from depressed 1986 levels, but still is little more than half what it was seven years ago, the federal reserve bank of chicago says
the bank says its survey of about 500 agricultural bankers in five midwestern states shows farmland values rose 3.2 percent during the last three months of 1987 _ the fourth consecutive quarterly increase
the reversal last year of the long downtrend in farmland values stems largely from the improving income trend of the sector,'' said peter heffernan, an analyst for the chicago bank
net farm income in 1987 rose 20 percent from the previous year's level, said heffernan
while much of the improvement in farm-sector earnings is attributable to large government payments, strong livestock returns over the past few years and sharply curtailed production expenses have also contributed to the sector's improved income performance,'' said heffernan
the most substantial increases in farmland values during the fourth quarter of 1987 were the 5.8 percent reported in indiana and 4.9 percent in iowa, the survey showed
illinois bankers reported a 2.1 percent increase in farmland values during october, november and december, and wisconsin bankers reported a 1 percent increase
michigan bankers said there was virtually no change from third-quarter values
heffernan said the best annual increase in farmland values was 13 percent in iowa. the others were 8.2 percent in indiana, 7.2 percent in illinois and 2 percent in michigan, with no change reported by bankers in wisconsin
district bankers remain optimistic regarding the farmland market in 1988,'' said heffernan. ``the vast majority of surveyed bankers _ almost 70 percent _ expect farmland values in their areas to remain stable during the first quarter of this year.''
he said 28 percent of the bankers expect farmland values to continue to rise this quarter, while just 2 percent expect a decline
even with the latest increase in farmland values, the survey showed that they are 45 percent below their 1981 peak
more than 5,000 northern telecom ltd. production and office workers went on strike in five canadian cities monday after the union rejected a last-minute economic proposal from the company
we are quite a ways apart on some very basic issues,'' said bob white, president of the canadian auto workers union
white said the company wants to cut cost-of-living allowances by 35 percent and has failed to meet the union's proposal for indexed pensions. the union is also seeking higher wages and a sweetened benefit package. wages now are $15 to $18 an hour
the contract expired sunday at midnight and the strike began after a deadline of monday at 11 a.m. est
affected by the strike are a repair facility in saint john, new brunswick, and manufacturing plants in ontario at bramalea, belleville, london and kingston that make wire, cable, telephones and office telecommunications equipment
the company is 52.3 per cent owned by conglomerate bce, formerly bell canada enterprises, and has 24 plants and repair operations. fourteen of the company's plants are located in the united states
the number of oil and gas rigs working in the united states posted a small increase of five this week to total 983, baker hughes inc. announced
the total reflects the number of rigs actively exploring for oil as of last friday, not the number rigs producing oil. the previous week, the count had increased by 10 to total 978
a year ago, the rig count was 801, baker hughes announced monday
houston-based baker hughes, an oil toolmaker, tallies the number of working rigs and the count is the widely-watched industry index of drilling activity
hughes tool co., which merged this year with baker international corp. of orange, calif., has kept track of the number of working rigs since 1940
the rig count reached a peak of 4,500 active rigs in december 1981 _ the height of the oil boom. but as oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel in the summer of 1986, the count fell to 663, the lowest since hughes began compiling figures
among the major oil producing states, oklahoma gained 12 rigs this week, followed by texas with 11, wyoming with three and louisiana with one
michigan's count dropped by seven and ohio and colorado each lost three. kansas and new mexico were down by two each, while pennsylvania and california each lost one
futures prices for corn and soybeans were higher while wheat prices were mixed at the close monday in moderate to good volume on the chicago board of trade
soybean prices closed near 7 cents above friday's prices
lighter than expected delivery notices for soybeans helped support higher soybeans prices, said jerry gidel, grains analyst for g.h. miller &amp; co
wheat prices were supported by import interest from the phillippines, 175,000 tons worth, and talk that the soviets may be back in the market, gidel said
corn prices were restained somewhat by lower than expected exports for that commodity, said steve freed, grains analyst with dean witter reynolds inc
at the close, wheat was } cent lower to 1{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.15} a bushel; corn was 2{ cents to 3{ cents higher with march at $2.03\ a bushel; oats were 1} cents to 3{ cents higher with march at $1.93} a bushel; and soybeans were 4} cents to 7\ cents higher with march at $6.32 a bushel
j.c. penney co. inc., which is vacating its mid-manhattan office tower and moving its headquarters operations to dallas, said monday it was putting the 45-story building up for sale
there was no asking price for the building, located at sixth avenue and 53rd street near the rockefeller center complex, said harvey mccormick, a penney spokesman
the entire structure will be left vacant by the move, which began in december and is expected to be completed by the end of june, mccormick said
more than 1,200 of penney's 2,200 management employees were expected to ultimately move with the company to texas, the spokesman said. a ``very small percentage'' of 1,600 non-management workers, who include secretaries and clerical workers, also were transferring, he said
steel production rose to 2.002 million tons in the week ended feb. 27, an increase of 3.1 percent from the previous week's 1.942 million tons, the american iron and steel institute reported monday
the industry's production amounted to 93.2 percent of capacity during the week, compared with 90.4 percent in the previous week
estimated figures for the year to date showed production at 15.798 million net tons, an increase of 39.7 percent from the 11.308 million net tons in the previous year. the steel operations of usx corp., the nation's largest steel producer, were shut down by a strike during the first month of 1987
production so far this year used 88.8 percent of capacity, compared with 64.1 percent a year earlier
net tonnage by district for the week ended feb. 27: northeast coast, 285,000; pittsburgh, 208,000; youngstown, 125,000; lake erie, 165,000; detroit, 164,000; chicago, 539,000; midwest, 195,000; southern, 223,000; and western, 98,000
stock prices climbed today in a session enlivened by brisk takeover activity
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.22 to 2,044.43 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by nearly 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 986 up, 497 down and 447 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 194.82 million shares with an hour to go. big chunk of that activity came in a few high-yielding stocks, representing plays on their impending dividends
analysts said optimistic traders still had their sights set on the 2,051.89 level in the dow jones industrial average, where it stood jan. 7 for its highest closing reading since the crash last october
the average failed in a bid to surpass that point last week, but brokers argued that it might be ready to make another try
one concern facing the market is the report due tuesday from the commerce department on the index of leading economic indicators for january
analysts generally expect the figure to show a decline. but the firm of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. said the 0.2 percent drop originally reported for december might be revised to show a gain
that would mean that the index would no longer have a string of three consecutive monthly declines, a phenomenon which is traditionally regarded as a potential recession warning
on the takeover scene, rorer corp. jumped 10| to 36}. the company agreed to be acquired by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
homestake mining climbed 3{ to 18. mesa limited partnership made a $20-a-share offer for the company
stop &amp; shop gained ~ to 43{. the company, fighting a hostile bid by dart group, reached agreement on a buyout at $44 a share by a group organized by kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose 1.37 to 149.07. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 2.15 at 286.47. 0249</first>
security pacific corp., the nation's seventh-largest bank holding concern, said monday it has agreed to acquire san francisco-based hibernia bank for $160 million, or about 1{ times its book value
hibernia was put on the auction block by its parent, hong kong-based first pacific holdings ltd., last summer. but after october's stock market crash, first pacific said it was no longer actively seeking a buyer
acquisition of hibernia will strengthen los angeles-based security pacific in the northern part of the state
hibernia, the 13th largest bank in california, has 35 branches in northern california, including 28 in the san francisco bay area. at year end, it had $1.2 billion in deposits and more than $1 billion in outstanding loans. it posted a profit of $11.2 million last year
however, the sale of hibernia doesn't mark a pullout from california banking for first pacific, which will continue to own smaller united savings bank, with operations in the san francisco and los angeles regions
tom yasuda, one of first pacific's directors, said the holding company's plans call for it to expand united savings
first pacific also owns a bank in hong kong, an investment-banking concern in the philippines, and a trade-confirming operation and minority interest in an export-finance business in england
security pacific, whose chief subsidiary is los angeles-based security pacific national bank, the second largest in the state, has assets of more than $72 billion
santa fe southern pacific corp. has completed the sale of a timber subsidiary to sierra pacific industries for $460 million, officials announced monday
the two companies had announced their agreement oct. 12 on the sale of santa fe pacific timber co., which owns and manages about 520,000 acres of timberland in northern california
sierra pacific is a privately-held company based in redding, calif
closing on the timber company sale nearly completes santa fe's restructuring program, leaving only one non-core business for sale, the black mesa pipeline
before taxes, the company has taken in $880 million from the sales, which included robert e. mckee, a general building contractor, bankers leasing and financial corp. and two pipeline systems. pay hike</head>
the government has authorized a 3 percent increase in the minimum wage in march and ordered a freeze in official prices and the value of the peso
the new measures, announced late sunday, marked the government's most aggressive attempt yet to rid the nation of its no. 1 economic problem, inflation
president miguel de la madrid told a meeting of labor, business and campesino leaders, ``the national motto is no increase in prices in the month of march.''
labor leader fidel velazquez worried, though, that merchants would quickly mark up their prices before tuesday, the first day of the freeze
prices in march are going to try to be checked ... but last night and today they have been raising them,'' he contended late sunday
the small increase in the minimum daily wage to 8,000 pesos _ about $3.50 _ was a blow to velazquez and his 3 million-member mexican labor federation, which had been pushing for a 10 percent gain
workers, he said, have agreed to ``put the interests of the country ahead of their own interests.''
about half the nation's 25 million workers are estimated to earn the minimum wage
analysts calculate that the purchasing power of workers' making the minimum pay has deteriorated to about half of what it was in 1978
de la madrid said he was quickening the pace of his inflation-fighting program, unveiled in mid-december, because fresh price figures showed ``an important de-acceleration'' in february
consumer prices, the president predicted, would rise in february at about half the record 15.5 percent of january. last week, the government announced a a gain of 8.7 percent in prices in the first half of february
jonathan heath, senior economist at the forecasting firm of macro asesoria economica, predicted an inflation rate of about 8.5 percent in february and 5 percent to 5.5 percent in march
the new economic program, he said, appears to be successful so far. but, he added, ``we can't look at short-run indicators.''
we want to see if it is a permanent drop and the government is not inducing a temporary, artificial drop. we want to make sure it's a permanent, once-and-for-all drop in inflation,'' he said
the government had been expected to release a target level that would be used, starting tuesday, to index wages and prices. the indexation plan was designed as the centerpiece of the anti-inflation program, called the economic solidarity pact
the government drew up the solidarity pact because of worries the nation was on the verge of hyper-inflation. consumer prices skyrocketed a record 159.2 percent last year
but in a surprise move, the president's office authorized the smaller-than-expected increase in the minimum wage and ordered a freeze on the prices of government-regulated and -controlled itms. such products range from gasoline and electricity to tortillas and milk
it also urged private companies to join in the freeze, refraining from marking up prices to make up for higher wage costs
moreover, officials said the exchange rate for the peso will be held steady in march at monday's level. the bank of mexico, the nation's central bank, trimmed the currency's value against the dollar by 3 units each trading day in february
at midday monday, the peso in free-market trading ranged from 2,300 pesos to the dollar to 2,360 pesos at the private firms. it was 2,237-2,267 on friday. the free rate is used in tourism and border transactions
a second rate regulated by the government was 2,281 pesos to the dollar. this rate, used in about 75 percent of all commercial transaction, stood at 2,270 on friday
the supreme court on monday refused to revive lawsuits that charged the government and federal contractors with negligently causing deaths and disease among people exposed to open-air atomic tests
the court, without comment, let stand a federal law that effectively spared the government from having to defend itself against claims seeking billions of dollars
in another case, the court asked the reagan administration for its opinion of a ruling that states indirectly may tax interest paid to financial institutions from investments in federal home loan bank (fhlb) bonds
the court said it wants to hear from justice department lawyers before saying whether it will review fully a challenge to a maryland bank franchise tax
in other cases dealing with economic or business-related issues, the court:
_agreed to decide whether the u.s. customs service may force applicants for drug enforcement jobs to be tested for drugs. a federal workers union challenged the tests, calling the taking of urine samples from employees a humiliating invasion of privacy
_let stand rulings that warrantless searches of illinois racetrack employees' on-grounds living quarters violate constitutionally protected privacy rights
_said it will decide whether employees of a pentagon intelligence agency are entitled to administrative hearings when the government fires them as security risks
_agreed to consider letting the federal government apply retroactively a formula that limits reimbursement paid to hospitals treating medicare patients. the court said it will hear reagan administraion arguments that some hospitals could reap a windfall from the ban on retroactive application of the formula
_asked the reagan administration whether it thinks high-stakes bingo games run by indian tribes are subject to state sales taxes. the court said it wants to hear from justice department lawyers before it says whether it will review an attempt by oklahoma officials to tax revenue from a bingo game in tulsa run by the muscogee creek nation
the atmospheric nuclear tests that gave rise to the case involving the government and federal contractors took place between the closing days of world war ii and the adoption of a treaty between the united states and the soviet union in 1963 banning open-air testing
suits were filed on behalf of 29 people _ civilians and members of the military _ including 26 who died from cancer or cancer-related causes. the suits alleged that the health problems were caused by radioactive fallout from the explosions
charged with negligence were the university of california, which operated the los alamos, n.m., project; lawrence livermore laboratories, which helped develop the atomic bomb; sandia corp., which provided engineering for the weapons program; and reynolds electric engineering co., which helped build and operate a test site in nevada
the suits accused the private contractors of failing to take adequate safety precautions at the test sites, and also said the government was responsible for failing to enforce its own safety standards
if the suits were successful, the government ultimately would pay the claims because it had insured the private contractors for any losses
but in 1984 congress passed a law supported by the reagan administration that says only the u.s. government may be sued for negligence allegedly caused by a private contractor in the atomic weapons testing program
the result was to bar the claims since the government is immune from such suits unless it surrenders immunity under the existing federal tort claims act
in the fhlb bond interest case, the maryland national bank challenged the tax, seeking a refund of $197,310 it paid under protest to the state for the years 1979 through 1982
during that period, the bank reported $2.82 million in interest from fhlb bonds
the sum was included in the bank's earnings that were subject to maryland's franchise tax, which is imposed on financial institutions for the privilege of doing business in maryland
the difficulty over whether earnings from fhlb bonds are taxable arises because of two apparently conflicting federal laws
the 1932 law that created the fhlb generally exempts the bonds from taxes
but a law enacted in 1862 permits states to levy a ``non-discriminatory franchise tax'' on ``stocks and obligations of the united states government'' that generally are exempt from state and local taxes
the maryland court of appeals upheld the state franchise tax, ruling in october that the 1862 law takes precedence
preston robert tisch, former loews corp. president and chief operating officer who served as postmaster general for 19 months, will return to the company as president, co-chief executive and a director
loews said monday that tisch, who announced jan. 5 that he was leaving the postal position to resume private business, was elected to the posts, which include the newly created title of co-chief executive. he will share that responsibility with brother laurence tisch, who will remain company chairman
the office of loews president had remained vacant after preston robert tisch became postmaster general in august 1986. he agreed to stay on until the march 1 arrival of his successor, california banker anthony m. frank
based in new york, loews is a holding company with interests in tobacco products, hotels, real estate and insurance. injuries</head>
a federal appeals court has upheld a lower court ruling that blamed defective design of a winchester rifle for an accidential firing that injured two new hampshire teen-agers during a 1977 hunting trip
the 1st u.s. circuit court of appeals rejected arguments from the manufacturer of the rifle, olin corp., that a federal judge in new hampshire erred when he held the company liable for the shooting
damages were not an issue in the appeal, but the victims, henry fortier and raymond croteau, were awarded a total of $560,000 as part of the sept. 16, 1986, decision by u.s. district judge martin f. loughlin
fortier and croteau suffered foot wounds when a third teen-ager, paul croteau, stumbled and fell during the hunting trip near berlin, n.h. the rifle discharged when it hit the ground, and the bullet passed through raymond croteau's left foot then pierced fortier's right foot
it could reasonably be concluded from the evidence that the defective design made the rifle unreasonably dangerous for the purpose sold _ to be used as a hunting weapon,'' the appeals court said in a decision published thursday
there was evidence that defendant, despite its denial, had a consumer product safety committee which was aware that there could be an accidental discharge caused by a hunter falling while carrying a rifle in a position similar to that of paul croteau on the day of the accident,'' the court said
howard b. myers, the new hampshire attorney who represented the connecticut-based company, did not immediately return telephone calls from the associated press on monday. an olin spokesman said he did not know if the company would appeal
at the new hampshire trial, three firearms experts who testified for the victims blamed the accident on the design of the winchester model 94 rifle, a commemorative replica of the original 1866 winchester. one of them testified that because of its weight, the firing pin was thrust forward when the rifle hit the ground and caused the bullet to discharge even though the gun was half cocked, which acts as a safety on the rifle
two of the experts testified that they had tested the rifle and said it would fire, even when in the half-cocked position, if rapped with a hand or a rubber mallet
the victims also introduced evidence that olin conducted tests on the rifle in 1974 and 1976 to determine if it would fire when dropped to the ground. the tests indicated that the gun fired a small percentage of the time
also introduced as evidence by the victims was a 1976 letter in which an olin weapons engineer said it would cost between $1.75 and $2.50 a rifle to add an additional safety
in 1982, u.s. repeating arms of new haven, conn., which had obtained licensing rights to the winchester name from olin, introduced a modified version of the rifle with a lighter weight firing pin. u.s. repeating arms since has been purchased by another company
fidelity investments, the nation's largest mutual fund firm, said monday it would lay off 800 workers hired to handle the rapid growth it enjoyed before october's stock market crash
the firm said it would base the need for future cuts on the pace investors return to mutual funds
we will be monitoring business conditions,'' said spokeswoman karen ernst. ``we don't anticipate anymore layoffs at the moment, but that will depend on the market.''
fidelity attributed the 10.5 percent work force reduction to a slump in new stock transactions and slower money management business since the oct. 19 crash
also, the company reported a drop in individual retirement accounts due to new federal laws limiting the tax deductability of ira contributions
ernst said most of the dismissed fidelity workers were from corporate staff departments and ``volume-sensitive'' jobs, such as telephone representatives, order takers and mail processers
these were the people directly affected by a decline in new business,'' she said
approximately 530 workers were laid off in boston area offices, with about 150 in dallas and about 50 in new york. the remainder of the cuts are from other offices around the country
the action reduces fidelity's nationwide staff to approximately 6,850, about the same number of workers employed by the firm in mid-1987. fidelity operates 53 u.s. offices and one in london
ernst said fidelity's boston headquarters was most affected by the cuts since it was one of the company's largest growth areas during its rapid expansion
since 1982, fidelity increased its work force four-fold to about 7,800 while assets swelled from about $19 billion to a peak of about $85 billion dispersed among nearly 100 funds, including the extremely popular magellan fund
the firm also branched to other ventures, such as real estate, a discount stock brokerage and institutional pension management
eric kobren, a former fidelity employee who publishes an independent newsletter that monitors the company, said fidelity may be forced to reduce services and bring additional layoffs if business does not accelerate
this is a first step,'' said kobren. ``i would not be surprised if we see further cuts after the ira season if business stays at the same pace. this may be the first round of cuts, and they will digest it and see how they are doing then proceed with others.''
the company dismissed about 300 part-time and 50 full-time workers feb. 11, including 50 in boston and 125 each in dallas and salt lake city
earlier this year, fidelity laid off 32 workers at investment centers nationwide
while mutual fund activity is less than one-third of last year's bull market levels, there has been a steady resurgence since the crash, according to kathryn morrison, spokeswoman for the washington, d.c.-based investment company institute
net mutual fund sales have risen from minus $5.8 billion in october to $1.8 billion in january, she said. the figures reflect total sales minus redemptions, said morrison
morrison said there are approximately 2,000 funds available
in money market accounts nationwide, total assets have risen from $241.3 billion in september to about $280 billion in january
there's $40 billion on the sidelines now waiting to see what happens with the market,'' said morrison. ``there's no shortage of assets out there, it's just not in mutual funds like before.''
security pacific corp., the nation's seventh-largest bank holding concern, said monday it has agreed to acquire san francisco-based hibernia bank for $160 million, or about 1{ times its book value
hibernia was put on the auction block by its parent, hong kong-based first pacific holdings ltd., last summer. but after october's stock market crash, first pacific said it was no longer actively seeking a buyer
acquisition of hibernia will strengthen los angeles-based security pacific in the northern part of the state
hibernia, the 13th largest bank in california, has 35 branches in northern california, including 28 in the san francisco bay area. at year end, it had $1.2 billion in deposits and more than $1 billion in outstanding loans. it posted a profit of $11.2 million last year
however, the sale of hibernia doesn't mark a pullout from california banking for first pacific, which will continue to own smaller united savings bank, with operations in the san francisco and los angeles regions
tom yasuda, one of first pacific's directors, said the holding company's plans call for it to expand united savings
first pacific also owns a bank in hong kong, an investment-banking concern in the philippines, and a trade-confirming operation and minority interest in an export-finance business in england
security pacific, whose chief subsidiary is los angeles-based security pacific national bank, the second largest in the state, has assets of more than $72 billion
anheuser-busch beverage group inc. announced monday that its asante and saratoga sparkling water brands and its zeltzer seltzer natural soda brand are up for sale
the decision follows the company's recent discontinuance of the dewey stevens wine cooler brand due to a declining rate of growth industrywide in cooler sales
terry poulos, vice president and general manager of the group, said that without the dewey stevens sales, ``total beverage group volume was reduced below the level necessary to financially support our continued production of these brands.''
anheuser-busch will continue to support the brands through current distributors until they are sold, poulos said
he also said that since the introduction of the non-beer beverages, competitive distribution methods had changed from the primary use of wholesalers to direct shipments from producers to major retailers. therefore, the brands no longer fit anheuser-busch's wholesaler system as originally envisioned, he said
the company will continue to market master cellars keg wines and anheuser &amp; fehrs, an imported german wine. the test marketing of the imported ballygowan irish sparkling spring water also will continue, poulos said
stock prices rose sharply today, reaching new highs since the crash last fall
analysts said traders were heartened to see the dow jones industrial average surpass the 2,051.89 level, where it stood jan. 7 for its highest closing reading since the crash
the average failed in a bid to climb past that point last week, but no significant selling pressure resulted, suggest to many analysts that it was primed to make another try
one concern facing the market is the report due tuesday from the commerce department on the index of leading economic indicators for january
analysts generally expect the figure to show a decline. but the firm of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. said the 0.2 percent drop originally reported for december might be revised to show a gain
that would mean that the index would no longer have a string of three consecutive monthly declines, a phenomenon which is traditionally regarded as a potential recession warning
the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 48.41 to 2,071.62
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 7 to 2 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,257 up, 353 down and 357 unchanged
big board volume totaled 236.05 million shares, against 191.09 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index gained 2.76 to 150.46
union flight attendants for northwest airlines were told by teamsters officials monday that a company proposal to delay the promotion of b-scale workers to the higher-paid a-scale bracket is the only major issue separating the two sides in contract talks
about 150 of the company's 6,700 flight attendants were informed of the situation at a rally at a teamsters office less that two miles away from the corporation's headquarters
an 11 p.m. friday strike deadline passed without a settlement in talks aimed at bring former republic airlines employees and their northwest counterparts under one contract. the employees have been working under separate contracts since northwest acquired republic in the fall of 1986
talks broke down saturday at dawn after an all-night bargaining session with a federal mediator. but flight attendants have not been called on to strike and the company has not exercised its right to impose a contract on the flight attendants
jeff musto, a spokesman for the teamsters, said monday that no talks have been held since saturday and none are scheduled
we're still on red alert to strike,'' musto. ``we want to keep the company guessing.''
as musto explained, the one major issue left unresolved in the negotiations are wages, which are governed under a two-tiered scale
all northwest flight attendant were paid under one scale before a 1982 contract created the b scale. all new employees hired since then have started as b-scale employees at rates of pay lower than the old system, musto said
but the 1982 contract called for b-scale employees to jump to a-scale levels in their sixth year of employment. the company has proposed extending that wait until the ninth year of employment, musto said
for the average flight attendant, that would mean a loss of $16,776 over the three years, musto said
the company said the hourly wages it has proposed for the flight attendants would make them the second-highest paid in the industry. musto said he agrees with that assessment, but he added that the union has a commitment to flight attendants hired under the b-scale not to break ``our promise'' that they would be promoted to the a-scale in their sixth year
they could see light at the end of the tunnel,'' musto said. ``now all of a sudden the company is dangling the carrot out in front of them a little further.''
about a third of the company's flight attendants are at the b-scale level, musto said. by delaying their promotion to a-scale, the majority of flight attendants would be under the b-scale when it is time to negotiate the next contract
then the company could win support for cutting the wages of a-scale flight attendants because a-scale employees would be in the minority, musto said
under northwest's latest contract offer, base pay for senior flight attendants would be about $35.18 an hour based on a 78-hour work month, about half of what most americans work. that would increase to $36.60 an hour by may 1, 1991, the company said
william wren said a large number of senior flight attendants make more than $40,000 a year, plus meal payments when they're working
most entry-level flight attendants are making about $15,000 a year, wren said
the chief negotiator for the flight attendants, william genoese, was denied a request monday to meet with steven rothmeier, chairman and chief executive officer of the airline, musto said
there was no further word monday on whether pilots and mechanics at northwest would honor picket lines by the flight attendants. officials from the unions representing pilots and mechanics have said they will wait to make a decision
wren has said the mechanics are barred from sympathy strikes under their contract and pilots are barred from sympathy strikes under the railway labor act
wren said the company was operating under its normal flight schedule monday. about 2,000 non-union flight attendants are on call to fill in if a strike is called, he has said
american telephone &amp; telegraph co. said monday it will make sure that its widely used unix operating system, the internal traffic cop of computers, is readily available to all the computer hardware companies that want to use it
some major computer companies had charged that at&amp;t was playing favorites by giving early information about future versions of unix to sun microsystems inc., a silicon valley maker of engineering workstations that is a close partner of at&amp;t
people have had a big misconception about what the nature of the agreement has been,'' bill klinger, an at&amp;t executive in charge of unix product management, said in an interview
klinger said it would be a mistake for at&amp;t to play favorites because that would delay the spread of unix, an operating system that is used mainly for scientific and engineering work
motorola inc. said monday that the london-based unisoft group, working closely with at&amp;t, would work to make sure that unix runs on computers that contain microprocessors made by motorola
combined with at&amp;t's support, this will ensure motorola's customers the same full and timely access as early as any competitive architecture,'' gary tooker, motorola's chief operating officer, said in a news release
motorola claims that 80 percent of all unix-based computer programs run on computers containing its microprocessors
motorola's goal is to have programs run without modification on any computer that uses one of its microprocessors
simon &amp; schuster inc. said monday it had acquired a group of travel publications from rand mcnally &amp; co. for an undisclosed price
the gulf &amp; western co. publishing and information services unit said it had acquired rand mcnally's campground directories and national park guides and other travel location products including the places rated series, which rates cities according to quality-of-life attributes
rand mcnally retains its map-related travel publications
the titles will become part of simon &amp; schuster's prentice hall trade division which publishes and distributes travel guides and other travel-related products under such imprints as access, frommer and mobil
steven murphy, president of prentice hall, said the acquisitions represent ``a perfect fit in terms of product and strategy.''
it will not only add new destinations to our travel title list but will greatly enhance our capabilities in the development of new product for the travel market,'' he said
roger wildermuth, president of the rand mcnally publishing group, said the divestiture is part of a strategy of concentrating its consumer publishing resources on road atlases, road maps, world atlases and other map products
american express chairman james d. robinson iii on monday suggested creation of a new international financial organization to help ease the debt crisis of developing nations by buying their loans
robinson, in remarks prepared for a meeting of the overseas development council, said the organization, which he named ``the institute of international debt and development,'' would buy outstanding third world loans at a discount
one possibility, he suggested, would be for the loans to be acquired at about 60 percent of face value
the organization would then offer the banks which had held the loans ``new, long-term, high-quality obligations,'' including bonds and certain forms of stock, robinson suggested
i hope it (the proposal) will at least serve as a catalyst to start an active dialogue,'' he said. he said new approaches were needed because ``the risk of a debt crisis still hovers over the fianancial markets.''
under robinson's proposal, the new organization would oversee and manage many facets of refinancing of loans owed by latin american and other developing nations
total third world debt now stands at about $1.2 trillion. however, robinson's proposal would be targeted to some $250 billion owed to commercial banks by developing governments
because the plan involves purchase of outstanding loans at a discount, it would involve partial write-offs of the loans
such an approach has been a part of some previous proposals, including those advanced by sen. bill bradley, r-n.j., and rep. john lafalce, d-n.y., but long opposed by the reagan administration
instead, the administration favors instead a rival plan by treasury secretary james a. baker iii that calls for new lending to developing countries on a nation-by-nation basis, both by international organizations like the world bank and by commercial banks
but, robinson said: ``the case-by-case approach has bought time and set the stage for a solution. but many believe it has not helped the (developing country) debt problem get much better.''
robinson long has been active in international financial matters and he had previously advanced earlier versions of his proposal for a new international debt agency
he said the new agency should be a joint venture of the world bank and the international monetary fund and that major industrial nations would provide start-up capital for the organization totaling about $12.5 billion
under the existing formula by which the united states contributes 20 percent to the funds of the imf, this would result in a u.s. share of about $2.5 billion
the current strategy of case-by-case negotiations ... has so far held a crisis at bay ... but it has not brought with it adequate resources to support sustained growth in (developing) economies,'' robinson said
the stock market climbed to its highest level since the october crash with a broad advance monday that gathered momentum as the session progressed
the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 48.41 to 2,071.62, posting more than half its gain in the last hour of trading
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 7 to 2 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,255 up, 351 down and 374 unchanged
big board volume reached 236.05 million shares, against 191.09 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index gained 2.76 to 150.46
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $44.95 billion, or 1.73 percent, in value
analysts said traders were heartened to see the dow jones industrial average vault past the 2,051.89 level, where it stood jan. 7 for its previous highest closing reading since the crash last year
the average failed in a bid to surpass that point last week, but no significant selling pressure followed, suggest to many analysts that it was primed to make another try
one concern facing the market is the report due tuesday from the commerce department on the index of leading economic indicators for january
analysts generally expect the figure to show a decline. but the firm of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. said the 0.2 percent drop originally reported for december might be revised to show a gain
that would mean that the index would no longer have a string of three consecutive monthly declines, a phenomenon that is traditionally regarded as a potential recession warning
the dow jones industrials finished february with a gain of 113.40 points. the average stands some 333 points above its close of 1,738.74 on black monday oct. 19
observers said enthusiasm for stocks was fueled by continuing brisk takeover activity
on the takeover scene, roper corp. jumped 10} to 36~. the company agreed to be acquired by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
homestake mining climbed 3{ to 18. mesa limited partnership made a $20-a-share offer for the company
stop &amp; shop picked up ~ to 43{. the company, fighting a hostile bid by dart group, reached agreement on a buyout at $44 a share by a group organized by kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co
point-plus gainers among the blue chips included general motors, up 3[ at 72\; merck, up 4| at 165]; international business machines, up 1} at 117{; general electric, up 1~ at 45{, and international paper, up 1| at 44]
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 265.09 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 6.80 to 309.43, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 5.36 at 267.82
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 3.55 to 366.95. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 288.46, up 4.14
investment losses and high interest expenses for money it borrowed to buy santa fe southern pacific corp. stock gave henley group large deficits for the fourth quarter and all of 1987
however, the losses were 44 percent less for the quarter and 35 percent less for the year compared with the year-earlier periods, the investment company said monday
for the three months ended dec. 31, the company said it lost $197 million on revenues of $863 million, compared with a $354 million lossk on revenues of $825 million in the final period of 1986
for the full year, the company said it lost $278 million on revenues of $3.52 billion, compared with a loss of $426 million on revenues of $3.17 billion in 1986
the 1987 results reflected investment losses of $112 million for the fourth quarter and $102 million for the year, plus higher interest expense for loans to acquire 15.1 million shares of santa fe, the chicago-based railroad and natural resources concern that henley has been seeking to take over
in all, henley owns 24.6 million, or 15.7 percent, of santa fe's 157.3 million shares
the 1986 results included $286 million in pretax restructuring charges related to writedowns and asset revaluations
for nearly a year, henley has been courting santa fe, but the chicago company has repeatedly spurned its unsolicited overtures
the 1987 results represent henley's first full year as an independent company
henley was formed in 1986 from 35 construction, environmental, energy, chemical, manufacturing and finance businesses spun off 1{ years earlier by allied-signal corp., which itself was formed by a $5 billion merger in mid-1985
henley has focused on paring costs and improving results of the operations, then spinning them off at a profit
futures prices for livestock plunged monday on the chicago mercantile exchange, and analysts blamed it on a ``nervousness'' over slaughter house shutdowns
prices fell as much as 127 points, or 1.27 cents, and only one contract, live hogs for delivery in december, managed to finish higher
selling interest in cattle was heightened by inactive cash markets, traders said
packers, with squeezed margins, have reduced their slaughters. they're closing some plants and there's nervousness in market,'' said tom morgan, head of sterling research corp. of arlington heights, ill
live hog prices followed a lower cash market, and prices for frozen pork bellies followed the lead of traders in the live hog pit, morgan said
live cattle settled .40 cent to 1.12 cents lower with the contract for delivery in april at 71.50 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .45 cent higher to 1.27 cents lower with march at 79.75 cents a pound; live hogs were .05 cent higher to 1.07 cents lower with april at 43.25 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .25 cent to .63 cent higher with march at 51.85 cents a pound
futures prices for corn and soybeans were up sharply while wheat prices were mixed on the chicago board of trade
some soybean contracts closed more than 10 cents above friday's prices
lighter-than-expected delivery notices for soybeans helped support higher soybeans prices, said jerry gidel, a grains analyst in chicago for g.h. miller &amp; co
wheat prices were supported by import interest from the phillippines, 175,000 tons worth, and talk that the soviets may be back in the market, gidel said
corn prices were restained somewhat by lower-than-expected exports for that commodity, said steve freed, a grains analyst in chicago with dean witter reynolds inc
wheat settled 1\ cents lower to 1\ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.15{ a bushel; corn was 2\ cents to 3 cents higher with march at $2.03} a bushel; oats were 2\ cents to 4\ cents higher with march at $1.94{ a bushel; and soybeans were 8{ cents to 10{ cents higher with march at $6.36 a bushel
energy prices finished higher in moderate volume on the new york mercantile exchange
the heating oil contract for march rose 1.46 cents because it had been oversold at the end of last week, said peter beutel, a petroleum analyst in new york with elders future inc
crude oil prices were supported by a recently published report that production by organization of petroleum exporting countries was lower than expected, he said
crude oil settled 12 cents to 23 cents higher with the contract for delivery in february at $15.49 a barrel; heating oil was .38 cent to 1.46 cents higher with february at 45.85 cents a gallon; and unleaded gasoline was .41 cent to .70 cent higher with march at 45.71 cents a gallon
gold and silver prices climbed higher on the commodity exchange in new york
a technical adjustment, known as a short-covering rally, in platinum trading _ where futures prices rose $25 a troy ounce _ triggered the higher prices in precious metals, said marty mcneill, a metals analyst in new york with dominick &amp; dominick
in a short sale, a trader sells borrowed contracts in hopes of replacing them _ or ``covering'' the sale _ later with others bought at a lower price
grains were up sharply, that always helps,'' he said. ``oil prices were rising, and the dollar was mixed among foreign currencies. that played a part in the market, too.''
gold settled 10 cents to 90 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $430.50 a troy ounce; and silver was 8.4 cents to 9.7 cents higher with march at $6.23 a troy ounce
gold prices tumbled monday in europe but rebounded sharply in new york, based on a stunning rally in platinum that traders ascribed to fear of unrest in south africa, a leading producer of precious metals
the dollar vacillated in a narrow range in sluggish foreign exchange transactions, reflecting what brokers called the lack of economic news and a typical trading slowdown at month's end
european gold traders sold the metal aggressively, based on an underlying fear that gold was becoming a less attractive investment because of evidence of eased inflation
in london, gold fell $6.50 a troy ounce from friday levels to $425 and in zurich it fell $5.50 an ounce to $426. earlier in hong kong gold was down about 15 cents to $430.19
later in new york gold recovered the loss, and by 4 p.m. republic national bank of new york quoted gold at $430.50 a troy ounce, up from $429.50 friday. on the new york commodity exchange, gold bullion for current delivery was quoted at $430.50 an ounce, up 90 cents
the one word to explain it was platinum,'' said john norris, a precious metals analyst at citibank in new york. ``we saw a sharp rally in platinum, based on continued unrest in south africa, and that helped firm gold prices.''
on the new york mercantile exchange, platinum for current delivery surged $25.30 a troy ounce to $475
silver prices also advanced on the new york comex, up 8.4 cents from friday to $6.24 a troy ounce. earlier in london, silver fell to $6.14 a troy ounce, down from $6.20 late friday
currency brokers said dollar trading was uneventful and there were no financial developments to influence the currency's behavior. but some said government reports later in the week providing evidence of the u.s. economy's direction might affect the dollar
traders got fed up with the market today,'' said toshihiko masaki, a foreign exchange trader at the new york office of japan's sanwa bank. ``there was no economic data, no news, no factors. people got bored.''
the dollar fell in tokyo to 128.12 japanese yen from 128.35 yen at the close friday. later in london, the dollar edged higher to 128.35 yen. by the time trading concluded in new york, the dollar was quoted at 128.24 yen, down from 128.37 yen late friday
in london, the british pound eased to $1.7725 from $1.7730 late friday. but later in new york the pound was worth $1.7742, up from $1.7715 quoted late friday
other late dollar rates in new york compared with late friday included: 1.6874 west german marks, down from 1.6887; 1.3931 swiss francs, up from 1.3863; 1.2592 canadian dollars, down from 1.2634; 5.7155 french francs, down from 5.7170; and 1,243 italian lire, down from 1,245
other late dollar rates in europe compared with late friday included: 1.6875 west german marks, down from 1.6895; 1.3903 swiss francs, up from 1.3897; 5.7150 french francs, down from 5.7175; 1.8945 dutch guilders, down from 1.8965; 1,244.25 italian lire, down from 1,245.45; 1.2622 canadian dollars, down from 1.2838
united parcel service announced monday that its wholly-owned subsidiary, ups italia srl, has entered into a contract to acquire one of italy's leading domestic and international package carriers
the purchase price for alimondo was not disclosed. the transaction is expected to be completed in april
founded in 1907, greenwich-based ups handles about 10 million parcels daily in combined ground and air service around the world
since september 1986, ups and alimondo have been service partners in a delivery service between italy and the united states, and between italy and west germany
john w. rogers, ups chief executive officer, said the acquisition is ``an evolution of a successful service partnership.''
alimondo managing director roberto pacchiono said the acquisition will enable his firm to benefit from ``the long experience and expertise of one of the most qualified operators in the parcel delivery field.''
all ``dial-a-porn'' telephone messages would be placed under one exchange and customers would be allowed to block all calls to that exchange at no charge under a plan announced monday by new york telephone co
it will give parents a means of preventing their children from calling these companies,'' company spokesman steve marcus said of the plan which has been proposed to the state public service commission
the proposal is similar to plans now being implemented elsewhere around the country as phone companies have sought legal ways to pull the plug on sexually explicit telephone dial-up messages
new york telephone proposed that adult messages be grouped under the 970 exchange. customers in the new york metropolitan calling area could control how their phones are used by having the phone company block that exchange
the metropolitan calling area includes area codes 212, 718, 516 and part of 914. calls from other points in the state to the 970 exchange would be blocked automatically, the company said
customers would also have the option of blocking all calls to group bridging services, numbers which allow several customers to participate in the same conversation
there would be no charge for ordering the block for 90 days after the plan becomes effective _ march 11 if the psc approves. after that, residence customers would pay $5 for instituting the block and business customers $10
currently, adult messages and other mass announcement services are spread over the 540, 550, 970 and 976 exchanges. the phone company supplies the lines but does not control the content
new york telephone has about 4.2 million residential customers in the metropolitan area. about 26 percent of them would require a number change to implement a block because not all exchanges have the updated switching equipment required for the move. those needing a number change would be given it free of charge, the company said
mcorp officials on monday reached a definitive agreement to sell the company's 80.1 percent interest in mtech to electronic data systems corp. for about $281 million in cash and securities
gene h. bishop, chairman and chief executive officer of mcorp, and les alberthal, eds president and chief executive officer, made the joint announcement
the dallas-based eds is a wholly owned subsidiary of general motors corp
we are particularly pleased to reach this agreement with eds,'' bishop said in a prepared statement. ``the transaction will allow mcorp to realize significant value which has been previouosly unrecognized.''
the agreement's terms call for mcorp to get about $30 in cash and securities for each mtech common share. the transaction, subject to gm approval and satisfaction of other conditions, was expected to be completed by april 15
holders of mtech common stock and convertible debentures would be offered the same package of cash and securities as that received by mcorp. public holders of mtech common stock would also get a ``cash election'' for payment entirely in cash at the rate of $30 per mtech share
holders of mtech convertible debentures will be offered the opportunity to receive $1,000 plus accrued interest for each debenture
mtech has been an eds competitor for some time, said eds spokesman roger still. mtech does business in 18 states with 1,400 financial institutions
we have no intention of laying off anybody,'' still said. ``there's a lot of good talent at mtech. it would be really premature to talk about any changes in their assets or management structure.''
about 19.9 percent of mtech is owned by individual stockholders, said still
mcorp is a financial services company with assets of $20.2 billion as of dec. 31
stop &amp; shop cos. inc. announced monday it has agreed to be acquired in a $1.23 billion leveraged buyout by the investment firm kohlberg kravis roberts inc., but dart group corp. said the news will not deter its attempt to gain control of the retailer
stop &amp; shop said a kohlberg kravis subsidiary, ssc holdings corp., will purchase at least 66 percent of the 28 million outstanding stop &amp; shop shares at $44 each
if all outstanding stock were purchased, the leveraged buyout would total $1.23 billion. in a leveraged buyout, investors borrow heavily to buy out a company and then pay off the debt with the target company's cash flow or the sale of its assets
dart, which launched the hostile takeover bid in january, extended until march 9 an offer of $37 a share for all outstanding stop &amp; shop stock and indicated it planned to go ahead with a proxy fight to replace stop &amp; shop directors later this month
dart spokesman jeffrey gast said the landover, md.-based firm planned to continue the cash tender offer past march 9 on a day to day basis
however, harry wells, an analyst at adams, harkness &amp; hill in boston, said it was unlikely dart could match the $44 a share offer
i think it's over,'' said wells. ``you've got to be able to support the debt with some level of safety ... and ($44) is about as much as one can reasonably afford to pay (for stop &amp; shop).''
stop &amp; shop has rejected as inadequate dart's $1.03 billion offer and filed suit in federal court, seeking to block dart
a countersuit filed by dart claiming stop &amp; shop illegally withheld corporate information was rejected last week by u.s. district court judge rya zobel, who ordered that the suit must be filed in state courts
dart, which purchased nearly 730,000 shares through its jefferson acquisition corp. subsidiary, announced feb. 26 it received approval from at least 10 percent of stop &amp; shop shareholders to call a special shareholders meeting on march 30
at the meeting, dart wants to remove the stop &amp; shop board and replace it with jefferson nominees
under the deal with kohlberg kravis, stop &amp; shop said it will retain its present management and remain based in braintree
the sale, which must be approved by a majority of stop &amp; shop shareholders and the securities and exchange commission, is expected to commence on or before march 4, stop &amp; shop said. kohlberg kravis has received a financing commitment from manufacturers hanover trust co., the retailer said
other companies reportedly have been interested in stop &amp; shop, including thomas h. lee co. of boston, and riordan, freeman &amp; spogli inc. of los angeles
stop &amp; shop has 113 supermarkets and 169 bradlees in 12 states in the northeast
the company's stock has gone up more than $25 a share since dart first announced its takeover intent in january. it rose 87{ cents a share in new york stock exchange trading monday, closing at $43.50
dart is known for a series of unsuccessful but profitable bids to gain control of other companies, and its chairman, herbert haft, and president, robert haft, have acquired reputations as corporate raiders
in its most recent bid, dart dropped an attempt for minneapolis-based dayton hudson corp. following the october stock market crash
other dart takeover attempts include a 1986 bid for safeway co. and supermarkets general last year
kohlberg kravis, which acquired safeway following the failed dart bid, has conducted about 33 leveraged buyouts since forming in 1976, including a $6.2 billion deal that took beatrice cos. private in 1986
last week, kohlberg kravis acquired new york-based seaman furniture co. for $350 million. in july 1987, the firm obtained control of jim walter co., a florida construction material manufacturer
john m. stafford resigned as head of pillsbury co. monday, and will be replaced by former chief executive william h. spoor, who will come out of retirement to assume those duties, the company said
the announcement was made in a prepared statement, which did not indicate why stafford resigned as chairman, president and chief executive officer, nor why spoor was elected by the company's board of directors to replace him
spokesmen for the company did not immediately return a reporter's phone call seeking comment beyond the statement
spoor, 65, returned to the company last september as chairman of the executive committee. he had retired in 1985 after spending his entire career with the company, the last 12 years as chairman and chief executive
spoor said shareholders and employees will long remember the many contributions made to the company by stafford
jack stafford has been totally dedicated to the success of pillsbury and to the values that make it great. we deeply appreciate everything that he has achieved for this company over the past decade,'' spoor said
in addition to the above action, the board of directors appointed a search committee to seek a chief executive for the company to succeed spoor
pittsburgh-area residents should wake up if they're still dreaming that empty steel plants will come back to life, say city planners from an international architecture conference
you've got to face reality. they're gone,'' said tony mcgann, whose hometown of liverpool, england, lived through the decline of dockyard industries. ``if you wait for the steel industry to come back, you'll wait forever.''
the planning team, 12 americans and five britons, toured monongahela valley communities whose economies have been gutted by the decline of steelmaking. they addressed about 100 mon valley residents saturday in homestead and released a report monday suggesting how the once-thriving steel centers of homestead, duquesne and mckeesport could recover
the planners' effort was organized by the american institute of architects, a sponsor of this week's remaking cities conference in pittsburgh. britain's prince charles, an advocate of better city planning, is scheduled to address the conference saturday
plants last operated by usx corp. in homestead, a river gateway to pittsburgh, could be leveled and replaced by five-acre flower plots like those featured in european garden festivals, the planners recommended
we can't use all the land at once. but if it looked green it would be easier to sell,'' said team leader john clarke of trenton, n.j
the planners envision turning one old ironmaking blast furnace into a museum, developing the riverbank as a yacht landing and perhaps within a decade building luxury riverfront homes
it's the greening of industrial america,'' british architect richard burton said
it sounds innovative, anyway. most of us around here though were looking for things that were going to create more jobs,'' said robert anderson, a founder of homestead's rainbow kitchen, which feeds about 100 unemployed people per day and distributes groceries as needed to about 600 households
at its peak, about 15,000 workers were employed at the homestead plant. the last steel was rolled in may 1986
few white knights are likely to ride into the mon valley and bring thousands of jobs at once,'' the report said
the report recommended that a former usx plant site at mckeesport be used for sports events, a giant flea market, a discount sales center and a factory outlet
it's better than using it for a warehouse. it would employ people and bring activity to downtown mckeesport,'' clarke said
duquesne seems best suited as a center for recycling trash or converting it to energy, the report said
homestead councilwoman betty esper and mike stout, a member of the steel valley authority and tri-state conference on steel, were among the town meeting speakers who said steel plants should not be redeveloped so quickly because the industry might need them again
you have to move forward. this is like a lingering divorce that, until it is finally settled, is very painful, and even after it's settled will be painful,'' said architect michael swartler of new york
longstanding dependence on one industry has left mon valley communities with little experience in developing their economies, clarke said
we have heard from mayors who don't know what role they play in development of the sites,'' he said. ``our work is an illustration of how to embark on that process.''
whirlpool corp. said monday it has reached an agreement to buy roper corp., an augusta, ga.-based manufacturer of appliances and lawn equipment, for $350 million
whirlpool, one of the nation's leading appliance makers with $4.2 billion in sales last year, will pay $37.50 a share for all outstanding stock in roper, whirlpool said
acquiring roper is a major step in our strategic plans for growth and is evidence of our commitment to the major home appliance marketplace,'' said david r. whitwam, chairman and president of whirlpool
charles ryan, an analyst for merrill lynch in new york, said the two companies were a ``good fit'' and each offered something that the other needed
ranges has been one of the weak areas for whirlpool,'' which now will have an internal source for them, he said. roper, on the other hand, faced the threat of a hostile takeover and found a friendly suitor in whirlpool, he said
whirlpool had net income of $191.9 million in 1987, down from $199.7 million one year earlier. earnings from the two years were the company's best of the last decade
under the agreement, robert cook will remain as president of roper and will become a vice president of whirlpool, whitwam said
this new relationship with whirlpool is outstanding for the future of both companies and is excellent for our stockholders, employees and customers,'' cook said
roper employs about 4,750 people at plants and offices in lafayette, dalton, mcrae and swainsboro, ga.; kankake, ill.; orangeburg, s.c.; chattanooga, tenn., mississauga, ontario. it had sales of $703 million in the 12 months ending july 31, 1987
roper produces electric and gas ranges, tillers, lawn mowers and lawn and garden tractors
like whirlpool, roper is a major supplier to sears roebuck &amp; co., the nation's leading retailer. the companies produce appliances that are sold under the sears brand name
joining forces with another reliable supplier of quality goods to sears can only serve to enhance the whirlpool-sears relationship,'' whitwam said. graf: monroe h....; uppicks penultimate graf: he added,...</note>
sears, roebuck and co. plans a major management overhaul in its retail division, but will not reveal what the restructuring will include until the changes are described to the company's headquarters staff, a sears spokesman said monday
philo holland, the company's national public affairs manager, said sears merchandise group officials would meet with employees in chicago this week to discuss the restructuring, ``which will take place over the next several years.''
holland said he could neither confirm nor deny a report in crain's chicago business that the nation's largest retailer planned to transform its 27 merchandise buying groups into independent business units and lay off some headquarters personnel
we need to hold these meetings this week with our own people to lay out the plans,'' he said. ``i can't confirm or deny (the crain's report) until we're able to talk to our employees. for them to read it in the newspaper before we tell it to them would be inappropriate.''
crain's, a weekly newspaper, reported in its editions out monday that sears planned the overhaul because of sluggish sales and profits
quoting a sears source it did not name, crain's said the company planned significant workforce reductions among its headquarters personnel through layoffs or attrition
while holland declined comment on the company's future plans, he said, ``there will not be any layoffs announced this week.''
crain's reported that, as part of the restructuring, sears would reorganize buying groups for every product line and scrap its past policy of using one management structure for each unit
the company also plans to analyze the competitiveness of each product line, from hard goods like washing machines to soft goods like fashion, to see if its profits are at an acceptable level in individual areas
while wall street analysts said they did not know what sears executives had in mind, they said the company could be trying to reposition itself in the retail industry as well as cut costs
they've been an underperforming group for the company,'' said karen sack, an analyst with standard &amp; poor's corp., of the sears merchandise group. ``they've turned in a really mediocre performance and it's a difficult retail market for at least 1988.''
they're going to have to do something to become more flexible and responsive to the changes in what's going to be a very lackluster sales environment,'' she said
monroe h. greenstein, an analyst with bear stearns &amp; co. inc., said sears has been considering a shift toward more fashion retailing
he added, ``they're trying to get rid of some of the fat.''
crain's also reported that sears would promote three executives to newly created management positions to oversee the restructuring, but holland said that step was not planned
unemployment in japan fell to a seasonally-adjusted 2.7 percent in january from 3.0 percent a year earlier, but was up 0.1 percentage point from the previous month, the government announced tuesday
the number of job holders rose during the one-year period by 1.12 million to 58.28 million, an increase of 1.9 percent, according to the statistics bureau of the prime minister's office
bureau officials said the number of people employed rose sharply in the latter half of the year as the economy recovered from the effects of the higher value of the japanese yen. the strong yen curbed overseas sales and earnings and forced japanese manufacturers, particularly shipbuilders and steelmakers, to slash production and manpower
after hitting a record 3.2 percent last may, japan's unemployment rate has drifted lower as manufacturers adjusted to the high yen
japan's unemployment rate would be higher if calculated by u.s. and european methods
in japan, members of the armed forces and people who worked more than one hour during the last week of the month are counted as employed. in the united states, military personnel are not included in the work force and those who work less than 15 hours a week are considered unemployed
