plot, background. no pickup</note>
police arrested 12 men, including an opposition party leader, in foiling a plot to overthrow the government and assassinate president samuel doe, information minister emmanuel bowier said tuesday
bowier told a news conference seven plotters were still at large, including an army captain and two sergeants
he said those arrested included gabriel kpolleh, leader of the banned liberia unification party, party lawyer cephar mbandi and four soldiers, 
the minister said the plot was uncovered on march 16. he said it was a conspiracy ``to destabilize the government, create internal strife and overthrow the government by assassinating the president of liberia.''
bowier said arms, ammunition and military uniforms were found in a building in the sinkor district of monrovia
investigations continued but the situation was under control, he said
bowier read from a prepared statement and declined to answer questions. journalists were warned not to run editorial comments or cartoons on the plot before the defendants go on trial. the minister gave no court date
the unification party on monday released a statement expressing concern over the arrests of kpolleh and mbandi. it said several properties owned by kpolleh and his family were destroyed during investigations by security forces and that his wife narrowly escaped being raped. it did not elaborate
bowier advised reporters not to believe any press releases issued by the unification party, saying it was banned and its statements had no credibility
doe, who came to power in a bloody april 1980 coup, has been the target of several assassination attempts. an attempted coup on nov. 12, 1985, resulted in more than 600 deaths and the destruction of the village of the ringleader, former brig. gen thomas quiwonkpa, who was killed in the attempt
quiwonkpa, who had been living in exile, led the attempt following elections that opposition leaders and independent observers said were rigged
liberia, africa's oldest republic, was founded in 1847 by freed american slaves. descendents of the slaves, who were a minority, controlled the government until doe, from the krahn ethnic group, stormed the presidential mansion in april 1980, killing then-president william tolbert
the economy declined under the rule of the former army master sergeant. major western creditors suspended aid to liberia pending payment of debts. last year the united states sent 17 financial experts to monrovia to oversee operations of the finance ministry. update with poll results.</note>
president reagan sought tuesday to revive his stalled effort to aid the nicaraguan contras and said congressional democrats will be to blame if the supply-starved rebels fade from existence
in an hour-long meeting on capitol hill, reagan appealed to republican house members to unite behind a new effort to push through congress some kind of help for the contras, whose last u.s. aid ran out feb. 29
later, speaking at a fund-raising reception for the re-election campaign of sen. chic hecht, r-nev., the president, as he has before, linked last week's incursion into honduras by troops of nicaragua's leftist sandinista government to the defeat of his request for funds for the rebels
the logistical preparation for the incursion began just after congress voted to reject our package of aid to the democratic resistance,'' he said. ``this was a precise and carefully planned operation that showed the influence of outside advisers and must have required several weeks to plan.''
rebel supporters said their chances of prevailing on the divisive issue were improved by the incursion, which was making some moderates nervous about leaving the rebels without aid
some were quite pale in their appearance when they realized there was this incursion,'' said rep. trent lott, r-miss., the chief house gop vote counter. ``we think there is some potential there to get a few more votes than we had in the past.''
one member of the ``swing'' group, rep. buddy mackay, d-fla., said he was preparing a compromise aid package and was seeking the support of other moderates. ``all we are trying to say is that leaving the situation as it is, is unacceptable,'' mackay said
we are determined to get continued assistance to the resistance, and if we stick together, this time we'll make it,'' reagan told the closed meeting with lawmakers, according to a text of his remarks provided by the white house. he declined to offer details on what kind of package he was asking for
alluding to democratic efforts to thwart any military aid for the contras, reagan added: ``those who led the fight against our package of assistance to the democratic resistance cannot escape responsibility'' if the rebel forces wither
later, in a session with local-government republican officials, the president again pointed the finger of blame at house democrats
the house leadership, who played hardball to win the vote to cut off aid, now says it won't accept responsibility for the destruction of the freedom fighters. but if the freedom fighters are extinguished and communist rule is consolidated in nicaragua, the american people will be the ones to decide who is responsible,'' he contended
democrats immediately tossed the blame back, insisting that it was republicans who were responsible for the narrow house defeat of a package of strictly ``humanitarian'' aid _ food, clothing, medicine and shelter _ on march 3
what we're seeing is a public relations campaign here,'' said rep. tony coelho, d-calif. ``the republicans are very nervous about it because the finger's pointed right at them.''
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, renewed his offer to vote quickly on a package of purely humanitarian aid if republicans will ask for discussions. but he said any proposal containing military equipment would be subject to normal committee review
the door is open, the welcome mat is laid,'' wright said
the continued wrangling seemed to make the rebels themselves despair of any quick action to renew the money flow, and they released a television advertisement to begin airing this week that makes a direct appeal to u.s. viewers for contributions
your congress abandoned us,'' ernesto palazio, a washington lobbyist for the rebels, says somberly in the spot. ``we have nowhere to turn but to individual americans like you.''
the spot, which asks for money for ``medicine, blankets and food for our families and children,'' was to begin running this week in washington, charlotte, n.c. and fort worth, texas _ wright's home town
a washington post-abc news poll of 1,007 americans found that 55 percent of those surveyed opposed reagan's dispatch of u.s. troops last week to train in honduras, and 62 percent thought the troops would become involved in the fighting. the margin of error was plus or minus 4 percentage points
the poll, conducted by telephone interviews thursday through monday, found that 40 percent of those surveyed favored aid to the contras and 56 percent opposed it. it was the highest support figure since the 43 percent level recorded on july 15, 1987, the day after former white house aide oliver north testified before congress
the white house has encouraged a bipartisan group of contra supporters in the senate who are proposing a one-year, $48 million package of non-lethal aid that also would give the cia the right to deliver previously stockpiled weapons. under that plan, the president also would have the right to get a quick vote in congress on sending new military aid under certain conditions
mackay's version, still being drafted, would contain a compromise on reagan's future ability to demand a quick vote. in contrast with the senate bill, mackay's would let the president trigger an expedited vote, but would not let him dictate the kind of aid package to be voted on. that would be left to normal legislative procedures, he said
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters after reagan's capitol hill visit that the administration has not yet aligned itself with any specific bill, but would like to have a package introduced soon and a vote before congress leaves next week on an easter recess
we'd like to have a vote before then,'' fitzwater said
but house republican leader robert michel of illinois said it would be difficult to bring the matter to a vote before the week of april 11, when congress returns to session
u.n. mediator diego cordovez spoke tuesday of the slow pace of afghanistan peace talks in geneva, but cautioned that lack of quick movement does not mean a stalemate
negotiators at the u.n.-sponsored talks apparently were waiting for new signals from the washington meeting between soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze and secretary of state george p. shultz
cordovez met with the afghan delegation for less than 30 minutes tuesday and with the pakistani team, which speaks for the afghan guerrillas, for more than an hour. he later spoke briefly to reporters, admitting that there was ``very slow progress'' but that it ``should not be confused with a deadlock.''
there was a short-lived rumor that the afghans, led by foreign minister abdul wakil, were preparing to leave geneva wednesday. but a pakistani negotiator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the talks would proceed on schedule
wakil said earlier there was no reason for suspending the talks. pakistan's chief representative, acting foreign minister zain noorani, has said pakistan was prepared to stay in geneva ``as long as it takes'' to conclude a peace settlement
the talks are stalling over the question of what afghan government should oversee implementation of the settlement and over future soviet military aid to kabul
the united states demands that soviet assistance cease at the same time as u.s. aid to the anti-marxist guerrillas fighting the soviet-backed kabul government. moscow has rejected this as interference in relations between two sovereign states
attention now centers on the discussions in washington,'' a pakistani source said
noorani said last week that the superpowers may ``at least find it easier to settle among themselves'' the aid issue
the soviet union intervened militarily in afghanistan at the end of 1979 to support the government in its fight against the islamic guerrillas. approximately 115,000 soviet troops are still there
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev says he wants to withdraw the soviet troops from afghanistan this year if agreement can be reached at geneva
a military prosecutor on tuesday jailed francisco herreros, director of the leftist magazine cauce, for purportedly defaming chile's armed forces in an editorial, a magazine spokesman reported
herreros was taken to santiago's main prison after being questioned by prosecutor luis acevedo, according to alvaro briones, a senior cauce editor
under chile's military government, the armed forces codes empower prosecutors to indict and jail civilians brought before military courts
the editorial written by herreros and published by cauce in june 1987 criticized the influence given to the military courts in recent years
according to lawyers and human rights activists, more than 90 percent of those tried by military courts in the last five years were civilians, including a number of journalists
acevedo has five days to file formal charges against herreros or release him, according to the military code
the suit against herreros was started by the army
chile has been ruled by the armed forces since a coup ousted the elected government of marxist president salvador allende in september 1973
the army successfully test-fired five pershing 2 missiles slated to be banned from deployment under a treaty with the soviet union
the treaty, signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev, does not require either side to withdraw or destroy missiles until it has been ratified by both governments. the senate is expected to approve the pact in late spring
the unarmed missiles were successfully fired monday under battlefield conditions, the army said
the pershing is a field missile _ each of which costs $4 million _ launched from its own assembly that can be carried by a truck
the intermediate-range nuclear forces, or inf, treaty, calls for the destruction of all missiles with a range of 300 to 3,400 miles
nbc, predicting its biggest season win yet, continues to add potentially successful new series to its schedule, while cbs, facing its first last-place ratings finish ever, can't get its new comedies arrested
abc fared best with new fare last week, adding the critically praised nostalgia comedy ``the wonder years'' to the a.c. nielsen co. top 10. nbc's pilot for ``in the heat of the night'' tied for 15th in the rankings, though it remains to be seen how the series will do on a weekly basis
cbs, meanwhile, failed with its attempt to add new comedies to its monday and tuesday nights. the best performer was ``eisenhower &amp; lutz,'' which ranked 31st
for the week that ended sunday, nbc had an average, prime-time rating of 15.8; cbs 12.9 and abc 12.6. with four weeks left in the season, nbc leads with a 16.3, abc 13.9 and cbs 13.6. cbs would have to beat abc by two points a week to tie for second. cbs has never finished a season in third place in the 35 years that nielsen has done television ratings
the ``cbs evening news,'' however, was still in first place, with an average rating of 11.6. abc's ``world news tonight'' had a 10.8 and ``nbc nightly news'' 9.7
the rating is a percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions
here is last week's top 10: ``the cosby show'' nbc, ``a different world'' nbc, ``golden girls'' nbc, ``60 minutes'' cbs, ``who's the boss?'' abc, ``cheers'' nbc, ``the wonder years'' abc, ``night court'' nbc, ``murder, she wrote'' cbs and ``growing pains'' abc. half of the top 10 shows were repeats, as the networks, faced with a strike by scriptwriters, began to conserve new episodes for the may sweeps
cbs added ``eisenhower &amp; lutz'' to its monday night lineup, moving ``frank's place'' to tuesday, where the rest of the lineup dragged that critically acclaimed series down to 65th of 77 rankings. the other new comedies cbs tried on tuesday were steamrollered by abc's normally strong lineup, including ``the wonder years.'' it replaced ``growing pains,'' which moved to wednesday night where it continues to be a top-10 show
cbs' ``coming of age,'' starring paul dooley as an acerbic former airline pilot struggling to adjust to a sunny retirement village, was 59th. at a dismal 75th was ``my sister sam,'' a formerly high-rated comedy reprised by cbs to fill in for the new ``the dictator,'' which was delayed by the writers guild strike. ``trial and error,'' a hispanic ``odd couple,'' was 76th
nbc did well with a tv version of the classic film ``inherit the wind,'' starring jason robards and kirk douglas. it ranked 14th
in the heat of the night'' was a pilot for a potential fall series starring carroll o'connor and howard rollins in a remake of the hit movie
here are the prime-time television ratings as compiled by the a.c. nielsen co. for the week of march 14-20. top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes
an ``x'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation, ``p'' indicates premiere and ``na'' indicates not available. shows from 21 on include only the weekly ranking. a rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million tv homes
1. (1) ``the cosby show,'' nbc, 28.2 rating, 25 million homes
2. (2) ``a different world,'' nbc, 25.2 rating, 22.3 million homes
3. (6) ``golden girls,'' nbc, 22.5 rating, 19.9 million homes
3. (9) ``60 minutes,'' cbs, 22.5 rating, 19.9 million homes
5. (7) ``who's the boss?'', abc, 22.3 rating, 19.8 million homes
6. (3) ``cheers,'' nbc, 22.0 rating, 19.5 million homes
7. (p) ``wonder years,'' abc, 21.4 rating, 19 million homes
8. (4) ``night court,'' nbc, 20.9 rating, 18.5 million homes
9. (10) ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs, 20.8 rating, 18.4 million homes
10. (5) ``growing pains,'' abc, 19.2 rating, 17 million homes
11. (11) ``alf,'' nbc, 19.1 rating, 16.9 million homes
12. (17) ``matlock,'' nbc, 18.5 rating, 16.4 million homes
13. (16) ``amen,'' nbc, 18.1 rating, 16 million homes
14. (x) ``inherit the wind,'' nbc, 18.0, 15.9 million homes
15. (20) ``valerie's family,'' nbc, 17.9 rating, 15.8 million homes
15. (x) ``in the heat of the night,'' nbc, 17.9 rating, 15.8 million homes
17. (26) ``newhart,'' cbs, 17.5 rating, 15.5 million homes
18. (24) ``head of the class,'' abc, 16.9 rating, 15 million homes
18. (36) ``abc monday night movie: broken angel,'' abc, 16.9 rating, 15 million homes
20. (10) ``l.a. law,'' nbc, 16.6 rating, 14.7 million homes
21. (14) ``family ties,'' nbc, 16.4
22. (28) ``hunter,'' nbc, 16.3
22. (p) ``aaron's way,'' nbc, 16.3
24. (30) ``day by day,'' nbc, 15.4
25. (53) ``macgyver,'' abc, 15.4
26. (30) ``knots landing,'' cbs, 15.3
27. (30) ``my two dads,'' nbc, 15.1
28. (11) ``moonlighting,'' abc, 14.7
29. (22) ``dallas,'' cbs, 14.6
30. (40) ``highway to heaven,'' nbc, 14.4
31. (43) ``eisenhower &amp; lutz,'' cbs, 14.2
32. (19) ``cbs sunday movie: hot paint,'' cbs, 14.1
33. (39) ``facts of life,'' nbc, 14.0
33. (38) ``kate &amp; allie,'' cbs, 14.0
35. (45) ``miami vice,'' nbc, 13.7
35. (35) ``hooperman,'' abc, 13.7
37. (43) ``dynasty,'' abc, 13.6
38. (57) ``the equalizer,'' cbs, 13.5
39. (59) ``jake and the fat man,'' cbs, 13.5
40. (22) ``nbc monday night movie: danger down under,'' nbc, 13.3
41. (43) ``eisenhower &amp; lutz,'' cbs, 13.0
42. (46) ``thirtysomething,'' abc, 12.8
43. (55) ``simon &amp; simon,'' cbs, 12.7
43. (37) ``abc sunday night move: octopussy,'' abc, 12.7
45. (47) ``supercarrier,'' abc, 12.5
46. (30) ``perfect strangers,'' abc, 12.4
47. (62) ``sonny spoon,'' nbc, 12.1
47. (42) ``falcon crest,'' cbs, 12.1
49. (72) ``full house,'' abc, 12.0
49. (55) ``20-20,'' abc, 12.0
51. (50) ``beauty and the beast,'' cbs, 11.8
51. (50) ``cagney &amp; lacey,'' cbs, 11.8
51. (x) ``snoopy,'' cbs, 11.8
54. (54) ``slap maxwell,'' abc, 11.7
55. (64) ``mr. belvedere,'' abc, 11.6
56. (60) ``crime story,'' nbc, 11.4
57. (52) ``dolly,'' abc, 11.3
58. (x) ``garfield,'' cbs, 11.1
59. (70) ``coming of age,'' 11.0
60. (60) ``a year in the life,'' nbc, 10.7
61. (68) ``tour of duty,'' cbs, 10.5
62. (63) ``highwayman,'' nbc, 10.4
63. (70) ``spenser: for hire,'' abc, 10.2
64. (66) ``wiseguy,'' cbs, 10.1
65. (58) ``frank's place,'' cbs, 9.9
65. (78) ``48 hours,'' cbs, 99
67. (64) ``high mountain rangers,'' cbs, 9.8
68. (85) ``thorns,'' abc, 9.5
69. (x) ``nbc family special: place at the table,'' nbc, 9.3
70. (87) ``probe,'' abc, 9.2
71. (91) ``west 57th,'' cbs, 8.7
71. (68) ``disney sunday movie: little spies, part one,'' abc, 8.7
73. (85) ``ohara,'' abc, 8.5
74. (83) ``hotel,'' abc, 7.4
75. (94) ``my sister sam,'' cbs, 7.3
76. (96) ``trial and error,'' cbs, 6.5
76. (p) ``buck james,'' abc, 6.5
78. (na) ``21 jump street,'' fox, 5.9
79. (na) ``married ... with children,'' fox, 5.0
80. (na) ``the garry shandling show,'' fox, 4.4
81. (na) ``werewolf,'' fox, 4.1
82. (na) ``duet,'' fox, 3.8
83. (na) ``tracey ullman show,'' fox, 3.3
84. (na) ``women in prison,'' fox, 3.0
85. (na) ``boys will be boys,'' fox, 2.9
86. (na) ``adventures of beans baxter,'' fox, 2.1
87. (na) ``mr. president,'' fox, 1.7
the destruction of millions of acres of tropical jungles each year by peasant farmers and others is a problem for the developed nations as well as the third world and requires economic and educational solutions, say scientists at a leading plant research institution
the missouri botanical garden, known for its man-made tropical atmosphere in the so-called ``climatron'' designed by buckminster fuller, is working to halt the decimation of the world's real tropical jungles
the outlook is pretty grim,'' said biologist peter h. raven, director of the garden. ``although tropical forests once covered at least 12 percent of the globe _ an area about twice the size of europe _ they have already been reduced to about half that.''
currently, the forests are being cleared or degraded at the rate of about 60 million acres a year. that's an area about half the size of california.''
raven said roughly half of all known plant and animal species on earth are found in the tropical forests. at the current rate of destruction, as many as 60,000 species of plants will be extinct by the year 2020
the plant-rich tropics supply man with a wealth of food crops, medicines and other useful products,'' said dr. enrique forero, director of research at the garden. ``but they are being destroyed rapidly.''
the chief culprits, forero said, are loggers and slash-and-burn peasant farmers. the loggers obviously need the trees to stay in business and the farmers often have to destroy the forests to feed themselves and their families
and the scientists say the situation can only get worse unless something is done to stop it
at present, over half the people in the world live in countries that are at least partly tropical, excluding china,'' forero said. ``nearly a third of these people are already living in extreme poverty and with current rates of growth, the human population of these countries will double in less than 30 years.''
how can you tell these starving people that you are going to save the very things they have to destroy in order to sustain their already meager existence,'' asked raven. ``education and political and economic stability are obviously the keys. that and understanding.''
which is why, raven said, the garden has committed itself to an all-out effort to explore, document and save the forests
with a staff of 70 researchers and technicians, including many who live permanently in the tropics, the garden makes up one of the world's largest active field research programs in tropical botany
the goals, the scientists said, are to collect the plant species before they become extinct and to teach the impoverished farmers how to live in the forest without destroying it
with the growing knowledge of genetics, they said, it is important that the genes, the biological blueprints, of the endangered species be saved
to lose this genetic capital through massive extinctions just as we are developing our capabilities to explore its potential would indeed be a tragedy,'' raven said. ``the developments in genetics make the specter of extinction even worse,'' raven said. ``for each species of plant or animal lost to extinction, you're losing the potential for another 20,000 to 30,000 variants in the future.''
many of the plants, scientists say, could almost certainly be developed into cheaper, easy-to-grow sources of highly nutritious food. others could be converted into abundant sources of new medicines
another important part of the garden's program is to lend technical assistance to and train scientists from developing tropical countries through cooperative agreements
unfortunately, only 6 percent of the scientists working on the problem live in the countries involved,'' raven said. ``we must change that. momentum to implement the innovative conservation and development strategies needed to deal with these urgent problems ultimately must come from the affected countries themselves,'' raven said
the backbone of the garden's research, the scientists said, is its herbarium, or plant collection. along with the new york botanical garden and the smithsonian institution, the missouri herbarium is one of the three largest in the united states and among the 12 largest in the world
started by garden founder henry shaw in the 1850s, the missouri herbarium now contains samples of more than 3.5 million species and is expected to expand to 4.5 million within the next decade
pointing to a large map showing the locations of the garden's researchers in central and south america and africa, raven said of the encroachment on the forests: ``it won't be stopped soon
but there are encouraging signs. what people have to learn is that conservation and development are really two sides of the same coin.''
producers and consumers have to learn that they have a common problem. it can all be done, but it won't be easy.''
an old generation is remembering the vietnam war and a new generation is curious, stirring a revival of the controversial era in books and movies. now comes a new publication, a slick magazine simply named vietnam, whose premiere issue went on sale today
our timing could not have been better because right now, look at all the vietnam movies that have come out,'' said publisher gregg r. oehler in a telephone interview from leesburg, va., where the magazine is published by empire press. ``look at all the major emphasis now on video, on books. it's vietnam. everyone now is talking about vietnam.''
oehler said 150,000 copies of the first issue were printed, including 50,000 for subscribers and 100,000 for newsstand sales across the united states and in 16 other countries. the magazine, a quarterly, sells for $2.95 a copy on newsstands and for $9.95 for the four issues by subscription
oehler said the response has been so overwhelming from wholesalers, subscribers and the media that the magazine will probably go to six issues a year in 1989. many of the subscribers are vietnam veterans, a large number of them in prison
i've gotten hundreds of letters from vietnam veterans in prison,'' said oehler. ``they're so happy to hear that a magazine is coming out.''
each issue will run 68 pages with a regular format of four feature stories and six departments including editorial, fighting forces, bases and installations, arsenal and book reviews
the initial issue includes an interview with gen. fred c. weyand, america's last military commander in vietnam, and a story on tan son nhut air base, the command center for america's forces in vietnam which was called the ``pentagon east.'' it also includes 32 pages of color photographs and maps. the cover shows two soldiers defending their post with a machine gun
in the editorial in the premiere issue, the editor, retired col. harry g. summers jr., explains the goal of the magazine:
thirty-eight years after american involvement in vietnam began, 15 years after the withdrawal of all u.s. military forces there, and 13 years after the fall of saigon, the war there truly remains an enigma. the goal we here at vietnam magazine have set for ourselves is to find the key to unlock that enigma.''
in an interview, summers said that in visits to colleges he has found great interest in vietnam among young people who want to know what really happened there. he said there seems to be a misunderstanding of the war especially among this generation, many of whom were not even born when american soldiers were pouring into vietnam in 1965
there is the perception that the united states was defeated by a guerrilla army,'' he said. ``that's not true. the american military withdrew from vietnam 2{ years before the fall of saigon. the north vietnamese did not defeat the american military when they seized saigon for a very simple reason: there was no american military there to defeat. one of our objectives is to refute some of the myths.''
summers, 56, is widely known and respected as an authority on military affairs. he served in both the korean and vietnam wars
he is a columnist for the los angeles times syndicate, a contributing editor for u.s.news &amp; world report, and the author of two books, including the widely acclaimed ``on strategy: a critical analysis of the vietnam war.''
the magazine's editorial review board includes gen. william c. westmoreland, former commander of u.s. forces in vietnam, and authors stanley karnow and al santoli, both of whom have written books on vietnam
asked if the presence of westmoreland and other former vietnam officers on the board will leave the impression that the magazine will give only the official view, one that was often discredited during the war, summers said:
we've tried to get the voices as diverse as possible. i don't think stanley karnow's an apologist for the war. i don't think i'm an apologist for the war. certainly my book was very critical of the war. and so was al santoli.''
ben midgette bends and removes spikes from railroad ties, and rod korthals blows smoke through a scale-model hog house
they are among 3,000 scientists, administrators and graduate assistants on staff at the university of illinois agricultural experiment station, which celebrated its 100th anniversary monday
but the center, one of 66 in the country, is about more than agriculture
i've yet to see one person ... who didn't think there were exciting things going on here,'' said station director donald holt. ``one thing is clear _ research is crucial to the future of american agriculture and our society in general.''
in one laboratory, midgette compared the strength of railroad ties made from different woods, looking for the longest-lasting material. an african oak was so hard that it caused a bolt to break in a machine that measures the force required to pull out a spike
it snapped and went straight up,'' said midgette, who figures this african oak will out-last conventional ties. ``we've got indentations in the ceiling.''
korthals pumped smoke into the clear plastic model of a hog house to demonstrate how the air moves through the building with various ventilation systems. he said it should help farmers select the most efficient design for their own swine buildings
the 320 research projects funded by the station last year involved subjects such as agricultural economics, veterinary medicine, home economics and food science
the center has a $25 million budget from state and federal appropriations, as well as gifts, grants and contracts, many from the private sector, holt said
it began in the morrow plots, site of the longest-running continuous corn experiment in the western hemisphere. the test plots were created in 1876, the year gen. george custer and 264 cavalrymen were killed at little bighorn
much of the station's research still is aimed directly at production agriculture. visitors on monday saw a rainfall simulator used to study the effects of soil erosion, experiments on the biological control of insects, and research into the possible use of wild soybeans to improve commercial varieties
they also saw work being done to create new human foods from soybeans, to study tree growth and to learn more about infant nutrition and child development
the murderous rampages that left five people dead at two belfast funerals last week have aroused fears that northern ireland is sliding into a new cycle of violence after several years of relative calm
in the past month, 15 people have died _ twice the 1987 monthly average. the dead include three irish republican army guerrillas gunned down in gibraltar on march 6 in the incident that touched off the latest mayhem in belfast
a firm grip will be required to halt the slide of the province toward still further bloodshed and anarchy,'' the news letter, a belfast newspaper, warned monday
there is no time to lose,'' said the belfast telegraph. ``if there is a political vacuum _ and there is _ the initiative will always seem to be with the paramilitaries.''
there won't be anarchy and there won't even be a return to the level of violence in the early 1970s when 700 people died in a year,'' paul bew, a political science professor at queen's university in belfast, said in an interview
but the graph is starting to go up, up, up,'' he said
with police talking of about 30 suspects in saturday's violence, roman catholic areas of belfast are bracing for a wave of arrests that could provoke further clashes
ever since the irish republican army's struggle to drive britain out of northern ireland climaxed with the death of 10 hunger striking prisoners in 1981, the province seemed to be lapsing into relative calm. the death toll was dropping steadily and there even were signs of economic rejuvenation
the ira, having narrowly failed to assassinate prime minister margaret thatcher with a bomb in 1984, was suffering repeated military and political setbacks. the anglo-irish agreement of november 1985, which gave dublin a say in the running of northern ireland, was bolstering catholic moderates against ira radicals
the killing of the three guerrillas, allegedly as they were plotting a car bombing in gibraltar, was portrayed by britain as a triumph for its anti-terrorism strategy
but the fact that the guerrillas were unarmed outraged many catholics as well as the irish government. that reaction in turn angered many protestants, who believed that the ira got what it deserved
as the three were being buried, protestant michael stone emerged from behind a tombstone lobbing grenades and firing into the mourners. three died and 68 were wounded
three days later, at the funeral of one of the cemetery victims, a car sped toward the cortege. the mourners, keyed up and fearful of another protestant attack, pounced on it
when they realized the occupants were two british soldiers, they dragged them out, beat them with iron bars and stripped them. the two men were then hauled away and shot dead by ira gunmen
the two episodes revealed the hatred that can still erupt from a protestant majority that regards itself as being under siege, and from a catholic minority for whom gibraltar proves there is no british justice in northern ireland
the incidents all but obscured four other deaths since gibraltar: a policeman, an ira man and two civilians _ a protestant woman and a catholic man
in the context of a conflict that has claimed 2,638 lives since 1969, those four would be regarded as par for ulster's grisly course. the funeral deaths, however, were graphically captured by tv cameras, and they stunned and disgusted irish and british citizens alike
scum of the earth,'' stormed the sun, a london daily. in dublin, the irish press lamented: ``this was the shocking face of ireland '88.''
many catholics reacted to saturday's killings with shock and disgust, making no attempt to excuse them as a response to the previous cemetery bloodbath. the irish news, a catholic daily, called it ``a satanic rejection of the christian faith.''
the initial reaction is shock that something so barbarous could happen,'' said dan keenan, spokesman for the social democratic and labor party, northern ireland's moderate, mainstream catholic party
marcus eliason, news editor in the london bureau of the associated press, has covered northern ireland for 3{ years
the united states has urged panama's military leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega, to leave the country and live in spain. the united state has encouraged other world leaders to give up power and go into exile. among them:
syngman rhee _ the south korean president went into exile in hawaii in may, 1960 following widespread political unrest and allegations that he had rigged the presidential election. he died in 1965
shah of iran _ shah mohammad reza pahlavi gave up power during the islamic revolution and flew to egypt in his private plane on jan. 15, 1979. he was allowed temporary refuge in the united states for medical treatment, but was not allowed to live in the united states permanently. he went to panama and then to egypt, where he died in 1980
anastasio somoza _ the nicaraguan president fled the country jan. 19, 1979 under pressure from the organization of american states and after the united states refused to support him. a sandinista-led coalition took power. somoza lived in paraguay and was assassinated on sept. 7, 1980
baby doc'' duvalier _ jean-claude duvalier and his family fled haiti on feb. 7, 1986 aboard a u.s. air force plane following months of unrest. his departure ended the political dynasty founded in 1957 by his father, francois ``papa doc'' duvalier. duvalier is in exile in france
ferdinand marcos _ fled the philippines with his family aboard a u.s. jet on feb. 26, 1986 in the face of mounting opposition by political foes and the military. marcos is in exile in hawaii
don hewitt, who marks his 40th anniversary with cbs news today, recalls that he landed his first job at the network after a friend suggested his experience at a newsphoto service might come in handy
i said, what does cbs want with picture experience? radio doesn't need any pictures. he said, `no _ television.' i said whata-vision?''
today, the 65-year-old outspoken creator and executive producer of ``60 minutes'' is looking beyond current television technology, foreseeing a time when networks are superfluous and television news is beamed directly into subscribers' homes
hewitt began his career as associate director and later producer of the network's first television newscast, ``douglas edwards with the news'' and later the ``cbs evening news'' with walter cronkite
he remembers covering the coronation of queen elizabeth ii with edward r. murrow and flying back to the united states aboard a chartered airliner editing the kinescope that viewers would see on the news _ no videotapes, no satellite transmissions
i didn't think there was ever going to be satellites, bounce signals off a star, are you crazy?,'' he said, laughing. but hewitt, who considered buying cbs news a few years ago, thinks it's feasible to one day broadcast news directly to homes. news services already are beaming footage to local television stations, so hewitt's idea is not so far-fetched
i think that the network news departments, they might not even work for a network 10 years from now,'' he said. ``there might not be any networks because it may be an outmoded delivery system
i'm not sure you don't have a large newsroom somewhere and you just have direct broadcast ... feeding news into people's homes, for a price same way they pay for a newspaper.''
he also foresees delivering newspapers into home printers by satellite
i think about it more than most people, as you can see. and i wonder how long the networks in their present form will be around,'' he said
some other samples of hewitt's opinions:
_``60 minutes'': ``i've always said all we do in this broadcast is shine lights on people in dark corners, and if people in dark corners are doing things they shouldn't be doing, all we did was turn the light on.''
_the importance of pictures on television: ``the accepted wisdom in television was always you put words to pictures. i don't believe that. you put pictures to words. you start with the words. the audio is always more important to me than the video.''
_televised presidential debates (hewitt produced the famous 1960 meeting of richard nixon and john f. kennedy): ``it's still a terrible format and we shouldn't be doing them. they should have real debates. ... the republican candidate and democratic candidate should head up a team of two or three debaters who are really good and can really cross-examine the other side and give them a hard time, and they ought to do it in front of a joint session of congress, and it will produce something other than this sterile show where what it is is a joint press conference, not really a debate.''
_this year's election: ``i don't think there's enough caffeine in america to keep the electorate awake during a dukakis-bush campaign.''
_politicians: ``i don't put politicians on the air if i can help it, because i instinctively don't believe them. i believe they're only interested in getting themselves elected, and they only say what they think will get themselves elected.''
_ratings: ``no matter what i think about ratings, and whether they're accurate and everything, i don't say anything because they've been awfully good to me.''
_the future: ``i know where i'll be in nine years. i'm going to be here. my contract isn't up until i'm 74. ironclad, nobody gets out. now the question is, will there be a cbs? i think so. some form. maybe not this form.''
the supreme court is considering whether abused children should have the right to sue public officials for failing to protect them from their parents
but the justices have decided to avoid another children's rights issue: whether public school students enjoy any constitutional protection against paddling or other corporal punishment by teachers and administrators
the court announced monday that it will tackle the parental abuse issue in the case of a wisconsin boy, joshua deshaney, who suffered serious and permanent brain damage from beatings by his father
the boy's suit accuses social workers and officials of gross negligence in ignoring evidence that he was being brutally victimized. a lower court threw out the suit
a high court ruling is not expected until 1989 on whether to revive the suit against the winnebago county, wis., department of social services and two of its employees
the agency was accused of violating the rights of joshua by failing to rescue him from his father's beatings, even though it allegedly had known about the abuse since 1983, when the child was 4 years old
joshua has been institutionalized since 1984, suffering from injuries that destroyed half his brain and left him profoundly retarded
the boy's father, randy deshaney, since has been convicted of child abuse and sentenced to two to four years in prison
deshaney's ex-wife, melody, sued the social services officials on grounds they violated the child's constitutional right not to be deprived of liberty without due process
mrs. deshaney was divorced from her husband and living in cheyenne, wyo., when she was informed her son had suffered serious brain damage. deshaney had custody of his son
the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals, in throwing out mrs. deshaney's suit, said the social welfare agency and its employees ``though blameworthy, did not cause joshua's injuries'' but ``merely failed to protect him from his bestial father.''
the appeals court also said welfare agencies should not be placed in the predicament of removing a child from home and facing suit by the parent or leaving the child there and risk being sued by the child
putting officials in that position ``is unlikely to improve the welfare of american families and is not grounded in constitutional text or principle,'' the appeals court said
in the paddling case, the court, without comment, let stand a federal appeals court ruling in a new mexico case that ``at some degree of excessiveness or cruelty'' such punishment violates constitutional rights
another appeals court has rejected that view, clouding the picture
the high court in 1977 ruled that such disciplinary measures never can amount to the ``cruel and unusual punishment'' banned by the constitution's eighth amendment
the decision barred students from suing teachers and school administrators in federal court over alleged eighth amendment violations, but left them free to sue in state courts under state laws
in the 1977 decision, however, the court said it had not considered whether corporal punishment can violate ``substantive rights under the (14th amendment's) due process clause.''
the 10th u.s. circuit court of appeals last april cleared the way for a trial in teresa garcia's federal lawsuit against penasco, n.m., school officials over two paddlings she received in elementary school
the appeals court said the kind of punishment alleged in the lawsuit can sustain a federal lawsuit even if a lawsuit could have been filed in state court
in other developments, the court:
_agreed to consider killing a key provision of a law designed to promote competitive bidding on government contracts. at issue is the proper boundary between presidential and congressional power
_agreed to decide in a case from texas whether states may impose sales taxes on most books, newspapers and magazines while exempting religious publications
as a capital institution, leaking confidential information to the press has a rich heritage and long roots
those roots may be longer than one might think
the news leak, in fact, may stretch back to thomas jefferson, or at least his political allies
that possibility was made clear last week as the senate was reminded that the day marked the 188th anniversary _ march 18, 1800 _ of the issuing of the very first contempt of congress citation
thomas duane, editor of the philadelphia aurora, was cited for contempt for having failed to appear as ordered to explain how he had obtained the text of a controversial but secret senate bill and caused it to be published
the senate in that era still met in secret and all of its deliberations were held to be private, not public, matters
according to senate republican leader bob dole of kansas and senate historians, the secret bill was the product of the senate's federalist majority and concerned a bid to change the method of settling disputes over presidential electors
jefferson was vice president and leader of the democratic-republican party. his supporters feared a plot to deny him the presidency in the upcoming elections
so, dole said, ``jefferson's allies in the senate leaked a copy of the bill to william duane.''
offended federalists demanded an investigation of duane and his illicit sources,'' dole said
vice president jefferson, as the senate's presiding officer, was directed to read duane a list of prepared questions about who had given him the bill, he said
duane asked for additional time to seek counsel, a request jefferson quickly granted
that was the last the senate saw of william duane,'' dole recounted. ``when he failed to reappear, the senate issued a contempt citation in his name. duane hid out through the remainder of the congressional session.''
when the new congress convened the situation had changed. jefferson had won the white house and his party had captured majorities in both the senate and house
needless to say,'' said dole, ``the new senate majority had no intention of pursuing charges of contempt against william duane.''
the first congressional investigation of a news leak was quietly shelved
rep. peter rodino, d-n.j., sifted through 40 years of memories last week after announcing he will end his congressional career at the end of the year
rodino, the chairman of the house judiciary committee, presided over the hearings which, on july 24, 1974, resulted in a vote to impeach president richard m. nixon
within days nixon resigned his office
a decade later, on may 30, 1984, rodino was en route from the capital to his home in newark, n.j
rodino is such a frequent flier on that route that the airlines, as a matter of courtesy, customarily assigned him a seat in the second row of the aircraft so that he could board and depart easily and quickly
but on the day in question, chairman rodino got bumped to the rear of the plane
who had the clout to oust rodino from his accustomed seat?
former president richard nixon's the one
nixon also had a home in new jersey and was traveling with his secret service bodyguards. the entire group got the front-of-the-plane seats
the two men didn't talk
i didn't even see his face,'' rodino recalled. ``i saw the back of his head.''
as struggling democratic presidential hopeful richard gephardt was wooing workers at a giant steel mill here with his trade-and-populism message, one of them handed him a button that read: ``survival.''
the button referred to saving mclouth steel through employee ownership, but it also aptly summed up gephardt's political goal in michigan
without a win here, it could be all over for the missouri congressman. but he hopes workers like the ones he campaigned among monday will keep his bid alive
if we don't do well here, obviously we aren't going to be able to continue the race,'' gephardt said in lansing on march 10
brushing aside questions about his future if he loses, gephardt said over and over again monday, ``i'm going to do well in michigan.'' asked if he would run for re-election to his house seat if he loses saturday, he declared: ``i'm going to win.''
i imagine he does have to'' win, said frank kelley, michigan attorney general and chairman of gephardt's effort in the state
but he was quick to say winning might not mean coming in first. kelley said jesse jackson, who has strong black support in detroit and its suburbs, could be first. he said gephardt must beat massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the front-runner in delegates
if gephardt beats dukakis, his campaign is revived,'' kelley said
but the polls do not support that prospect
a survey conducted march 15-17 for the detroit news gave dukakis and jackson the lead, with gephardt far behind. dukakis had 33 percent, and jackson 31 percent. gephardt had 10 percent, with the rest of the field trailing
gephardt said the polls do not tap the caucus-goers accurately, as the campaign expects only 100,000 to 150,000 democrats to attend, a small fraction of the party faithful
i think a lot of people will be surprised by how well he does here,'' said chick mahoney, owner of chick's rooster lounge south of detroit, where gephardt campaigned monday. ``but it's going to be tough.''
to turn the poll findings on their head, gephardt has a message with a great deal of appeal in this state still shuddering from the massive changes in the auto and steel industries facing foreign competition
he denunciation of foreign trade practices _ epitomized by his rhetoric and ad saying ``a $10,000 chrysler k-car costs $48,000 in south korea'' _ draws big applause from blue collar crowds. at the mclouth mill and at chick's on monday, that line drew big cheers
he's the only one to take a stand on trade, a strong one,'' said jim hindman outside the mclouth mill south of detroit
`some of the people here were out of work for 4{ years,'' added ray ridings. ``that's why we like gephardt.''
gephardt is short of time and money to get his message out. kelley said the campaign has promised to spend between $300,000 and $500,000 on ads in the state. one campaign aide who spoke on condition of anonymity said, ``as fast the money comes in, we spend it.''
a key to gephardt's victory is what the union leadership does in the state
the united auto workers have not endorsed anyone nationally, although their state affiliate in iowa played a major role in his victory in iowa
that means gephardt is trying to pick up support local by local and district by district. at the mclouth plant, he won the backing of district director harry lester. and frank baker, a united steel workers local 2659 official, said many members will follow the district leader's suggestion
that backing must be repeated over and over again across the state for gephardt to win, for this caucus is not a simple process
the voting does not take place in the usual precincts across the state but in 567 locations that may not be familiar to the voters. that puts a premium on organization, which has been the trademark of dukakis' effort this far
gephardt's hyundai ad, which worked so well in iowa and south dakota, has come in for criticism in this state where autos are the economy
gephardt brushed aside suggestions the ad is inaccurate in its claim that the $10,000 chrysler car would cost $48,000 in south korea. and he got some help in that from chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca, with whom he met on monday in highland park
asked if the gephardt ad's figure was correct, iacocca said gephardt has the point correct, whatever the details
damn close to it. maybe it's only $35-40,000, but don't lose sight of it, it's still a big difference between $7,000 here for a comparable car,'' iacocca said to reporters outside the chrysler corp. headquarters
gephardt said he was responding to a story in monday's editions of the detroit free press saying a k-car would cost about $33,000 in korea and that none is sold there. and gephardt, in an interview with the detroit news, conceded that many of those taxes are levied in korea on domestic consumption
banning reporters and photographers from the west bank and the gaza strip could prove to be a public relations blunder for israel and might not be effective anyway, several media observers say
larry gross, a professor at the annenberg school of communications at the university of pennsylvania, said it would be ``bad policy'' for israel to impose more restrictions on reporters covering unrest in the occupied territories
it would be a public relations risk _ one i hope they don't take,'' gross said. he said israel could jeopardize its reputation as the only true democracy in the middle east, which u.s. officials cite in providing millions of dollars to the country each year
but the israelis are obviously watching the situation in south africa to determine if the advantages of restricting the press outweigh the disadvantages, he said
south africa's widely condemned white government has succeeded in dampening outside interest in that country's racial problems by banning coverage of any security activities, experts agree. the order went into effect in june 1986
but gross doubted israel would be able to ``keep the lid on'' coverage of the occupied territories in a way the south africans have virtually halted reporting in black areas
israel's domestic political opposition and a thriving domestic press could prevent a blackout on coverage of the territories, he said
local israeli army commanders already have authority to close areas in the occupied territories at random, and they have been doing so with increasing frequency. a parliamentary committee in jerusalem is studying whether to ban the media formally from the territories
yael dayan, a well-known israeli peace activist, said during a recent u.s. visit that tough restrictions on the press would likely fail, because israelis demand news and have an aggressive press corps
eric goldstein of the committee to protect journalists, a new york-based group that monitors conditions for journalists worldwide, said israel might be able to stave off intense scrutiny by banning cameras
but in the long run the greater public interest is served by allowing the press access,'' he said. the committee opposes restrictions on reporters
some americans have joined israeli government officials in complaining that reporters, particularly those working for foreign television networks, have helped incite rock-throwing palestinians in the territories
new york mayor edward koch has said a television ban would be justified, and former secretary of state henry a. kissinger reportedly told prominent american jews during a meeting that banning television cameras would be a good idea. kissinger says his remarks were distorted
jeff cohen of fairness and accuracy in reporting criticized a ``censorship lobby'' for supporting restrictions that, in the united states, would be considered an unacceptable violation of freedom of the press
it would be one more comparison with south africa, and it would hurt israel,'' he said. fair is a liberal new york group that examines the media
fred w. friendly, former president of cbs news and a professor at columbia university's school of journalism, said it would be wrong to ban reporters from the occupied territories
that can't be right _ that's what south africa did,'' he said
but friendly said television coverage, with its time constraints and powerful pictures, can fail to portray a story accurately. `what is also wrong is letting the picture run away with the story,'' he told the new york times
mortimer zuckerman, editor-in-chief of u.s. news &amp; world report, had the same complaint. ``television has polluted the public debate because it is inherently difficult for pictures to give context, history and meaning to events,'' he recently wrote
two chicago &amp; northwestern freight trains collided head-on monday, injuring eight workers, three of them seriously, police said
an eastbound train with four engines and about 130 cars collided with a westbound train consisting of a switch engine and a single car while both trains were going 20 mph to 30 mph, police said. officials were investigating the cause of the accident late monday
the collision occurred about noon in the southwest part of dixon, a town of 15,000 in north-central illinois, and the crash could be heard up to a mile away, police said
eight employees were on the trains at the time of the accident, and were taken to katherine shaw bethea hospital in dixon
steve wilkerson, 35, of rock falls; and charles holdren, 56 and robert fonder, 38, both of sterling, were listed in serious condition late monday, hospital officials said. the other five workers were treated and released
because senators like to see farmers smile, your next mercedes benz could cost an extra $1,800
if you don't get the connection, that's just the way congress works sometimes
the senate finance committee voted monday to grant farmers and some other taxpayers relief from the 15.1-cent-a-gallon tax on diesel fuel used for logging, farming, oil drilling, mining, fishing and other off-the-road business purposes
but since budget constraints require that every dollar of tax relief be offset by a dollar of tax increase on somebody else, the committee's bill would double the tax on fuel-guzzling cars _ mostly expensive imports whose miles-per-gallon don't meet federal standards
other sources of revenue for the diesel relief and a new ``taxpayer bill of rights'' include a few distilleries that dodge some of the $12.50-a-gallon tax on liquor by watering down products with a grape-based alcohol, and any number of people whose tax refunds could be grabbed to pay an overdue government loan
after all that, farmers may have to wait six months for their tax relief. there is some doubt congress can complete action on legislation before april 1, when off-the-road diesel users are to begin paying the tax. they would have to wait for a refund until they file their income-tax returns next year
i just don't want to go back home and explain to my farmers why we've set up this ridiculous bureaucratic nightmare,'' moaned sen. david boren, d-okla
sen. david pryor, d-ark., noted the senate is due to recess easter week. to go back home with no settlement of the farmers' problem, he said, ``would be like us walking through a field of scorpions barefooted.''
sen. john danforth, r-mo., said the committee should, in effect, ask the senate to ignore the budget problem so farmers can be relieved
farmers and other off-road diesel users were caught up in congress' efforts last year to reduce cheating on the fuel tax. the solution was to change the point of tax collection to the producer or wholesaler, and to require that those legally entitled to an exemption pay the tax and then apply for a refund when they file their income-tax returns the following year
the typical farmer would thus allow the government interest-free use of $320 of his money, some of it for up to a year
the panel's bill does nothing for another big group with a complaint: about 82,000 state, county and city government units that, starting jan. 1, are now having to pay the 9.1-cent gasoline tax and apply for a refund later
the finance committee package, still subject to action by the senate and house, would:
_allow diesel bought for off-road business use from wholesalers to escape the tax altogether. tax-exempt buyers from retailers would have to pay the tax and get a refund next year. this would cost the government $543 million through 1993
_create a ``taxpayer bill of rights,'' clamping down on perceived abuses by the internal revenue service. this would lose $517 million over five years
_extend through june 30, 1989, the expiring authority for the irs to withhold tax refunds from people who owe student loans, farm loans and other federal debts. this would raise about $400 million
_double the tax on new cars whose fuel efficiency does not meet federal standards, raising $375 million through 1993. in the current model year, the tax hits only expensive foreign cars, such as the $38,000 volvo 780, which gets 21.2 miles per gallon, and the $61,130 mercedes 560sl. their guzzler taxes would rise to $1,300 and $3,600, respectively
_limit use of a ``wine flavors credit'' under which some manufacturers of distilled spirits avoid a significant share of the $12.50-a-gallon liquor tax by mixing some products with a grape-based alcohol. this is expected to raise $360 million over five years
republican presidential candidate pat robertson, faced with bumping up against the federally-imposed campaign spending limit, revised some of his state spending figures downward in his newly filed campaign financial statement
the spending allocations for nine states showed lower cumulative expenditures in the report filed monday than the figures robertson reported a month earlier
robertson's staff did not return a phone call monday to answer questions about the revisions
in his report filed monday with the federal election commission, the former tv evangelist reported he had spent $19 million through feb. 29 against the spending cap of $23 million that applies to expenditures for the entire primary season
even with the downward revisions in some state spending figures, the total was still more than the $17.6 million in spending against the cap that he reported through the end of january
candidates who receive federal matching funds must agree to stay within the spending limit. the reports candidates filed monday show new financial activity for the month of february as well as cumulative totals
robertson's revisions were in figures reported for califonria, district of columbia, louisiana, michigan, north carolina, oklahoma, tennessee, texas, and virginia
the biggest was in texas where his previous report showed an allocation of $1.1 million, but the new report shows an allocation of $746,514 through february
robertson, who has spent more overall than any other candidate, also reported he borrowed another $1.9 million in february
he has taken out more than $9 million in loans since he began his campaign last year, and ended february with $8.4 million in debts and $7.4 million in cash on hand
financial reports filed by his rivals show that sen. bob dole also has narrowly outspent vice president george bush, as bush has built a huge lead over both robertson and dole in the gop race
democratic contender michael dukakis, the governor of massachussetts, continues to raise more money than his rivals, all of whom have resorted to borrowing
dukakis raised $2.9 million in february, including federal matching funds, compared with less than $2 million each by rep. richard gephardt of missouri, sen. paul simon of illinois, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, and jesse jackson
gephardt borrowed and repaid $149,000, during february, simon borrowed $292,352, and jackson borrowed $500,000. gore did not take out loans in february, which is the month covered by the new financial statements. but his aides have said he borrowed $1 million before the march 8 super tuesday contests in 20 states, and $300,000 before the illinois primary march 15
dole's receipts for february were $2 million, giving him $8.8 million for the year, including federal matching funds based on contributions raised privately. bush raised $1.5 million during february, $8.7 for the year, his report shows
but despite raising and spending more money through february, dole failed to interrupt the bush push toward the august nominating convention in new orleans. bush has won 788 delegates so far to dole's 178, according to the associated press delegate count
robertson raised $5 million for the month, including his $1.9 million loan, which brought his total receipts this year to $18.3 million
for the month, he spent $3.1 million, to dole's $5.3 million and bush's $4 million
dole has spent $18 million against the spending camp, and bush $14.1 million
dole ended february with $836,445 in the bank and $716,107 in bills. bush had $6.7 million in cash on hand _ more than any other candidate in the race _ and had $251,225 in debts
among democrats, gephardt ended february with $1 million in debts and only about half that in available cash
simon was $825,199 in debt, and had $760,755 in cash on hand, the reports showed
jackson owed $845,857, and had $428,420 on hand
gore had $342,964 in the bank and $91,858 in debts. but that was before gore took out $1.3 million in loans during march, according to capaign aides. figures detailing those transactions will appear in the financial reports due next month
candidates who run up debts generally do so in the knowledge they will be receiving federal matching funds to help pay off the loans
dukakis had $2.9 million in cash on hand at the end of the month, and $569,344 in debts
dukakis was the democrat closest to the spending cap, at $11.4 million
the operator of the three mile island nuclear plant has taken the first step in a plan to dispose of 2.3 million gallons of contaminated water that is a legacy of the 1979 accident at the plant
gpu nuclear, operator of the plant near harrisburg, pa., said monday it is spending $800,000 for a system to boil away the water, even though that method has yet to be approved by the nuclear regulatory commission and public hearings are months away
we expect the nrc to approve the evaporation eventually, but it's possible that that wouldn't happen,'' gpu nuclear spokesman gordon tomb said monday in a telephone interview
tomb identified the contractor as pacific nuclear systems inc. of federal way, wash
nrc spokeswoman sue gagner said utilities commonly make major expenditures for equipment before the commission grants permission for its use
gpu nuclear said the nrc might not consider the plan until december and the utility wants to be ready when approval comes
but kay pickering, spokeswoman for three mile island alert, a citizens' group, said she was alarmed when gpu nuclear told the nrc at a meeting last week that the company had authorized the contractor to design, install and begin testing the evaporation system
this is very distressing to the individuals and organizations involved here,'' she said
most of the water is left over from the 1979 accident, while some has been used to decontaminate the plant. gpu nuclear said the average additional radiation exposure from the evaporation would be about the same as ``the exposure from one to two hours of natural background radiation in the harrisburg area.''
the $7 million process involves boiling the water into steam released from a 100-foot-high stack, and packaging impurities for shipment to a low-level radioactive waste dump. tomb said testing at the plant would not use radioactive water
thomas gerusky, a member of a citizens' advisory panel on the tmi cleanup and director of pennsylvania's bureau of radiation protection, said some area residents ``were concerned about any releases from tmi'' and favored leaving the water in storage tanks
he said the nrc has given its blessing to the evaporation plan, but the commissioners have withheld formal approval pending public hearings
disposal of the water is part of the $1 billion cleanup of three mile island 2. during the accident, uranium fuel was allowed to lose the vital coolant that covers it, causing material in the core to begin melting
gpu nuclear announced plans in december 1986 to place unit 2 in storage indefinitely. the nrc is expected to issue a report next month on whether the ``monitored storage'' plan poses any threat to the environment, michael masnik of the commission said monday
while there are no plans to restart tmi-2, its twin reactor was not harmed in the accident and resumed operating in october 1985
widespread publicity about a handful of sexual abuse cases involving day care centers may have caused parents to be more worried than necessary about the safety of their children, researchers say
a study released monday by the family research laboratory of the university of new hampshire estimated that substantially more children are abused at home than in day care settings: 8.9 per 10,000 children at home compared with 5.5 per 10,000 at day care
david finkelhor, who directed the study, said the results are ``a far cry'' from the impression many people have gotten because of news accounts about a few incidents of child abuse at day care centers
we do not think day care centers in general are high risk areas,'' said finkelhor
however, he emphasized that child abuse does occur at some day care centers and is particularly hard to ferret out because the perpetrators do not fit stereotypes
only 8 percent had prior arrest records, 50 percent were college graduates and 40 percent were women, he said
we just can't say there is a nice shortcut, a couple of easy rules to spot places that might be dangerous,'' he said
for example, finkelhor noted, the study found no signficant differences between the incidence of child abuse in centers with a high teacher-to-pupil ratio and in less adequately staffed centers
however, finkelhor and two other participants at a news conference underscored the importance of parents having ready access to day care center activity and making surprise visits to see what is going on
parents need to go the extra mile to become familiar with the day care center they choose,'' said david s. liederman, executive director of the child welfare league of america. ``they should drop in unannounced and if the center doesn't like it, they should consider whether that is the kind of place they want their children to be.''
liederman said he agreed with the study's findings and said day care centers generally ``are safe places for children.''
sue bredekamp, director of the national academy of early childhood programs for the national association for the education of young children, said the report was the ``most comprehensive, national study of child sexual abuse in day care to date.''
it is our hope that dr. finkelhor's findings ... will be as widely disseminated and as influential to policy makers as were reports of several infamous cases of abuse in the past,'' she said
the survey examined 270 cases of sexual abuse involving 1,639 children from 1983 to 1985 and made an in-depth study of a random sample of 43 cases. an estimated 1.5 million children were cared for in day care centers during that time
finkelhor said there is no evidence the incidence of child abuse in day care settings was higher during the past two years than during the 1983-85 period surveyed
the study was commissioned by the national center on child abuse and neglect, an agency of the department of health and human services, and released in conjunction with the children's hospital national medical center
the federal aviation administration has decided to add an additional air traffic coordinator on each shift at o'hare international airport, an faa spokesman said monday
the decision by william h. pollard, director of the faa's great lakes region, was made after a u.s. house subcommittee hearing friday on safety problems at the airport, said spokesman mort edelstein
beginning in the near future, edelstein said, the faa will assign two full-time air traffic coordinators both day and night at o'hare. until now, only one full-time coordinator has been in the o'hare tower per shift, he said
the coordinators help improve the performance of the tower's air traffic controllers
one of those who addressed the subcommittee hearing was james burnett, head of the national transportation safety board, who warned of what he called ``a disturbing number of near-collisions'' at the busy chicago airport
the five-member subcommittee hearing was held at the request of rep. richard j. durbin, d-ill
edelstein said he did not know the exact date when the additional coordinators would be assigned to o'hare
supporters of former television evangelist pat robertson will apparently control the state gop convention in reno next month as a result of weekend county conventions, party officials said
nevada republicans use a three-step system of caucuses and conventions to pick their national convention delegates. the process began with precinct caucuses last month, at which a straw poll was conducted
in the straw poll, vice president george bush led with 27 percent, followed by bob dole with 22 percent and robertson with 15 percent. but robertson supporters claimed victory by saying most of the 23 percent undecided voters in the poll actually were robertson supporters
the straw poll participants were not bound to presidential candidates, however
at the county conventions, held over this past weekend, delegates were elected to the state convention april 21-23, where in turn national convention delegates will be elected
the delegate breakdown for the state convention won't be known for several days. but the robertson forces dominated republican conventions in nevada's two biggest counties, clark and washoe. party leaders said it appeared robertson got more than half the 800 state delegates in those two counties alone
robertson also picked up some delegates at the gop's county conventions elsewhere in nevada, although his supporters showed less strength in the outlying areas, party officials said
state gop chairwoman sally vitkus-mckinney said monday that party newcomers _ which most robertson backers are _ are welcome. but she added there is frustration because nevada probably will wind up with its 20-member delegation to the national convention committed to somone who won't be the presidential nominee
robertson's state director, steve wark, said there's no way he would encourage the robertson delegates to switch to bush at the state convention level, even though their candidate is clearly far behind
robertson supporters are not about to roll over. they're making a statement and sticking to their commitment,'' he said. however, he said robertson supporters would be prepared to support bush at the national republican convention
robertson, after big losses on super tuesday, indicated he intends to remain in the race, but has virtually given up hope of getting the nomination. he has talked more at recent appearances about his role at the convention, his long-term influence on the party and a possible bid in 1992
the federal government ran up a $23.9 billion budget deficit in february, but the red ink is still running slightly behind last year's total, the treasury department reports
the deficit in february came after a rare surplus of $16.1 billion in january which had occurred because the social security benefits for that month were mailed early and counted in the december spending figures
for the first five months of the budget year, the government has run up a deficit of $89.7 billion, 4.9 percent lower than the red ink incurred in the same period a year ago
the reagan administration is projecting a deficit of $146.7 billion for the entire fiscal year, a drop of 2.4 percent from the $150.4 billion deficit in the 1987 budget year
but this projection is lower than estimates by the congressional budget office and many private forecasters who contend the administration is being too optimistic about the economic outlook
cbo is forecasting a $157 billion deficit, and some private economists are estimating an even higher $170 billion deficit for the budget year that ends on sept. 30
the deficit in 1987 dipped from a record $221.2 billion shortfall in 1986 because of an unexpected windfall in tax revenues caused by changes in the new tax law
some analysts think there could be a second, smaller windfall this year if people end up owing more on their taxes under the new tax law than they did under the old law, something which will not be known until after the april 15 tax filing deadline is passed
we may have another april surprise which could add an additional $10 billion to revenue for the year,'' said michael evans, head of a washington forecasting firm
evans said if the windfall does materialize, the deficit could decline to around $160 billion, but that would still be above the reagan administration's estimate
in february, government revenue totaled $60.4 billion while government spending totaled $84.3 billion. for the first five months of the year, revenues total $347 billion while the government spent $436.7 billion
the largest spending categories in february, as usual, were the military followed by social security and interest on the national debt
military spending totaled $23.1 billion last month and $116.6 billion for the fiscal year so far, up 5.3 percent from the same period a year ago
spending for social security totaled $17.9 billion last month and $86.6 billion for the past five months, up 5.1 percent from the same period in the 1987 fiscal year
the other programs in the department of health and human services, including medicare and medicaid, spent $12.9 billion in february and $63.4 billion so far this budget year, a 2.3 percent increase over 1987
interest on the $2.5 trillion national debt totaled $15 billion last month and $90.8 billion so far this fiscal year, an increase of 9.8 percent over the same period last year, the fastest increase of any of the major categories
for the entire 1988 budget year, interest on the national debt is projected to total $210 billion, amounting to one-fifth of total government spending
hay prices nationally have been averaging around 12 percent higher than a year ago, reflecting a smaller 1987 crop and some increase in demand
the agriculture department in january revised 1987 hay output downward to 149.1 million tons from last october's preliminary forecast of 153.7 million tons
a new report by the department's economic research service says that the u.s. hay area turned out to be about 500,000 acres larger than estimated in october but that the yield was reduced by 4 percent to 2.46 tons per acre
the 1987 hay crop was 6.4 million tons smaller than the record of 155.5 million tons produced in 1986
alfalfa and alfalfa mixture hay production turned out to be 84.6 million tons, down 7 million tons from 1986, and all other hay production of 64.6 million tons was 600,000 tons above the previous year's 64 million,'' the report said
acording to usda production figures for 1987, california was the leading all-hay state with more than 9 million tons, followed by: wisconsin, 8.88 million; minnesota, 7.8 million; south dakota, 7.09 million; and iowa, 6.93 million
last may 1 at the start of the 1987-88 hay crop season, the inventory on hand was estimated at 32.4 million tons, the most since 1980. adding the 1987 crop, that made a total hay supply of 181.5 million tons for the marketing year that runs through april 30, slightly less than the 1986-87 suppply of 182.2 million tons
the hay stockpile on dec. 1 was reported at 119.7 million tons, meaning that 61.8 million tons had been consumed during the seven months since may 1. in the same period a year earlier, hay consumption was 60.5 million tons, the report said
hay prices paid by farmers and ranchers averaged $64.60 per ton during the may-november period, up $4.74 per ton from a year earlier. in december and january of this year, prices averaged $63.75 per ton, up $7.65 from a year earlier
according to usda estimates, the value of hay production in 1987, based on market prices, was more than $9.1 billion, ranking the crop third among all u.s. farm commodities. only corn at $12.2 billion and soybeans, $10.4 billion, were valued higher
those value estimates, incidentally, are not sales receipts or marketings. the usda estimates are based upon total farm values, whether a commodity is sold or used by the producer
the agriculture department has sold mexico 30,000 metric tons of surplus non-fat dry milk for $1,260 per ton, about a third less than it cost american taxpayers
acting undersecretary richard w. goldberg said monday the surplus powdered milk was sold by the department's commodity credit corp. to conasupo, the mexican government's food purchasing authority
goldberg said the sale ``reflects the world market price for non-fat dry milk at the time the sale was negotiated'' with mexico. deliveries are scheduled through march 1989. in addition, the ccc provided mexico with a three-year credit arrangement at commercial rates of interest, he said
according to a recent ccc report, about 454 million pounds of non-fat dry milk were held in storage, with a value of more than $385 million, or about 85 cents per pound. there are approximately 2,205 pounds in a metric ton, which translates to a u.s. value of $1,874 per ton
the surplus was acquired by ccc through purchases of cheese, butter and non-fat dry milk to support the price of milk paid to dairy farmers
congress in 1985 farm law mandated the export sale of 150,000 tons of dairy products annually for the three fiscal years ending sept. 30, 1988. the latest deal with mexico boosted sales this year to 77,520 tons, goldberg said
exporters have sold china an additional 200,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat at subsidized prices, the agriculture department said
the sale, equal to 7.34 million bushels, was handled by continental grain co. and will be shipped in the 1988-89 wheat marketing year that will begin on june 1
melvin e. sims, general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said monday the sales were part of an authorized 1.2 million tons of wheat announced feb. 5 under the export enhancement program, or eep
although no selling prices or other details were announced, recent prices of wheat at farm points have averaged around $2.67 per bushel, indicating a u.s. farm value of about $20 million
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat
china bought more than 4 million tons of wheat under previous eep arrangements, which allow exporters to sell commodities at reduced prices in order to meet foreign competition and then collect free government surpluses of grain or other commodities as bonuses, or subsidies
sims said the bonus averaged $24.45 per ton, or about 67 cents per bushel of wheat. the bonuses will be paid in the form of surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp
china has 260,000 tons remaining for use under the eep initiative announced on feb. 5, he said
the senate has removed a roadblock to a 30-year nuclear cooperation pact with japan, rejecting claims by opponents that the new agreement could add to the proliferation of nuclear weapons
the senate voted 53-50 monday evening to reject a resolution to disapprove the agreement, which provides for the sale of u.s. uranium and uranium enrichment equipment to japan over the next 30 years
it replaces a more restrictive cooperation arrangement which was to expire at the end of the century
as the matter stands, the agreement will take effect at the end of april, 90 legislative days after it was submitted to congress
under the rules governing consideration of the agreement, it could be rejected only if both the house and senate passed resolutions of disapproval and the president signed them
the most controversial element of the new agreement is a provision giving japan advance consent for 30 years to reprocess u.s.-controlled spent nuclear fuel and to use plutonium separated from that fuel without the case-by-case approval required by the present agreement
plutonium is the key ingredient in the production of nuclear weapons
since the process involves shipment of the nuclear material to reprocessing plants in france, opponents of the agreement contended it will loosen u.s. control on the movement of plutonium, open opportunities for terrorists and potentially lead to the proliferation of nuclear weapons
responding to these and other concerns, the senate foreign relations committee voted 15-3 at the end of last year to recommend that the agreement be renegotiated
the reagan administration and supporters of the agreement on the senate floor said that permitting it to take effect would continue u.s. influence over the japanese nuclear program while providing the united states with a major long-term sales market
but sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the foreign relations panel, echoed many other senators in contending the agreement does not meet the non-proliferation standards of the atomic energy act
sen. john glenn, d-ohio, said the agreement does not meet legal requirements and gives no assurance of effective non-proliferation safeguards
glenn said the present law works well and that its case-by-case approval arrangements should not be scrapped
but some supporters of the agreement said opponents were motivated less by a genuine concern over nuclear proliferation than by anger at japanese trading practices
there is a certain amount of emotional japan bashing going on around here,'' said sen. james a. mcclure, r-idaho
contending that rejecting the agreement would hurt the united states _ which would lose hundreds of millions of dollars in uranium sales _ and not japan, mcclure added: ``actually it's u.s. bashing we're engaged in here. rejecting this agreement will hurt us and not the japanese.'' father</head>
old loves and old photographs gave a sentimental air to the deportation hearing of a welshman who says he should be allowed to stay in this country because he is the illegitimate son of an american soldier
the claims of roger hobbs, 43, were supported monday in federal immigration court by the kin of the late floyd alexander of cundy's harbor, maine
alexander, who died in 1970, was an american soldier stationed in england during world war ii
hobbs, a janitor, insists he is the product of a union between alexander and sara hobbs, of cardiff, wales
no one has found any legal documents to prove the relationship, but alexander's kin say that for many years he talked openly about his son ``buddy'' overseas
the immigration and naturalization service contends hobbs hasn't proved alexander was his father. it has also said hobbs has a criminal record, including attempting to steal a radiator from an abandoned railway car
after alexander returned from the war, he fathered seven children in this country and married three different women. about a dozen members of the alexander clan came from maine to stand by the man they believe is one of them
hobbs also was accompanied by his wife, anne, 37, and sons, richard, 17, ian, 15, and wayne, 12. as british citizens, they can apply for u.s. citizenship if hobbs wins his case, which is built on memories, family photos, birth and death certificates and letters
alexander's first wife, elsie van buren, 60, of lisbon falls, maine, told immigration judge billino d'ambrosio that alexander wished he could bring sara hobbs and her son to this country but never had the money
as soon as he met me he told me all about it,'' said mrs. van buren. ``he told me he lived with her _ and i know he was in love with her _ and he had a son by her.''
she said alexander's mother, allegra, often wrote to mrs. hobbs and sent clothing and gifts
during the hearing, hobbs sat with head bent at the back of the small courtroom. he wiped an occasional tear from his eyes. his burgundy corduroy jacket was emblazoned with the name of his adopted hometome, richmond, maine, and a large american flag patch was sewn over his heart
mrs. van buren said her first husband once told her he signed a sworn statement that roger hobbs was his son. the document hasn't been found. but she said the documentation of alexander's blood is in the face of roger hobbs
i swear by my life on it. (roger) looked more like my husband than my children,'' mrs. van buren said
hobbs said he first learned of his relationship with alexander in 1968 from his mother, who died 11 years later
in october 1984, hobbs came to this country on a tourist visa with his family. their visas expired in 1985 and hobbs has asserted his right to citizenship since
in 1986, federal rules were changed to give citizenship rights to foreign children fathered by american men outside marriage
hobbs' family can stay here until the case is settled. a hearing was continued to july 7. to correct spelling to `neapolitan,' sted `neopolitan'; subs last graf of 2nd item datelined alford, mass., to correct spelling to `audubon,' sted `audobon'</note>
mike nigro said he was changing the oil on his truck when he first heard someone coming down the street singing ``o sole mio.'' it was his mailman, dennis jordan
i thought the truck had fallen on me and the angels were singing to me,'' nigro said
jordan, a full-time postal worker and a part-time tenor, has brought music to the ears of his customers along his mail route
the 29-year-old letter carrier warms up his voice while on his route with some easy stuff such as neapolitan folk songs. he breaks into arias from ``the barber of seville'' after a good lunch
when i'm in the mood, i'll sing my lungs out,'' he said
jordan has taken formal voice lessons for 12 years and performed with project opera in northampton and other local groups
i don't usually sing opera while i'm working,'' he said recently. ``i'm afraid of using the wrong pitch.''
it might be described as ``thoreau meets the media monster.'' denny alsop has embarked on a month-long zigzag canoe trek along 10 massachusetts rivers _ armed with a jug of water and a telephone
alsop, 41, says he will use the portable phone to keep in touch with the media along the way of his trek from the berkshires to boston to draw attention to massachusetts' water resources
i think it's wonderful that in the midst of one of the most densely populated states in the nation, by focusing on an idea and an element in the environment, i can go and have a great adventure,'' alsop told the three dozen environmentalists, schoolchildren and others gathered at the launch site monday
the 33-day trip, sponsored by the massachusetts audubon society, includes a planned stop at walden pond near concord, where the famed 19th century writer henry david thoreau lived in an isolated cabin for more than two years
comedian bob hope is in excellent condition after undergoing surgery for what was described as a benign condition of his prostate, his publicist says
the 84-year-old comedian does not have cancer, spokesman jim mahoney said after the surgery monday
hope was operated on at the university of southern california kenneth norris jr. cancer hospital and is expected to be released late this week, said mahoney
hospital spokesman gordon cohen said hope's surgeon, dr. donald g. skinner, described the comedian's condition after surgery as excellent
mahoney said the operation, common for older men, was similar to a procedure performed on president reagan early last year to remove fibrous tissue filling the prostate
president reagan presented white house chief of staff howard baker with a new presidential medal of freedom to replace the one missing from baker's home after a weekend break-in
baker ``is probably the only person who has received two medals of freedom,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said monday
baker and his wife, joy, were sitting in their living room saturday evening when an alarm sounded. baker went downstairs to his study to fix what he thought would be an alarm sensor fallen from a window pane
instead, he discovered a burglar stealing expensive camera equipment and the former tennessee senator's medal of freedom
baker chased the thief upstairs, downstairs and out while his wife phoned police and white house security. the burglar dropped most of the items while being chased through the house and fled into the street
police arrested a man later that evening who had some of the bakers' camera equipment but not the medal. the man has refused to identify himself to police
nancy reagan planned to attend tonight's performance of ``phantom of the opera'' with the show's composer, andrew lloyd webber, following her recovery from a bout of laryngitis
she's feeling better,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters in washington on monday
the first lady planned to see the musical with her brother, dr. richard davis and his wife, patricia, then meet with the cast afterward to mark the celebration of webber's 40th birthday, said mrs. reagan's spokeswoman, elaine crispen
the spokeswoman said the first lady, who stayed home at the white house last weekend to nurse her throat, has ``90 percent of her voice back.''
high movie prices are one thing when you're sitting in the audience, but as soon as mayor ed koch filmed a scene for a new woody allen picture he seemed to forget his recent chagrin at rising ticket costs
the scene took place monday in the basement press room of gracie mansion, with the mayor, playing himself, fending off a bunch of reporters during a news conference
the reporters were played by actors, and when real reporters asked koch to read his lines for them, he refused and alluded to his recent unsuccessful campaign to put a $6 cap on movie prices
you'll have to pay $7,'' he said
vanna white, the queen of the letter-turners, plans to become ``the goddess of love'' in an nbc movie of the same name
in the movie planned for next year, miss white portrays the roman goddess venus, who comes to life when a young man places his fiancee's wedding ring on the statue's finger
the comedy will be in the mold of ``splash,'' ``bewitched'' and ``i dream of jeannie.''
it's the first film for miss white, who has become a celebrity phenomenon on the highly popular game show ``wheel of fortune.''
she has appeared on such shows as ``simon &amp; simon,'' ``227'' and ``it's garry shandling's show.'' 
ed flanders bewildered his fellow actors and angered producers when he delivered an unplanned speech on death during his sentimental return for the last episode of nbc's ``st. elsewhere.''
flanders, who earlier this season left his role as dr. donald westphall, was back for a farewell to the series, which is leaving the air at the end of the season
the script taped friday called for flanders, as westphall, to make a touching statement about beginnings and endings at st. eligius hospital, otherwise known as ``st. elsewhere.'' instead, usa today reported monday, he talked about death
he spoiled the moment for everybody,'' producer tom fontana told the newspaper
there was no immediate word on what the producers would do, although there was talk of refilming the scene with dr. mark craig, played by william daniels, reading the lines
a hotel owner says it's only a rumor that singer michael jackson purchased his hotel
jackson paid $28 million for a 2,700-acre ranch, which he plans to make into a new home for his menagerie of monkeys, llamas, snakes, birds and barnyard animals, the los angeles times reported sunday
it also was reported that jackson purchased the nearby grand hotel for $5 million
however, owner william healy said monday he has not talked with the singer or his agent about the hotel
it's a rumor,'' he said. ``there's absolutely no truth to it.''
the ranch jackson agreed to purchase is in the scenic santa ynez valley, 100 miles northwest of los angeles, and not far from the ranch owned by president reagan and his wife, nancy
married virgins, celebrity children and american women who marry saudis aren't listed in the yellow pages. so where do tv talk show hosts phil donahue, oprah winfrey and geraldo rivera find those people, anyway?
viewer mail is one way we get ideas for guests,'' lorri antosz benson, chief producer for ``donahue,'' said monday
to get the off-beat people that you want, you have to rely on the mails, because there are people out there who write in willing to tell you all about themselves,'' ms. benson said in a telephone interview from new york
the ``oprah winfrey'' show looks for entire audiences that fit a theme of the chicago-based show
its ad on daytime television last week asked, ``if you live with a slob, have ever lived with a slob or your parents were slobs, please contact the oprah winfrey show.''
we get 200 names and call back those with the best stories,'' said alice mcgee, winfrey's publicist. ``we did a show on twins and we had an audience full of twins.''
the ``geraldo'' show syndicated from new york since september recently asked for ideas from various sources
i sent him 10 ideas on who i'd like to see on the show and topics i wanted to see done,'' said joanie stat, chicago publicist for rivera's syndicated specials
talk shows also use many other methods. usually producers spot something in a newspaper or on television, then spend hours tracking down the right guests
we have extensive files: every magazine published, newspapers from the top 15 or 20 markets. we're always clipping things,'' miss mcgee said. ``sometimes the author or guest themselves suggest other people to have on the show.''
with donahue, ms. benson said, ``mostly it's word of mouth. you talk to people who give you names of other people, or you ask the audience if they know of anybody.''
finding the right guests for a show often has been tough detective work
we did a show on women who marry saudis, and go over there and find life is not so good,'' ms. benson said
we got that from the mails, but then it gets more difficult. we started talking to people, calling embassies. then i ran across a book about this subject, and the author had names of people, and they knew people.''  says</head>
a new air force report says an often-cited 1984 government study that was supposed to be ``reassuring'' for vietnam veterans exposed to agent orange was flawed
the revised study said while the chemical defoliant could not be ``confidently identified'' as the reason for a series of health problems among veterans who handled the chemical, it could not be ``exonerated'' either
the report, released monday by sens. john f. kerry, d-mass., and tom daschle, d-s.d., was hailed by veteran activists as a major breakthrough
for the first time the air force is saying in a major way that they cannot rule out dioxin as the cause of ill-health effects,'' said barry kasinitz, spokesman for vietnam veterans of america
air force officials said they have never categorically ruled out a link between agent orange and health problems
but critics say the 1984 study gave that impression when it said, ``in the full context, the baseline study results should be viewed as reassuring to the ranch handers and their families at this time.''
what they're doing is trying to reverse themselves without really saying so,'' said eric hamburg, an aide to kerry
laura petrou, a daschle aide, said, ``we have gotten a clear sense that the air force wants to work with us to get the truth out.''
the air force rejected the senators' contention that the 1984 ranch hand study was ``seriously'' flawed
i think that's an overstatement,'' said dr. william wolfe, chief of epidemiology at the u.s. air force school of aerospace medicine at brooks air force base in texas and the senior investigator in the agent orange probe
there are areas of that report that we have less confidence in the conclusions,'' wolfe said. but he said the bulk of the 1984 findings were upheld by the review
the key problem with the original study, wolfe said, was assumptions about exposure that failed to take work habits into consideration. government scientists now realize that certain workers were sloppier than others in handling agent orange, and therefore had a greater exposure that was not taken into account, he said
the studies are part of the government's 20-year investigation of agent orange and its impact on soldiers who handled the defoliant. operation ranch hand was the air force's code name for the aerial spraying
last year, a veterans administration study found increased deaths due to lung cancer and certain lymph cancers among vietnam veteran marines, providing what veterans' groups called the first clear scientific data implicating agent orange
kerry and daschle also said the 1984 study incorrectly concluded that all birth defects were limited to the skin
and the senators said the revised study indicated that the 1984 study erred by saying the only type of cancer found among the agent orange veterans was skin cancer
wolfe defended the original conclusion, saying, ``there is an increase in the skin cancer in the exposed group, but not in more serious forms of cancers.''
since the 1984 study, scientists have discovered a way to detect dioxin levels in blood even years after exposure. blood samples have been taken from 2,010 veterans who worked with agent orange and that analysis should be ready within two years, wolfe said
kerry and daschle, both vietnam war veterans, are pushing legislation to compensate veterans who suffer from certain conditions that may be tied to agent orange exposure
the american civil liberties union is hailing a federal appeals court's decision to rehear the case of a terminally ill woman who underwent a court-ordered caesarean section against her wishes and those of her doctors
aclu attorney lynn paltrow said monday the decision by the court of appeals for the district of columbia to grant a rehearing is significant because it vacates a ruling that allowed the ``sacrifice of a pregnant woman's life in the name of so-called fetal life.''
the eight-member court, acting on a petition from the aclu, agreed that the full court would rule on a case previously decided upon by a three-judge panel of the appeals court
the three appellate judges had refused to block a superior court order that the woman undergo a caesarean section. the order was issued after george washington university hospital sought a superior court ruling ``as to what it should do in terms of the fetus, whether to intervene (by caesarean section) and save its life.''
the three-judge appeals panel based its decision not to block the lower court's ruling on the belief that the woman's death was imminent and that the child had a better chance of surviving if delivered before her death
the 27-year-old woman, a leukemia patient identified as angela c., gave birth in june to a baby girl who died shortly after the ceasarean operation at the university hospital. the mother died two days later
the full appeals court, in a ruling issued thursday and made public monday, agreed to rehear the case and ordered the submission of briefs by march 28
the aclu said the three-judge panel's ruling needed rehearing because the panel ``made a number of grave mistakes'' and raised the question of ``may a court order a person to submit to potentially life-extinguishing surgery for the benefit of another person, much less for a fetus whose chances of survival are slim.''
interest rates on short-term treasury securities rose in the latest auction, with rates on three-months bills climbing to the highest level since late january
the treasury department sold $6.4 billion in three-month bills monday at an average discount rate of 5.76 percent, up from 5.65 percent last week. another $6.4 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.96 percent, up from 5.78 percent last week
the rates on three-month bills were the highest since jan. 28, when they averaged 5.85 percent. the rates on six-month bills were the highest since they sold for 6.03 percent on feb. 16
the new discount rates understate the actual return to investors _ 5.93 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,854.40 and 6.23 percent for a six-month bill selling for $9,698.70
in a separate report, the federal reserve said the average yield for one-year treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages dropped to 6.63 percent last week from 6.72 percent the previous week
a former state trooper was found guilty monday of murder in the slaying of his trooper girlfriend, who was shot three times in the head after he took out a $350,000 life insurance policy on her
the dallas county jury deliberated more than three hours before finding joe duncan jr. guilty on the charges of capital murder for financial gain and capital murder of a law officer
elizabeth cobb, 31, had been a trooper less than seven months when she failed to respond to radio calls while on night patrol oct. 11, 1987. the next day, investigators found her body in her patrol car behind a rural church
duncan, who had said that he and miss cobb had discussed marriage, held his chin with both hands as the verdict was announced, while his family, seated two rows behind him, began to cry
circuit judge j.c. norton denied a defense motion to delay the sentencing phase of the trial, which will begin tuesday. the jury can recommend either life in prison without parole for duncan, 33, or death in the state's electric chair. the final decision between those two options will be up to the judge
duncan initially told investigators that he did not know miss cobb's whereabouts the night of her disappearance
several days later, he changed his story, saying that he was scheduled to meet her at the church the night she was killed but that when he arrived she was dead. he was then arrested and charged with murder
during closing arguments earlier monday, defense attorney henry pitts said duncan was guilty only of poor judgment for failing to report her death and not telling investigators that he had seen her body the night she died. duncan had told authorities he had been afraid to report her death after finding the body
insurance agents testified that duncan and miss cobb each purchased $350,000 life insurance policies that named each other as beneficiaries
dallas county district attorney jim sullivan told the jurors that duncan was deeply in debt and plotted to collect from miss cobb's insurance policy
but pitts said investigators failed to fully examine possible links between the slaying and the arrest in florida of a man driving a vehicle similar to a car spotted in the area where miss cobb's body was found
here is the text of the state department reaction monday night to panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega's offer to resign before that country's 1989 presidential elections
we believe the offer is little more than one, a ploy to attempt to legitimize the illegal solis palma regime by calling for negotiations between it and opposition groups and two, an effort on the part of noriega to maintain direct or indirect control of the panamanian defense forces
noriega is the problem, and his preoccupation with remaining on the scene despite overwhelming domestic opposition will only ensure continued economic and political instability there. we stand by our previous view that noriega should go, and the sooner the better for panama
end of state department text
eds: note a0461, panama 8th ld, which makes an important correction. the elections referred to are scheduled for may 1989, not may 1988
the ap
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,842.75 points, down 123.51 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on tuesday
the first reactor at the south texas nuclear project will be allowed to operate at full power despite last-minute efforts by opponents to halt it because of alleged dangerous flaws
the nuclear regulatory commission voted 5-0 monday to approve a full-power operating license for the reactor, part of a $5.5 billion, twin-reactor, 2,500-megawatt generating station 10 miles from the gulf coast near bay city, texas
a group headed by citizens concerned about nuclear power of san antonio sued in the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals in new orleans on friday to stop the license and was rebuffed by the judges without comment on monday
the government accountability project, based in washington, had petitioned the nrc staff to delay monday's vote pending a fuller investigation of 700 allegations of intimidation, other wrongdoing or shoddy construction. but that was rejected late friday
billie garde, a lawyer for the gap, said after monday's vote, ``to handle it this way was very insulting to several dozen people who have come to the commission. ... they're not anti-nuclear activists.''
the commission acted after a staff briefing on an investigation of some of the concerns brought to the commission's attention by the gap, which tries to encourage and protect people who disclose wrongdoing
it is the staff's judgment that south texas can be operated without undue risk to the health and safety of the public,'' jose calvo, director of an nrc special team that investigated the allegations, told the commission in repeating the conclusions of the team report issued a week ago on the 213 allegations judged to be safety-related
gap presented two previously unidentified whistleblowers at a morning news conference criticizing last week's special team report
one of them, engineer ashok garg, who left the project in september 1986, said he provided the team a reference to a plant document from april 1986, which said among other things that 20 percent of valves for plant instruments had been installed backwards
calvo, however, said in an interview after the commission meeting: ``we reviewed that document, and we interviewed him, but he couldn't remember details. with those instrument valves, it doesn't make any difference if they are installed frontwards or backwards.''
houston lighting &amp; power co., the project manager, has about a 48 percent share, central power and light co. of corpus christi has slightly more than 25 percent, the city of austin has about 16 percent and the city of san antonio has about 10 percent. austin at one point sued houston lighting, charging mismanagement, but those two parties are close to an agreement under which houston lighting would take over austin's ownership
a construction permit was issued in 1975. the total cost to the four owners will be some 500 percent above initial estimates. the second unit is more than 80 percent complete. ^by reid g. miller</note>
strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega has offered to resign before next year's presidential elections if opponents agree to talks with his regime, panama's chief of state told his countrymen monday
the opposition, whose general strike monday paralyzed the nation, and the united states, which has kept up steady pressure to force a noriega resignation, immediately rejected the general's offer
elections are scheduled for may 1989
there will be no dialogue,'' said aurelio barria, the main leader of the national civic crusade, an anti-noriega coalition of 200 business, professional, labor and political groups that called the indefinite work stoppage
he added: ``the general has to go _ immediately, not eventually. the strike will continue.''
manuel solis palma, installed last month as the minister in charge of the presidency, made the announcement of noriega's offer in a nationally broadcast speech
he said noriega had given his word ``as an officer and a gentleman'' to step down if his conditions are met
in washington, state department spokesman anita stockman said:
we believe the offer is little more than one, a ploy to attempt to legitimize the illegal solis palma regime by calling for negotiations between it and opposition groups and two, an effort on the part of noriega to maintain direct or indirect control of the panamanian defense forces
we stand by our previous view that noriega should go, and the sooner the better for panama.''
noriega is under indictment on federal drug charges in florida. the united states has dried up the flow of money to panama, which uses the u.s. dollar as its currency, in the effort to force him out, and the economy is near collapse
the general put down a coup attempt by dissident officers last week and rejected a u.s. plan for him to leave panama and live in spain
in washington, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said earlier monday that there were no plans for further talks with noriega after the return of two administration officials from panama city
i think they have a pretty good reading of the general's attitude,'' fitzwater said. ``it didn't seem to include further conversations, at least at this point.''
the strike included panama city's central commercial district, where the small shops that cater to the lower and middle classes had not joined previous shutdowns by wealthier businesmen and industrialists
we're sending noriega a message,'' said the owner of a shoe store, who asked not to be identified for fear of reprisals. ``we hope he's listening.''
noriega commands the military and police as head of the 15,000-member defense forces and is the power behind the civilian government
the secretary of the panamanian human rights foundation said a man died monday of wounds suffered when he was hit in the face and chest by birdshot fired by police during disturbances in panama city last wednesday. it was the fourth protest-related death since anti-government demonstrations began last summer
noriega's opponents hailed the strike as their greatest triumph so far
it's completely successful,'' said guillermo cochez, vice president of the christian democratic party. ``today has been a very special day ... in the capital as well as the provinces. we hope noriega's advisers and the people surrounding him will help him to see the reality.''
the paralyzation is total in industry, finance and commerce,'' said carlos gonzalez de la lastra, a business leader
gonzalez and cochez are directors, along with barria, of the national civic crusade
noriega made another move monday to strengthen his control of the defense forces by announcing the promotions of 98 officers to ranks ranging from colonel to lieutenant
among those promoted to colonel was eros ramiro cal, who was named last week to replace col. leonidas macias, the leader of the foiled coup, as the nation's police chief
the defense forces also said administrative discipline would be taken against 17 officers implicated in last wednesday's attempted coup, but did not give details. it previously acknowledged eight or nine officers had joined in the attempt and said only five were being detained
gustavo gonzalez of the striking dockworkers said leaders of all major unions were summoned to a meeting sunday night with solis palma, and told the military would not interfere if the strike remained peaceful
he said union leaders were told the government, which could not meet its payroll two weeks ago, also would be unable to cover semi-monthly paychecks due next week
solis palma replaced eric arturo delvalle, who was dismissed by the legislature after he tried to fire noriega and still is recognized by the united states as panama's president. delvalle is in hiding in panama
because the government has silenced opposition newspapers and broadcast stations, thousands of people went to work without knowing a strike had been called. most went home when they found stores and offices closed
by midday, the city was a ghost town patrolled by helmeted soldiers in combat gear. the government said they were providing security for businesses that chose to open
panama's ailing economy came apart after feb. 25, when delvalle tried to fire noriega and the legislature fired delvalle
banks closed the following week and the government could not meet a $33 million payroll for 130,000 public employees
washington has cut off economic and military aid and millions of dollars in panamanian funds have been frozen in u.s. banks by legal actions
horrifying television film of ira funeral mourners beating up two british soldiers who were then killed has brought demands to restrict coverage of such scenes
some lawmakers urged restrictions on funeral coverage or interviews with leaders of sinn fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed irish republican army. they argue that the cameras' presence encourages rioting and boosts ``terrorist organizations.''
we're fighting what is in the nature of a war here,'' said ivor stanbrook, senior legislator of the governing conservative party, in urging a ban on interviews with sinn fein leaders
we wouldn't have dreamed during the war of giving currency to nazis so i don't see why we should give any credence ... to people acting as the ira's propagandists.''
prime minister margaret thatcher has criticized british tv networks for giving the ira what she calls the ``oxygen of publicity.''
but the home office said monday there were no plans to impose bans on covering ira-related news events
when it comes to covering a demonstration in britain or a riot or anything, we can't start saying you go there or you don't go there or we wouldn't have a free press,'' said spokesman ian scott
conservative lawmaker michael mates said the publicly funded british broadcasting corp. and commercial independent television news should exercise self-restraint
i think you have to look very carefully at the question of whether you would be getting 10,000 people coming to these funerals if it wasn't for the fact that they are whipped up out there,'' mates said in a radio interview
they are paraded by the ira and sinn fein for the tv cameras so that the world can see that their heroes are being buried with the total support of the whole population ... they're made to go along because it's got to be a spectacle.''
cameras filmed the initial attack saturday on the soldiers' car in belfast, but were chased off by mourners before the beating began in earnest, and they did not film the shooting of the men a few minutes later
british newspapers, however, published pictures of the near-naked bodies the next day
it was a shocking, brutal event and i was as horrified as anyone to see things like that on my television screen,'' said michael grade, head of commercial channel 4
but you cannot sanitize a story ... the bbc and itn made people understand the horror of the situation,'' he told today newspaper
we take great care in what we show,'' said itn spokeswoman geraldine sharp-newton. but ``by not showing it we'll not make it go away.''
still, there are inconsistencies. british networks often preface violent scenes with a warning to viewers, but none preceded the belfast footage
in the irish republic, the state media cannot broadcast interviews with officials of sinn fein, on the grounds that they speak for an outlawed organization, the ira
south africa has imposed stringent curbs on reporting in what are defined as ``unrest areas.'' offenders face prison, fines or expulsion
the south africans say violent incidents dropped by 35 percent immediately after the restrictions were decreed in june 1986
international criticism of israel's handling of palestinian unrest has prompted charges that foreign networks distort the country's image and inflame unrest
president chaim herzog asked this month whether israeli democracy should ``allow this weapon to be turned against my children and my country.''
henry kissinger, the former u.s. secretary of state, and mayor ed koch of new york have suggested that israel ban tv crews outright from the occupied west bank and gaza strip
israel has not gone that far, but on march 4 the military for the first time banned reporters and tv crews from extensive areas of the occupied lands. they have since renewed the ban repeatedly, generally on a smaller scale. visit</head>
when pope john paul ii arrived here last fall, homosexuals took to the streets to protest the vatican's condemnation of their way of life
roman catholic officials believe the visit helped heal relations between homosexuals and the church, but gay activists still recoil in anger when speaking of john paul
the pope encountered the largest and angriest demonstrations of his nine-city tour during his 21-hour visit to san francisco. outside mission dolores, where the pope met with aids victims, 2,000 protesters shouted ``pope, go home'' and ``shame, shame.''
the rev. miles riley, chief publicist for the archdiocese of san francisco, contends protests were even smaller than reported and reflected well upon the church's conciliation efforts
i think there was tremendous healing with the whole gay community and with aids patients,'' riley said. ``i think much of the healing took place before he came.''
the archdiocese and a coalition of gay groups met before the pope's visit and drafted a joint statement of non-violence
recently, the archdiocese announced the opening of a 40-bed hospice for homeless aids patients
before the pope's visit, the vatican published a theological letter that called homosexualtiy an ``intrinsic moral evil.'' while declaring god's love for homosexuals, the church is opposed to homosexual relationships
we are going to be ourselves,'' said john wahl, an attorney who coordinated an umbrella group of homosexuals and bisexuals to oppose the sept. 17-18 visit. ``we are going to relate to members of our own sex, just as heterosexual people relate to people of the opposite sex
basically, so long as they insist that same-sex is sinful, they are our adversaries,'' wahl said
however, confrontations between church and homosexuals have moved elsewhere. members of dignity, made up of catholic, sexually active gays, were arrested during demonstrations in march and february at st. patrick's cathedral in new york
at one of those services, cardinal john o'connor said the church's teaching against homosexual behavior would not be changed. ``we cannot alter the gospel,'' he said
in january, about 250 dignity members and supporters held a candlelight vigil outside st. joseph's cathedral in hartford, conn
during his visit to mission dolores, john paul blessed 62 aids patients
one of them, 4-year-old brendan o'rourke, suddenly reached out and touched the pontiff's ear. the startled but pleased pope hugged the boy, who's believed to have contracted aids through a blood transfusion
riley said the boy is doing well. he said he celebrated mass at the boy's home recently when brendan blurted out: ``i hugged the pope! i hugged the pope!''
after picking up gov. thomas h. kean's backing, vice president george bush said he'll carry two messages stressed by kean _ the importance of improving education and the need for republicans to reach out to voters traditionally aligned with democrats
tom kean has done a remarkable job in new jersey. and it is reaching out to our fellow republicans, but it is also going after those in the democratic column,'' bush said
he has demonstrated that the open-door policy works. his success is an inspiration of what we can accomplish nationally.''
bush made the remarks monday at a joint appearance in which kean and the state's county republican chairmen abandoned their neutrality in the presidential race and threw their support to bush
kean decided to support bush after the vice president won the illinois primary last week
new jersey's county republican chairmen, who had been waiting for kean to act, followed the governor's lead and voted to endorse bush at a breakfast meeting monday morning
george bush is our leader, and with the republican vision of a stronger america, that offers oppportunity to all regardless of color or creed, we can not only retain the presidency, but send (house speaker) jim wright to the back benches for the rest of this century,'' said kean
after monday's announcement, kean left with bush to help the vice president campaign in connecticut, which holds its primary next tuesday
one gop county chairman said the endorsements almost assure bush will win new jersey's 64 republican delegates. the state's primary is june 7
bush then said he would ``shamelessly steal'' the governor's message that republicans must reach out to blacks, unions and others traditionally aligned with the democratic party
kean, who picked up minority and union support in winning re-election by a landslide in 1985 has been touted as a possible vice presidential candidate. case</head>
the disclosure that a former federal prosecutor may have fabricated death threats against herself and a magistrate during an extradition case has shocked her former colleagues
on monday, u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. said that judy russell allegedly cut out words from newspapers to form threatening messages that she received in the mail during the case she was handling against two sikhs accused of terrorism in india
a search of her house turned up similar threatening messages in a travel bag and scissors apparently used to clip newspapers and magazines, alito said
no charges were filed, but an investigation was continuing, he said
few lawyers in the u.s. attorney's office and in private practice would speak publicly, but almost all interviewed monday said ms. russell had been a highly intelligent and hard-driven assistant u.s. attorney
i've been sick over this thing ever since i found out about a week and a half ago,'' said thomas g. roth, one of ms. russell's three partners who left the u.s. attorney's office with her last summer to form their own firm
after leaving, ms. russell was appointed a special assistant u.s. attorney to enable her to continue with the case against the sikhs, ranjit singh gill, 25, and sukhminder singh, 26
singh's attorney, ronald kuby, called monday's disclosures ``clearly the most astounding thing i've heard'' and said he would seek to have all extradition proceedings against the men dropped
during the case, kuby had strongly denied that any supporters of the sikhs were behind the threats, and had suggested the indian government may be involved
alito said ms. russell's alleged responsibility for the threats had no affect on the outcome of the extradition hearings in february, when u.s. magistrate ronald j. hedges approved extradition. but alito said he would seek a new hearing ``to avoid any appearance of impropriety.''
during the hearings, ms. russell did not specifically accuse the two men of having sent the notes, but cited the death threats in requesting added security
sharpshooters lined nearby rooftops, observers passed through two metal detectors, dozens of u.s. marshals attended and nearby streets were closed
the justice department's department of public integrity is handling the investigation of the 36-year-old ms. russell, the former deputy chief of the u.s. attorney's criminal division, alito said
robert j. fettweis, ms. russell's attorney and former colleague in the u.s. attorney's office, said she was in a private hospital. he would not comment on any aspect of the case or the nature of her hospitalization
the disclosure of the investigation came during a court session requested by alito to ``correct and supplement'' the record regarding the threats
suspicions about the threats were raised when ms. russell told fbi agents on feb. 5 that a letter saying ``no more warning federal court death for you'' was hand-delivered to the hotel where she was under 24-hour guard
an fbi agent's affidavit unsealed monday said none of the deputy u.s. marshals guarding her saw anyone enter or leave the area around her room
the 24-hour guard was ordered after ms. russell submitted to hedges during the extradition hearings sealed information about previous alleged threats
one letter addressed to ms. russell said, ``don't get dead. don't go to court.''
the magistrate received a threatening letter two weeks before the extradition hearings, alito said
an fbi laboratory analysis showed that typewritten characters on envelopes containing the threats matched those on ms. russell's 1983 application to the u.s. attorney's office, he said. the typewriter matching the print also was found in her home
the indian government charges that singh plotted the revenge assassination of a retired indian general who led the bloody 1984 assault against sikh militants occupying the sikhs' holiest shrine, the golden temple in amritsar
gill was charged in the killing of a parliament member
lt. col. oliver north, the fired national security aide now facing criminal charges from the iran-contra affair, has gone on leave in preparation for retirement from the marine corps in six weeks
lt. col. north began his terminal leave today,'' said lt. col. john shotwell, a marine corps spokesman. ``he had sufficient leave on the books to cover the period from now until his retirement on may 1,'' added shotwell, in monday's announcement
north had been working in a staff position at marine corps headquarters here since president reagan dismissed him from the white house staff in november 1986. he announced last friday _ two days after his indictment by a federal grand jury _ that he had decided to leave the corps
north, former national security adviser john m. poindexter and two others were indicted by a federal grand jury march 16 on charges they conspired to divert profits from arms sales to iran to the nicaraguan contra rebels
by specifying a may 1 retirement date, the date on which he will have completed 20 years on active duty, north will be eligible to retire with a military pension equal to half his monthly base pay of $3,693.60
the senate is urging the reagan administration to open negotiations with the soviet union aimed at curbing uncontrolled ``bandit'' fishing from international waters in the bering sea
a 79-0 vote on monday approved a non-binding, sense-of-the-senate resolution which declares that foreign fishing fleets are using a zone located between the 200-mile fishing limits established by the united states and the soviet union as ``a staging ground for raids'' into one of the richest fishing grounds in the world
according to the resolution, immediate action to protect bering sea fishery resources is needed because of lack of cooperation by other high-seas fishing nations under existing agreements
the resolution calls for the convening of u.s.-soviet negotiations to impose a moratorium on all fishing in the zone, a ban which would stay in effect until an international fishery management agreement is negotiated
because of its location, completely surrounded by u.s. and soviet territorial waters, the 4,500 square mile area is known variously as ``the hole in the doughnut'' or ``the doughnut.''
about a dozen people were arrested when they attempted to block the entrance to the headquarters of the department of health and human services in a demonstration against the use of animals in medical research
about 50 people had gathered outside the building on monday for the hour-long peaceful protest which featured speeches by several participants
the demonstration was organized by a california-based group, ``in defense of animals.'' awards</head>
soft-spoken gentleman cowboy randy travis won the most trophies but the academy of country music voted once again the heartland's rowdy leader of song, hank williams jr., its favorite entertainer
it was the second consecutive entertainer of the year trophy for the man nicknamed bocephus, the 38-year-old son of country music great hank williams
this is what my momma wanted all the time. ... she would be so proud and, of course, my daddy, i know he'd be proud,'' williams said after taking the top honor monday night at knott's berry farm
the 23rd annual awards presentation was televised nationally by nbc
travis, 28, won three awards: top male singer, song and single of the year for his hit, ``forever and ever, amen.''
it's still a big thing to keep winning. it makes me quite nervous. it doesn't feel any different than it did the first time,'' said travis, who last year won four awards on the strength of the song ``on the other hand.''
dolly parton, emmylou harris and linda ronstadt won the album trophy for ``trio.'' the mother-daughter duo the judds took the duet trophy. los angeles-based highway 101 was best group, and reba mcentire won top female vocalist for the fourth time
it's like they're saying `reb, you still got it,' and that's nice,'' miss mcentire said
ricky van shelton won for new male vocalist
k.t. oslin was the new female vocalist and won the video honor for ``80's ladies.''
it's better than wonderful. it's marvelous,'' van shelton said. ``it means you've finally arrived. it means you're there.''
roger miller received the non-competitive pioneer award
highway 101's group award marked the second consecutive loss in that category for perennial favorite alabama, although highway member cactus moser didn't think the awards should be considered a horse race
i don't feel like we beat them,'' moser said. ``it's wonderful to be recognized.''
williams and travis faced off in entertainer of the year, vocalist, single, song, album and video categories
it's a great feeling but it comes with a lot of work,'' williams said of his victory
nominees were picked by the 2,500-member academy of country music and they voted by mail-in ballot
drummer archie francis won his 11th academy trophy and fiddler johnny gimble and steel guitarist j.d. maness each won their 10th awards to lead winners in instrumental categories
bass player emory gordy jr., guitarist chet atkins and keyboardist john hobbs won their second-consecutive academy trophies
david hungate tied gordy in the bass category, ronnie milsap tied hobbs in the keyboard category, and ricky skaggs, who plays the mandolin, tied with jerry douglas, who plays the dobro, in the specialty instrument category
the strangers won their eighth touring band trophy and nashville now won the non-touring band award
jim tabor of radio wmc in memphis, tenn., was selected disc jockey of the year, his first academy win, and knix radio in phoenix, ariz., was picked the top radio station for the second consecutive year
the crazyhorse steakhouse &amp; saloon in santa ana, calif., won the nightclub of the year honor for the second consecutive year
here are the winners of the 23rd annual academy of country music awards presentation monday night at knott's berry farm
entertainer of the year: hank williams jr
album: ``trio,'' dolly parton, emmylou harris, linda ronstadt; george massenburg (producer); warner bros. (label)
song: ``forever and ever, amen,'' randy travis; paul overstreet, don schlitz (composers); writers group, scarlet moon, mca, don schlitz (publishers)
single record: ``forever and ever, amen,'' randy travis; kyle lehning (producer); warner bros. (label)
male singer: randy travis
female vocalist: reba mcentire
vocal group: highway 101 (paulette carlson, cactus moser, jack daniels, curtis stone)
vocal duet: the judds
new male vocalist: ricky van shelton
new female vocalist: k.t. oslin
video: ``80's ladies,'' k.t. oslin; marc ball (producer); jack cole (director)
pioneer award: roger miller (non-competitive)
bass: emory gordy jr. and david hungate (tie)
drums: archie francis
fiddle: johnny gimble
guitar: chet atkins
steel guitar: j.d. maness
keyboard: john hobbs and ronnie milsap (tie)
specialty: jerry douglas (dobro) and ricky skaggs (mandolin) (tie)
touring band: strangers
non-touring band: nashville now
disc jockey: jim tabor of radio wmc in memphis, tenn
radio station: knix radio in phoenix, ariz
nightclub: the crazyhorse steakhouse &amp; saloon in santa ana, calif
an elderly couple that gave a job and shelter to a homeless chicago man have learned that you can take harold thomas out of the city, but you can't take the city out of harold
i think he's going to be happier with his people,'' ethel gilman said monday. ``he seemed very happy here. it seemed like he thought a lot of us. we thought a lot of him. it started out nice and ended nice.''
thomas spent three months working at the junkyard owned by mrs. gilman, 68, and her husband, roy, 75
thomas withdrew $300 from a portales bank monday and boarded an eastbound bus
thomas had planned to work at the junkyard through the summer, but said he couldn't do it without any wages
a man can't live with just room and board,'' he said. ``after three months with room and board, you know, i want to have a family and stuff. room and board just doesn't make it
i'm thinking about getting married pretty soon,'' thomas said. ``i just want to get somewhere where i can get established and have an income.''
thomas much of last year living in a rotting wood and canvas shack on the banks of the chicago river. the gilmans read of his plight in a story about the homeless in chicago and how they were enduring the subzero temperatures. the couple called the associated press bureau in chicago and said if thomas were willing to work they'd give him a job and a roof over his head
thomas, 35, arrived jan. 17 in portales, an eastern new mexico farming and ranching community of about 11,000 people
his home here was an 8-foot-by-30-foot trailer in the junkyard where he worked eight hours a day, six days a week, tearing apart old cars and rebuilding the engines. the other day, he said, was spent working in the fields at a church-run orphanage, where his benefactors volunteered his service
thomas had not been paid after a month on the job, and the gilmans said his room and board were his remuneration
thomas' boss, the gilmans' son ralph, said thomas didn't give any notice he was quitting. he said thomas told him monday morning he was homesick and was ready to go
the girl i was going with in chicago wants to get married,'' thomas said
he also said he was going to try to find a place to stay, and see if his brother might help him
but he said the gilmans were nice people and had placed $300 in the bank for him
it seems like it's better for both of us because they say they're going in the hole,'' thomas said. ``they say they're going into the hole on account of me staying there. i don't want to put a lot of pressure on those people.''
before gaining national attention, thomas wore ill-fitting clothes and ate in soup kitchens. he and another man endured the harsh winter in a lean-to shack rather than try to find refuge in city-run shelters
by the time thomas boarded a bus for the 1,478-mile, 27-hour journey to new mexico people had donated new clothes, new luggage and spending money
thomas said monday he was leaving rather than trying to find work in portales because he didn't want to put pressure on people in the community. he also said he had had offers to live in nearby clovis
although thomas apparently had no job waiting for him in chicago, he has said his days among the homeless are over
i never knew i'd end up like i did,'' thomas told the ap in an interview in february. ``i hope i don't end up in a slump like that again. that ain't no kind of life for a man.''
lt. col. oliver north, the fired national security aide now facing criminal charges from the iran-contra affair, has gone on leave in preparation for retirement from the marine corps in six weeks
lt. col. north began his terminal leave today,'' said lt. col. john shotwell, a marine corps spokesman. ``he had sufficient leave on the books to cover the period from now until his retirement on may 1,'' added shotwell, in monday's announcement
north had been working in a staff position at marine corps headquarters here since president reagan dismissed him from the white house staff in november 1986. he announced last friday _ two days after his indictment by a federal grand jury _ that he had decided to leave the corps
north, former national security adviser john m. poindexter and two others were indicted by a federal grand jury march 16 on charges they conspired to divert profits from arms sales to iran to the nicaraguan contra rebels
by specifying a may 1 retirement date, the date on which he will have completed 20 years on active duty, north will be eligible to retire with a military pension equal to half his monthly base pay of $3,693.60
the senate is urging the reagan administration to open negotiations with the soviet union aimed at curbing uncontrolled ``bandit'' fishing from international waters in the bering sea
a 79-0 vote on monday approved a non-binding, sense-of-the-senate resolution which declares that foreign fishing fleets are using a zone located between the 200-mile fishing limits established by the united states and the soviet union as ``a staging ground for raids'' into one of the richest fishing grounds in the world
according to the resolution, immediate action to protect bering sea fishery resources is needed because of lack of cooperation by other high-seas fishing nations under existing agreements
the resolution calls for the convening of u.s.-soviet negotiations to impose a moratorium on all fishing in the zone, a ban which would stay in effect until an international fishery management agreement is negotiated
because of its location, completely surrounded by u.s. and soviet territorial waters, the 4,500 square mile area is known variously as ``the hole in the doughnut'' or ``the doughnut.''
about a dozen people were arrested when they attempted to block the entrance to the headquarters of the department of health and human services in a demonstration against the use of animals in medical research
about 50 people had gathered outside the building on monday for the hour-long peaceful protest which featured speeches by several participants
the demonstration was organized by a california-based group, ``in defense of animals.''
mayor edward i. koch has accused a group of spanish harlem residents of meting out ``frontier justice'' for chasing down and fatally beating a man accused of stealing $20
but four suspects charged with first- and second-degree manslaughter in the attack said they ``said they thought they had done the right thing, chasing and capturing this guy,'' said police capt. william j. quigley
police said at least four others may have been part of the group that beat 41-year-old raymondo carabello on sunday after he allegedly snatched the money from a woman at a bakery
koch denounced the attackers monday, saying they ``executed the death penalty without a trial.''
here is a guy who, at worst, may have stolen $20,'' he said. ``no one would suggest that anybody be executed for stealing $20. ... they were meting out justice as they saw it, frontier justice. that's not permissible in civilized society.''
but some who live in the neighborhood expressed mixed feelings about the attack
it's not right that he got killed,'' felix olmos, 23, said as he stood at the counter of a grocery store not far from the bakery
but i understand. that stuff's got to stop. ... people will think twice about stealing around here. it's kind of dangerous around here.''
the beating death occurred in front of the jefferson houses public housing project in an area of east harlem that has been plagued by crack dealers and violence
after being robbed in the bakery, the woman asked a crowd on the corner if they had seen the man who had just robbed her. caraballo came out of the houses and the group chased him down the block
they started to beat him, (with) fists and feet,'' quigley said
he was getting beaten all over, the legs, the ribs,'' said al rivera, 27, who was in the area visiting a friend
he was yelling, `please stop! no more! no more!''' rivera said
they said, `we're going to kill you!''' said rivera's friend jose augostini. the man staggered across the street and collapsed in front of augostini's building
police broke up the fight and caraballo stood up and was handcuffed, quigley said. the officers radioed for an ambulance as they took him to their office
he was taken to mount sinai hospital where he died sunday evening
four hours later, jesus negron, 23, was arrested, police said.three others surrendered monday: david andino, 22, and charles mimms, 20, and isidore cuadrado, 14, police said
neither the suspects nor caraballo, who lived nearby, have previous criminal records, police said. needle marks on his arm suggested he was a drug addict, police said
quigley said the suspects apparently did not know each other and none of them knew caraballo
the 14-year-old is being treated as an adult because of the seriousness of the crime
the $20 was not recovered
sen. bob dole, struggling on against vice president george bush, said he would support whoever turns out to be the republican nominee. but he says it could still be him
there are a lot of people who say the republican race is over, we already got our nominee and let's get ready for the convention,'' he said monday as he campaigned here. ``and i'll say this, when we get the nominee, i'll be working for the nominee _ but it's only the second day of spring.''
dole renewed his debate challenge to bush and the acting mayor of this farming community, vern peterson quickly volunteered to have amery serve as site for a debate. bush has declined recent invitations to debate with dole, saying they have had enough debates already
dole searched for support from democrats as well as republicans in wisconsin's open primary, in which voters are not required to state party preference
i want a big, big surprise to happen on april 5. and i think it can happen in the state of wisconsin,'' dole said
a federal judge says he won't upset new york election law to place delegate slates supporting pat robertson or sen. bob dole on all ballots in next month's state republican primary
but supporters of the two gop presidential hopefuls said they would appeal monday's ruling by u.s. district judge leonard b. sand before the april 19 primary
the robertson and dole supporters are challenging state law which they claim made it unfairly difficult to get delegate slates favoring their candidates on the ballot in new york
candidates were required to get the signatures of 1,250 registered republicans or 5 percent _ whichever was less _ in each of the state's 34 congressional districts in order to get their slates on the ballot. the signatures had to be obtained between jan. 5 and feb. 11
but only vice president george bush's campaign was able to get the necessary signatures in a majority of the 34 districts
we feel the judge has made several errors in his ruling. we will be appealing,'' said henry hews of americans for robertson
vice president george bush is the overwhelming favorite going into new york's april 19 primary among likely republican voters questioned for a recent statewide poll
the marist college institute for public opinion also reported in its study released monday that in theoretical matchups, pitting bush against the major democratic candidates, the vice president is the choice of new yorkers except when it comes to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis. in that possible contest, dukakis appeared to have a slight edge over bush in new york
of the 292 likely republican primary voters sampled, 68 percent said they favored bush while 22 percent opted for kansas sen. bob dole and 3 percent went for pat robertson. less than 1 percent picked another candidate and 6 percent said they were undecided
bush's support is solid across the board, outpolling his rivals among upstate, new york city and suburban republicans,'' noted marist pollster lee miringoff
the margin of error for the republican portion of the poll is plus or minus 6 percent. the poll was based on interviews conducted for the first four days of last week
a group attempting to place mario cuomo's name on california's presidential primary ballot despite the new york governor's objections faces still another legal obstacle
gerald hill, one of two coordinators of the draft cuomo committee, said monday that while his group believes it has more than the 22,500 signatures required statewide on its petitions, it hasn't met the requirement of filing a minimum of 500 verified signatures from each of california's 45 congressional districts
we have to admit we don't have all 45. there are four or five districts where we didn't make the 500, no question of it,'' hill said in a telephone interview
that's another hurdle, no question of it. but matters like this have come up numerous times in numerous states, and courts have (overturned) overly stringent requirements ... if it's too burdensome
under the law the group is using in its attempt to place cuomo's name on california's ballot, the group also must have the consent of the candidate, something hill concedes cuomo has not given
ohio's urban problems and those of some other northeast states, are being left behind in the presidential primary shuffle because their primaries are held too late, an elections researcher said
linda l.m. bennett, a political science professor at wittenberg university, also said ohio should consider holding caucuses, instead of a popular vote
caucuses allow elected officials and party leaders more say, and ``they're better informed on the issues and they know what it takes to get elected,'' she said
ohio last year considered moving the may 3 primary to mid-march, but lawmakers dropped the idea when gov. richard celeste failed to include it in his budget
ms. bennett doesn't expect ohio's democratic and republican leaders to institute major reforms, partly because they like the long primary season for state and local candidates. she said they more easily can influence those primaries
singer linda ronstadt called san francisco chronicle columnist herb caen a ``creep'' for publishing the address of her new home here, the newspaper reported today
ronstadt, 41, recently bought the house for $2.55 million in the city's ritzy pacific heights neighborhood. although she hasn't moved in, she is thinking about selling it
there's too much publicity about it, and it's not a good idea to live there,'' said ronstadt, who is on a national tour. ``it's kind of a security risk.''
according to the newspaper, after caen published the address, ronstadt said it made her ``not like the house, and it made me not like the neighborhood, and it made me not like the city, and it made me not like to live there. that's the end of it.''
after success as a folk-rock singer with the band stone poneys in 1968, ronstadt became one of the biggest rock stars of the '70s with songs such as ``you're no good,'' ``when will i be loved?,'' ``heat wave,'' ``blue bayou,'' and ``it's so easy.''
her latest album, ``canciones de mi padre,'' consists of traditional mexican songs, which she sings in spanish. ronstadt was born to parents of german and mexican descent
the rightist republican nationalist alliance handily defeated the governing christian democrats in legislative and municipal elections this week, election officials announced
the defeat presented president jose napoleon duarte, the staunchest u.s. ally in central america, with the prospect of an uphill climb in his final year in office. presidential elections are set for march 1989
mario samayoa, the president of the central elections council, told journalists ``more than 50 percent'' of the votes cast on sunday went to the alliance, known by its spanish acronym of arena. he declined to be more specific, saying complete returns would be ready shortly
the announcement monday of a majority for arena signaled a triumph even greater than the rightists had predicted
they had 13 deputies in the outgoing 60-seat national assembly, which the centrist christian democrats controlled with 33 seats
arena appeared assured of at least 31 seats in the new chamber. the party predicted it would have 35. local media projected 33-35 seats for the rightists. the christian democrats were expected to get about 22 seats
voters ignored a leftist guerrilla boycott call and threats of violence to cast ballots. the guerrillas said the elections were illegitimate, contending that free and fair elections could not be held in wartime
washington sent el salvador almost $600 million in military and economic aid last year, more than the amount given to any country in the hemisphere
arena candidate armado calderon sol, a 39-year-old lawyer, won the mayor's race in san salvador, the capital and home to 1.5 million of the country's 5 million people. calderon sol defeated christian democratic candidate alejandro duarte, the president's son
samayoa said arena won most of the rest of the country's municipalities
arena benefited from a groundswell of popular discontent with the christian democrats. duarte won the presidency in 1984 on a platform of ending the war and improving the salvadoran economy
the 8-year-old war continues, unemployment is estimated at 40 percent and annual inflation is estimated at nearly 40 percent
arena's campaign slogan was ``change for the better.''
arena president alfredo cristiani, who kept his assembly seat, told the associated press his party would try to reach agreement on fundamental points with all parties represented in the legislature, including how to wage the war
if the guerrillas do not accept the proposal we will make them, which will be the result of a national consensus, they do not leave any other way out but a military solution,'' he said
he indicated that arena, which has considerable support and good connections with military officers, would work to step up offensives against the rebels
this low intensity conflict idea should be erased,'' he said, referring to smaller-scale, u.s.-backed counterinsurgency tactics that have been adopted by the salvadoran army
in washington, the state department hailed el salvador's national elections and called them a strong victory for the democratic process
sen. richard lugar, r-ind., who led an observer team named by president reagan, called the election honest and important ``because power transferred peacefully'' and ``the rebels didn't win.''
state department spokesman charles redman, asked whether the reagan administration had any reservations about a rightist victory, said that ``we don't choose sides in these kinds of elections.''
the fiercely nationalistic arena was formed in 1981, with retired army maj. roberto d'aubuisson its founder. d'aubuisson has strongly criticized the united states and is considered the driving force behind early 1980s death-squads
two young brothers died after being trapped in an abandoned freezer near their parents' home, authorities said
the boys' stepfather, larry o'neal, found the bodies early monday in the freezer, which was about 100 yards from the home and had been used as a worm bed, authorities said
curtis o'neal, 8, and his 5-year-old brother, billy joe, died late sunday or early monday, said pike county coroner dub deal
deal said the parents had last seen them flying a kite about 5 p.m. sunday. when the boys didn't return home, the parents believed they were spending the night with their grandparents, who live nearby, he said
the boys' mother, teresa o'neal, discovered early monday that they were missing, the coroner said
shirley davis, the boys' grandmother, told authorities they may have gotten muddy while playing in a creek and crawled into the freezer to change clothes
here is a chronology of events in the panamanian crisis:
thursday, feb. 25 _ panama's president, eric arturo delvalle, announces he is dismissing gen. manuel antonio noriega, indicted on u.s. drug charges, as defense chief and replacing him with col. marcos justines, chief of staff. justines refuses job
friday, feb. 26 _ noriega-dominated national assembly votes to oust delvalle. education minister manuel solis palma named new head of state. noriega opponents call for general strike in protest
saturday, feb. 27 _ delvalle goes into hiding in panama, defying noriega's order that he leave country
monday, feb. 29 _ general strike begins with mixed participation
tuesday, march 1 _ general strike gains support. locally owned banks close. international banks limit withdrawals. security forces crack down on protests amid scattered violence
wednesday, march 2 _ doctors join businesses in general strike. u.s. officials announce they will ask u.s. banks to freeze panamanian government assets
thursday, march 3 _ organizers end general strike as support fades. u.s. federal courts block withdrawal of panama funds from u.s. banks
friday, march 4 _ national bank of panama says it cannot meet banks' cash demands. international banks fearing a run on deposits close their doors. local banks remain closed
sunday, march 7 _ retired people unable to cash pension checks rally in streets
monday, march 8 _ riot police disperse demonstrators in panama with tear gas and birdshot
tuesday, march 9 _ government says banks can reopen but no one can cash checks or withdraw funds. few banks respond
friday, march 11 _ reagan imposes economic sanctions, including eliminating trade preferences for panama and withholding panama canal fees from the noriega government by placing them in escrow. noriega government meets army payroll. spain tells united states it would accept noriega if he asked for asylum
monday, march 14 _ public employees stage work stoppages and riot after government is unable to pay wages. riot police use tear gas and truncheons to disperse hundreds blocking traffic. united states sends 100 additional military personnel to beef up security around canal
tuesday, march 15 _ at least a dozen are injured in demonstrations as civil servants take to streets to demand paychecks. government says it will make partial payments to public employees
wednesday, march 16 _ noriega survives abortive coup attempt by dissident officers of defense forces. violent demonstrations occur and workers strike at state-run electric, water and telephone companies, ports in panama city and colon and government ministries
thursday, march 17 _ government declares a ``state of urgency'' and soldiers patrol capital. defense forces take control of utilities and ministries, but most workers remain off their jobs
friday, march 18 _ noriega meets with u.s. state department officials who offer freedom from extradition on drug charges if he will seek asylum in third country. noriega reportedly says he wants to remain in panama and take part in formation of transitional government
sunday, march 20 _ u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz says indictments against noriega would not be dropped and noriega could not have say about government after his departure
monday, march 21 _ armed soldiers patrol panama city as general strike paralyzes nation. solis palma announces noriega has offered to resign before may 1989 elections if opponents agree to talks. opposition leaders and united states reject noriega's offer
olivia newton-john and the bee gees were among the 100 mourners to say farewell to singer andy gibb, who died of a heart ailment at age 30
as we all know, for some years andy struggled with cocaine,'' the rev. stephen stewart of st. paul's united methodist church in tarzana told the mourners at monday's funeral at forest lawn memorial park
but,'' said stewart, ``andy beat drugs.''
the british-born gibb, whose brothers barry, maurice and robyn comprised the bee gees, died march 10 in oxford, england
gibb had a series of hit songs in the 1970s, including ``i just want to be your everything'' and ``shadow dancing.'' but his career and a highly publicized relationship with television star victoria principal ended with drug abuse. in 1985, he was treated for a cocaine habit
after the private service, the casket was rolled from the chapel with the bee gees walking behind. the body was then taken to the courts of remembrance and placed in a wall
gibb died of myocarditis, a rare viral infection of the heart muscle, after he was hospitalized for stomach pains. doctors said there was no evidence that drugs or alcohol were involved in his death
shortly before his death, gibb had begun efforts to resume his singing and recording career
a statement issued at the funeral announced the establishment of the andy gibb memorial foundation to raise money for charities including the diabetes research institute, the american cancer society and the american heart association
a quasi-governmental panel has recommended that wood-burning fireplaces be banned by 1994 to cut air pollution, but the proposal was attacked by home builders
you can ban woodburning, but you can't ban bricks and mortar,'' said arlene quenan of the colorado association of home builders. ``you're going to have real trouble when people say, `i want a fireplace in my new home.'''
in its proposal monday, the metropolitan air quality council subcommittee said that within five years all newly installed fireplaces should be fueled by natural gas and all existing wood-burning fireplaces be put out of service or converted to gas
the council will consider the ban on april 4
colorado last year became the first state to require new wood-burning stoves to meet air-quality standards for carbon monoxide and particulates
a police officer ambushed at close range survived the unprovoked shooting because he was wearing a bulletproof vest, authorities said
officer harry d. armstrong, 32, suffered minor wounds in his left leg, back and scalp after being hit monday at least four times, said sgt. jerry harris, a police spokesman
fortunately, his injuries are slight,'' harris said. ``i would say the vest saved his life.''
armstrong parked his car and was retrieving a thermos from the trunk while preparing to write a crime report when a volley of shots were fired from nearby bushes, police said
more than 20 officers, including some in helicopters, searched the area for nearly three hours without finding a suspect, police said
armstrong is a five-year police veteran who was described as having no history of threats
scientists have redesigned a potent natural poison so that it seeks out and kills cancer cells in the test tube, signaling a possible new route for fighting some tumors, a scientist says
the poison, so strong that a dose the size of a salt grain can kill a person, may be harnessed for fighting breast cancers that have spread elsewhere in the body, and some lung and brain tumors, according to ira pastan of the national cancer institute
the strategy takes advantage of the fact that some cancer cells display on their surface certain kinds of protein structures called receptors. specific substances bind to each kind of receptor before they enter the cell
normal cells have receptors too, but the new work focuses on receptors that are far more numerous on cancer cells, pastan told science writers at a seminar sponsored by the american cancer society
using genetic engineering, scientists essentially redesigned the gene that a common bacterium called pseudomonas aeruginosa uses to produce its potent poison, called an endotoxin. the bacteria can cause pink eye, bacterial meningitis and pneumonia
one portion of the endotoxin molecule seeks out normal cells and binds to them. scientists deleted the portion of the gene responsible for creating that portion and substituted another, so that the endotoxin produced by the gene would seek out cancer cells instead
then they put the altered gene into a second kind of bacterium and put it to work. the bacterium churned out multiple copies of the cancer-seeking version of the poison
pastan said monday that scientists have experimented with two types of redesigned poison, each geared to a different receptor on cancer cells
one, the receptor for a hormone called interleukin-2, is found in high concentrations on white blood cells in a disease called adult t-cell leukemia, which is found chiefly in the caribbean area and japan, pastan said
the other receptor binds either of two growth-stimulating substances, called epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor alpha. it is found in abundance in some lung cancer cells, breast cancer cells and brain tumors called glioblastomas, he said
glioblastomas are untreatable now, pastan said
in test tube experiments, the redesigned poisons sought out and killed cancer cells while largely ignoring normal cells, he said. the poison works by entering a cell and sabotaging the cell's protein-making machinery
pastan said such ``oncotoxins'' represent a step beyond a similar approach, which is attaching a poison to a protein called an antibody that seeks out cancer cells. that has been studied for some years, and pastan said the antibody approach is now being studied in four ovarian cancer patients at the cancer institute
their doses are aimed at looking for side effects, and are too low to expect any effect against their tumors, he said
dick rauscher, cancer society senior vice president for research, called pastan's new approach ``very promising.''
it may one day be able to circumvent a problem with the antibody system, that the body's immune system quickly recognizes the antibody-poison combination as foreign and tries to destroy it, he said
gil evans, considered one of the most influential postwar jazz orchestrators and composers, was remembered by dizzy gillespie as a man who will be missed ``for always keeping time with the age he's in.''
evans died sunday at age 75
whatever new thing, new ideas come up, gil evans was right on top them,'' said gillespie, who knew evans well but did not perform with him. ``he will be missed for having a very strong feeling for the soloist. he was tender. one of a kind.''
trumpeter miles davis, whose musical collaboration with evans spanned 40 years, said, ``whenever i had a question about the music, composing or which way to go, i would think about what gil would do. i'll really miss him.''
davis composed a tune he titled ``gil evans'' two or three days before evans' death
he called me up once in the middle of the night,'' davis recalled monday, ``and he said, `if you ever feel bad and low, just listen to yourself on ``miles ahead.''' and he hung up.''
miles ahead,'' ``birth of the cool,'' ``porgy and bess'' and ``sketches of spain'' were albums evans orchestrated for davis, who then was playing in his ``cool'' style
evans earlier had been an arranger for his own band, skinnay ennis and claude thornhill, but became famous with davis. he was considered one of jazz's greatest orchestrators, along with duke ellington and todd dameron
evans also arranged a collection of jazz classics for cannonball adderley and his own band's ``out of the cool,'' which were marvels of harmonic subtlety and originality. always open-minded, evans was planning to arrange a jimi hendrix album, when the rock guitarist died in 1970. evans wrote his first film score, for ``absolute beginners,'' at age 74
evans died sunday of peritonitis in cuernavaca, mexico, where he had gone with sons noah and miles, to recuperate from a prostate operation
evans' widow, anita, said monday the gil evans orchestra will play a planned tour of northern europe and london and appearances at jazz festivals in umbria, italy, and new york, conducted by her son miles evans
it'll be a very short time. we're talking days only.'' _ honduran armed forces spokesman col. manuel suarez benevides, saying 3,200 u.s. soldiers rushed to honduras after an alleged incursion by nicaraguan troops won't be needed much longer
we may be approaching a historic moment. we all hope that what we hear from moscow means there will be a complete and irreversible withdrawal of all the soviet forces from afghanistan, that the afghan people will be able to freely determine their own future, and that the millions of refugees can return to their homes with dignity.'' _ president reagan, signing an afghanistan day proclamation approved by congress
it's like they're saying `reb, you still got it,' and that's nice.'' _ country singer reba mcentire, after winning top female vocalist from the academy of country music for the fourth time
tamil rebels armed with knives, swords and axes attacked two villages in northern sri lanka early today and slashed 13 sinhalese civilians to death, sri lankan military officials said
three people, including a woman and two children, were reported hospitalized with serious injuries
the latest deaths raised to at least 125 the number of civilians slain in their villages since march 2. most of the victims have been members of the sinhalese majority community on the island, but 22 of the victims were minority tamils killed in a reprisal raid on their community march 11
the military officials said today's attacks occurred shortly after midnight in the villages of pudukulam and madavuvaithakulam. they lie just south of vavuniya, a town 130 miles northeast of colombo
the officials, who briefed reporters on condition their names not be used, said at least six children and two women were among the victims
they quoted police as blaming the liberation tigers of tamil eelam for the attack. the tigers militia, the largest of the tamil rebel groups, has rejected an indian-backed peace accord aimed at ending their nearly five-year separatist rebellion
government officials have said the attacks on villages are aimed at disrupting a long-running government resettlement program for poor sinhalese. most of the slayings have occurred in the eastern district, where the resettlement program has been having the greatest impact
tamils, who are mostly hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million population. they claim they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese buddhists, who control the government and military
moderate tamils want more autonomy for their communites in the north and east of sri lanka, where they predominate, while militants are fighting for a separate nation
sinhalese make up about 75 percent of the island's population. the rest are moslems and descendants of early european colonizers
after the peace accord was signed last july, india sent more than 50,000 troops to the island to try to stop the tigers' continuing campaign
india has become involved because it has more than 60 million ethnic tamils in its own southern states who are sympathetic to their sri lankan brethren.   
a former defense lawyer was freed after spending more than six years in prison for conspiring in the murder of a federal judge who was scheduled to preside at the drug trial for the attorney's brother
i can't really tell you how good i feel,'' joe chagra said monday. ``it's probably the most exciting experience that i've ever had, other than being there when my children were born.''
freedom after prison confinement is so profound, chagra said, that he ``won't do anything to endanger it.''
chagra, 41, was released on parole friday from a federal prison in safford, ariz., after serving almost 6{ years of a 10-year sentence for conspiracy in the slaying of u.s. district judge john h. wood jr. of san antonio
wood, known as ``maximum john'' for the stiff sentences he gave drug dealers, was shot to death in san antonio in 1979. the slaying occurred just before wood was to have presided at the drug-related trial of chagra's brother, jimmy
prosecutors later alleged that joe chagra, who had been defending drug suspects, wanted wood eliminated
charles harrelson, accused of being the triggerman in the wood slaying, was convicted of the murder and sentenced to life in prison. joe chagra pleaded guilty to conspiracy and testified against harrelson
jimmy chagra was found innocent of conspiracy in the slaying
prosecutors today began questioning top officials about allegations of fraud and influence peddling, and an opposition party charged that president roh tae-woo aided massive corruption
the central investigation department of the prosecutor general's office questioned six senior officials of the saemaul undong rural and urban development group and banned 26 people implicated in the investigation from leaving the country
prosecutor kang won-il said officials of the home, agriculture and fisheries, education and sports ministries along with seoul city government officials were being investigated to see if they assisted fraud and corruption
a major scandal arose after the government began a probe into allegations that saemaul and government officials embezzled millions of dollars, sold government patronage and forced businesses to make illegal donations over the past six years
an initial investigation revealed evidence of fraud and other crimes, including diversion of government and private subsidies and concealment by government officials to protect saemaul, prosecution officials said
interpol, the international police agency, had been asked to help track down and return top saemaul official kim chin-taek who fled the country last month, kang said
my investigation team will unearth all malpractices and make public the results of the probe,'' kang told reporters
chun kyung-hwan, the younger brother of former president chun doo-hwan and former head of saemaul, is one of the suspects under investigation. the younger chun returned to south korea on sunday after fleeing to japan last week when knowledge of the probe became public
prosecutors said they are investigating charges saemaul officials used ties with the government to enrich themselves and government officials participated or covered up the corruption to protect the administration
while he was president, chun named his brother to head saemaul, but chun is not being investigated in the scandal
the party for peace and democracy, the country's second-largest opposition party, today charged that president roh aided saemaul officials involved in corruption when he was home minister in 1982. the party demanded that roh be investigated by prosecutors and said it would conduct its own probe
the blue house presidential office and prosecutors had no immediate response to the party's allegations
former president chun, who left office feb. 25 at the end of a seven-year term, left monday on a private visit to the united states during which he is to meet president reagan and other top u.s. officials
the younger chun, a powerful figure while his brother was in office, resigned last year after being linked to gangsters who staged a bloody underworld struggle for power. he indicated monday there had been irregularities within saemaul but gave no details
saemaul, a semi-private organization that worked closely with government agencies, was formed in 1971 to improve urban and rural living standards. projects ranged from building model communities to organizing city dwellers to keep streets clean
critics contend saemaul, which has offices across the country, worked over the years with successive authoritarian governments by promoting government interests and organizing support
roh, a former general who help put president chun in power with military backing in 1980, promised during election campaigns late last year to probe any official corruption under chun. roh was elected on dec. 16
political sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, say the roh government started the saemaul probe to discredit the former president, who has tried to retain influence within the government. several top chun supporters were quietly dropped from the governing democratic justice party last week
but some government officials and leaders of the democratic justice party are concerned the saemaul probe could blacken the reputation of the roh government because of its close ties to chun
the party also is worried the investigation could hurt its chances in national assembly elections next month
wintry temperatures gripped the northeast today as mild weather prevailed over southern states
temperatures were generally below freezing in the nation's northeast quarter, with readings in the teens and single digits over much of the great lakes region and the northern atlantic coast
a reading of 7 degrees shortly after midnight set a record in binghamton, n.y. the old record low for the date was 8 degrees in 1965
in contrast, readings were in the 50s and 60s in the southern and central plains and the valleys and deserts of the southwest. highs monday were in the 80s
wet weather was confined to widely scattered rainshowers in the northwest. snow fell in some higher elevations, and snow advisories were in effect for the cascade mountains, where 6 to 10 inches were considered possible today and tonight
clouds were over much of the rockies, as well as the northern plains and the northwest
today's forecast called for scattered showers in the pacific northwest and southern minnesota, possible snow in northern minnesota and scattered snow in northern maine
high temperatures were expected to be in the 50s or 60s across much of the nation; the 20s across northern new england; the 30s extending from the northern great lakes region into central and southern new england; the 40s in northern washington state, the northern rockies, the northern plains, the upper ohio valley and the mid-atlantic region; the 70s from the southern coast and valleys of california to the southern rockies, the lower half of the missouri valley, the middle mississippi valley, the central gulf coast and florida; and the 80s from the desert southwest to southern kansas, the southern plains, the lower mississippi valley and texas, with readings approaching 90 degrees from the central rio grande valley into the eastern texas panhandle
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from zero degrees at bradford, pa., to 70 degrees at palm springs, calif
other reports:
_east: atlanta 58 fair; boston 17 windy; buffalo 14 cloudy; charleston, sc 51 partly cloudy; cincinnati 29 fair; cleveland 15 fair; detroit 20 fair; miami 58 fair; new york 20 windy; philadelphia 23 fair; pittsburgh 17 fair; portland, maine 10 fair; washington 29 fair
_central: bismarck 36 cloudy; chicago 29 fair; dallas-fort worth 58 fair; denver 47 cloudy; des moines 40 fair; indianapolis 30 fair; kansas city 51 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 34 fair; nashville 44 fair; new orleans 51 fair; st. louis 44 fair
_west: albuquerque 43 fair; anchorage 28 snow; las vegas 62 windy; los angeles 57 foggy; phoenix 62 fair; salt lake city 50 cloudy; san diego 58 cloudy; san francisco 52 partly cloudy; seattle 42 cloudy
_canada: montreal 9 fair; toronto 9 fair
valentino's ready-to-wear show featured such splendid finesse in details and fabrics that it should be called haute couture
famous for his tailoring, valentino outdid himself in monday's show. suits and dresses with jackets hugged the body and lean skirts were just above the knee. waists were always small, and shoulders had enough padding for outline
jackets included diagonally-striped suede numbers in russet, ochre and purple with pompons at wrists and bodices. a handsome raft of grey suits in plaids, stripes and checks had turned-up and buttoned jacket hems
boxy or fitted short alpaca coats in beige or bright colors or pastel plaid capes were the only cover-ups to the fancy suit display
the wrapped checked or black leather suits were crisscrossed with black bands and bows, which also appeared on evening wear. valentino also fooled around with wool ropes for piping on black and white suits
for evening wear, valentino included satin rosettes and flowers, intricate lace patterns on blouses, brocade galore in both trousers and skirts
at balmain, erik mortensen also showed sophisticated short looks with the couture attention to detail, though the whole line was simpler than valentino's
there were new bolero-topped trouser suits in bright houndstooth checks with fullish tops on the pants
in jewel tones, the slim knit sheaths with their triple-pleated bands at the hip were pared-down elegance, while other outfits showed the couture touch with diagonal rays of heavy welt seaming
the long pleated knit dinner skirts were applauded for their easy wearability
like mortensen and valentino, marc bohan at dior aimed for ladylike lines and fabrics, with not much except color to rock the boat
bohan kept to a basic daytime theme of blouson jackets with raglan sleeves over a narrow, knee-baring skirt
dazzling coats topped some of the short, bright suits, as other suits were paired with brightly-striped puffy marabou jackets _ a big trend for the paris touch next winter
flowered and satin-trimmed cocktail sheaths and suits also came out in black velvet
though bohan's late-day wear was usually dressed-up and sophisticated, he also showed flowered long or short sweaters over fuchsia or emerald flowing satin culottes for an informal at-home evening
more than 9,000 murders were committed in the soviet union last year, but some types of major crimes declined due to the kremlin's campaign against drinking and drugs, radio moscow reported
the state-run radio's report, in news bulletins on its international english-language service, was believed to be the first time the soviets have made public a comprehensive annual statistic for murders nationwide
for years, the soviets used to contend that their society had less crime than western countries, but issued sparse statistics
monday's radio moscow report was clearly linked to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's campaign for ``glasnost,'' or more openness on some issues, that has brought franker reporting on the country's social problems
last year, slightly over 9,000 murders were registered in the u.s.s.r., which is one third less than in the united states,'' radio moscow said, citing preliminary statistics
it did not say where the figures for u.s. homicides were obtained. official statistics for last year have not yet been issued
in 1986, according to the fbi, there were 20,613 murders in the united states, up 8.6 percent from 18,976 in 1985
radio moscow said there was a drop last year in the incidence of some types of major crime in the soviet union, but gave no details
it quoted a soviet legal expert, dr. igor karpets, as crediting the ``positive role of the anti-drinking and anti-drug drive'' launched under gorbachev for the decline in some crimes
however, there was no decrease last year in crimes against property, such as burglaries, radio moscow said, without providing data
this year, police in moscow have begun issuing weekly reports through the official tass news agency on the number of murders, rapes and other crimes committed in the capital
soviet officials are also working on a revision of the country's criminal code
the government today shut down a militant anti-apartheid newspaper for 12 weeks, contending the church-backed new nation threatened public safety
a special decree issued by home affairs minister stoffel botha said further issues of the black-oriented weekly newspaper are ``totally prohibited'' through june 10
he acted a day after the newspaper, published by the southern african catholic bishops conference, lost a court appeal seeking to forestall government action while it challenged state-of-emergency censorship regulations
technically, the new nation could resume publication after three months, but botha could close it again if its contents dissatisfied him. the paper's senior staff has not announced whether operations will be resumed after the suspension
with a circulation of 50,000 to 60,000, the 2-year-old newspaper is the largest in south africa to devote virtually its entire content, including sports and entertainment sections, to politically-related developments
the newspaper had a full-time staff of 22 and employed 32 correspondents who covered anti-apartheid activity in the rural areas where the majority of blacks live. several employees already had resigned in anticipation of closure by botha, who disclosed his intentions in january
the newspaper's editor, zwelakhe sisulu, has been detained without charge for 16 months. he joined the new nation after a year as a niemann fellow at harvard university
authorities have banned four of the paper's editions and seized two. police have raided the paper's offices, and it was the first of six publications warned by botha that they could be closed for three-month periods or censored for publishing material he found objectionable
state-of-emergency regulations give botha nearly unlimited powers to deal with newspapers he feels might contribute to unrest. he does not have to give reasons for his actions
the new nation lost an initial court challenge of the regulations and intends to pursue its case in an appellate court. but on monday, a supreme court rejected the newspaper's bid to prevent closure during the appeal process
the new nation's acting editor, gabu tugwana, said closure of his paper would be ``an action against the whole media.''
there are many more axes hanging in the air that will fall on many others,'' he said, referring to warnings issued by botha to other publications
in a warning letter to the new nation, botha cited several items which he said threatened public safety, promoted revolution, enhanced the image of outlawed organizations or fomented hostility toward the security forces
the items he listed included:
_a picture of oliver tambo, president of the outlawed african national congress, opening a new office in nairobi, kenya
_a story about an arson attack on the offices of the united democratic front, the nation's largest anti-apartheid coalition
_a picture of relatives of condemned blacks at a news conference in which they appealed for clemency for 32 men and women sentenced to hang
_an advertisement quoting a psalm and urging the government to abolish torture. demonstration by supporters and foes; picks up 3rd graf, `shortly after ...'; subs 12th graf, `in minneapolis ...' with 2 grafs to conform to editing changes; picks up 13th graf, `some protesters ...'</note>
baton-wielding riot police scuffled with hundreds of demonstrators protesting the u.s. military presence in central america and arrested about 275 people at federal buildings in san francisco and minneapolis
meanwhile, in spokane, wash., supporters of continued aid to the nicaraguan contras waved signs that read, ``contras yes, commies no'' and ``stop the russians before they reach our borders.'' about 150 people on opposite sides of the issue gathered for peaceful rallies in front of the federal courthouse
in san francisco, a yelling, sign-toting crowd of more than 500 people encircled the federal building early monday. helmeted police arrested 225 people
shortly after the protest began at 7 a.m. monday, san francisco police began making arrests for blocking entrances and the streets around the 20-story building. the main entrance was closed, and for about a half-hour the protesters blocked the rear entrance that police were trying to keep open
more than 5,000 people work in the building
some demonstrators held aloft a 6-foot-long sign reading, ``this building closed for renovation of morals.'' many held signs insulting to president reagan and shouted obscenities
protesters shouted ``no contra aid'' and ``u.s., cia, out of nicaragua,'' as they marched in a ragged oval in front of the closed main entrance, while early arrivals for work got in through the back doors
at one point, screaming protesters swarmed against a lawyer trying to get in. police fought the demonstrators aside and pulled the man through
officers with visored helmets and batons marched on the double from one street to another as protesters harassed them with quick moves. some protesters went limp and were dragged screaming to the police vans
a man in his early 20s who didn't move fast enough for charging police was hit in the mouth with a baton and bloodied
the demonstators were photographed and booked on the street before being taken to the hall of justice for formal citations
police, moving in with batons chest-high, began rounding up demonstrators after police capt. william welch warned the hooting crowd through a loudspeaker that they were illegally assembled and ordered them to disperse. some were charged with resisting arrest
in minneapolis, riot police arrested about 50 protesters monday after they marched through downtown to the federal building, broke a window and threw paint
officers used 4-foot-long sticks to keep the crowd under control, arrested demonstrators and dragged those who wouldn't go peacefully to police vans. officers also ripped some banners down and tore them up, and used dogs to keep the streets clear
some protesters said the police used excessive force
i moved out of the street real fast,'' said protester pat powers, 52. ``the police obviously were looking for violence. in my opinion the police incited the violence.''
but police chief tony bouza said the officers' actions were necessary
there's a limit to how much you can tolerate. it was getting worse,'' bouza said
president suharto replaced nearly half his cabinet and appointed more than a dozen military men in their place in a shake-up he said will bring new blood to the government
the new cabinet will ensure the continuation of past policies as well as tackle the problem of regeneration (of indonesia's leadership),'' suharto said after announcing the new lineup on television monday
among those replaced were coordinating minister for economic affairs ali wardhana, mines and energy minister subroto and foreign minister mochtar kusumaatmadja
veteran finance minister radius prawiro, 59, will be sworn in wednesday to succeed wardhana as economic czar, officials said. indonesia is asia's largest debtor and wardhana last month said jakarta had no intention of rescheduling its $42.1 billion foreign debt
wardhana, a 60-year-old civilian technocrat credited with helping to restore the economy in the last 20 years, said privately for some time that he wished to retire, diplomatic sources said
subroto, who held the key energy portfolio for 10 years, is being replaced by col. ginandjar kartasasmita, 47, a japan-trained former head of the national investment board. he is regarded by foreign businessmen as a tough negotiator. indonesia's economy remains heavily dependent on oil and natural gas exports and subroto represented the only asian member of the organization of petroleum exporting countries at opec deliberations and once served as head of the cartel
the new foreign minister is ali alatas, 55, who was ambassador to the united nations. among mochtar's unfinished business are ambitions to play host to the next non-aligned summit and be recognized as a leader of the third world
mochtar, 59, who leaves the foreign ministry job after 12 years, spearheaded his country's efforts to project itself on the world stage after years of playing a minor role
as expected, gen. benny murdani, 55, replaced last month as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, was named defense minister. murdani has long been regarded as one of the country's most powerful figures
only 18 ministers of the previous 40-member cabinet were given assignments in the new one which has 41
in addition to murdani and the new armed forces chief, gen. try sutrisno, 53, who also holds cabinet rank, 11 other active or retired military officers were appointed. they included gen. rudini, 58, as home affairs minister and admiral sudomo, 61, as political and security minister, both of whom are retired
suharto, 66, rules the world's fifth most populous nation _ 147 million in 1980 _ with the backing of the armed forces
the retired general, who is starting his fifth five-year term, took power in 1965 following the abortive communist coup. he is the third longest-ruling leader in asia after singapore's lee kuan yew and north korea's kim il sung
authorities searched today for a teen-ager who fled his family's apartment moments after letting his aunt inside, where she found four family members dead in a bathtub, police said
the bodies of catalino hernandez, 45; his wife, carmen, 23, who was four months pregnant; and their children, jonathan, 9 months, and frankie, 6, were discovered monday morning, police said
autopsies determined that frankie died of suffocation and strangulation and jonathan died from a skull fracture after being struck with a blunt object, said dr. halbert fillinger, assistant medical examiner
autopsies were still being conducted on hernandez and his wife, authorities said. according to radio station kyw-am, each was shot once in the head
the bodies of the two adults were discovered in the tub monday morning. the two children's bodies were underneath them and went unnoticed until several hours later, when their parents' bodies were removed, police said. there was no water in the tub
authorities were looking for jose hernandez, 17, who is hernandez's son by a previous marriage in puerto rico, for questioning
we don't know what his role in the crime is,'' said capt. robert j. grasso. ``we are trying to locate him to question him to find out what happened here.''
the youth was taken out of school monday by an aunt who became worried when she was unable to contact the family, police said. when she went to the family's second-floor apartment with the boy, he let her in, then fled, police and family members said
jose told her that he knew where the family was,'' said catalino hernandez, sr., the slain man's father. jose went with her and opened the door ``but as soon as he opened the apartment, he was away and gone.''
a relative saw jose hernandez run to a car and drive off monday morning, police said. the woman told a neighbor she saw a bloody knife on the front seat of the car as the teen drove away. she said jose refused to answer her questions
the four had apparently been dead at least two or three days, grasso said. effigies</head>
police detained scores of people in anti-government protests in two cities that featured dolls with dark glasses resembling those worn by polish leader gen. wojciech jaruzelski, opposition spokesmen said
opposition activists in the southwest city of wroclaw said hundreds of people assembled on a main street monday demanding freedom for waldemar fydrych, head of the satirical street theater group, orange alternative
police in the port city of gdansk on sunday detained 18 members of a banned peace group who planned to throw an effigy with dark spectacles into the baltic sea, an opposition activist said
participants on monday chanted ``spring in, fydrych out!'' while carrying three ``marzanna'' dolls with dark glasses, activists said
the dolls were related to the polish folk custom of drowning ``marzanna,'' a rag-and-stick figure representing winter, on the first day of spring
fydrych is serving a two-month jail sentence for organizing similar demonstrations in the past
the demonstration on monday drew 3,000 spectators, said activist barbara labuda. police at first checked ids, but then began hauling the protesters away, she said
mrs. labuda and an orange alternative member, krzysztof albin, said police later used tear gas and struck people with truncheons. another activist, jozef pinior, said he could not confirm the report
pinior said 150 people were detained, most briefly. mrs. labuda and albin said the number was higher
a police duty officer in wroclaw said he knew nothing about any demonstrations
janina wehrstein, a spokeswoman for the freedom and peace group in gdansk, said the 18 people detained in wroclaw on sunday planned to toss a dark-spectacled doll from a pier into the baltic on monday
five of the 18 were released after a few hours, but the others were held overnight at a police station, she said
freedom and peace opposes poland's universal military draft and demands alternative civilian service for conscientious objectors
an unprecedented number of dissidents and intellectuals from six east european nations have signed an appeal for recognition of the right to object to military service
the appeal, published monday in vienna, was signed by 77 soviets, including andrei sakharov, nuclear physicist and 1975 nobel peace laureate
the signatories from hungary, czechoslovakia, the soviet union, east germany, poland and yugoslavia called for recognition ``of citizens' right to conscientious objection and alternative service.''
the appeal was addressed to the 35-nation conference on security and cooperation in europe, which has been meeting in vienna since november 1986 to review compliance with the 1975 helsinki accords on military security, economic coopertion and humanitarian issues
the appeal asked the delegations to work toward an agreement on the right not to serve in the military
hungarian dissident writer miklos haraszti, who signed the appeal and helped initiate it, told a news conference monday that conscientious objection was one of the main reasons for political imprisonment in eastern europe
hundreds of our east european compatriots are sent to prison because of their non-violent conscientious stands,'' the appeal said. ``these young men would like to serve the community by caring for the old and sick instead of performing military service.''
haraszti said no country in the warsaw pact allows its citizens the right to object to military service, while nato countries do
eastern europe punishes people for not wanting to look at other countries as enemies,'' he said
haraszti said 438 people and groups have signed the appeal so far
the london-based east european cultural foundation, which helped coordinate collecting signatures, said in a news release it was the first time a large number of soviet citizens joined a joint east bloc initiative
haraszti said the appeal, the fourth such joint effort of east european dissidents, carried the largest number of signatures so far
peter uhl, a member of the czechoslovak human rights group charter 77, was invited to come to vienna for presentation of the appeal
however, in a letter read in part at the news conference and then distributed, uhl complained that ``no czechoslovak citizens, including those who have passports, could go to vienna in response to your invitation.''
his letter said, ``internationalization of our demands ... is also very important because it provides a comparison between the legal and factual state of affairs prevailing in the individual east european countries.''
dissidents in east bloc countries estimated the total number of people in prison for objecting to military service at about 300 to 400
three former du pont co. employees who won a $75 million personal injury award say they hope to give $67.5 million to six institutions to help others who suffer from exposure to asbestos
we are making these donations as our best effort to try to help our fellow asbestos victims, as well as to help assure that this kind of abuse of public trust will never happen again,'' william kapp jr., 55, one of the victims and spokesman for the group, said monday
kapp of elkton, md.; james webb, 74, of newport; and joseph kaster, 71, of the newport area said the money would be donated if the damage award is upheld on appeal
in november, a superior court jury ordered raymark industries inc. of trumbull, conn., to pay the men and their wives punitive damages for conspiring to hide the health hazards of asbestos
judge clarence w. taylor has yet to decide whether to uphold the award. if it is upheld, raymark plans to appeal, according to legrande l. young, raymark general counsel
even if it is upheld, kapp said he realizes the award may never be paid for several reasons, including the fact there are still 350 asbestos-related cases pending against raymark in delaware, and last week a mistrial was declared in a trial in which raymark was ordered to pay $22 million to two other former du pont employees
if taylor upholds the $75 million, kapp said it could force raymark into bankruptcy
this way, someone will get something. we're not trying to hog it all. if we force them into (bankruptcy), it will at least go to charity,'' kapp said
on the question of bankruptcy, that's a possibility,'' young said
raymark does not have $75 million, but does have more than that in insurance, he said
the national campaign against toxic hazards, a toxic victims advocacy group based in boston, was earmarked for $13 million of the award
other institutions to receive $13 million each would be the mount sinai school of environmental medicine in new york; the university of delaware school of business; the medical center of delaware's carpenter clinic for cancer research; and the baltimore-based white lung association for asbestos victims
the emily p. bissell hospital for the critically ill in newport was earmarked for $2.5 million
actors in television and radio commercials set aside script lines for picket lines, launching the second day of the second strike to hit the entertainment industry this month
we are now officially on strike against the producers of television and radio commericals. ... no new negotiations are scheduled,'' said a spokesman on a taped hotline recording today at the screen actors guild
the 100,000 joint members of the screen actors guild and the american federation of radio and television artists called their strike monday against the joint policy committee of the american association of advertising agencies and the association of national advertisers
the union rejected a management offer of immediate fee increases in exchange for dropping a cost-of-living adjustment, and advertisers refused to accept a proposed ``tiered'' pay system for cable tv commercials based on the number of cable subscribers
the strike, which affects only radio and television commercials, is the second by hollywood talent unions in less than a month. the writers guild of america has entered the third week of its walkout against motion picture and television producers
john a. mcguinn, the chief management negotiator, urged advertising companies to hire non-union talent, but some companies said they would wait out the strike before beginning new ad campaigns
the ads with non-union actors just won't look as good. it will be a lot like the replacement players who filled in during the football strike,'' said one advertising executive, who asked not to be named
the los angeles office of the new york advertising firm della femina, travisano &amp; partners said it probably will hold off on new ads for one of its major clients, isuzu. actor david leisure, who plays the part of outrageous liar joe isuzu, is a guild member
the striking actors on monday picketed offices of the ogilvy and mather agency in los angeles and honolulu. in new york city, strikers set up picket lines at general motors plaza during a gm board meeting. pickets also walked in chicago and miami
ken orsatti, sag's national executive secretary, sent telegrams to the major candidates asking them to use only ads with union actors by signing interim agreements with the unions
mcguinn, however, said the advertising companies ``don't see any problem during a strike.''
we're producing commercials today; we're producing commercials tomorrow,'' he said. ``we have non-union talent that's willing to work. our doors are open.''
meanwhile, there were no talks scheduled between the 9,000-member writers guild of america and the producers' alliance to end that strike. however, a guild spokesman said scriptwriters are ready to return to the bargaining table
scriptwriters have demanded higher fees from foreign distribution, more creative control and a management proposal to restructure fees for one-hour television shows sold into syndication
a girl who became the first cancer patient to receive a bone-marrow transplant through a computerized national registry apparently is free of leukemia, hospital officials say
brooke ward, 7, will return home saturday to raleigh, n.c. recent tests have found no cancer and, at 100 days, her operation at fred hutchinson cancer research institute is considered a success
one thing brooke apparently won't miss is the attention that accompanied publicity for the national bone marrow donor registry, based in minneapolis-st. paul
mommy,'' brooke complained, holding out her arms to mother margurite ward as a reporter and photographer approached. ``not this again.''
the reason we agreed to the media coverage is that we wanted people to know about the registry,'' mrs. ward said. ``we wanted people to know a bone marrow transplant could be done with a non-related donor.''
the registry located diane walters, 49, of milwaukee, whose tissue type matched brooke's. the transplant was performed dec. 16
she's doing fine,'' mrs. ward said. ``i just feel brooke is going to make it. she's already beaten the odds.''
another piece of the story is fund-raising _ a tough job without news coverage
bone-marrow transplants like brooke's cost an average of $100,000, and fund-raising for her treatment began even before the registry match
the family is covered by private insurance for 80 percent of the transplant costs. fund-raising was still necessary to cover the expenses of moving to seattle, loss of income or any further medical costs
without the media coverage it would have been real hard to raise the money,'' mrs. ward said
there are a lot of people who can't get a transplant because they can't get funds,'' said susan edmonds, a spokeswoman for fred hutchinson. the non-profit cancer center is prohibited from doing fund-raising for individuals
serious legal problems have blocked the extradition of a former argentine general accused of overseeing mass kidnappings and murder during his country's military rule in the 1970s
assistant u.s. attorney mark zanides on monday acknowledged that the five-year deadline under u.s. law for charging carlos suarez mason with the 23 kidnappings already has expired
zanides blames carlos suarez mason for ``a systematic pattern of abduction, torture and murder'' by his troops in argentina during the military rule of the late 1970s
zanides urged u.s. district judge d. lowell jensen to apply california law in the extradition hearings, under which the kidnappings could still be prosecuted. but under questioning from jensen, zanides conceded that there was no precedent for such a ruling
suarez mason, 63, commander of the first army corps in buenos aires from 1976 to 1978, is charged separately with the murders of 43 people, mostly prisoners, by his troops during the so-called ``dirty war'' against suspected leftists
after serving as head of the joint chiefs of staff and the state-run oil monopoly, he fled when a civilian government came to power in 1983. he was arrested in january 1986 at his home in foster city, south of san francisco, and is being held without bail
jensen is expected to rule on the extradition later. after a hearing that lasted nearly all day, he called a recess until april 6 and indicated he may rule then
the judge ruled favorably for the prosecution on one issue, refusing to admit testimony aimed at showing that the charges and extradition were politically motivated because president raul alfonsin, an opponent of the former military government, promised to prosecute generals during his campaign in 1983
suarez mason's lawyers argue he was not responsible for his soldiers' actions and that the actions were ``political,'' and therefore exempt from extradition under the treaty between the united states and argentina
the united nations educational, scientific and cultural organization has adopted an austerity program in a bid to lure the united states and britain into rejoining, the general-secretary said
the general-secretary, frederico mayor, announced the plan monday after arriving in harare on a four-day visit to zimbabwe. mayor, 52, a former spanish minister of education, became unesco chief in november
the united states and britain, once two of the largest contributors to unesco's budget, quit the organization in 1984 and 1985 to protest the organization's alleged anti-western bias and squandering of resources
addressing a news conference in harare, mayor said the austerity plan include a 50 percent cut in unesco documentation. the number of meetings was also cut by 25 percent, and other steps were taken to increase efficiency and create ``less ambiguity'' in the work of the paris-based body
he did not give further details of the plan, but said he had written to the united states, britain and singapore, which also quit the organization, asking them to reconsider their membership
mayor will meet with president robert mugabe and government ministers
when 18- to 44-year-old americans were asked which leaders they admired most in the past 20 years, they picked two men who were assassinated 20 years ago _ martin luther king jr. and robert f. kennedy
thirty-eight percent of those responding to the poll conducted for rolling stone magazine said they admired king the most, citing his stand on civil rights
the respondents who chose king and the 25 percent who chose second-place robert f. kennedy said they were eloquent leaders who stood for peace, justice, tolerance and equality
the magazine noted that both politicians were assassinated before realizing their dreams and that their ``blighted legacy'' is a theme that surfaces throughout the survey
president reagan was also chosen as most admired by 25 percent of those surveyed, but he also had a high negative rating _ 10 percent picked him as the public figure they respected the least
asked under what circumstances they would enlist for military service, 60 percent of all respondents and 73 percent of men said they would enlist if war broke out on the north american continent
only 27 percent said they would enlist if our close european allies were attacked. twenty-five percent of all respondents and 15 percent of the men said they would not join the military under any circumstances
twelve percent said politics was very important in their lives, 41 percent said somewhat important, 30 percent not very important, 16 percent not at all important and one percent were not sure
the survey found that 48 percent of respondents believe families need two incomes in order to survive
results from the poll, conducted last september by peter d. hart research associates, appear in the april 7 issue of the magazine which went on sale today
the poll is based on interviews with 816 respondents at their homes, the magazine said. the margin of error survey is plus or minus four percent for questions involving all respondents, and slightly higher for subgroups
a pre-dawn fire that apparently started when a cigarette ignited a mattress swept through part of a suburban hotel today, killing four guests and injuring seven others, police said
a 7-year-old child and a handicapped man were among the dead at the four-story hotel tivoli in the brussels suburb of laken. of the seven people injured, two were in serious condition, said a police official who spoke on condition of anonymity
the official said the identities of the victims were not yet known but said three of the victims were africans
police said the fire was most probably caused when someone's cigarette ignited a mattress on the second floor
a police patrol noticed the fire minutes after it started at 3:30 a.m. and immediately warned emergency services. police and neighbors meanwhile rescued people while awaiting the firefighters, the official said
one guest was hospitalized with injuries after jumping from the second floor. another guest was found unconscious in his room and also was hospitalized
the fire swept through half of the fully-booked hotel, causing about $57,000 in damage, police said
a pair of bachelor brothers who quietly amassed a small fortune left more than $1.5 million to the high school they attended more than 70 years ago
for most of this century, arthur and edgar simionescu lived quietly together in a modest way but the brothers, who lived into their 90s, amassed a fortune through shrewd investments in stocks and bonds
they left all their money _ estimated at more than $1.5 million after taxes _ to hackensack high school for a college-scholarship endowment
this was really a drop out of the blue,'' said principal harold bloom, who, like his colleagues, never heard of the simionescus until after they died in 1986, three months apart
it totally surprised us. what should i say? it's like manna.''
neither edgar, a machinist, nor arthur, a stamp collector who was confined to a wheelchair because of a teen-age bout with polio, ever went to college
edgar entered hackensack high in 1904, and arthur followed five years later, but they were never big boosters after graduating
they wanted to do something that would have some longevity to it. i think they wanted to help young people,'' said their lawyer, eugene gilmartin
the brothers had investments _ some dating back to the 1920s _ in dozens of companies, ranging from atlantic richfield to united jersey bank
when arthur died in 1986 of heart failure, edgar's health was failing, and he was never told his brother was dead. but he kept asking for arthur. edgar died three months later, also of heart failure
their bequest should provide more than $100,000 in scholarships a year
a sixth-grader has admitted shooting a friend to death and been sentenced to six years of probation for his manslaughter plea
frank melo jr., 13, was indicted on second-degree murder charges by a broward county grand jury for the dec. 26, 1986, shooting of steven mumford of hollywood
prosecutors offered the youth a plea bargain that was approved monday by broward circuit judge m. daniel futch, who withheld adjudication, a formal finding of guilt. if the boy successfully completes probation, his record will show no conviction
futch warned the teary eyed boy that consequences would be severe if he violated probation terms, which include receiving psychological counseling and not using a firearm without court approval
if you don't believe that, you ask anybody,'' said futch, nicknamed ``maximum dan'' because of the stiff sentences he hands out. ``i'll put you in jail.''
the shooting occurred when the mumfords were visiting melo's family. the boy said the shooting was an accident, but stanley mumford, the dead boy's father, contended it was not
prosecutor kelly hancock said steven mumford, 12, had angered melo shortly before the shooting
mumford and wife beverly were ``not that happy with the disposition,'' kelly said after the hearing here. dispersed</head>
promoters have handed out the first $1.5 million raised from a concert to benefit vietnam vets that featured such artists as neil diamond, linda ronstadt, and crosby stills &amp; nash
the money was given to 10 midwest and west coast-based veterans organizations, officials said
ten east coast groups were to receive checks today, said jo ellen ``joey'' talley, producer of the concert and president of welcome home inc., the non-profit entertainment industry group that organized the 4th of july event in washington, d.c. last year
more than $2 million has been raised from the ``welcome home'' concert, and another $300,000 is to be given three michigan groups in may, she said
the presentation was made in los angeles by ms. talley and actors peter fonda and lou gossett jr., who serve on welcome home's board of directors
the $1.5 million was raised during a 4{-hour concert. on stage for the event, broadcast on cable, were diamond, stevie wonder, james ingram, miss ronstadt, and crosby stills &amp; nash
the money benefits such groups as the greeley, colo., chapter of the disabled american veterans, which was awarded $30,000, and the atlanta vietnam veterans resource center, which was awarded $133,500
funds raised are intended to benefit the neediest of veterans and their families, including those who are homeless, jobless or suffer from alcohol or drug addictions, ms. talley said. other</head> picks up 6th graf, `also monday ...' edits to tighten.</note>
israeli troops shot and killed a palestinian man in the occupied west bank during a clash with protesters hurling rocks, metal bars and bottles, an army spokeswoman said today
in the occupied gaza strip, the body of another palestinian was found in an orchard in the village of beit hanoun, israel radio said
the army denied involvement in the gaza death, but a resident of the village said the man's family believed he had been beaten by soldiers. his skull was crushed
in the west bank, the army spokeswoman said an arab's body was found this morning after a monday night clash in tubas, a village 50 miles north of jerusalem
the arab-owned palestine press service identified the man as 26-year-old hikmet drajmeh. the agency said troops shot and wounded two more protesters, one of them seriously, but the army denied the report
the spokeswoman, who could not be identified under army regulations, said the clash erupted when hundreds of palestinians attacked an army patrol with rocks, metal bars and bottles
the soldiers shot to extricate themselves from a life-threatening situation,'' she said
the killing brought the palestinian death toll to 107 in almost four months of unrest, according to unofficial u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has been killed by arab gunfire
in the gaza strip, a military spokesman said no troops had been in beit hanoun monday and so the army could not have been involved. a resident said the victim's family suspected the army was responsible because the body was found in an isolated area off limits to villagers
a third palestinian died today when he was shot from a passing car in the southern gaza strip by assailants assumed to be arabs, israel army radio said. an army spokesman said the motive was apparently criminal
both gaza killings were turned over to the police, the army said. but gaza police officials were quoted by israel radio as saying they were unable to investigate many crimes due to the mass resignations last week of 380 arab officers
the officers resigned along with most of their arab colleagues in the west bank in accordance with orders issued by underground leaders of what palestinians call ``the uprising.''
in other casualties today, officials at the ahli arab hospital in gaza city said two men were admitted with injuries inflicted by israeli troops
in other west bank unrest, an israeli driver fired shots near the balata refugee camp near nablus after his car was stoned, israel radio reported. there were no injuries
in the west bank, members of two arab councils resigned today a day after an underground leaflet called for israeli-appointed municipal officials to leave their jobs
palestinian leaders also called for increased attacks with stones, firebombs and iron bars on israeli security forces and jewish settlers
the call came as several center-left israeli politicians and writers joined right-wing leaders in demanding tougher measures to quell the violence in the west bank and gaza strip
also monday, the army issued a new regulation that will allow the detention of any security prisoner for up to six months with less judicial review. the previous edict required a military judge to review each case within 96 hours
officials said the new regulation would ease the overload on the military court system that has handled nearly 3,000 cases since the violent demonstrations began in the occupied lands on dec. 8
and israeli troops on monday expanded their search for weapons in the occupied lands following the fatal shooting sunday of israeli sgt. moshe katz in bethlehem
defense minister yitzhak rabin lifted restrictions barring soldiers from shooting at rioters throwing firebombs and for the first time the army destroyed the homes of three arabs suspected of throwing such missiles
the increasing violence in the occupied lands drew demands for action from israelis usually opposed to the measures of the rightist likud coalition led by prime minister yitzhak shamir
amnon lynn, a legislator from the opposition labor party, told itim on monday: ``the political echelon must understand we cannot continue with the policy of restraint. there is a time to hold back and a time to attack. the time has come for israel to respond with force.''
sidney mittler, a biologist who studied potential cancer-causing substances, has died of cancer here
mittler, 70, died sunday shortly after he was admitted to de kalb's kishwaukee community hospital, said a spokeswoman at northern illinois university, where he had been a faculty member since 1960
the scientist, who held a doctorate in biology from the university of michigan, wrote more than 100 articles and received more than $3.5 million in research grants to study possible links between cancer and things such as radio waves, caffeine, saccharine, hair dyes, food preservatives and various pollutants
mittler is survived by three daughters, his second wife, judith, and two step-sons. his first wife is deceased. treatment</note>
scientists have doubled the five-year survival rate of early-stage lung cancer patients by activating their immune systems to attack cancerous cells, a researcher reports
patients who received the experimental therapy showed a 63 percent survival rate five years after cancer surgery, compared with 33 percent for patients who received no treatment after surgery, said ariel hollinshead of the george washington university medical center
it's come off very well,'' hollinshead said monday after describing results to science writers at an american cancer society symposium
surgery to remove lung cancer tumors often leaves cancer cells behind. in the new treatment, patients were injected after surgery with proteins drawn from other lung cancer tumors. those antigens helped the body defend against cancer cells left behind by surgery, hollinshead said
other cancer experts said they were impressed but added that more work was needed
for early-stage cancer, ``it looks like it's going to give people at least a 50 percent chance of being around five years later,'' while other post-surgical treatment does little good, said john minton, professor of surgical oncology at the ohio state university college of medicine in columbus, ohio
the problem is, it's small numbers,'' he said of the trial, which included 81 patients. ``it looks good, but we need more numbers.''
any time such a jump in survival rates can be demonstrated, ``you've got to be impressed,'' said dick rauscher, senior cancer society vice president for research
but he said that as with any such finding, he wants to see another group of researchers achieve the same success to confirm the effectiveness of the therapy
hollinshead said the results are part of a 234-patient study that recently reported five-year survival rates of 69 percent in the treated group and 49 percent in the untreated group
lung cancer is the nation's leading cancer killer, every year striking 152,000 americans and killing 139,000
only about 30 percent of lung cancer cases at most are diagnosed as early in their progression as the cases in the study, rauscher said
the cancers in the 81 patients were confined to the lung tissue or spread only to nearby lymph nodes, representing so-called stages 1 and 2. in later stages, cancer spreads elsewhere in the body
all the patients went through surgery to remove cancerous tissue. the experimental therapy began about two weeks later, hollinshead said
once a month for three months, they were injected with doses of proteins called antigens that had been purified from other lung cancer tumors
the injections spurred the immune system into raising defenses aimed at cells bearing the same kinds of antigens. so the body was primed to ``mop up'' cancer cells missed by the surgery, hollinshead said
fifty-three patients received the experimental therapy with injections in one or both arms, while the untreated 28 patients were simply followed for comparison purposes
side effects were limited to a slight fever overnight and skin irritation at the injection sites, hollinshead said
standard treatment after surgery often involves just waiting to see if any further cancer crops up, said minton. radiation is sometimes used, but ``the five-year results are terrible. they're like you didn't get much treatment at all.''
chemotherapeutic drugs do not help either, said rauscher
james b.d. mark, head of the division of thoracic surgery at the stanford university school of medicine, said previous attempts at immune system-based therapy had not met with such success
but he said a potential weak point in the study was the mixing of stage 1 and stage 2 patients, because they have such different natural five-year survival rates, respectively of more than 60 percent and about 30 percent or less
hollinshead replied that patients were assigned randomly to treatment or the non-treatment groups, so that those two groups remained comparable. israel</head>
foreign ministers from moslem countries today condemned israel's ``oppressive measures'' against rioters in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
the ministers of the 46-member organization of islamic conference said in a statement that ``all moslems in the world are proud of this uprising.''
they called for political and financial aid for the rebellion. a palestine liberation organization official, speaking just before a plenary meeting at which the foreign ministers approved the statement, hailed the support they were giving to the ``uprising.''
in another development, iraqi foreign minister tariq aziz in a closed committee session claimed that iran was facilitating the emigration of iranian jews to israel. iran has denied the charge
jordanian foreign minister taher masri said iran and iraq were unlikely to negotiate on peace during the amman meeting, in part because of the low-ranking level of the iranian delegation
the ministers in their statement said the conference ``denounces the oppressive and criminal measures by the (israeli) authorities against our brothers, the people in the occupied territories.''
members of the organization are concerned to support palestinians financially, politically and morally and also to back their sole legitimate representative, the plo,'' the statement said
it did not elaborate on the form this aid would take
farouk kaddoumi, head of plo's political department, the equivalent of the organization's foreign ministry, said the ministers' backing was especially valuable ``for the people inside the territories.''
he spoke the day after king hussein, in an opening address at the conference, called for the moslem world to support the ``uprising.''
more than 100 palestinians have died in the violent protests in the territories israel occupied in the 1967 middle east war. israel seized the west bank from jordan and the gaza strip from egypt
kaddoumi, who is heading the plo's delegation at the islamic meeting, condemned u.s. moves to close the guerrilla group's office in new york, accredited to the united nations
we will keep the office open until american police come and seal it off,'' he said. ``then we will go to the united nations (enclave) and live there.''
aziz, reading in a closed session a statement that was made available to the associated press by a source close to the conference, said the alleged help given to iranian jews for emigration to israel was ``a violation of the rules of the'' organization
he did not elaborate, but asked the organization to study this issue from all sides
how come iran, which claims to support the palestinian issue and the uprising, is helping jews to migrate to israel.''
he provided no figures on the migration. iran has already denied the charge
mayor frank fasi has proposed legislation to stop foreign investors from purchasing some kinds of property in hawaii, saying the measure would put an end to skyrocketing housing and real estate costs
the mayor on monday sent a bill to the state legislature that would ban the sale of residential, agricultural or preservation land to non-americans. the bill does not cover commercial, resort and industrial properties
the mayor's move comes as the state attempts to deal with a recent wave of foreign investment that has caused property values to jump in some areas. the investment has been spurred by the fall of the dollar's value against the japanese yen
what has triggered my action is the japanese buyer with his cheap dollars,'' fasi told the professional women's network on monday. ``they have been buying homes in several areas of oahu, forcing values to unprecedented levels.''
fasi said he does not consider his move protectionist
i believe in free and open trade between most countries,'' fasi said. ``but i also believe in fairness, and what i see happening here is not fair to americans.''
a spokesman for state senate president richard wong said fasi's bill was under review and may be included in the legislative agenda
the city council is considering a number of bills to curb japanese investment and ease the property tax burden on oahu homeowners
two blacks were killed, seven injured and 39 arrested during a nationwide protest strike that brought the most extensive violence this year, police reported today
dozens of buses, delivery vans and private cars were stoned or firebombed on monday, the 28th anniversary of the sharpeville massacre, and in many cases security forces used tear gas, rubber bullets, birdshot and dogs to disperse rioters, police headquarters said
police said the two deaths and five of the injuries resulted from attacks by blacks on blacks. two blacks were injured by police
several of those arrested were trying to prevent children from going to school and workers from going to work, police said
the protest strike was organized by anti-apartheid activists in defiance of emergency regulations barring calls for such actions. hundreds of thousands of black workers and students stayed away from jobs and classes, both to mark the anniversary of the 1960 police shootings of 69 blacks in sharpeville and to protest the recent bannings of black opposition groups
the department of education and training said class boycotts were reported at 694 of the black schools under its control, 9 percent of the total
the star of johannesburg, the country's largest daily newspaper, said protest strikes would continue ``as long as grievances are not directly addressed.''
instead of tension being relieved through the extension of rights and the removal of restrictions, each new round of protests is met with further clamps which inevitably lead to fresh protests.''
five students from johannesburg's university of the witwatersrand went to local police headquarters today with a bunch of roses for rosemary hunter, the president of the student council who was detained under state-of-emergency regulations monday
the students said a police lieutenant refused to accept the bouquet and told them: ``this is a police station, not a hospital.''
ms. hunter, a law student, was taken from her parents' home at dawn monday
police have not commented on the detention
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. picks up 5th graf, `the announcement ...'</note>
dr. patrick steptoe, the gynecologist who pioneered the test- tube baby technique that made parenthood possible for thousands of otherwise infertile couples, has died at age 74
a family announcement today said steptoe had been suffering from cancer. he died monday night in the chaucer hospital in canterbury, 62 miles southeast of london
steptoe continued working until recently despite deteriorating health, his longtime partner, physiologist robert edwards, said
it is a very great loss to bourn hall (their clinic) and to me personally,'' said edwards. ``in the last three years he was working under considerable difficulties, but carried on.''
together, steptoe and edwards were responsible for the world's first test tube baby, louise joy brown, born at oldham in northern england on july 25, 1978
the announcement of the birth of the healthy baby from an embryo fertilized outside her mother's womb caused shock waves at the time. the test-tube baby technique, known as in vitro fertilization, has since been used in clinics around the world
louise brown's birth was hailed as a miracle by some and criticized as a wrong use of scientific techniques by others, including the roman catholic church
but steptoe avoided the controversy
i am not a wizard or a frankenstein,'' he said. ``all i want to do is to help women whose child-producing mechanism is slightly faulty.''
louise, now a schoolgirl, was conceived after an egg was removed from her mother, lesley brown, and fertilized outside the womb with the sperm of her husband, truck driver john brown. returned to the womb, the embryo developed a normal pregnancy
in their early years of research in the late 1960s and early 1970s, steptoe and edwards were ostracized by much of the medical establishment and once turned down for a medical research council grant. but that changed after louise's birth. last year, steptoe and edwards were made commanders of the british empire, and steptoe also received one of britain's highest academic honors and was made a fellow of the royal society
in vitro fertilization was devised mainly to relieve infertility in women with blocked or damaged fallopian tubes _ the normal site of conception
under the procedure, ova are removed from the woman and fertilized with the prospective father's sperm in a laboratory dish. resulting embryos _ often more than one _ then are implanted in the womb
some embryos are now frozen for later use. there have been thousands of babies born worldwide to otherwise infertile couples as a result of in vitro fertilization
steptoe, who was born june 9, 1913, qualified as a doctor in 1939 and immediately went into world war ii service as a royal navy surgeon. he was a prisoner of war in italy from 1941 to 1943, and was demobilized with the rank of surgeon lieutenant commander in 1946
he worked as an obstetrician in state hospitals, moving in 1951 to oldham, a grimy northern england city where in the fall of 1967 he teamed up with edwards, a cambridge university physiologist
they formed a trusted friendship and set up a research laboratory at oldham
steptoe, silver-haird, bespectacled and always impeccably dressed, had a formidable reputation for hard work
louise brown was conceived and born at no cost to her parents under britain's state-funded national health service. but after an argument with the government health department about the high cost of his work, steptoe quit the service in 1978
he and edwards set up their clinic at bourn hall, an 11th century castle near cambridge, in 1980
steptoe is survived by his wife, sheena, whom he married in 1943, and a son and daughter. evans moved as a0505; separate on roush moving sports wires.</note>
dr. patrick steptoe, the gynecologist who pioneered the test- tube baby technique that made parenthood possible for thousands of otherwise infertile couples, died monday at age 74
steptoe, born june 9, 1913, had been suffering from cancer, his family said in announcing his death
he and his partner, dr. robert edwards, were responsible for the world's first test-tube baby, louise joy brown, born at oldham in northern england on july 25, 1978. the announcement of the birth of the healthy baby from an embryo fertilized outside her mother's womb caused shock waves. the technique, known as in vitro fertilization, has since been used in clinics around the world
in the early years of their research in the late 1960s and early 1970s, steptoe and edwards were ostracized by much of the medical establishment. last year, they were made commanders of the british empire, and steptoe was made a fellow of the royal society, one of britain's highest academic honors
gil evans, a composer, pianist and band leader considered one of the greatest orchestrators in jazz, died sunday in mexico. he was 75
evans first professional band was taken over by skinnay ennis, but evans stayed on as arranger. he made his mark in the 1950s and 1960s with innovative arrangements for trumpeter miles davis, particularly three recordings that showcased davis' cool style: ``miles ahead,'' ``porgy and bess'' and ``sketches of spain.''
his first recording with his own band, ``the arranger's touch,'' used french horn, muted trumpet and bassoon in arrangements marked by originality. evans scored the film ``absolute beginners'' at age 74
edd roush, a two-time national league batting champ for the cincinnati reds and a member of the hall of fame, died after suffering an apparent heart attack at a ballpark monday. he was 94
roush, who had been the oldest living member of the hall of fame, was inducted into the shrine in 1962 with jackie robinson, bob feller and the late bill mckechnie
during his 18-year career, roush had a .325 lifetime batting average. in 1929, he batted .324 for the new york giants, but held out the entire 1930 season over a contract dispute. he played his final season for the reds in 1931 and batted .271
roush, a winter resident of bradenton for 35 years who also lived in his hometown of oakland city, ind., was at the ball park for a spring training game between the pittsburgh pirates and the texas rangers when he died
he began his major league career in the american league with chicago in 1913
in 1917, in his first full season with the reds, the left-hander led the national league with a .341 batting average. he won his second batting title in 1919, hitting .321 for the reds
sidney mittler, a biologist known for his work investigating potential cancer-causing substances in food, died sunday of cancer at age 70
mittler held bachelor's and master's degrees from wayne state university in detroit, where he was born, and a doctorate in biology from the university of michigan. he wrote more than 100 articles that were published in scientific journals and received more than $3.5 million in research grants
many of the grants paid for mittler's studies on possible links between cancer and such common substances as radio waves, caffeine, certain hot dog preservatives, saccharine, hair dyes and various pollutants
sam w. reynolds, a businessman who was appointed a u.s. senator and served for seven months, died sunday of pneumonia. he was 97
reynolds owned and operated reynolds-updike coal co. for 76 years until retiring in 1984. he also was a partner in updike lumber and coal
gov. bob crosby appointed reynolds, a republican, to the senate in 1954 after the death of sen. hugh butler. reynolds did not seek election to a full term
reynolds was a city councilman in 1956 and 1957 and had been city civil defense coordinator. he won the nebraska amateur golf championship seven times
former missouri state auditor george lehr, credited for helping to clean up the reputedly mob-dominated teamsters union central states pension fund, died monday at age 51
lehr, executive director of the fund for the past 6{ years, had suffered inoperable brain tumors for more than a year
lehr, a democrat, defeated republican john ashcroft, now missouri's governor, for state auditor in 1974. lehr was mentioned as a candidate for the democratic nomination for governor in 1976, but made the surprise announcement that he was resigning as auditor and leaving politics
he became president of the empire bank and trust co. in kansas city and later became chairman and chief executive officer of traders bank there
lehr accepted the pension fund job in 1981 and worked with the u.s. labor department to clean it up. the fund allegedly had been under mob control. two years ago, the general accounting office said the fund was being run properly for the first time in its 30 years
hester r. mccullough, once a heroine of the political right for her 1940s stand against entertainers associated with communist causes, died sunday at age 71
in the late 1940s, mrs. mccullough, then living in greenwich, conn., returned a $6 subscription ticket to a performance by dancer paul draper and harmonica player larry adler, whom she accused of being members of communist-front organizations
draper and adler sued mrs. mccullough for libel, but decided not to pursue the case when it ended in a hung jury in 1950. by then, it had become a cause celebre taken up by conservative columnists such as westbrook pegler. astrologer; subs 3rd graf to conform</note>
astronomers say a vague prediction by the 16th-century astrologer nostradamus has caused unfounded fear that an alignment of planets will trigger an earthquake that will destroy los angeles in may
there is no alignment of planets in may, and even if there were, it wouldn't have anything to do with earthquakes,'' edwin krupp, director of griffith observatory, said monday
but rumors of an impending earthquake, spurred by writings of the french astrologer and the movie ``the man who saw tomorrow,'' which is being sold on videocassette, prompted more than 100 fearful people to call the observatory in recent weeks, krupp said
we an tell by the phone calls that many people are getting needlessly afraid of the possibility of an earthquake,'' he said, calling the quake predictions ``bunk.''
astronomer john mosley, the observatory's program supervisor, wrote recently: ``there are 11,000 earthquakes each year in the los angeles area strong enough to be recorded. there may be a significant earthquake in may 1988, here or elsewhere ... but if there is, it will have nothing to do with the planets' positions.''
mosley said followers of nostradamus, who lived from 1503 to 1566, have claimed he predicted such events as the russian revolution, the assassinations of john and robert kennedy and the japanese attack on pearl harbor
but nostradamus' predictions, written in rhyme, ``are exceptionally vague, and in general it is only after the fact that a link can be made between his rhymed prediction and an historical event,'' mosley said
he said ``the man who saw tomorrow'' claimed nostradamus wrote that an alignment of saturn, jupiter, mercury, venus and mars will cause a major earthquake in may in los angeles
the prophecy is quoted incorrectly in the movie,'' mosley said. ``nostradamus predicts a severe hailstorm, not an earthquake. ... there is no clue that tells us where this hailstorm will occur.''
mosley said: ``the last time the planets were supposed to align and trigger mass destruction in los angeles was in 1982, the year of the `jupiter effect,''' a book that claims the planets' tidal influence causes quakes
untold millions did not die in 1982 and there's no reason to think that anything will happen in 1988,'' he said. even if the planets were aligned, ``their gravitational effect would be completely negligible ... and they would have no effect on our planet's weather, tides or earthquakes,'' mosley added. with details on continued strike today. picks up 4th graf, `in washington ...'</note>
strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega offered to resign before the may 1989 presidential election if opponents agree to talks with his regime, but the opposition and the united states rejected the offer
the general has to go immediately _ not eventually,'' said aurelio barria, head of the national civic crusade, an opposition umbrella group. ``there will be no dialogue with him.''
barria said the general strike, which shut down over 90 percent of this nation's commerce on monday, would be even more complete today
indeed, most stores in the downtown area remained shuttered today
i say this to noriega: phooey,'' said one downtown panama city merchant guarding his closed dry goods shop
in washington, the state department also dismissed noriega's resignation offer as ``little more than ... a ploy'' to keep noriega's cronies in power and the general in control of the armed forces
noreiga should go, and the sooner the better for panama,'' said state department spokeswoman anita stockman
after noriega was indicted on u.s. drug charges, the reagan administration dried up the flow of money to panama, which uses the u.s. dollar as its currency, in an effort to force him out, and the economy is near collapse
noriega's offer to resign, announced monday night in a national broadcast by civilian chief of state manuel solis palma, was conditioned on a national dialogue with the opposition. but opposition leader guillermo cochez of the christian democratic party said the proposed dialogue involved a hand-picked 33-member panel that would have 22 pro-noriega members
this is not a dialogue,'' said cochez. ``it's just cynicism.''
noriega, the chief of panama's 15,000-member defense forces and the power behind the civilian government, left the presidential palace after solis palma's speech and hailed his proposal as a panamanian solution, rather than one imposed by the united states. ``i have no reason to talk to the united states,'' noriega told reporters. ``i talk to panamanians.''
in his speech, solis palma said noriega had given his word ``as an officer and a gentleman'' to step down before elections scheduled for may 1989
solis palma, elevated to chief of state when noriega ousted president eric arturo delvalle on feb. 26, said he would accept the general's resignation only after the dialogue
opposition leaders derided the proposal
he said, `here i have a little piece of candy, and if you all behave, i'll give it to you, okay?,' said businessman pierre leignadier, a crusade member. leignadier called the idea an insult to the panamanian people
crusade leaders said they expected even stronger support today for the general strike despite noriega's offer
on monday, the strike almost totally shut down the capital of this nation of 2.5 million and, according to the crusade, outlying cities and towns as well
the paralyzation is total in industry, finance and commerce,'' said business leader carlos gonzalez de la lastra
about half of government employees _ who were warned they would be suspended if they went on strike _ failed to show up for work, he said
the strike was called after the government decreed a state of emergency last week allowing authorities to suspend constitutional rights
solis palma said on monday the reagan administration ``says they want a country without drug traffickers,'' but that continued u.s. control of the panama canal was the real motive behind the attack on noriega
delvalle tried to fire noriega on feb. 25, after two u.s. drug trafficking indictments against noriega were handed up in florida
after noriega orchestrated delvalle's ouster on feb. 26, the united states froze panama's international bank accounts, leaving the government and many private businesses without cash to pay employees
retirees were told monday they will not be paid this week. the dockworkers union official, gustavo gonzalez, said solis palma told union leaders in a meeting at the presidential palace sunday the country had no more money
after the government was unable to give full paychecks to employees last week, several national police members tried and failed to stage a military coup, and thousands of anti-noriega rioters took the streets
one man hit by an army shotgun blast during last week's violence died monday of his wounds, becoming the first death in the latest wave of unrest
also monday, the panamanian defense forces announced a shakeup, kicking out 17 officers connected with the coup attempt and promoting 98 loyal officers
wedding guests looked on in horror as a suspected getaway car being chased by police ran down a bridesmaid, dragged her across the street and smashed into the church where the wedding had just taken place
marilyn york, 18, of little rock, was helping to decorate the bride and bridgroom's car monday when she was hit and killed, police said
she had been a bridesmaid in the wedding of 21-year-old valarie dodson and 20-year-old larry charles minutes before at hoover united methodist church
police were chasing a sports car which had been reported stolen last week when the car was driven onto a parking lot and hit the parked car onto which the wedding party had painted the words ``just married.''
the speeding car then ran over ms. york, crossed the street and hit a corner of the church
the driver of the car ran a short distance and was caught and arrested
we were decorating the car and spraying it when we heard a loud noise,'' said viola dodson, the bride's mother. ``we had our backs turned and when we looked around, we saw him coming at us real fast.''
the bride's mother said she started pushing people out of the way and managed to get out of the path of the car herself
ms. york, a friend of the bride, ``got caught between his car and my car and he drug her body across the street and slammed into the wall,'' mrs. dodson said
the police said the firebird was reported to have been used as a getaway car in a shoplifting at a little rock store sunday and was seen by a police officer less than a mile from the wedding scene monday. the officer tried to stop the car but the driver sped away
the company that distributed a cylinder of gas that exploded and killed three at a research laboratory here last week began recalling hundreds of similar cylinders nationwide, state officials said
liquid carbonics industries inc., a chicago-based gas distributor, is recalling cylinders containing the gas silane following the blast at the gollob analytical services plant here thursday, said richard fulton, a spokesman for the state department of environmental protection
a spokeswoman for the company in chicago said it was investigating the origin of the cylinder that exploded but declined to confirm the recall or comment further
the explosion was triggered by a silane cylinder that was contaminated with nitrous oxide, a highly unstable mixture, fulton said
the blast killed three people, seriously injured a liquid carbonics employee and forced the evacuation of 1,500 people living near the plant
fulton said liquid carbonics on monday removed cylinders of silane from its harrison, n.j. storage facility. phone calls to liquid carbonics in harrison were unanswered
elsewhere, about 1,000 workers were kept from their jobs monday in california after canisters containing potentially explosive chemicals were discovered at semiconductor facilities there
chemical inspectors eventually concluded that four canisters at advanced micro devices inc. in santa clara and teledyne semiconductor in mountain view were harmless, and work was scheduled to resume today
another 150 cylinders stored at a liquid carbonics plant in san carlos where they are manufactured were expected to be examined tuesday, officials said. company officials feared the canisters might have come from the same batch as the one that blew up
at a gould inc. semiconductor plant in pocatello, idaho, another possibly contaminated silane cylinder bought from liquid carbonics was emptied sunday after employees and residents of a nearby nursing home were evacuated, said a spokesman at gould's headquarters in chicago
new jersey officials said monday another potentially dangerous cylinder of silane that prompted officials to evacuate residents friday night continued to burn at the gollob plant
two other potentially hazardous canisters at the site were removed sunday. fulton said about 200 non-hazardous cylinders of gas remained at the site
state officials have not conducted an inventory of the gutted gollob building and were trying to decide whether to let the flaming cylinder burn itself out, fulton said
evacuees were allowed to return to their homes sunday and businesses near the gollob plant were allowed to reopen monday
a group of residents in this western pacific island chain have started a drive to have palau declared a commonwealth of the united states, citing a need for u.s. law enforcement agencies
the palau america association wrote to president reagan and lawmakers monday, informing them of a petition drive aimed at placing a constitutional amendment on palau's november election ballot
palau, the last pacific territory still under u.s. trusteeship since world war ii, has entered into a compact of free association with the united states. that measure is still awaiting implementation in congress
this movement is born out of a belated realization by many palauans that the future well-being of palau and a majority of its people will not be protected under a compact of free association without the presence of u.s. federal law enforcement agencies,'' said a letter from francisco t. uludong, who is working on the petition drive
volunteers need signatures of 25 percent of the electorate, about 2,000 people
the soviet government announced today that three soviet soldiers have been taken prisoner by eritrean separatists and another is missing in ethiopia
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov told reporters at a news briefing that 13 soviet military advisers were captured in ethiopia last week by forces fighting to establish an eritrean state separate from the government of addis ababa
recently the so-called people's front for the liberation of eritrea has intensified combat operations,'' gerasimov said
he said nine of the soviets captured had returned to their command posts, three had been identified by their captors as prisoners of war and one remained missing
the spokesman said the soldiers were serving as military advisers in ethiopia, which has strong political ties to the soviet union
gerasimov had no other details of the incident or the conditions in which the soviet captives are being held
eritrea, a former italian colony on the red sea, was administered by britain from world war ii until 1952 when it was federated with ethiopia under a united nations resolution. ethiopia incorporated it as a province in 1962, sparking a rebellion which seeks independence. the</note>
the united states can have ``great certainty'' that it will spot any soviet attempts to cheat on the treaty eliminating medium-range atomic missiles from europe, the senate intelligence committee unanimously concluded today
the testimony came as the senate foreign relations committee began working on the final details of the pact after two months of testimony on the treaty signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
the foreign relations committee is reviewing the pact. senate democratic leaders say they expect the treaty will be approved by the full chamber next month
leaders of both parties have predicted the final tally will show 88 to 90 votes for the treaty, far more than the 67 needed for ratification
as part of the senate review, the intelligence committee looked at american ability to monitor soviet compliance through a variety of means including on-site ground inspection and satellites
the intelligence community will be able to monitor the drawdown and elimination of declared soviet missile launchers and associated equipment with great certainty,'' said the report, which was unanimously approved by the committee
but sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the intelligence committee, told the foreign relations committee that more money needs to be spent to be sure of finding soviet attempts to cheat on a separate treaty making deep cuts in long-range atomic weapons. that prospective treaty is now being worked on by american and soviet negotiators
the interests of the united states are served by effective, verifiable limitations on nuclear weapons,'' said boren. ``indeed, such limitations must continue to be pursued vigorously long after the issue of ratification of the (medium-range missile) treaty has been been resolved.''
sen. william cohen, r-maine, vice chairman of the intelligence committee, warned the foreign relations panel that ``no verification and monitoring regime can be absolutely perfect.''
despite the expected outcome, the pact has come under fire from both democrats and conservative republicans
democrats, led by sen. joseph biden, d-del., are considering attaching a legal condition to the treaty which provides that the interpretation given by administration officials during treaty hearings is binding on future administrations
democratic officials were working late monday to agree on some type of language, but no final proposal had been approved, according to congressional sources speaking on condition of anonymity
the proposal arises from the ongoing dispute between the reagan administration and congressional democrats over reagan's assertion that he has the legal right unilaterally to change the u.s. interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
that change would allow some tests of reagan's star wars anti-missile defense system, but congressional democrats have argued that any alteration in how a treaty is interpreted should first be approved by the senate
the white house told congressional democrats last week it opposed the democratic-backed effort to attach a condition to the treaty because the condition would require the executive branch to adhere to every statement made by administration officials during the hearings, ``no matter how trivial.''
the conservative opposition is led by sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., ranking republican on the foreign relations committee
helms has claimed that the administration made ``misrepresentations'' about the effect of the treaty, a charge that was flatly denied by secretary of state george p. shultz
shultz, who was both the first and last administration witness to testify to the foreign relations panel, said the treaty ``stands on its merits'' and ``should not be made a vehicle for statements on other issues.''
shultz and other administration officials have consistently urged the senate to avoid so-called ``killer amendments'' that could force a reopening of negotiations with the soviet union
administration officials have also argued that rejection of the treaty would be a deep blow to u.s. prestige and power in the 16-member nato alliance
one condition which will be opposed is being offered by sen. dennis deconcini, d-ariz
the amendment will require reagan to ``reaffirm to the soviet union the importance americans place on human rights and fundamental freedoms in the achievement of lasting peace among nations.'' ending</head>
a pro-iranian shiite moslem cleric called today for extremists to kidnap more americans because, he claimed, the united states was responsible for the problems in the middle east
america is the cause of all our calamities,'' sheik subhi tufaili was quoted as saying in a published interview. ``the moslems should chase america's symbols everywhere.''
tufaili, a senior leader of the iranian-backed hezbollah, or party of god, was quoted as urging his followers to ``hold (hostage) all the american regime.''
meanwhile, lebanon's highest ranking shiite cleric, sheik mohammed mehdi shamseddine, said he believed that the kidnapping of foreigners for political motives ``has reached its end.''
we are inclined to believe that this course of political action has reached an end,'' shamseddine told the lebanese news agency, an arabic-language newsletter. he did not elaborate
shamseddine said he has never approved of kidnappings
his remark reflects differences within lebanon's shiite community over the abduction of foreigners
tufaili made his remarks in an interview published by the hezbollah-financed weekly magazine al-wihda al-islamiah, or islamic unity
hezbollah, made up of shiites loyal to iran's ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, is believed to be an umbrella organization for underground groups holding most of the nine americans missing in lebanon
tufaili also charged that the united nations interim force in lebanon was an ``umbrella for many of america's and the west's spies.''
the nine-nation 5,800-strong unifil has been deployed in south lebanon since march 19, 1978
u.s. marine lt. col. william r. higgins, chief of the 76-member observer group-lebanon attached to unifil, was kidnapped near the southern lebanese port city of tyre on feb. 17
the pro-iranian organization of the oppressed on earth, believed to be a hezbollah-affiliated group, claimed higgins' abduction and claimed he was a spy. u.s. and unifil officials denied the charge
in addition to the nine americans, 13 foreigners are missing after being kidnapped in lebanon. they are four frenchmen, three britons, one west german, one italian, one irishman, one indian and two unidentified foreign men
terry anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, is the longest-held foreign hostage in lebanon. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
ay
using the name robinson, mccall married a woman in san diego and bought a car financed with a loan from the navy credit union there, hills said
although officials aboard the ship were aware of the charge, mccall was not taken into custody until the vessel docked
he couldn't go anywhere,'' said hills
mccall was unable to post bond, said mike mcshane, an inspector with the u.s. marshal's service in norfolk. wright said mccall faces additional charges stemming from the use of a false identity. with murders. picks up 3rd graf, `in londonderry, ...' edits to tighten.</note>
a protestant who allegedly killed three roman catholics in a gun and grenade attack at an irish republican army funeral last week will be charged with six counts of murder, police said today
michael stone, 33, has been in custody since last wednesday when mourners grabbed and beat him as he fled the funeral in milltown, firing and hurling grenades
police gave no immediate details of the three other murder charges against stone. but police sources have said stone was also suspected of being connected with other killings of catholics in recent years
meanwhile, the catholic ghettos of west belfast braced for a wave of arrests in the hunt for the killers of two british soldiers at an ira funeral saturday. a crowd, some of whom apparently feared another protestant attack, beat and stripped the soldiers who were then shot dead by ira gunmen
police sources said up to 30 people may be arrested
earlier today, british troops discoverd and detonated a homemade bomb outside an apartment building on the outskirts of west belfast
and police reported finding two rifles, grenades and a pistol in londonderry's catholic shantallow district, the fourth cache found in the city this week
in londonderry, police sought the men who killed policeman clive graham at a londonderry police checkpoint monday. graham was the 12th victim in two weeks of tension and sectarian violence in northern ireland
police chief supt. david turkington said ``someone must have seen'' the gunmen who held a family hostage, fired on graham from a row house and escaped in a hijacked car
britain's two tv networks, the british broadcasting corp. and independent television news, said monday they have refused police demands to hand over untransmitted film of last wednesday's funeral rampage on grounds this would endanger their crews in the future
this policy is to protect our film crews, to protect the lives of our staff,'' said a bbc spokeswoman, who declined to be identified
addressing the house of commons in london on monday, northern ireland secretary tom king said, ``a massive murder investigation is under way in which all possible resources are involved to identify all those responsible.''
he also announced an immediate review of a policy of not policing ira funerals
police introduced the no-policing policy at last wednesday's funeral for the three ira guerrillas killed in gibraltar under pressure from catholic leaders who feared clashes between police and mourners
the latest wave of tension and violence began march 6, when british commandos shot and killed three unarmed ira guerrillas in gibraltar while they were allegedly planning a bombing attack in the british colony
stone allegedly killed three people and injured 68 in wednesday's funeral in milltown for the three ira members
at saturday's funeral for an ira man killed in the milltown attack, ira gunmen killed two british soldiers, who were in civilian clothes at the time
asked why police did not immediately order in heavily armed units on standby nearby, king said it was not clear at first to police commanders watching the army video that soldiers were being attacked. he said the authorities believed no security force personnel were in the area
the truth is that there will be new depths (of horror) again as long as this awful and evil campaign of terrorism and revenge continues,'' king told the commons on monday. ``it has got to stop.''
there were new calls for another attempt to find agreement between the province's mainstream catholic and protestant political parties to stop guerrilla groups
seamus mallon, deputy leader of the moderate catholic social democratic and labor party, said britain must decide ``whether the priority is to defeat the ira, or to find a political solution.''
at least 2,638 people have died in sectarian violence in norther northern ireland since 1969. the mainly catholic ira is fighting to end british rule and unite the protestant-dominated province with the catholic republic of ireland under a leftist administration. one graf after 6th graf, however, many xxx, to update with other records.</note>
residents of the northeast dug out winter overcoats and ski jackets as unseasonable cold gripped the region today, three days into spring
temperatures were generally below freezing, with readings in the teens and single digits over much of the great lakes region and northern atlantic coast. subzero readings were reported at a few locations in maine, new york and pennsylvania
somebody left the door open on the north side of the house,'' said bob thomas, a forecaster for the national weather service in albany, n.y. ``we're getting a strong cold wind right out of hudson's bay.''
spring has been in disguise since it began sunday; the 21-degree high in albany on monday was about 20 degrees below normal
some of the early blooming flowers may be negatively affected. some of the crocuses may not fare too well,'' said george good, a horticulturalist in ithaca, n.y
however, many flowers may not have poked their shoots out of the ground yet, good said. ``for the most part there hasn't been enough warm weather yet to really get things started.''
ten northeastern cities reported records this morning, including allentown, pa., where the 15 degree low tied the record set in 1965; mansfield, ohio, where the 14-degree mark shaved a degree off the 1965 record; and syracuse, n.y., where the 5 degrees cut three degrees off a record set in 1959
a reading of 7 degrees shortly after midnight set a record in binghamton, n.y. the old record low for the date was 8 degrees in 1965
bradford, pa., was the coldest place in the nation at 2 a.m. est, at zero degrees, and it was 18 degrees at 5:30 a.m. in new york city. ohio residents looked out on a lake erie that was still mostly ice-covered
however, a warming trend was expected to put winter to flight this afternoon and wednesday, with temperatures rising into the 40s and 50s in the mid-atlantic region
steve smith, a weather specialist for environment canada at churchill, manitoba, on the shores of hudson's bay, disavowed responsibility for the cold
smith said a high-pressure system was driving the cold air from the north. ``that's why you're getting our weather. so you really can't blame us,'' he said
they call us the polar bear capital of the world. while you're getting our weather, we've got a south wind that's pushing our temperatures above normal,'' smith said
in churchill, the high monday was 10 degrees, seven degrees above normal. the low was minus 15. tehran. picks up 4th graf, `shipping executives ...' subs grafs 7-8, bgng, `the escalation ...,' with 2 grafs to update with today's missile attack. picks up 9th graf, `the havglimt ...'</note>
an iranian gunboat and helicopter attacked a norwegian-operated tanker carrying volatile chemicals through the persian gulf at dawn today. a greek supertanker later was reported set ablaze in another iranian raid
two crewmen were killed and four wounded in the first attack, on the 38,534-ton havglimt, flying the singapore flag, shipping executives reported
iraq fired a missile at tehran today and mounted air raids on seven other cities, the iraqi news agency reported. the missile was the 45th aimed at the iranian capital since the iran-iraq ``war of cities'' resumed march 13
shipping executives said an unidentified u.s. warship patrolling the gulf picked up 10 seamen, who were floating in a raft after abandoning the greek supertanker, the 357,130-ton stavros g.l
the executives said the other 19 greek crewmen stayed on board to fight the flames. a salvage tugboat soon joined the effort
there were no casualties aboard the greek vessel, which was attacked about 1 p.m. only a few miles south of where the havglimt was hit in a dawn attack
the attacks were the seventh and eighth by iran on neutral shipping since friday. they came as 51 crewmen remained missing and were presumed dead after an iraqi raid on two tankers near iran's kharg island oil terminal. earlier reports had said 54 crewmen were missing
the escalation of the ``tanker war'' came as iran and iraq were locked in a series of missile duels and air raids on each other's major cities. the two nations have been at war for 7{ years
today's missile attack on tehran was the 106th such attack since feb. 29
about 65 iranian missiles have slammed into baghdad in that time. also monday, iran launched an artillery and rocket attack on basra, inflicting heavy casualties, iraq said
the havglimt tanker, carrying ammonia and operated by the oslo-based havtor co., was hit at dawn about 12 miles northwest of dubai, said the gulf-based shipping executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the dead crewmen were identified as singapore nationals, and the ship's norwegian captain was among the wounded. other members of the 26-man, multinational crew were mainly treated for inhalation of ammonia vapors, according to the executives. four needed hospitalization
the fire in the engine room of the stricken tanker was brought under control by salvage tugboats, but the flames later reignited in the crew's quarters, the executives said
the british destroyer hms exeter, on patrol in the area, dispatched a helicopter to help rescue the crew, many of whom had fainted from fumes leaking from blasted cargo holds, the shipping sources said
a navy medical team wore gas masks as they were lowered from the helicopter onto the tanker to help airlift the seamen
the bodies of the dead and the injured crew members were lowered onto a salvage tugboat, which took them to a hospital at the united arab emirates port of dubai, the sources said
the shipping executive said at least one gunboat raided the vessel with machine-gun fire and rocket-propelled grenades. forty minutes later, a helicopter fired rockets at the tanker
they went for the accommodation quarters. there were plenty, plenty of hits all over,'' said associated press photographer greg english, who flew over the stricken tanker in a helicopter
iraq resumed attacks on iranian oil shipping lanes on march 8, after a lull in attacks in the persian gulf for about a month
on monday, iranian gunboats attacked and set ablaze the 10,168-ton spanish refrigerator ship iberian reefer and the 61,762-ton liberian-registered fumi with rocket grenades. no casualties were reported on board either ship
at least 51 crewmen remained missing from iraq's saturday attack near iran's kharg island oil terminal. the attack destroyed two iranian-owned ships, the 253,837-ton sanandaj and the 316,379-ton avaj
the norwegian shipping association reported today that the number of missing was ``imprecise,'' but the latest figure was 51
earlier, norwegian officials had said 54 crewmen, mostly iranians and asians, were presumed dead. a swedish engineer also was among the missing
the shipping association said it had no independent confirmation of the deaths and was working on the basis of gulf sources
both ships were owned by the iran's national iranian tanker co., but the sanandaj crew was hired by a norwegian firm, viking engineering, and another norwegian company, scanact, had part interest in the avaj
the maritime insurance firm, lloyd's of london, said 37 ships had been damaged in attacks by both iraq and iran this year
delegates to the american jewish congress convention voiced concern today about the role of religious groups in politics but tabled a resolution urging churches and synagogues to refrain from active roles in political campaigns
the proposed resolution, which will be redrafted, had suggested it was ``inherently dangerous'' for religious groups to identify with one candidate or one political party. it reaffirmed the right of all people, including clergy, to seek political office
the resolution is expected to be taken up at a later national meeting of the group, but leaders did not indicate whether it would be during the 1988 presidential campaign
discussion centered on whether delegates should take a strong stand against practices by two religious leaders now running for president, pat robertson and rev. jesse jackson
the tabled resolution said ``certain recent practices of both these candidates are troubling issues,'' citing robertson's use of church-owned buses to bring supporters to caucuses and jackson's effort during the super tuesday primaries to collect contributions in churches
in their nearly unanimous decision to redraft the resolution, delegates said it could be counterproductive and also should not refer to any individual
on monday night, an ajc leader urged that a new world zionist meeting be convened in jerusalem in the 1990s to unify jews everywhere with israelis and to heal the division over how to achieve peace with the arabs
we are indeed one people, sharing one destiny, no matter where we live,'' executive director henry siegman told delegates at the 70th anniversary convention
siegman reiterated the ajc's support for a u.s. plan calling for talks on palestinian autonomy in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, followed by an international peace conference including israel and its arab neighbors. he also spoke out against israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir's condemnation of jews who object to his opposition to the plan
the jewish people everywhere, and not only those who vote in support of a particular israeli party, have a right to speak up when they believe certain policies profoundly violate a legacy that belongs to the jewish people collectively, even if finally only the citizens of israel will vote and make those decisions on which their security depends,'' siegman said
one moment, deandra anrig was peacefully flying her kite. the next, she too was soaring through the air, courtesy of a passing plane which snagged the kite string
i'm very sore _ and i was very scared,'' said the 8-year-old dublin, calif., youngster after spending monday at home on an air mattress, surrounded by ice packs. ``i want to go kite flying again, but where there are no airplanes.''
on sunday, deandra and her father, brad, were flying the kite at shoreline park, using strong 200-pound test line. suddenly, a plane taking a patient to nearby stanford university hospital snagged the kite and jerked her off the ground
she flew about 200 feet, about 10 feet off the ground, until she let go to avoid hitting a tree. she was bumped and bruised, but otherwise uninjured
pilot jake uranga, of reno, nev., and his passenger also were uninjured and the plane landed safely at palo alto airport nearby
the plane suffered $10,000 in damage and the park has banned kite flying until an investigation is complete
she said it was just a big jerk that lifted her into the air,'' said deandra's mother, debby. ``it carried her right over my husband's head. all he saw was a shadow going over his head
i'm just thankful she let go.''
the head of the public health service said today he is pleased with new guidelines prohibiting discrimination against federal employees with the aids virus
we worked very closely with the office of personnel managment in developing them,'' said dr. robert windom, the no. 2 official of the department of health and human services and head of the health service
the regulations are reasonable and reflect phs concerns,'' windom said
he and other health service officials will brief personnel officers from about 30 federal agencies on the guidelines on thursday
the rules, which will allow federal supervisors to take disciplinary action against employees who refuse to work with colleagues carrying the virus, were distributed to federal agencies this week
the federal government, as an enlightened and compassionate employer concerned with the health and welfare of its employees, has an obligation to show the way in addressing the realities of the aids epidemic,'' constance horner, the director of the office of personnel management, said in a memo accompanying the guidelines
the guidelines instruct federal agencies to treat aids-infected employees ``in the same manner as employees who suffer from other serious illnesses.'' they also say there is ``no medical basis for employees refusing to work with such fellow employees or agency clients
if an employee's threat or refusal to work with an aids-infected co-worker disrupts office functions, managers are told to ``consider appropriate corrective or disciplinary action against the threatening or disruptive employees.''
horner said agencies should grant leave to aids-infected employees ``in the same manner as they would for other emloyees with medical conditions.'' aids-infected employees may continue their life insurance, but cannot increase their coverage after they become seriously ill, the guidelines state
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a contagious disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections. indictment</head>
a federal judge ruled today that gen. manuel antonio noriega's attorney can formally protest the legality of racketeering and drug trafficking charges, even though the panmanian strongman has not appeared in court to answer the indictment
u.s. district judge william m. hoeveler granted permission for noriega's attorney, neal sonnett, to file a ``limited appearance'' on behalf of the embattled strongman
this limited appearance would be solely for the purpose of attacking the legality and sufficiency of the indictment,'' said sonnett, among a battery of miami attorneys retained by noriega
the decision came over vehement objections from assistant u.s. attorney richard gregorie, who said that noriega's attorney could not make any arguments until noriega responds legally to the u.s. indictment by making an appearance
gregorie noted that noriega had not surrendered nor made any court appearance to answer charges in the sealed indictment returned by a federal grand jury in miami feb. 4, which named noriega and 15 other people
gregorie and sonnett were involved in a heated exchange during the hearing in hoeveler's courtroom
i represent general noriega,'' sonnett told the judge
the government objects. he has no client to represent!'' responded gregorie
i have a client and mr. gregorie knows that i have a client,'' sonnett shot back, to which gregorie responded, ``then bring him here!''
hoeveler agreed to let sonnett file by friday a memorandum of law setting forth his position. he gave gregorie until the following friday to respond
you may file your motion; then we'll decide whether you can argue it,'' hoeveler told sonnett
only one of the 16 defendants named in the indictment, brian alden davidow, was at today's hearing
davidow, 26, the only person to surrender in the case thus far and be arraigned, has pleaded innocent to the racketeering conspiracy count and other charges in the indictment. he is free on $500,000 bond after his family posted 10 percent of that amount with the court
hoeveler delayed setting a trial date after davidow made a formal waiver of his right to a speedy trial
most of the other defendants named in the indictment were in either panama or colombia, gregorie said
anglican bishops, including an envoy sent by the archbishop of canterbury, today pledged support for archbishop desmond tutu in his confrontation with the government
tutu, the first black to lead the anglican church in southern africa, has angered president p.w. botha by declaring that he and other church leaders will carry on the work of anti-apartheid groups which last month were banned from operating
nineteen bishops, after an emergency meeting with tutu, issued a statement warning that the government ``is driving this beloved country closer to civil war.''
we offer archbishop tutu our loyalty and support,'' the bishops said. ``we shall not allow the government to isolate him.''
tutu, who declared that the government would ``bite the dust,'' said it was important that botha and other white south africans ``know that i am not just spouting forth things that come into my head.''
these are responsible people,'' said tutu, gesturing to the bishops. ``they would have knocked me down if they believed that what i am saying is inconsistent with the gospel.''
botha met with tutu, the winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize, last week and suggested that the archbishop had aligned himself with the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement
referring to this, the bishops said they ``take grave offense at the cavalier way'' in which botha treated tutu
among those attending today's meeting was bishop keith sutton of lichfield, england, who was sent as representative of the archbishop of canterbury, robert runcie
runcie is spiritual leader of the 70-million-member worldwide anglican communion
he is a christian leader,'' sutton said of tutu. ``his objections to apartheid grow directly out of his pastoral work.''
at a news conference monday, tutu dared botha to take action against him
if they try to restrict me or ban me, they are just wasting their time, because i will not obey their orders,'' tutu said. ``they will have to put me in jail.''
i can't keep looking over my shoulder to see if god has got the approval or disapproval of the government,'' he added
three weeks ago, tutu and 24 other church leaders were arrested and briefly detained after they tried to march to parliament in cape town with a petition protesting the latest crackdown on opposition
last month, the government banned 17 other organizations from participating in any activity not approved by the government
since then tutu and other church representatives have taken up the struggle against apartheid, which by law and custom establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs
south africa's 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. pvs, ``i'm not</note>
president reagan said today he still hopes panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega will relinquish power and leave the country
but reagan would not say whether he expects noriega to do that
asked by reporters if he would be satisfied should noriega step down but not leave his central american country, reagan said, ``we feel noriega should leave panama.''
reagan, questioned as he arrived at the capitol for talks on the possibility of resuming u.s. aid to the contra rebels in nicaragua, was asked if he expected noriega to agree to leave his nation
i'm not making any predictions,'' the president replied
at the state department, spokesman charles redman said that the panamanian people clearly have not been deceived by noriega's conditional offer to step down by may 1989
redman said panamanians regard the offer as a ``ploy to buy time,'' a view shared by the united states
the message from panamanians is clear. for the good of panama, noriega should leave,'' redman said
his presence is the root cause of continued political and economic instability,'' redman added. ``the ongoing general strike is only the most recent demonstration of the overwhelming opposition from all segments of panamanian society to noriega's continued rule.''
on monday, shortly after panama's chief of state, manuel solis palma, told panamanians of noriega's offer, state department press officer anita stockman said, ``we stand by our previous view that noriega should go, and the sooner the better for panama.''
solis palma said noriega had given his word ``as an officer and a gentleman'' to step down before panamanian elections scheduled for may 1989 if his conditions _ which include talks with opposition leaders _ are met
william g. walker, deputy assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, said noriega's offer ``totally ignores the reality of the situation.''
almost everyone in panama wants him out tomorrow and wants him out of the country,'' said walker, who was in panama last week to discusss terms under which noriega might step down
a state department statement released by stockman said:
we believe the offer is little more than one, a ploy to attempt to legitimize the illegal solis palma regime by calling for negotiations between it and opposition groups and two, an effort on the part of noriega to maintain direct or indirect control of the panamanian defense forces.''
noriega is under indictment on federal drug charges in florida. the united states has dried up the flow of money to panama, which uses the u.s. dollar as its currency, in the effort to force him out, and the economy is near collapse
noriega is the problem, and his preoccupation with remaining on the scene despite overwhelming domestic opposition will only insure continued economic and political instability there,'' the state department said
noriega put down a coup attempt by dissident officers last week and rejected a u.s. plan for him to leave panama and live in spain
solis palma replaced eric arturo delvalle, who was dismissed by the legislature after he tried to fire noriega. delvalle, who is hiding in panama, is still recognized by the united states as panama's president
cuban dissident ricardo bofill's home in havana has been surrounded by people protesting his activities on behalf of human rights, and he appears to be under house arrest, a newspaper said today
bofill, president of the pro human rights committee of cuba, was forced back into his house when he tried to leave, said jerry scott, press attache of the u.s. interests section in havana, told the spanish-language edition of the miami herald on monday
the mobs have been organized by the (cuban) government,'' said hilda felipe, a delegate of the cuban committee who does not live in cuba. ``they have followed him, insulted him on the bus and the mobs in front of his home have thrown rocks at him.''
a diplomatic source who asked not to be identified told el nuevo herald that the cuban government wanted to destroy bofill's image and put him in prison before a scheduled united nations human rights commission visit to cuba
since last week granma, the official newspaper of cuba's communist party, has published a series of articles criticizing bofill
ms. felipe said she had been assured by contacts in cuba that the protest against bofill was not supported by the community at large but backed solely by the government
the u.s. interests section in havana operates out of the swiss embassy because the united states and cuba don't have diplomatic relations
the government said tuesday that 12 men _ including an opposition party leader _ have been arrested in a plot to overthrow the government of president samuel doe
seven coup plotters were still at large, including an army captain and two sergeants, said information minister emmanuel bowier
among those arrested in the plot, which was uncovered march 16, were gabriel kpolleh, leader of the opposition liberia unification party, bowier said. four of those arrested were soldiers
arms, ammunition and military uniforms were found in a monrovia neighborhood, he added
doe has been the target of several assassination and coup attempts. an abortive nov. 12, 1985 coup attempt, which came after elections that opposition leaders said were rigged, left more than 600 people dead
police on tuesday said they authenticated a statement from a left-wing terrorist group claiming responsiblity for a weekend bar bombing that injured 13 people, including four u.s. servicemen and two britons
the statement sent by the revolutionary popular solidarity organization to the left-wing daily eleftherotypia is similar to one the group sent five years ago claiming responsibility for an abortive attack against the saudi arabian envoy in greece, a police spokesman said
the four non-commissioned u.s. officers who were injured in saturday's bomb attack at the seaside bar in the suburb of glyfada all serve at nearby hellenikon u.s. air force base
the group's statement said it would continue its attacks ``against the north american imperialists'' until the four u.s. military bases in greece are shut down
parliament on tuesday approved a government plan to raise the speed limit on the nation's highways from 62 mph to 74 mph
the vote ended several years of debate by environmentalists, pro-auto lobbying groups and the government, which conceded the old speed limit was widely ignored
the decision, scheduled to go into effect may 1, marked the demise of a measure that followed the 1973 arab oil embargo against the netherlands
the new speed limit of 120 kilometers per hour had been vigorously opposed by vocal environmentalist groups, which said it would further damage the fragile environment in this crowded nation of 14.6 million people. the groups, backed by left-wing political parties, faced a powerful lobby of road builders, garage owners and other car-related interests
the old speed limit of 100 kilometers per hour remains in force along the highway in the densely populated urban crescent stretching from rotterdam via the hague and amsterdam to utrecht in the central netherlands
the last two years have been the warmest in this country in more than three decades, the national oceanic and atmospheric administration reported tuesday
both 1986 and 1987 recorded average temperatures for the year of 54.0 degres fahrenheit over the 48 contiguous states, the agency said
these were the warmest years since 1953, which averaged 54.7 to tie with 1934 for the warmest year in this century
by contrast, records going back to 1895 show the normal annual average temperature for the 48 states is 52.5 degrees. the coldest year was 1917, which averaged 50.7
tom karl of the national climatic data center in asheville, n.c., said the combination of the position of the jet stream upper air currents and the high pressure center located over bermuda were contributing factors in the recent warm years
the more basic thing is why they were in those positions, and that's more difficult to answer,'' karl said
the concern everyone has in the back of their mind is if it's part of the greenhouse gas effect'' that has been reported on, he said
the greenhouse effect is a prediction of computer models, which say increasing amounts of carbon dioxide and other gases in the atmosphere could act much like the glass in a greenhouse, trapping heat and raising the temperature of the earth
it's not clear yet,'' if that is a factor in the warmth of 1986 and 1987, ``but it bears watching,'' karl said
until 1986 the average temperature of the united states had been running at or slightly below normal in the 1980s, karl said, even though worldwide temperatures seemed to be on the increase
in 1986, he said, the spring was particularly warm across the country. the winter of 1986-87 and the spring of 1987 also were unusually warm, particularly in the north-central region
the offer of asylum to gen. manuel antonio noriega of panama maintains a spanish tradition of opening its doors to latin americans seeking a place of exile
the hospitality stems from historic and cultural ties with latin america that transcend spanish party politics. but the spain that is prepared to offer asylum to noriega is far different from the country that took in ousted cuban dictator fulgencio batista in 1959
during the 36-year rule of gen. francisco franco, spain became a haven for batista, colombian ruler gustavo rojas pinilla, ousted argentine leader juan d. peron, toppled dominican president juan bosch and venezuelan strongman marcos perez jimenez
rojas pinilla arrived in 1957 after a stopover in bermuda, batista spent time in madeira and lisbon before settling in madrid and peron wandered from paraguay to panama to venezuela after his 1955 ouster before arriving in seville in 1960
both perez jimenez, ousted in 1958, and bosch, a democratically elected president toppled in 1963, lived in the united states before coming to spain
franco's conditions for receiving all were simple: maintain a low profile and don't meddle in spanish or foreign politics
in the case of noriega, prime minister felipe gonzalez says spanish policy is to accept requests when asylum could help maintain or restore democracy in a specific country
as conditions for accepting noriega, spain requires that he himself ask for asylum, that the united states agree not to seek his extradition on drug-trafficking and money-laundering charges filed against him in u.s. federal courts, and that washington honor the 1977 treaty under which control of the panama canal will revert to panama in 2000
noriega has refused to leave panama. but he has said he is willing to step down as military leader prior to the 1989 presidential elections in panama
santiago varela diaz, a gonzalez spokesman, said since spain's transition to democratic government in 1977, the type of political exile in spain has changed considerably
since then, spain has taken in many chileans, argentines and uruguayans fleeing from military dictatorships,'' he said. ``the case of panama and noriega is separate, but it is a concrete example of our willingness to serve as a support for a democratic solution to a problem.''
during the waning years of the franco regime in the early 1970s, not all the latin american exiles in spain were rightist dictators
former economics minister manuel ulloa of peru came to spain after the army ousted president fernando belaunde terry in 1968. belaunde went to the united states
christian democratic leader andres zaldivar of chile moved to madrid after gen. agusto pinochet overthrew president salvador allende in 1973
most of the latin american leaders exiled in spain have lived in the opulent suburbs north of madrid
batista died in madrid of a heart attack in 1973. perez jimenez, 74, still lives in a palatial residence in la moraleja
until his return to argentina after an 18-year exile, peron held court at his 17th of october estate in puerta de hierro
franco laid down the law to peron four years after his arrival when the argentine general tried an unsuccessful return to buenos aires in 1964 and threatened him with explusion if he kept up his politicking
but by 1970 peron was again receiving a steady stream of visitors and plotting his return to argentina where he was elected president in 1973. he died a year later
his widow, maria estela martinez de peron, who succeeded her husband as the first woman head of state in the western hemisphere, lives in quiet exile in madrid after her overthrow by the military in 1976 and five years of house arrest in southern argentina
two federal parole examiners recommended today that anti-castro militant orlando bosch be released from prison may 16 after completing a three-month sentence for violating his parole
bosch, convicted in the united states of conspiring to bomb foreign freighters and firing a recoilless rifle in 1968 at a polish freighter docked in miami, served four years of his 10-year federal prison sentence
he has acknowledged violating parole when he fled to south america in 1974. he served 11 years in venezuelan jails until his final acquittal on charges of bombing a cuban jetliner in which 73 died in 1976
the recommended sentence, which includes time bosch has spent in jail since returning to the united states, must be approved by the u.s. parole commission. the panel is expected to decide within three weeks
but after serving his three-month sentence, the 61-year-old bosch will likely be taken into custody by the u.s. immigration and naturalization service, said bosch's attorney, george yoss. the ins has targeted bosch for exclusion hearings and possible deportation
bosch entered the united states illegally last month after his release from a venezuelan prison. since mid-february, he has been detained at the metropolitan correctional center in south dade
bosch hugged his family after learning the examiners' recommendation, said his daughter, myriam bosch. ``we're very satisfied with the recommendation,'' she said. ``we think it's very fair.''
yoss said bosch probably would not appeal the recommended sentence for his 1974 parole violation. ``it's something dr. bosch, the family and we can all live with,'' yoss said
several prominent cuban-americans, including jorge mas canosa, head of the cuban american national foundation, testified today before the parole examiners in a hearing closed to the public because it is an administrative procedure, federal officials said
mas canosa said bosch should be released because he has learned his lesson and would now work peacefully for the overthrow of cuban president fidel castro
general electric is recalling about 45,000 ge and rca brand electric surge suppressors which could present a shock hazard, the consumer product safety commission said tuesday
known as electronic protection center surge suppressors, the units were sold nationally between october 1986 and december 1987, officials said
no injuries have been reported, but officials said a defect in some of the units could allow their metal housings and the metal housings of any connected appliances to become electrified, creating the potential for a shock
involved are ge surge suppressor models epc-6s, epc-6ms, epc-4ns and epc-cpu as well as rca models sk416 and skf416
the items sold for $40 to $60. they resemble a gray power strip with four or six electrical outlets. each has an on-off switch, a power indicator light, resettable circuit breaker and 6-foot cord. the product was designed to prevent damage from sudden electrical power surges to such equipment as personal computers, stereos, televisions and other appliances
owners of the units should disconnect them from the outlet, without touching the metal housing, and mail them to general electric co., attn: epc recall, p.o. box 8203, beaverton, ore., 97076. the units will be replaced and postage costs reimbursed
anyone needing more information may contact ge at 1-800-626-2000 or the safety commission at 1-800-638-2772
democrat albert gore jr. stood in front of one of the most powerful computers ever built and for half an hour spoke with the kind of emotion not often seen in the 1988 presidential race
he complained of the reagan administration's ``starvation of super-computing,'' and described his vision _ a nationwide fiber-optic network connecting such machines for research and business, a public works project as important as the building of interstate highways a generation ago
when he was done, a television reporter's first question made gore's face sag. what, the newsman wanted to know, did the tennessee senator think of the latest polls that showed him trailing in the presidential race
gore managed a chuckle and, after a pause, gave the answer he had repeated three times before in three other cities that day: polls are sometimes wrong
but gore had come to the campus of the university of illinois in champaign, one day before illinois' important democratic presidential primary last week, to talk super-computers _ the kind that perform millions of calculations in an instant, and whose usefulness is more widely assumed than understood
gore's performance, and the staging and timing of the event, illustrate the incongruity that sometimes surfaces as he takes his campaign to the north
he uses newly adopted slogans about ``working men and women,'' and of bringing the democratic party ``back to the grass roots'' _ populism that proved successful in the south
yet gore often seems more inspired when the discussion turns to deeply technical issues of the sort that may not evoke much response from those working men and women he seeks
super-computing will be the engine of the information age,'' gore said
he and his audience were crowded into an antiseptic, white-floored and glass-walled room with a cray super-computer the size of two or three coca-cola machines and about as red. with him were his wife and his father
what we have seen in the last several years is the emergence of an entirely new field of scientific inquiry _ computational science,'' gore said. ``it's time we move forward to create a national infrastructure that enables us to take advantage of that computational science.''
gore, 39, was educated at harvard, showing an intellectual curiosity that led him to enroll in both the divinity and law schools, finishing neither
in 12 years as a member of the house and senate, he immersed himself in issues such as medical technology, organ transplants and arms control
he gained the reputation of an arms-control specialist who enjoys detail. on his campaign plane he talks with excitement of ``unmistakeable signs,'' in warsaw pact troop placements of recent weeks, that the soviets' ``basic posture is undergoing re-evaluation.''
but his claimed expertise can be a two-edged sword. rival michael dukakis charged gore ``got taken to the cleaners'' when he led democratic negotiations with the reagan administration over arms control and star wars
there's also the possible problem of bogging down his audience _ in what is, after all, a political battle _ with detail on technical subjects
for example, there was his campaign statement last week reacting to reports that ozone _ a protective layer of atmosphere shielding out harmful rays _ was disappearing faster than thought
gore called for an immediate ban on ``non-essential uses of chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs)'' as propellants in aerosol sprays. beyond that, he outlined five other steps, including ``an immediate $1 per pound assessment of the most harmful cfcs, rising to $5,'' and having the president ``personally call on the leaders of japan and europe to ratify the montreal protocol, and to put the issue on the june summit.'' no explanation of that protocol, or much else, was given
still, in person and in the campaign statement, gore did take care to make broader points. the computers are keys to increased competitiveness, he said. and ozone depletion raises the threat of skin cancer
the candidate who loves to talk technical detail became, in the campaign press release, ``an environmental paul revere.'' adding to, but deleting last 5 grafs pvs, reagan's meeting, to trim.</note>
president reagan today issued a plea to house republicans to help him revive his stalled policy of aid to the nicaraguan contra rebels, but said democrats will be to blame if the rebels go out of existence
the president, in a one-hour meeting with house republicans on capitol hill and later with a group of state and county gop officials, called on gop members to unite behind a new effort to push some kind of help for the rebels through congress
u.s. aid to the rebels expired feb. 29
we are determined to get continued assistance to the resistance, and if we stick together, this time we'll make it,'' the president told the closed meeting of lawmakers on capitol hill, according to a text of his remarks provided by the white house
alluding, however, to democratic efforts to thwart any military aid for the rebels, reagan added, ``those who led the fight against our package of assistance to the democratic resistance cannot escape responsibility'' if the rebel forces wither
reagan, in response to a reporter's question, declined to say precisely what kind of aid package he was supporting
in a separate session with the local gop officials, reagan again pointed the finger of blame at house democrats
the house leadership, who played hardball to win the vote to cut off aid, now says it won't accept responsibility for the destruction of the freedom fighters. but if the freedom fighters are extinguished and communist rule is consolidated in nicaragua, the american people will be the ones to decide who is responsible,'' reagan said
the white house has encouraged a bipartisan group of contra supporters in the senate who are proposing a one-year, $48 million ``humanitarian'' aid package that also would give the cia the right to deliver previously stockpiled weapons, and the president the right to get a quick vote in congress on sending new military aid under certain conditions
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters after reagan's capitol hill visit that the administration has not yet aligned itself with any specific bill, but would like to have a package introduced soon and a vote prior to congress' departure next week for an easter recess
we'd like to have a vote before then,'' fitzwater said
on capitol hill, house gop leader robert michel said the administration ``will surely be supporting, or at least encouraging, the kind of movement we are seeing in the senate.''
michel, r-ill., said last week's incursion across the honduran border by sandinista troops was creating political pressure on some of the moderate democrats whose votes have been crucial to the outcome of the closely divided issue in the past. ``that doesn't do anything but help our side,'' michel said
adding to that pressure, said rep. trent lott, r-miss., is the instability in other areas of central america, including panama and el salvador. ``the whole region is still in an unstable condition,'' he said. some moderate democrats last week ``were quite pale in their appearance when they realized there was this incursion'' into honduras
we think there is some potential there to get a few more votes than we have had in the past,'' said lott, the chief house gop vote counter
before the meeting, reagan told reporters he hopes the cease-fire talks between the sandinista government and the rebels will be successful, but said he would not withhold pressure for new contra aid to await the outcome of the talks
i hope they can achieve something there'' in the talks, he said. asked if he would hold up a new request for rebel aid while the talks are in progress, reagan replied, ``we haven't given that any consideration.''
before reagan arrived, michel said an aid package should be developed during the cease-fire talks
we want to be prepared in the event negotiations break down, so there's always a fallback position,'' michel said. ``we ought to be very wary... take a more worst-case scenario.''
house democrats said any action on further aid should await the outcome of those negotiations
what we need to watch very carefully is the peace talks,'' house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said on monday. ``i hope both sides will be very forthcoming.''
the sandinista government and u.s.-backed rebels on monday opened three days of talks at the border town of sapoa by exchanging cease-fire proposals and agreeing to a truce during the negotiations
asked about prospects for a $48 million contra aid proposal being drawn up by senate backers of the rebels, wright objected to provisions that allow the cia to continue delivering previously stockpiled weapons and that would guarantee a future vote in congress on new military aid
if they would agree to humanitarian aid without military aid, that could be done very swiftly,'' wright said. ``we would be ready to meet (with republicans) at any time.''
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., in a toughly worded senate floor speech, said the administration's policies have produced few positive results
the united states, after all of this _ not to mention several hundred million dollars _ has achieved virtually nothing positive in central america,'' byrd said. ``we have no right to ask americans to risk their sons and daughters when there are other solutions we have not even tried.''
the soviet union has invited a vatican delegation to help celebrate the 1,000th anniversary of christianity in the region, but pope john paul ii won't be a member of it, a vatican official said tuesday
cardinal johannes willebrands made the disclosure at a news conference at which he presented the pope's letter on the millennium of christianity in kievan rus', the ancient name of the ukraine. the celebrations are scheduled for june
the letter stressed europe's christian roots and said christian unity is essential to peace in europe and the world
willebrands, president of the vatican's secretariat for christian unity, said a representative of the russian orthodox church patriarch made the invitation orally to two officials of his agency march 18 in moscow
he said john paul, as head of the roman catholic church, was invited to send a delegation to celebrations in moscow being organized by the russian orthodox church
when an official written invitation is received, the pontiff will name the delegation for the trip to moscow, which is expected to last about 10 days, the dutch-born cardinal said
john paul often has expressed interest in visiting the soviet union. willebrands said the pope had not received a personal invitation to the celebration and had no plans to attend, but that does not rule out a posssible future visit
he said it would not be ``opportune'' for the pope to attend the observance because ``he cannot make his pastoral visit, which is destined primarily for catholics, during celebrations organized by another church.''
the pope has said he would visit the soviet union if he was allowed to visit roman catholics throughout the country, including the ukraine, lithuania, latvia, byelorussia and kazakhstan
three years ago, he disclosed that soviet authorities had refused permission for him to visit lithuania, a catholic stronghold
in his 39-page letter to bishops around the world, john paul urged the faithful to join in prayer to mark the baptism in 988 of prince vladimir on the banks of the dnieper in kiev
the whole catholic church turns its gaze to that event and shares spiritually in the joy of the heirs to that baptism,'' he said
john paul praised christians in the region, who he said have sometimes experienced ``persecution and martyrdom'' in those 1,000 years
in particular, we join with all the heirs of this baptism, whatever their religious confession, nationality or dwelling place, with all our orthodox and catholic brothers and sisters,'' the letter said
in a special way, we join with all the beloved sons and daughters of the russian, ukrainian and byelorussian nations. to those who live in their homeland, as also to those who dwell in america, western europe and other parts of the world.''
the millennium is ``in a special way the feast'' of the russian orthodox church, which ``remains united to the catholic church with very close links,'' the pope wrote
at this solemn moment in history the catholic community ... sends to her 1,000-year-old sister church, through the bishop of rome, the kiss of peace as a manifestation of an ardent desire for that perfect communion.''
in a plea for christian unity, john paul said the christian roots of europe present ``a particularly pressing challenge to the unity of christians. ... the desire for unity and peace, the desire that barriers should be broken down and opposition removed . .. is becoming an impelling sign of our times.''
true peace can only exist on the basis of a process of unification in which each people is able to choose, in freedom and truth, the path of its own development.''
the american space program will be crippled and u.s. leadership threatened if congress fails to approve the $11.5 billion requested by nasa, space agency officials said today
james c. fletcher, nasa administrator, said that fiscal 1989, which begins in october, ``is a crucial year for nasa. it will make or break the civil space program.''
he said the $11.5-billion budget requested by the national aeronautics and space administration is a ``bare bones'' request, with most of the money going to maintaining programs already underway
the entire future of the u.s. civil space program rides at risk in this budget,'' said fletcher
he said that the money would be applied to three basic elements:
_building up the flight rate for the space shuttle once missions resume in august. there are two space flights set for this year, he said, seven in 1989 and 10 in 1990
_building up hardware development for the space station, which he said is essential for american leadership in space
_continuing the space science programs in astronomy and planetary research, developing advanced rocket engines for the shuttle and financing the pathfinder program, which would develop new technology for possible missions to mars
fletcher made the comments as leadoff witness before the senate subcommittee on science, technology and space, which is beginning to consider the fiscal 1989 nasa budget
a hanford nuclear reservation plutonium processing plant was shut down and two technicians were suspended in the wake of an incident involving the improper transfer of chemicals, a westinghouse hanford spokesman said today
operations at the plutonium-uranium extraction plant, or purex, were suspended over the weekend as a precautionary measure, said spokesman rudy cortez
the temporary suspension resulted from an incident friday in which a valve was left open and a batch of the wrong chemical solution was transferred to a tank, cortez said
as a consequence, the certifications of two nuclear process operators were suspended for failing to follow operating procedures, he said. the event was declared to be an infraction of a ``criticality prevention specification.''
a ``criticality'' is an uncontrolled nuclear chain reaction resulting in a rapid buildup of radiation and heat. it is caused by such factors as the amount, shape, density and enrichment of plutonium or uranium and the manner in which they are stored
there was no danger of a criticality incident and no danger of a radioactiuve release to the environment, cortez said. it has not been determined how long operations will be suspended, he said
the purex plant was closed for a time in october 1986 because of safety concerns over plutonium handling and possible accidents. westinghouse hanford officials who took over operation of the plants in july 1987 promised to make safety a top priority
the chemical transfer incidents were the latest in a series of safety-related ones at the purex facility, which dissolves fuel rods to remove plutonium and uranium for reprocessing
the cause of contamination of two crane operators at the facility march 14 is still under investigation. radioactive contamination was found in one crane operator's home and another contamination was found on another operator as he prepared to leave the plant. both men were decontaminated and returned to work the next day. optimistic</head>
orders to u.s. factories for ``big ticket'' durable goods fell 1.8 percent in february, but analysts said the second consecutive monthly decline had not shaken their belief that manufacturing will be a bright spot in the economy this year
the commerce department report tuesday said that orders for durable goods _ items expected to last three or more years _ totaled a seasonally adjusted $111.4 billion in february, following an identical 1.8 percent january decline
it was the first time since the spring of 1986 that durable goods orders have fallen for two consecutive months
the february decline surprised economists, but they maintained that manufacturing companies were still enjoying boom times because the weaker dollar has boosted export demand
the fundamentals continue to look positive for manufacturing,'' said allen sinai, chief economist of the boston co. ``what we have is a two-month hesitation after some big increases.''
manufacturing is expected to be a major source of strength this year as businesses step up production to meet rising export demand and american companies increase orders for capital equipment to expand their production capabilities
the reagan administration is forecasting that almost half of all economic growth in 1988 will come from rising export demand
still, analysts said the back-to-back declines did show that businesses were cutting back on orders in the early part of 1988 in an effort to get control of bulging inventories. inventories swelled at the end of 1987 while consumer demand fell
economists once had feared this combina4hn could be enough to topple the country into a recession. but brighter statistics this year, including continue declines in the unemployment rate in february, have eased those concerns
cynthiaxlatta, an economist with data resources ik#-, noted that while new orders fell in february, the toas no immediate response from the rebels, who have been supported by the united states since the start of their fight in late 1981
negotiators for both sides were optimistic after the first day of cease-fire talks monday, the first held since december
also monday, nicaragua withdrew its soldiers from the honduran border and declared an end to fighting with contra rebels while the talks are held in sapoa. the honduran military reported sandinista soldiers had retreated
the importance of today was that we listened for the first time at the highest level their (contras') proposal, gen. humberto ortega, nicaragua's defense minister, told journalists in sapoa on monday
alfredo cesar, a negotiator for the u.s.-backed rebels, called the first round a ``step ahead'' and said they discussed a wide range of issues
neither side seeks a military victory over the other,'' cesar said
monday's session was held under tight security at the customs post in this town beside the border with costa rica, along the bank of lake nicaragua
at stake in the talks, scheduled to resume today, is an end to the bloodshed that has claimed an estimated 50,000 dead and wounded and shattered the country's economy
the sandinista proposal to stop the fighting calls for an ``immediate and definitive cease-fire,'' ortega said. he did not elaborate
the contra plan calls for a 30-day truce, political amnesty, press freedom and continued talks to work out a lasting cease-fire, cesar said
frank arana, a rebel spokesman, said the talks went beyond the bounds earlier established by the sandinistas and included political issues and ``concepts of democracy.''
we spoke about everything,'' he said
the goal of the sandinistas is to work out a viable cease-fire in accordance with the regional peace plan signed last august by the presidents of the five central american nations. they had said the talks would cover only the mechanics of how the contras would lay down their arms
the rebels said the talks should include discussion of democratic reforms, also covered in the regional peace plan
we came here with an open agenda,'' adolfo calero, a contra leader, told journalists at the border post. ``and that includes democratization including amnesty. we insisted on speaking about all the problems facing nicaragua.''
negotiations opened after ortega, brother of president daniel ortega, said the sandinistas were suspending military operations for the duration of the talks and called on the contras to do the same
sandinista spokesman manuel espinoza told reporters the ``reciprocation of the contras'' in agreeing to suspend hostilities and ``the fact that this meeting is taking place are the first positive steps'' toward a permanent cease-fire
president ortega on monday signed a document that dealt with a number of internal problems. the statement called on all political parties to refrain from violence, a position targeted at the government supporters who have attacked the opposition
it also calls for the media to respect the government, a reference to the opposition newspaper la prensa, and the sandinistas promised to release more than a dozen recently jailed labor leaders and review cases of imprisoned opposition politiciaans
the sandinistas' willingness to comply with the peace plan was cited by u.s. congressional members as a reason for rejecting president reagan's calls for additional military and nonlethal aid to the rebels. the peace plan also calls for internal dialogue with the political opposition
southern methodist university is considering a tougher sexual harassment policy that could result in the demotion or firing of faculty members found to be romantically involved with students
under the proposal, if a student files a complaint, the faculty member would appear before a committee, which would evaluate evidence and decide punishment
the faculty have been the prime movers for this policy,'' leon bennett, vice president for legal affairs, said monday. ``we're not trying to create a hostile environment, we're trying to prevent one.''
civil libertarians say such a policy might infringe on a person's constitutional right of free association. other critics question whether a university can, or should, regulate relationships between adults
smu, like most universities, prohibits faculty and staff from making sexual advances and seeking sexual favors in exchange for favorable treatment
officials at smu say they have received 10 sexual harassment complaints in the last five years, everett winters, director of smu's office of affirmative action, said. although some professors have been reprimanded, none have been dismissed, demoted or taken to court
lindley doran, director of the human resources women's center, said the harassment policy was proposed by the center and the universitiy's commission on status of women. the faculty senate approved it in the spring of 1987
she said the proposal is now with the administration, which is investigating what legal sanctions can be used. the faculty senate would then review the proposal. with its approval, it will go to the trustees
ms. doran said she thinks the proposal will be university policy by the end of the semester
bystanders looked on but no one intervened while a man was stabbed to death on a crowded downtown sidewalk, police said
there were people standing around the incident and watching it go down,'' police detective larry martinez said of monday's 10:30 a.m. attack
it's non-involvement,'' he said. ``it's like a disease. these people have to live with themselves. i just wish they had a bigger conscience. it would be easier on us.''
it was the second such murder to occur in front of crowds near the busy intersection of seventh and spring streets in four months. on nov. 17, roberto lopez, 23, was knifed to death shortly after 5:30 p.m. in what was believed to be a drug-related case
the 32-year-old man killed monday was knifed several times in what martinez said was also possibly drug-related. his identity still wasn't known tuesday and police said they had no suspects in the case
investigators believe the man staggered a short distance after he was stabbed. an off-duty officer working nearby on a movie production was alerted about the incident and contacted paramedics and police. visit</head>
six months after pope john paul ii's second u.s. visit, roman catholic leaders in three of the nine cities where he stopped still have bills to pay
the archdiocese of san francisco owes as much as $2 million, and the nearby diocese of monterey still has at least $1 million to repay, church officials say. in phoenix, ariz., the church has yet to pay nearly $165,000 for renting a stadium
church officials say the debts are paid for the pope's stops in miami, columbia, s.c., new orleans, san antonio, texas, los angeles and detroit
we knew we would have some deficit, but we didn't think it would be of this magnitude,'' said bruce egnew, director of finance for the archdiocese of san francisco. he said the church has raised $2 million since the visit, but still owes at least $1.5 million
the rev. miles riley, chief publicist for the archdiocese, put the total at $2 million
the monterey diocese has a debt of $1.1 million, said spokesman ted elisee
to help retire the debt, the san francisco archdiocese plans to sell pieces of the elaborate $500,000, six-tiered stage used for the mass at candlestick park. there are also plans for collections in the churches, receptions and direct appeals to the community, said egnew
it's always harder to raise money after the event,'' said riley. ``not a little bit harder, a lot harder.''
on the plus side, riley said last week, he had just received a letter from a man who had been inspired to return to the church after a 20-year absence. he enclosed a check for $500, riley said
elisee said the monterey diocese spent $2 million and still owed $1 million to $1.1 million. the diocese plans an appeal to its 45 parishes, which have 145,000 members, and the church has been selling memorial magazines at $5 each and videotapes for $25
in some cities, church officials dipped into reserve funds and other accounts to cover the difference between costs and fund-raising efforts. that amounted to $400,000 in miami, $200,000 in new orleans and $1.3 million in detroit, officials in those cities said
in san antonio, the church came out a bit ahead, raising $2.4 million but spending 2.32 million, said the rev. larry steubben, chairman of the texas papal visit committee
it was just last week that the diocese of phoenix was billed for $164,765 for the use of arizona state university's sun devil stadium. church officials had said in january that they faced a deficit, but did not say how much
last week, the rev. john mcmahon, head of the diocese's papal-visit committee, declined to comment on the debt. ``we just got the bill from asu and we want to see where we are,'' he said last week
three-year-old ashley hopkins never heard a sound until the beep of a computer intruded on her silence. she cried
i shouldn't be happy to see ash's tears, but i am,'' said her mother, janie hopkins, who cried some herself. ``that means it's working.''
the englewood girl is believed to be the youngest person to get a cochlear implant
thomas j. balkany implanted the $17,000 electronic hearing aid during an operation at porter memorial hospital. the 22-channel device stimulates the hearing nerve. the implant, considered experimental in children, bypasses damaged inner-ear cells by stimulating a tiny portion of the nerve fibers in the cochlea
doctors say ashley eventually will be able to hear her own voice. the device also will help her pick up intonation patterns of people she is talking to and should improve her lip-reading
without this, she has no hope of talking properly,'' hopkins said. ``she wants to be in the hearing world with everyone else.''
an implant patient must wear a nickel-size microphone on his ear. the microphone is linked to a battery pack that modulates the microphone's electrical signal, which ultimately stimulates the hearing nerve
bernice dinner, ashley's audiologist, said the noise transmitted to the cochlea is nothing like sounds in the hearing world; it is a monotone, like a bee's buzzing
she's going to learn that sensation is sound,'' dinner said. ``she doesn't know that yet. she doesn't have a label for it.''
the first time dinner activated the electronic device by computer, the little girl shrugged a shoulder. the second time, she rolled her eyes
the first two times were more like a brushing sensation, a tickling in her inner ear,'' dinner said
the third time, dinner calibrated the electronic signal higher so it was loud and painful. ashley cried
a brochure about aids intended for sexually active adults was mistakenly distributed to teen-agers, an aids program director said
we're sorry it happened,'' said edward darstein, executive director of the western new york aids program. ``but we've done a lot of good work over the past five years, and we hope this won't wreck our record.''
state sen. walter j. floss was not satisfied, and said monday he complained to the governor and state health commissioner
floss said he directed his staff to investigate whether state funds were used to print the brochures. darstein said his organization receives about 90 percent of its $198,000 budget from the state but private donations funded the brochures
darstein said the brochures were handed out march 9 by a volunteer who spoke at pavilion central school and a second place and left the wrong brochures at the school
the brochure rates the risk of acquired immune deficiency syndrome infection from various forms of sexual activity, both homosexual and heterosexual
a man who allegedly sought romance rather than religion has been barred by a judge from attending a church
judge anne dranginis issued a temporary restraining order monday prohibiting john steinmann, 78, of middlebury from attending the first congregational church of washington
we believe his motives to worship are not consistent with promoting the worship of god, but for the purpose of forming relationships, particularly with women,'' said the rev. richard sears, pastor of the chruch
the judge's order also prohibits steinmann from harassing or contacting church members without their permission
according to court documents, steinmann, member of a middlebury church, began attending services in rural washington in an attempt to maintain a relationship with his former wife
the couple has since divorced, the woman moved and steinmann used the church to meet other women, church officials said
church officials filed for the court orders monday, a day after steinmann was arrested for the third time on charges of criminal trespassing at the church
virginia steinway of morris, testified steinmann once sidled up to her in a pew, grabbed her arm and made lewd and revolting remarks to her during a hymn. ``i was extremely panicked,'' she said
steinmann, who represented himself in court, maintained his actions were consistent with the church's policy of christian fellowship
moslem nations were united tuesday behind the palestinian rebellion in israeli-occupied lands, but iran and iraq traded insults and there was no islamic accord on the 7{-year-old persian gulf war
foreign ministers of the 46-member organization of the islamic conference issued a statement condemning ``oppressive and criminal measures by the (israeli) authorities against our brothers.''
tariq aziz, iraq's foreign minister, claimed iran was aiding the emigration of iranian jews to israel, according to a text of his remarks
in the statement about the rebellion, which began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, the ministers said: ``all moslems in the world are proud of this uprising.''
that echoed a speech by king hussein of jordan at the opening of the conference monday, in which he said the ``blood of martyrs'' was being shed in the territories. more than 100 arabs have been killed since the violence began
the ministers declared: ``members of the organization are concerned to support palestinians financially, politically and morally and also to back their sole legitimate representative, the plo.''
no indication was given of what form aid would take, or whether there would be financial assistance, and the statement did not elaborate
tajer masri, jordan's foreign minister, told reporters: ``we can only provide support in a political manner, to pressure the world's nations to get them to pressure israel and reveal the meaning of the uprising. i don't remember seeing any request for financial support.''
farouk kaddoumi, the palestine liberation organization's equivalent of a foreign minister, said the statement was valuable to the plo and especially ``for the people inside the territories.''
about u.s. plans to close the plo's u.n. observer mission in new york under terms of an anti-terrorist law, kaddoumi said:
we will keep the office open until american police come and seal it off. then we will go to the united nations (headquarters) and live there.''
aziz, the iraqi foreign minister, said the alleged help given iranian jews to move to israel was ``a violation of the rules'' of the organization of islamic conference.''
how come iran, which claims to support the palestinian issue and the uprising, is helping jews to migrate to israel?'' there was no elaboration in a text of his prepared remarks made available to the associated press
he gave no figures on the number of alleged emigrants. the iranian envoy, mohammed ali taskhiri, denied the claim and accused iraq of being ``zionist.''
the point is sensitive in the arab and moslem world because many nations do not recognize israel's right to exist and oppose the emigration of jews to the country. 10th graf: ``i never...</note>
testimony ended today on the first of three impeachment charges against gov. evan mecham, but a move for a quick vote on whether to oust mecham from office was withdrawn in the face of vehement opposition
it would be our everlasting disgrace if we do not consider all of the evidence from both sides in such a historic and important case,'' said republican sen. jon hays
after testimony ended on the first impeachment count, a charge that mecham tried to thwart an investigation into a death threat, democratic state sen. carolyn walker proposed that the senate consider voting on that charge alone
the senate had earlier agreed to hear evidence on all three charges before voting on any one. conviction on the first count alone would have ended the trial early with the first term republican removed from office
i would think if governor mecham is exonerated he would be extremely happy to know he has one less article to face,'' she said. ``and if he is convicted, we should not go on and spend untold dollars of taxpayers money.''
in a heated debate, the motion won support from democrats but was opposed by republicans, and walker finally withdrew it. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate would have been required to change the trial rules
the prosecution then said it was ready to begin presenting evidence on the second charge against mecham _ alleged that he misused $80,000 from a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
the last witness on the obstruction of justice count was mecham's lawyer, fred craft, who this morning seized the opportunity to give a lengthy speech in praise of mecham's political philsophy. he called mecham an ``uncommon politician'' who sought no personal aggrandizement and wanted only to improve the quality of life in arizona
the speech brought an objection from prosecutor paul eckstein and craft was instructed to stick to answering questions
craft, in an abrupt role change, became a witness monday and said mecham ``didn't know that he was obstructing anything'' when he told the state's top lawman he would not cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged death threat
craft was subpoenaed at the request of the democratic minority leader, sen. alan stephens. craft was a mecham insider when the threat against a witness before a grand jury investigating mecham was reported to the governor on nov. 13
i never heard `felony.' i never heard `death threat' and i certainly never heard `tampering with a grand jury witness,''' craft said monday. ``i never heard those words, which would have been an alarm to me.''
later, in his cross-examination, eckstein asked craft whether he had ever advised the embattled governor to resign
we had these meetings and no one could see a political escape route for the governor,'' craft said. ``no one was offering the governor any other political option than to go down with the ship.''
thefirst charge alleged that mecham tried to thwart the investigation of the alleged death threat against former top mecham aide donna carlson by mecham confidant lee watkins. at the time, ms. carlson was about to testify before the state grand jury about mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan
the next article charges mecham with misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership. the third impeachment article accuses him of concealing the $350,000 campaign loan
craft and co-defense counsel jerris leonard said they opposed taking an early vote. ``we ought to hear all the evidence on all three articles and then let them vote,'' leonard said
in his testimony, craft echoed mecham in contending the governor was not fully informed that the situation involved a felony and the possible tampering of a grand jury witness
nobody said the house is burning down, we've got a crisis,'' craft said. ``i didn't know that a crime had been committed.''
however, sen. john mawhinney, a republican, noted that then-chief of staff richard burke testified that he considered the matter to be serious and that he assumed the department of public safety was investigating
what is mystifying is how two people can sit in the same meeting'' and come away with different impressions, mawhinney said
a two-thirds vote of the senate is required to convict mecham, the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona
mecham also faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 campaign loan, and a may 17 recall election
the inimitable emanuel ungaro has toned down his sexy, exaggerated look, but he had enough opulent fabrics in his tuesday winter ready-to-wear show to please the fans of his show-off styles
laroche, by contrast, preferred the ultra simple lines, in short skirts and tailored pants
ungaro, along with christian lacroix and some others, remains in the ``feminine-fancy'' school of designing, despite this season's trend to somewhat simpler, more practical styles
in one variation on the tent dress, he puts bright flowered and flowing silk or light wool tunics over narrow skirts. but ungaro also sneaked in a print chemise dress from the 1950s, knotted and draped baggily in back
rose, salmon and dusky shades of blue and green or brighter tones all turned up in ungaro's vast color palette. crazy over fabrics, he mixed them with somewhat less abandon this time around
paisley, brown or camel colored short coats were often paired with outfits that had lean knee-revealing skirts in polished leather: a flashy, fascinating new look here
ungaro still likes big bertha or flounced collars using them on lots of ensembles. he can't forget leg o'mutton sleeves, ruffles and bows, either
as usual, velvet was used richly in ungaro's suits _ as a single-lapelled collar, a wide jacket-hem border, or overall in dressy suits in shades of claret, deep purple or black
another success in opulence was to pair a velvet-piped paisley long and fitted jacket with a teeny draped black jersey cashmere skirt
even pants looked dressy, with their little velvet or irridescent taffeta vests and fitted jackets, plus flowered blouses. bows on derrieres or the hips of draped pants gilded the lily a bit
ungaro's body-hugging draped cocktail numbers were less risque than last season, nearly hitting the knee instead of grazing the upper thigh
ungaro's less expensive line called ``solo donna,'' shown last week, had much of the same allure, but looked much more comfortable. his ribbed spencers with flowered sheaths or his checked skirts with windowpane plaid reefers could even be worn to the office without raising eyebrows
at guy laroche, meanwhile, the trend to short skirts continued, but the collection looked more sane than sexy. designed by guy douvier, the clothes had a certain played-down attraction
soft wool coats were ample and short, with caped and huge squared-off collars. these were worn over tailored trouser suits and dresses in browns, tans or striking jewel colors
bright belted tunics with dark skirts or straight tunics with elaborate wool embroidery in swirly ribbon patterns were also items for the safe dresser
the diagonal plaid belted suits in frank yellow, green or red make a peppy change
late-day flocked velvet or cloque silk suits were easily fitted, and dance dresses with shirred tops and puffy taffeta skirts also came down the runway. the shocking pink or black flounced taffeta gowns, short in front, long in back, are no shockers, but are gala enough to wear without looking like a wallflower
hermes, usually known for expensive hand-finished leather bags and scarves, is making a bigger effort to steer customers to the ready-to-wear racks
designed by eric bergere, the line remained firmly in the classic sportswear vein. as the redingote sweeps paris, hermes had the last word in its brown or red models topped with jumpers' netted bowler hats
but fitted suits with oval skirts and plaid spencers or a-line jackets over slim gray flannel hats looked just as appealing for a country weekend or informal moments in town
even if the clothes don't set trends, they will never look out of place, especially with those incomparable silk scarves
authorities have granted polish mormons permission to build their first chapel in this communist country, a church missionary said tuesday
the only other soviet bloc country in which there are mormon chapels is east germany, where there are about 5,000 members of the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints
although polish authorities registered the mormon church as an official religious organization in 1977, only recently were there enough polish mormons to warrant building a chapel, said elder juliusz fussek
fussek, 66, a u.s. citizen of polish descent, was sent to poland to do missionary work by the church headquarters in salt lake city. he is a retired printer
there are only about 100 mormons in this overwhelmingly roman catholic country, but fussek said he saw ``great prospects'' for the church's development ``because people are interested in religion here.''
you need members first before building a chapel ... because there is no point having a chapel and it standing empty,'' said fussek
we are very pleased with the cooperation and help we have received from the government,'' he said
at the end of last year, polish mormons applied for permission to build a chapel and cultural-educational center in warsaw's western wola district, fussek said
the local council for wola approved the project at a meeting last week and forwarded its decision to the warsaw city president for formal approval, he said
fussek said the chapel, expected to open in 1989 or 1990, would be paid for by donations from polish mormons and the church headquarters in salt lake city. he did not have any estimate of the cost
fussek said there were about 300-400 mormons, mostly of german descent, in the country before world war ii. the mormon chapel did not reopen after the war because most of its members fled the country when the communists took power
more than 35 religious denominations are active in poland today. ninety percent of poland's 37 million people are baptized catholics
czechoslovak and soviet ground troops tuesday started week-long war games in northwestern bohemia to be watched by foreign observers, according to an official report
the march 22-28 exercise involves 17,400 soviet and czechoslovak troops, the ctk news agency reported
under an 1986 accord reached at the stockholm conference on confidence and security-building measures and disarmament, large exercises held by the warsaw pact and nato require advance notification and inspection by foreign observers
czechoslovak first deputy chief of staff lt. gen. jiri brychta said 43 observers from 22 countries, including the united states, west germany and britain, will watch the maneuvers
brychta was quoted as saying the maneuvers are the third to be watched by western military officers in czechoslovakia, while czechoslovak observers last year saw eight exercises staged by north atlantic treaty organization members. detail, edit for transition. picks up 15th graf pvs ``frank arana,.... '' edits thereafter to trim.</note>
the sandinista government and contra rebels today announced proposals for an extended cease-fire that would include amnesty and steps toward a lasting peace
the leftist government's proposal, outlined in a statement to journalists on the second day of peace talks at this post on the costa rican border, calls for a 30-day truce with the rebels intended for them to lay down their arms and ``rejoin nicaraguan society.''
it also provides for the release of a political prisoner for each rebel accepting amnesty. deputy foreign minister victory hugo tinoco told reporters there are 3,300 prisoners the government considers eligible for release under the program
the contra proposal calls for a 45-day truce starting on good friday, april 1, in which rebel fighters would move into cesae-fire zones still to be determined
it said the government should grant ``total and unconditional amnesty'' as soon as the truce takes effect, allowing anyone who left nicaragua for political reasons to ``rejoin the political, economic and social process without any conditions.''
the rebels also want to join a national dialogue between the sandinistas and their internal political opponents while the cease-fire lasts. the government also would allow rebel leaders to participate in national reconciliation talks
at the moment in which a cease-fire is signed, whether it be for 30, 60 or 90 days, according to what the counterrevolution wants, at that moment the leadership of the nicaraguan resistance will be able to rejoin civic and political life and even participate in the national dialogue that seeks a reconciliation of all nicaraguans,'' tinoco said
both proposals call for international monitoring of the cease-fire
the two sides agreed monday to a cease-fire during the three days of talks, the first ever held on nicaraguan territory in more than 6 years of war and the first direct talks without a mediator
rebel and government negotiators for both sides were optimistic after the first round of peace talks monday, the first held since december
also monday, nicaragua withdrew its soldiers from the honduran border. the honduran military reported sandinista soldiers had retreated
the importance of today was that we listened for the first time at the highest level their (contras') proposal, gen. humberto ortega, nicaragua's defense minister, said monday
alfredo cesar, a negotiator for the u.s.-backed rebels, called the first round a ``step ahead'' and said the delegations discussed a wide range of issues. ``neither side seeks a military victory over the other,'' he said
at stake in the talks is an end to the bloodshed that has claimed an estimated 50,000 dead and wounded and shattered the country's economy
frank arana, a rebel spokesman, said the talks went beyond the bounds earlier established by the sandinistas and included political issues and ``concepts of democracy.''
we spoke about everything,'' he said
the goal of the sandinistas is to work out a viable cease-fire in accordance with the regional peace plan signed last august by the presidents of the five central american nations. they had said the talks would cover only the mechanics of how the contras would lay down their arms
the rebels said the talks should include discussion of democratic reforms, also covered in the regional peace plan
we came here with an open agenda,'' adolfo calero, a contra leader, told reporters. ``and that includes democratization including amnesty. we insisted on speaking about all the problems facing nicaragua.''
president daniel ortega on monday signed a document that dealt with a number of internal problems. the statement called on all political parties to refrain from violence, a position targeted at the government supporters who have attacked the opposition
it also calls for the media to respect the government, a reference to the opposition newspaper la prensa, and the sandinistas promised to release more than a dozen recently jailed labor leaders and review cases of imprisoned opposition politiciaans
the sandinistas' willingness to comply with the peace plan was cited by u.s. congressional members as a reason for rejecting president reagan's calls for additional military and nonlethal aid to the rebels. the peace plan also calls for internal dialogue with the political opposition. riegle's name</note>
richard gephardt said today fellow democrat michael dukakis has undergone a ``battlefield conversion'' on the trade issue to try to win votes in michigan. vice president george bush lent his support to president reagan's veto of a civil rights bill, saying he's ``not going to start differing with the president now.''
democratic contenders albert gore jr. and paul simon flew back to washington to cast their votes for an override. gore criticized bush's loyalty to reagan ``even when the proposals are ... dumb.''
gephardt was angered by dukakis' change-of-mind on trade legislation and he accused the massachusetts governor of a flip-flop to improve his chances in saturday's caucuses in michigan, where 138 delegates are at stake
now we're getting some battlefield conversions on trade. ... the acid test on trade is the gephardt amendment,'' the missouri congressman told senior citizens in madison heights, mich
last night, gephardt told reporters, ``on the central issue in this campaign, mike dukakis is trying to have it both ways.''
dukakis on monday endorsed a trade bill put forward by michigan sen. donald riegle, which gephardt said was very similar to his measure. the massachusetts governor has opposed gephardt's bill. riegle endorsed dukakis monday as did michigan congressmen dale kildee and bob traxler
this is no change in my position,'' dukakis responded at his own news conference
michigan did not have the spotlight to itself as candidates from both parties are stumping in connecticut, with its primary a week from today, and wisconsin, a week later
dukakis was making a foray into neighboring connecticut today, where he appeared well-positioned to add to his string of wins on his new england home turf. campaign sources said dukakis will receive a sought-after endorsement on wednesday from new jersey sen. bill bradley, who has been mentioned as a possible dark-horse democratic nominee if the convention is deadlocked
gore, still searching for a northern breakthrough after establishing his candidacy in the south, met today with pennsylvania gov. robert casey, who said afterward he still hasn't decided whether to endorse a candidate before the state's april 26 primary. on monday, the tennessee senator met with new york gov. mario cuomo, who said some nice things about him but didn't endorse him
although connecticut is one of bush's home states _ his father represented it in the u.s. senate, and his mother and brother still live in the state _ the vice president said he was taking nothing for granted there
i don't want to be beaten in this state,'' he said as he campaigned in bloomfield on monday. in connecticut, reporters asked bush whether he backed president reagan's veto of a sweeping civil rights bill
i'm not going to start differing with the president now,'' he replied
later bush told black supporters in washington that he supports the idea that institutions receiving federal money should comply with civil rights laws. but he said the civil rights measure, passed overwhelmingly by both the house and the senate, was flawed
the legislation ... is imperfect and the imperfections should be corrected,'' he said. up until monday, bush had not said directly whether he supported the veto
i'm not going to start doing now what i haven't been doing for seven years, finding differences with the president, for whom i have great respect,'' he said
the measure would forbid the distribution of federal funds to entire institutions, state and local government agencies and many corporations if any part of them practices discrimination. the administration supports a plan that would grant religious schools and organizations as well as corporations more exemptions from civil rights laws
bush said he believed the president should have line-item veto powers so he could ``take some of the extremes'' out of bills like the one in question
earlier monday, new jersey gov. thomas kean endorsed bush, and new jersey's 21 county gop chairmen followed suit. new jersey's primary is june 7
bush's republican opponent, down-but-not-out bob dole, was in wisconsin, where he again challenged the vice president to a debate. but bush has rebuffed dole's calls for a faceoff, saying it is time to turn the attention to differences with the democrats
gephardt was campaigning in the must-win state of michigan, wooing workers at a steel mill and making appearances with chrysler corp. chief lee iacocca at his side. iacocca says he likes gephardt's trade stance, but isn't formally supporting him
gephardt's says his trade views _ raising the threat of sanctions if foreign barriers don't come down _ are getting a good reception in the industrial state of michigan
the people in michigan are interested in someone who is really going to stand up on the trade issue,'' he said in highland park
jesse jackson made a visit to colorado, which holds democratic caucuses on april 4, and met monday with ex-candidate gary hart
jackson said hart was going to advise his campaign on policy matters. hart said, however, that he wasn't formally endorsing jackson. that, he said, would be ``old-fashioned.''
hart abandoned his democratic bid earlier this month, 10 months after quitting the first time over reports about his relationship with a miami model
jackson was campaigning in michigan today
simon's campaign on monday was talking up his plans for a big media buy in wisconsin. simon won his home-state primary in illinois last week without buying any television ads. he has said he hopes for a ``respectable'' showing in michigan, although he can't spend much money in the state. 4 p.m. est, with a vote unlikely before 5 p.m. at the earliest. should stand. ^by jill lawrence</note>
the senate voted 73-24 today to override president reagan's veto of a bill reversing a supreme court decision that narrowed the scope of laws to prevent federally funded discrimination against women, minorities, the elderly and the handicapped
the civil rights restoration act went directly to the house, where leaders also said they had the votes to override the veto. majority leader thomas foley, d-wash., said the house would vote tonight
we expect a vote to override,'' house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said monday. the house passed the bill 315-98 and republican head-counters said only a dozen members at most were expected to move into the president's corner
the senate vote was more than the two-thirds majority needed to override a presidential veto. the bill initially passed 75-14. to become law over a president's veto, the legislation must be approved by a two-thirds vote of both chambers
the house and senate votes capped a four-year struggle to overturn the 1984 supreme court decision
the senate vote came after several senators, including acting republican leader alan simpson of wyoming, condemned what they called a misinformation campaign launched by conservative opponents of the bill. simpson, who voted to sustain the veto, nonetheless said he was concerned about erroneous claims that it would create ``massive new rights.''
some opponents have claimed the bill would require churches to hire active homosexual drug addicts with aids to counsel children. proponents of the bill say it offers no protection for homosexuals or drug or alcohol addicts
even as the senate prepared to vote, reagan urged congress to sustain his veto
i ask every senator and representative to rise above the pressures of an election year, to make a stand for religious liberty by sustaining my veto of this dangerous bill,'' reagan said in a speech to local republican officials from around the country
the truth is, this legislation isn't a civil rights bill,'' the president said. ``it's a power grab by washington, designed to take control away from states, localities, communities, parents and the private sector and give it to federal bureaucrats and judges
one dollar in federal aid _ direct or indirect _ would bring entire organizations under federal control, from charitable social organizations to churches and synagogues.''
house republican leader bob michel, r-ill., said reagan discussed the reasons for his veto today in a meeting with house republicans and outlined the alternative he proposed last week
it's rather too bad that that alternative did not get to us earlier on than the time it was presented,'' michel said
the reagan alternative would enable more institutions to escape regulation on religious grounds and limit most corporate compliance requirements to specific plants or facilities receiving federal aid
the court ruled that an organization or governmental body getting federal support must comply with anti-discrimination rules only for the program receiving the federal aid, not for the entire organization. the bill would cut off aid for the whole organization if discrimination against minorities, women, the elderly or the disabled was practiced by any part of the organization
obviously there's a very organized and promoted campaign'' against the bill, said senate majority leader robert byrd said. ``apparently the white house let the word out, as we began getting hundreds of calls (that) all said the same thing.''
i think a lot of misinformation has been spread,'' byrd added. ``there's a great deal of misinformation, distortion of truth and fact.''
the civil rights restoration act passed both chambers earlier this year by lopsided margins far greater than the two-thirds majority needed to override a presidential veto
vice president george bush on monday said he would support the reagan veto, saying the legislation ``is imperfect and the imperfections should be corrected.''
supporters of the legislation say it restores civil rights laws to the way they were interpreted before the court challenge mounted by tiny grove city (pa.) college
congress had tried since the supreme court decision to pass a corrective measure but became enmeshed in various controversies involving regulation and abortion. the final bill had broad bipartisan support and many republicans asked the president not to veto it
an eleventh-hour push by the conservative moral majority group resulted in thousands of phone calls, letters and telegrams urging lawmakers to uphold the veto
the liberal people for the american way responded monday with newspaper ads saying ``the far right could defeat civil rights'' unless people call their representatives and ``tell them your tax money must not pay for discrimination.''
the restoration act says entire institutions and government agencies must not discriminate if any program or activity within them receives federal aid. entire corporations are covered if they provide a public service such as health care or if the aid goes to the business as a whole, as in the chrysler bailout
farmers receiving crop subsidies, people using food stamps and other individuals receiving federal assistance would not be subject to regulation. an institution's refusal to perform or pay for abortions would not be considered discriminatory
the supreme court decision applied specifically to title ix of the 1972 education amendments barring sex discrimination in federally funded education programs. it was interpreted also to cover the 1964 civil rights act barring racial discrimination in federally-assisted programs; the 1973 rehabilitation act barring discrimination against the handicapped in any program or activity receiving federal aid; and the 1975 age discrimination act barring employment discrimination against older people. contra truce proposals. </note>
u.s. troops here on an emergency training exercise have no plans to pull out despite nicaragua's withdrawal of soldiers from the honduran border, an american military spokesman said today
right now the plans are to make it a 10- to 14-day exercises,'' said maj. gary hovatter, public relations director for the u.s. military in honduras. ``we have not received any directive as to when to begin redeployment.''
he said training exercises between honduran and american soldiers would continue today at four sites, but few details were available
hovatter also said five or six of the 10 soldiers injured in a helicopter crash during an exercise could be released to light duty
on monday, he said they ``are in some pain and discomfort, but they are handling it very well.''
hovatter said the helicopter, a uh-1 huey, was flying from southern san lorenzo to eastern jamastran when it hit bad weather and was forced to divert to juticalpa, 35 miles north of the nicaraguan border. it crashed about six miles south of juticalpa in a pine-covered valley, he said
nicaragua announced monday its troops had withdrawn from the border, and the honduran military reported sandinista soldiers had retreated. nicaragua's sandinista government and contra leaders also agreed to a cease-fire during three days of peace talks which will end wednesday at sapoa on nicaragua's southern border with costa rica
today, the sandinista government proposed a 30-day cease-fire and amnesty for rebels. the contras proposed a 45-day truce during which rebels would move into cease-fire zones
col. manuel suarez benevides, the honduran armed forces spokesman, said monday the 3,200 u.s. troops that rushed to honduras after a reported incursion by 2,000 sandinista troops won't be needed much longer
it'll be a very short time. we're talking days only,'' he said in an interview
also today, a u.n. fact-finding team requested by nicaragua was to leave for that country to investigate the border violence, the united nations announced in a statement. it said observations will be limited to the nicaragua side, since no permission was received from honduras to go there
meanwhile, nicaraguan and contra officials were optimistic after the first round of truce talks held in nicaragua on monday. the talks resume today
the worst (fighting) is over and there is peace now in the border region,'' col. reynald andino flores, commander of the honduran army's 101st infantry brigade, said monday by telephone from his headquarters in southern honduras. ``we are remaining on a state of alert to be ready for anything that may happen,'' he added, and soldiers are ``constantly patrolling the area.''
flores and other officers, some of whom insisted on anonymity for security reasons, said on monday the sandinistas penetrated an area of about 20 square miles inside olancho province while chasing the u.s.-supported contra rebels in a two-week offensive to evict the contras from nicaragua
about 200 border incidents have been reported in olancho since the contras began fighting the leftist sandinista government in 1981
president daniel ortega and the nicaraguan government have denied sandinista soldiers crossed the border
the contras maintain camps in an area called bocay, which includes territory on both sides of the border. nicaragua claims the camps, which the contras use to store supplies and to stage raids inside nicaragua, are in nicaraguan land, but the rebels say they are in honduras
the sandinistas and the contras agreed to a three-day truce on monday, the first of three days of their latest round of peace talks
at sapoa, nicaragua, a town on the costa rican border, representatives of the sandinista government and contras began their first direct talks on nicaraguan soil. the purpose is to work out a cease-fire as required by the peace plan that five central american presidents signed last aug. 7
after monday's closed session, gen. humberto ortega, nicaragua's defense minister, said: ``the importance of today was that we listened for the first time at the highest level their (contras') proposal,'' he told journalists
alfredo cesar, one of the rebel negotiators, said the contra plan calls for a 30-day truce, political amnesty and continued talks to work out a lasting cease-fire. ``neither side seeks a military victory over the other,'' cesar said. he called the first round a ``step ahead.'' secretary</note>
the chairman of the u.s. civil rights commission today gave an ``uncivil rights award'' to the mayor of newark, n.j., for allegedly pressuring rep. peter rodino into retirement
yielding to minority constituents, rodino, who is white and a democrat, announced march 14 he would not seek a 21st term in congress. minorities, who make up the bulk of rodino's district, have clamored for several years for a minority representative
at a news conference, civil rights commission chairman clarence pendleton, who is black, said he was awarding an ``uncivil rights award'' to newark mayor sharpe james, who is also black and who, according to pendleton, worked ``with several other newark politicians'' and ``pressured ... rodino to retire from congress.''
the notion that peter rodino doesn't represent the people in the 10th district is absurd,'' pendleton said. ``they have elected him to congress 20 times, and continue to support his leading role on civil rights issues. no matter. the newark power brokers have decided that he is not `their' representative _ he's just the wrong color.''
pam goldstein, a spokeswoman for james, said the mayor had not been told of the ``award.'' but ms. goldstein said she doubted james' would be bothered by criticism from pendleton, whose own civil rights record she termed a ``joke.''
i would say it's an endorsement for what the mayor's doing in this city,'' ms. goldstein said
rodino's press secretary, larry spinelli, said he would have no immediate comment on the matter
cbs' plan to liven up its schedule with a rash of new half-hour comedies was a ratings failure in its first week. abc, meanwhile, put the critically praised comedy ``the wonder years'' into the nielsen top 10
nbc won the week handily. cbs finished slightly ahead of abc for the week, but continued to lag in season-to-date ratings and seems destined to finish in last place for the first time
for the week ending march 20, nbc had an average, prime-time rating of 15.8. cbs had a 12.9 and abc 12.6. with four weeks left in the season, nbc leads with a 16.3, abc is second with a 13.9 and cbs third with 13.6
the good news for cbs was that ``cbs evening news'' was still in first place with an average rating of 11.6 and a 22 share. abc's ``world news tonight'' was second with 10.8 and 20, and ``nbc nightly news'' third with 9.7 and 18
of the new cbs comedies, only ``eisenhower &amp; lutz,'' which premiered with double episodes on monday, fared very well. the first episode ranked 41st. the second was 31st with a rating of 14.2 and a 22 share
the rating is a percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with television sets. the share is a percentage of sets in use
the two new comedies and one returning comedy cbs added on tuesday night were steamrollered by abc's normally strong lineup, including ``the wonder years,'' a sweet-natured nostalgia comedy set in the late 1960s. it replaced ``growing pains,'' which moved to wednesday night where it continues to be a top-10 show
the top 10 for last week were: ``the cosby show'' nbc, ``a different world'' nbc, ``golden girls'' nbc, ``60 minutes'' cbs, ``who's the boss?'' abc, ``cheers'' nbc, ``the wonder years'' abc, ``night court'' nbc, ``murder, she wrote'' cbs and ``growing pains'' abc. half of the top 10 shows were repeats, as the networks began to conserve new episodes for the may sweeps
on tuesday night, cbs' ``coming of age,'' starring paul dooley as an acerbic former airline pilot struggling to adjust to a sunny retirement village, was 59th out of 77 shows. ``my sister sam'' was 75th
sam'' had originally done well in the ratings and was brought back from hiatus to fill in for ``the dictator,'' a new comedy that was delayed by the writers guild strike
trial and error,'' a hispanic ``odd couple,'' was 76th with a rating of only 6.5 and an 11 share. the critically praised ``frank's place'' was moved from monday to tuesday where the rest of the lineup dragged it down to 65th
nbc did well with its regular lineup and a couple of remakes of hit movies. a new tv version of ``inherit the wind,'' this one starring jason robards and kirk douglas, ranked 14th. tied for 15th place was ``in the heat of the night,'' starring carroll o'connor and howard rollins in the pilot of the series getting a spring tryout
the bottom-rated shows of the week were: ``the thorns,'' ``a place at the table,'' ``probe,'' ``west 57th,'' ``the disney sunday movie,'' ``ohara,'' ``hotel,'' ``my sister sam,'' ``trial and error'' and ``buck james.''
here is a summary of developments monday and today involving honduras, nicaragua and the united states:
nicaragua on monday withdrew its soldiers from the border but the frontier remained tense, with honduran patrols on the lookout for any booby traps left behind by the sandinistas
president jose azcona hoyo said the 3,200 u.s. troops sent to honduras last week, after the nicaraguan army was accused of sending 2,000 men across the border in pursuit of contras, may not be needed much longer
however, the u.s. troops were to begin a new set of joint maneuvers with the honduran army today. on monday, a u.s. army transport helicopter crashed while participating in a military exercise and 10 soldiers were injured. other helicopters evacuated the soldiers for medical treatment
the sandinista government, in its second day of peace talks with contra rebels, today proposed a 30-day truce, and the u.s.-backed contras said a cease-fire should last 45 days. the nicaraguan government proposal calls for the rebels to lay down their arms, while the contras said rebels should move into cease-fire zones during the truce. on monday, the two sides agreed to a battlefield truce during the three days of the peace talks
president reagan today met with house republicans in a bid to renew interest in his stalled aid package for the contras. the proposed aid package would offer a one-year, $48 million infusion of humanitarian aid, as well as continued authority for the cia to deliver weapons remaining in rebel inventories, estimated at as much as $2.5 million. ``the youngest child xxx</note>
police today found six children reported missing when the eldest child, a 13-year-old girl, drove out of a parking lot while their foster parents were inside a hospital
the children had been left in the van monday while the couple kept a doctor's appointment in san diego, san diego police lt. bill brown said today. a witness saw the teen-ager drive the van out of the parking lot, brown said
everybody's safe. everybody's in good health,'' said police sgt. ron brown
investigators from the child abuse unit were going to talk with the children, said police spokesman bill robinson
a determination will be made if the parents were ``remiss'' in their actions, and where the children should be placed, robinson said. it is unlikely that any action will be taken against the teen-ager, he said
police sgt. roy stamper said the girl had driven to a friend's home in encinitas, a seaside community about 20 miles north of san diego, and the younger children spent the night in the van outside the house
the mother of the friend heard a news report about the missing van and called sheriff's deputies
the children's names were not released
the youngest child, an 8-month-old baby, was described as ``medically fragile,'' sgt. dan luth said. he did not know details of the baby's condition
two of the children are age 12. the others are 4 years and 19 months
police alerted authorities in san diego county to watch for a yellow, california-registered 1978 chevrolet van with red, black and orange stripes. the license number was entered into a national computer network of stolen cars
it was not known if the children had any money, luth said
as far as we know, the foster parents took all the kids to kaiser hospital where the father had to see doctor,'' brown said. ``apparently the children wanted to stay in the van, found the key, and drove off.''
he said it was at first assumed the driver would take the children to her biological parents' house in vista, but she did not
the cost of mailing a first-class letter will jump from 22 cents to a quarter on april 3, the u.s. postal service announced today
the hike is part of an overall increase in postage rates, replacing charges that have been in effect since feb. 17, 1985
the biggest increase will affect so-called ``junk'' mail, with rates for third-class advertising increasing nearly 25 percent
magazines and newspapers will pay about 18 percent more, while postage charges for individual consumers will climb nearly 15 percent
the government tuesday shut down the new nation, a combative, church-backed anti-apartheid newspaper, making it the first victim of a campaign to stifle militant publications
the government ``has killed the messenger instead of listening to the message.'' said peter soal, a parliament member for the liberal progessive federal party
home affairs minister stoffel botha, who has state-of-emergency powers to censor publications singlehandedly, said in a special decree that further issues of the black-oriented weekly newspaper are ``totally prohibited'' through june 10
another cabinet minister, stoffel van der merwe, said the new nation was closed because it advocated violent overthrow of the government and supported communism
it is absolutely astonishing that a publication issued under the name of a christian organization should act in this way,'' he said
the closure came a day after the 2-year-old newspaper, published by the southern african catholic bishops conference, lost a court appeal seeking to postpone government action while it challenged the censorship regulations
the new nation technically could resume publication after three months, but botha could close it again if its contents in the ensuing issues dissatisfied him
bishop reginald orsmond, chairman of the newspapers' publishing board, said the 22-member staff would be retained during the suspension. he declined to predict would would happen to the paper if the suspension was extended
orsmond accused the government of ``suppressing the voice of the people.''
authorities have banned four of the new nation's editions and seized two. police have raided the paper's offices, and it was the first of six publications warned by botha that they could be closed or forced to obey an in-house censor if they continued to publish material he found objectionable
anglican archbishop desmond tutu, whose stepped-up political activities in recent weeks have angered the government, described the new nation's closure as ``quite scandalous.''
only a government that is scared or already totalitarian, or very close to totalitarian, behaves in the kind of way that ours does,'' tutu said
with a circulation of about 60,000, the new nation is the largest newspaper in south africa to devote virtually its entire content, including sports and entertainment pages, to politically related developments
one regular feature was a learning section, ``to bridge the deficiencies of apartheid education.'' in simple language, it told readers about black activists not covered in school courses and explained how to apply for a job, feed a baby nutritiously, treat an injured riot victim or protect oneself from tear gas
the newspaper's editor, zwelakhe sisulu, has been detained without charge for 16 months. he joined the new nation after a year as a neiman fellow at harvard university
sisulu's father, walter, former secretary-general of the now-outlawed african national congress, is serving a life prison term along with anc leader nelson mandela for treason and sabotage
state-of-emergency regulations give botha nearly unlimited powers to deal with newspapers he feels might contribute to unrest. under the regulations, he does not have to give reasons for his actions
the new nation lost an initial court challenge of the regulations and intends to pursue its case in an appellate court. but on monday, a supreme court rejected the newspaper's bid to prevent closure during the appeal process
the last edition of the new nation, on march 17, said the government was ``bent on destroying what little freedom of expression is left in a country where the majority are voteless.''
because the new nation dared to act as their voice, it has now been damned to silence,'' the paper said
the issue also carried a quotation from president p.w. botha on the front page: ``i believe in a free press and in free news media.''
christian bale, the 14-year-old star of ``empire of the sun,'' told reporters at a gala opening of the film here that he had one complaint
i don't like watching myself,'' said bale, who plays a boy growing up in shanghai during the japanese invasion of the chinese city in world war ii in the adaptation of the novel by j.g. ballard
director steven spielberg, who also attended the gala premier along with queen elizabeth ii monday, said 4,000 boys were interviewed for the part, ``but he (bale) was meant to be the star of this movie. i could not believe my luck when i found him.''
bale, who is from bournemouth on england's south coast, flies to tokyo friday for the last leg of a six-week promotional tour
singer linda ronstadt called san francisco chronicle columnist herb caen a ``creep'' for publishing the address of her new home here, the newspaper reported tuesday
ronstadt, 41, recently bought the house for $2.55 million in the city's ritzy pacific heights neighborhood. although she hasn't moved in, she is thinking about selling it
there's too much publicity about it, and it's not a good idea to live there,'' said ronstadt, who is on a national tour. ``it's kind of a security risk.''
according to the newspaper, after caen published the address, ronstadt said it made her ``not like the house, and it made me not like the neighborhood, and it made me not like the city, and it made me not like to live there. that's the end of it.''
don hewitt, who marks his 40th anniversary with cbs news tuesday, recalls landing his first job at the network after a friend suggested his experience at a newsphoto service might come in handy
i said, what does cbs want with picture experience? radio doesn't need any pictures. he said, `no _ television.' i said whata-vision?''
today, the 65-year-old outspoken creator and executive producer of ``60 minutes'' is looking beyond current television technology, foreseeing a time when networks are superfluous and television news is beamed directly into subscribers' homes
i think that the network news departments, they might not even work for a network 10 years from now,'' said hewitt, who produced the the network's first television newscast, ``douglas edwards with the news,'' and later the ``cbs evening news'' with walter cronkite
there might not be any networks because it may be an outmoded delivery system.''
garrison keillor says he's glad he's finally getting a chance to work on a humphrey political campaign
the humorist, author and former minnesotan took to the stage here monday night to raise money for minnesota attorney general hubert humphrey iii, a democrat who is challenging u.s. sen. dave durenberger, r-minn, for his seat this year. humphrey is the son of the late sen. hubert h. humphrey jr
at a private fund-raiser after his performance, keillor said he had worked in several political campaigns but regretted never having worked for the late senator and vice president
to me it feels right ... just to be able to work for a humphrey campaign after all these years,'' he said
humphrey returned the compliment, saying ``i see in garrison's lighthearted, satirical humor a real sense of understanding of where people really are.''
doug flutie will be changing diapers as well as learning the offensive patterns of the new england patriots
the former heisman trophy winner's wife, laurie, gave birth to the couple's first child monday night. alexa dawn flutie was born at 9:45 p.m. at leonard morse hospital. she weighed 7 pounds, 13 ounces
i'm thrilled to death,'' said flutie, 25
when i think now how people live and die with their football teams every sunday, and how quarterbacks worry about their jobs after throwing an interception, well this, a new-born baby, really puts everything in perspective,'' flutie said
president francois mitterrand said tuesday he will seek a second term, ending months of speculation on whether the 71-year-old socialist would enter the presidential race
appearing on the nationwide evening newscast of the state-owned antenne 2, mitterrand was asked if he would run. he answered with a single word, ``oui'' _ ``yes.''
he said he decided to run because he thinks disunity threatened ``to tear the social fabric'' of the nation
prosecutors on tuesday opened an investigation into fraud, influence peddling and financial scandals allegedly involving the brother of former president chun doo-hwan
the prosecutor general's office said at least 10 officials have been questioned in an investigation of whether chun kyung-hwan, a younger brother of the former president, embezzled funds of the saemaul undong development group
top saemaul officials are suspected of diverting private and government subsidies to profit-oriented projects, land speculation and other illegal activities
the former president left office feb. 25 at the end of a seven-year term. he left tuesday on a private visit to the united states, where he will meet president reagan on wednesday
president roh tae-woo, who succeeded chun, has pledged to eradicate abuses of power and corruption under previous governments. in a recent move to reduce the ex-president's power, roh removed some chun supporters from their posts
some political observers say the roh government opened the investigation to disscredit the former president and improve the current government's image
there have been allegations of corruption by the saemaul group since the former president seized power with military backing in 1980 and installed his brother as saemaul head
the younger chun resigned in 1987 after being linked to gangsters
prosecutor kang won-il said government officials also were being investigated to see if they had assisted or protected corruption
my investigation team will unearth all malpractices and make public the results of the probe,'' kang told reporters
dong-a ilbo, an influential seoul newspaper, said the younger chun was responsible for a sharp drop in cattle prices in 1983 when he forced government officials to import cattle from the united states
saemaul was formed in 1971 to improve rural and urban living standards, but critics contend the country's authoritarian governments have used the movement to promote government influence
the party for peace and democracy controlled by opposition leader kim dae-jung charged that roh also aided saemaul officials when he was a government minister in 1982
the opposition party demanded that roh and other family members of the former president be investigated
when asked the key question by a television reporter, mitterrand paused dramatically, clearly savoring the moment before delivering his one-word answer and awaiting the reaction
in follow-up questions, he said he had watched the campaign, and feared opposing candidates were bringing on france disputes that threatened to damage the country. ``we need social peace,'' he said
with just four weeks remaining until the first round of voting, mitterrand said his decision was arrived at after mature reflection
the president's plans had been the subject of speculation for months. sometimes he had indicated he preferred to retire. other times he hinted he would run out of a sense of duty
individual pickets have a right to carry signs within 500 feet of foreign embassies in the nation's capital but police may disperse groups of three or more protesters there, the supreme court ruled tuesday
by a vote of 8-0, the justices upheld the district of columbia's ban on groups demonstrating within 500 feet of embassies if police have reason to believe the protesters pose a threat to ``the security or peace of the embassy.''
but by a separate 5-3 vote, the court said the city's anti-picketing prohibition that prevents even one or two people from carrying signs within 500 feet of the embassies violates free-speech protections
justice sandra day o'connor, in her opinion for the court, said a blanket ban on signs that might be offensive to foreign diplomats goes too far
it may serve an interest in protecting the dignity of foreign missions, but it is not narrowly tailored,'' she said. ``a less restrictive alternative is readily available.''
for example, she said, it would be constitutional to ban picketing that is designed to intimidate, coerce, threaten or harass a foreign official
that type of ban has been adopted by congress for all areas of the nation with the exception of the district of columbia
officials of the district of columbia government have said they are considering adopting a law based on the congressional model
tuesday's ruling allows district police to continue to enforce a ban on demonstrations near embassies when at least three people take part and police fear there will be disruptions
o'connor said police must ``reasonably believe that a threat to the security or peace of the embassy is present.''
banning such gatherings ``does not prohibit peaceful congregations,'' she said. the ban ``is limited to groups posing a security threat.''
o'connor rejected arguments that such a ban gives police too much discretion to break up demonstrations
she said the test for deciding whether a demonstration is illegal ``is whether normal embassy activities have been or are about to be disrupted.''
the ruling partially overturned a 1986 decision by the u.s. circuit court of appeals in washington upholding all aspects of the district of columbia's ban on protests near embassies
that ruling was written by former judge robert h. bork, who recently retired from the appeals court. bork was president reagan's first choice to fill a supreme court vacancy last year but was rejected by the senate in a bitter fight
tuesday's decision is believed to be the first time the high court gave full review to an opinion written by bork. his backers during the senate confirmation fight emphasized that he had never been reversed by the high court
the appeals court ruling that bork wrote in the embassy case said free-speech interests of the demonstrators were outweighed by the need to protect foreign emissaries
the 500-foot restrictions were challenged by michael boos, j. michael waller and bridget brooker, members of the young conservative alliance of america
they wanted to carry signs in front of the soviet embassy saying ``release sakharov,'' referring to soviet dissident andrei sakharov, who was allowed in 1986 to return to moscow, ending his internal exile in the city of gorky
the demonstrators also planned to picket the nicaraguan embassy with placards saying ``stop the killing'' in opposition to the sandinista government there
the conservatives also said they were not receiving equal treatment with opponents of the south african government who have demonsrated near that nation's embassy in washington
many of those protesting south african racial policy have been arrested and then freed without being prosecuted
joining o'connor in both phases of tuesday's ruling were justices william j. brennan, thurgood marshall, john paul stevens and antonin scalia
dissenting and voting to uphold the ban on individual picketing were chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices byron r. white and harry a. blackmun
justice anthony m. kennedy did not take part in the decision
in other action, the court:
_unanimously ruled in a case from michigan that states are barred from regulating the way interstate natural gas companies issue securities to finance their operations
_heard arguments in a case from illinois on whether the so-called miranda warnings police give criminal suspects are adequate to insure their right to legal help. a decision is expected to be announced by july
kansas democrats decided tuesday to allow local delegates pledged to the presidential runners-up in saturday's caucuses to vote at district conventions after all
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the kansas contest with 278 of the 764 local delegates elected and jesse jackson finished second with 235
however, there was confusion over the local delegates pledged to tennessee sen. albert gore jr. and missouri rep. richard gephardt and those who were uncommitted
under state rules, local delegates who supported a candidate who didn't reach a 15 percent threshold would be non-entities at the district conventions april 23
the state decided monday that those local delegates would be unable to vote at the district conventions and would be ignored in computing national delegates from the districts
but after conferring with the democratic national committee's compliance commission, which interprets the national rules for electing delegates to the national convention, the state party decided tuesday that all local delegates will be allowed to vote
thus, the delegates pledged to gore, gephardt and uncommitted could possibly form larger blocs that could secure national delegates
an initial calculation by the associated press based on candidates' strength at the local level showed that dukakis won 16 national delegates, jackson 14, gore five and uncommitted four
but when peculiarities in the kansas rules are applied, gore and uncommitted lack enough statewide strength to claim additional delegates. the ap recalculation and state party count give dukakis 18 delegates, jackson 16, gore three and two uncommitted.    reaction should be monitored, not necessary lead to trouble. subs lead to correct by deleting `city.'</note>
colors,'' a movie about street gangs starring sean penn and robert duvall, could prompt more street warfare, some officials complain
the violence was certainly graphic, but no more graphic than on the streets,'' city attorney james hahn said monday, a day after a private screening for the film, which uses real gang members as extras and real gang names
it portrayed the dead end of getting involved in gangs,'' hahn said. ``it was a pretty depressing movie from that standpoint.''
gang violence has claimed more than 50 lives in los angeles county this year
the orion pictures movie is scheduled for release april 15, and anti-gang specialists fear violence could erupt at theaters if rival gang members go to see it
it could create some problems,'' hahn said. ``it's the kind of thing we need to be concerned about and careful. we're just going to wait and see and monitor the situation.''
sheriff's sgt. wes mcbride, president of the california gang investigators association, said ``colors'' glorified gangs at times
i'd be surprised if we don't have some people die because of this movie,'' he said
a warning advising suspects that they may remain silent and are entitled to an attorney is not adequate to protect their rights under the constitution, the supreme court was told on tuesday
donald honchell, a cook county, ill., public defender appealing the 1983 murder conviction of a gang member, said the ``miranda warning'' does protect a person from self-incrimination under the fifth amendment
but he argued that, once a suspect is indicted, the warning alone is not enough to protect the sixth amendment guarantee of legal help
the supreme court is using the illinois case to decide whether the warnings that police have been required to give since 1966 are adequate to advise suspects of their right to legal aid
it ruled in ``miranda vs. arizona'' that people accused of crimes must be informed of their rights to remain silent, to have a lawyer, to have counsel present during questioning and to receive free legal assistance if needed
honchell contended that even if a defendant has waived his rights under miranda, he has an automatic right to a lawyer as soon as he is indicted and may not be asked from that point on to submit to interrogation
there is a shield around the accused through which the police cannot get a waiver,'' honchell said. ``at no time after the indictment should the police be allowed to go to the defendant, seek a waiver and begin to question.''
however, a prosecutor said authorities would be unfairly limited if they cannot interrogate a defendant who is read his rights and then agrees to speak without a lawyer present
jack donatelli, an assistant cook county prosecutor, also said the warning is perfectly understandable to defendants
they have a common-sense meaning that enables defendants to understand they have both a right to counsel and that things could go against them if they don't have a lawyer with them when they're in custody and questioned,'' donatelli said
honchell said police coerced his client, tyrone patterson, 22, of evanston, ill., into making incriminating statements by telling him he had been indicted. but donatelli said patterson understood his rights and agreed to be questioned anyway
patterson, a member of the vice lords street gang, is serving a 24-year sentence at the pontiac correction center for his conviction in the aug. 21, 1983 beating death of rival black mobsters gang member james ``pudge'' jackson
according to court briefs, he was arrested on a misdemeanor charge following a gang fight, received a ``miranda warning'' and signed a statement waiving his right to counsel
two days later, after initially refusing to discuss jackson's death, patterson was told he had been indicted, signed a second miranda waiver and agreed to answer questions, the briefs said
hoosier taxpayers with a grudge can walk into union station next month, pay a dollar and try to plunge an internal revenue service manager into the chilly waters of a charity dunking booth
the dunking booth is part of ``tax bash,'' scheduled april 11-15 at the downtown train station. proceeds from the event will benefit the muscular dystrophy association
during the evening hours, dry irs employees will be on hand to answer tax questions while their managers are taking the plunge. h&amp;r block inc. representatives will be available to prepare tax returns, with a portion of the fee going to the mda, and the u.s. postal service will operate a special tax return drop-off box
we're billing it as one-stop shopping for taxes,'' carolyn stumpf, irs public affairs officer, said tuesday
she said it didn't take any arm-twisting to get the irs involved in the fund-raiser
we thought that it's about time we show that we have a sense of humor, and the fact that we can help another group of individuals _ besides the tax-paying public _ so much the better,'' she said
the hot debate between mayoral and council candidates in parker is whether to use a 12-acre sodded area for polo or soccer
this is the horsiest county in the united states. we have more horses per person in our community than they do in kentucky,'' said dean salisbury, 66, mayor of this town of 700 about 15 miles southeast of denver
voters will decide april 5 whether to retain salisbury, the town's first and only mayor, or replace him with one of two challengers: ann waterman, 43, or mark lewis, 36
seven people are running for the four open seats on the town council, including three of the incumbents and four challengers
salisbury, who has won ribbons as a carriage and sulky race driver, takes credit for starting a regional park from 150 acres dedicated to the town by developers, then cultivating about 12 acres into a low-cost ``utility field'' for soccer or softball
but he also hopes the grassy field can be used to host an annual polo match to lure thousands of spectators to parker as part of a drive for economic development
the challengers say such schemes indicate salisbury is a better promoter than mayor and claim he has ignored the town's mundane recreational needs
for years, gayle e. culberson has been teaching kids at karval high school how to make ethanol in a class on energy conservation
but when the industrial arts teacher got a letter from the federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms saying his school would have to pay $500 a year because it was a fuel alcohol producer, he became a little upset
so culberson did what ever civics teacher recommends: he wrote his senator
culberson wrote sen. william armstrong that the school could not afford the tax and could lose its permit to produce fuel alcohol. his class makes a few quarts a year, he said
without the permit, he said, students in this eastern plains community would miss an important lesson
at a time when it seems important to reduce foreign oil imports, reduce pollution in our states, when education is struggling to better itself with diminishing budgets, why was there a tax of this nature levied on fuel alcohol plants and educational facilities in particular?'' culberson asked armstrong
armstrong has responded by drafting an amendment that would exempt from the tax producers who make less than 10,000 gallons of fuel alcohol per year
this is a classic case of the bureaucracy gone berserk,'' armstrong said
gen. manuel antonio noriega's opponents scorned what they called a cynical offer to negotiate his resignation and kept panama shut down tuesday with a general strike intended to force him out
an estimated 90 percent of offices and industries were shut by the strike, which appeared to be gaining support on its second day. most shops and stores were closed, public transportation was halted and many government employees did not go to work
panama is out of cash because of pressure from the united states to force the ouster of noriega, who is the real power in panama as commander of its 15,000 soldiers and police. the u.s. dollar is the national currency and the supply has been cut off
most government workers were paid only $75 of their midmonth wages last week and the $33 million end-of-the-month payroll for the 130,000 public employees problably won't be met. pension checks due wednesday have been delayed, at least until march 28
hunger is spreading among workers as well as the poor, unemployed and elderly. many washerwomen, cleaning women, maids and cooks have lost their jobs because there is no money with which to pay them
manuel solis palma, the civilian noriega chose to run the government, said on television monday night the general would resign in exchange for ``a national dialogue'' to reconcile differences with opponents of the regime. he prefaced the offer with a diatribe against the united states
the implication was that noriega, under federal court indictment in florida on narcotics and money laundering charges, would stay in panama and might retain power behind the scenes
calling the offer a ``noble gesture,'' solis palma said noriega pledged ``as an officer and a gentleman'' to resign before presidential elections scheduled for may 1989
solis palma, who has the title ``minister in charge of the presidency,'' said he would not accept noriega's resignation unless ``all of the political forces in the country'' join ``a national dialogue.''
noriega put solis palma in office feb. 26, after president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire the general and the legislature dismissed delvalle instead
delvalle, still recognized by the united states, is hiding in panama. his dismissal began a run on panama's banks and they were closed the next week
pressure from washington has included freezing virtually all panamanian funds in the united states, including revenue from the panama canal
reagan administration spokesmen rejected the noriega proposal. last week, noriega turned down a u.s. plan for him to leave panama and live in spain
the general said his plan was a ``panamanian solution'' to the crisis
i have no reason to talk to the united states,'' he told reporters after solis palma's speech. ``i talk to panamanians.''
guillermo cochez, vice president of the christian democratic party, said the proposed discussion would occur in a panel of 33 members, 22 of them supporting noriega
this is not a dialogue,'' he said ``it's just cynicism.''
aurelio barria said: ``the general has to go _ immediately, not eventually
barria is a leader of the national civic crusade, a coalition of 200 business, professional, labor and political groups that called the general strike. it was organized last june to lead the campaign against noriega
solis palma spoke on television for 30 minutes, devoting all but the last five minutes to castigating the united states. he accused washington of ``economic aggression'' in ``an undeclared state of war.''
he claimed the united states wants to renege on the 1977 treaties under which the panama canal will be turned over to this country at midnight dec. 31, 1999
the canal, guarded by about 10,000 u.s. troops, has been operating normally despite the crisis. the united states sent 300 more soldiers monday, most of them security personnel
because of increasing hunger, the rev. francisco verar said his roman catholic church in the poor san miguelito suburb is feeding more families every day
if we had not done this there would have been chaos, even cases of death,'' he said. ``we have people who have gone five, six days without food.''
longshoremen, on strike for more than a week, voted overwhelmingly tuesday to stay out but accepted part payment of back wages despite fears of compromising their position
there are mothers and fathers who have to feed their children,'' said luis asprilla, a union leader
in some parts of panama city, workers formed vigilante groups to guard stores and other places of employment. looting occurred during street protests against noriega last week. ^eds: for release at 6 p.m. est, time set by source</head>
a bladder cancer treatment that avoids surgery has shown promising results in a preliminary study, a scientist said tuesday
twenty-one of 36 patients who have completed the drug-and-radiation therapy were found free of disease for three to 21 months, said george prout, professor of surgery at harvard medical school
three others showed partial remission, while treatment failed outright for nine patients. the other three were not evaluable, he told science writers at a seminar sponsored by the american cancer society
the study focused on patients whose cancers had invaded the bladder muscle, a condition usually treated by surgically removing the bladder, prout said
if the bladder is removed, the patient must wear a bag to collect urine for the rest of his life. it also essentially ends sexual activity
the experimental treatment attacks liver cancer with radiation to the pelvis, plus treatment with a mix of the drugs methotrexate, velban and cis-platinum
nearly 300,000 people have become sick and 11 have died in shanghai's 2-month-old hepatpresses soon will be turning out new editions of highly popular works by mikhail bulgakov, author of ``the master and margarita,'' and boris pasternak, who won the 1958 nobel literature prize for his novel ``doctor zhivago.'' it has not yet been published in book form in his homeland
the newspapers did not say whether foreign literature was included among the books to be made available. foreign writers such as jack london, ernest hemingway and emile zola are very popular in the soviet union, and some have been available for years
no details were given on the pricing system to be used for books published by their authors
this is not going to be a cheap venture for the author,'' pravda warned. ``depending on the number of copies and the volume, such a publication will cost roughly 2,000 rubles and more.''
that sum, the equivalent of $3,340, represents nearly a year's pay for the average industrial worker
the author in return will receive 20 percent of the sales income, pravda said
the program has not yet been put into the form of law, pravda noted, but already state publishing houses have many applications from authors who want to pay to see their works in print
by offering an alternative to creation of publishing cooperatives, the state publishing committee retains a monopoly on what gets into print
on a related subject, the newspaper soviet culture disclosed tuesday that glavlit, the state body which for decades has been responsible for censorship, is conducting a review of 6,000 books held in ``special detention'' storehouses
most of the fiction and non-fiction titles were banned during the 29-year dictatorship of josef v. stalin and removed from library shelves and book kiosks because their authors were deemed to have espoused politically hazardous ideas
the vast majority of those books were works whose authors were subjected to repression during the years of stalin's personality cult,'' vladimir a. solodin, a member of the review committee, told soviet culture. ``the others had other `faults,' for example, forewords written by such repressed politicians, quotes from their works or their photographs.''
among the blacklisted books were 180 that contained references to nikolai i. bukharin and 70 that mentioned alexei i. rykov, two prominent political figures from the early years of the soviet government executed by stalin but recently rehabilitated by gorbachev
glavlit, or the chief directorate for the protection of state secrets in publishing, was created in 1922 to ensure freedom of the soviet press from ideological impurity. it has served since as the chief censorship agency, and would have banned the blacklisted books in the first place
a glavlit committee went through 4,000 of the ba readers, but said the review was helping to resolve the deficit in good literature
the 500 books left in special detention are mostly ``profoundly instigatory literature and nationalistic writings,'' that could be used for ill purposes if allowed into general distribution, solodin said
the decision to keep them under wraps is not final, and the glavlit committee will take another look at them once the initial screening is completed, solodin said
a suspected mail thief who changed his identity was traced to a navy warship in the persian gulf and was arrested when the ship came home, investigators said
postal inspector j.a. mcdonald obtained a warrant for the arrest of luke lee mccall on july 10, 1986, on a charge that he took a letter containing a $620 insurance check from someone else's post office box
mccall, who otherwise had a clean record, began using the name of andre darnell robinson in order to avoid trial, said stan hills, a deputy marshal in jacksonville. he said mccall returned to chicago and enlisted in the navy
after several months in the persian gulf on the uss okinawa, mccall was arrested monday in norfolk, va., when the vessel docked
with no prior record, mccall probably wouldn't have received the maximum penalty _ five years in prison and a $250,000 fine _ had he gone to trial in 1986, hill said
mccall, 28, was ordered held on $75,000 bond following his appearance monday before a u.s. magistrate in virginia
mccall is scheduled to be arraigned april 4 in jacksonville on the federal mail charge, said assistant u.s. attorney teresa wright. he also faces additional charges stemming from the use of a false identity, she said
mccall had obtained a copy of andre robinson's birth certificate and was using his social security number, officials said. robinson, who lives in jacksonville, was not involved in the scheme
under his assumed name, mccall married a woman in san diego and bought a car with a loan from the navy credit union there, hills said
reyner banham, an influential writer on architecture and the arts, has died of cancer at the age of 66
the burly professor returned to london after more than 10 years in the united states after developing cancer last year. he died saturday in london, his family said
most recently, banham taught art history at the university of california for seven years
he was educated in norwich, and at the beginning of world war ii, he began working at the bristol aeroplane co. after the war, he studied art history at london university's courtauld institute while writing about contemporary architecture for the architectural review
in 1959, he joined the staff of the review full-time, but five years later, left for a teaching post at bartlett university college in london, where in 1969 he became professor of the history of architecture
after enthusiastic u.s. reaction to his 1960 book, ``theory and design in the first machine age,'' he moved to the united states in 1966 to teach at the university of buffalo in new york. he moved to california in 1980
he wrote two other widely studied books, ``the new brutalism'' in 1966 and ``architecture of the well-tempered environment'' in 1969
banham is survived by his wife, mary, a son and a daughter
the chairman of the u.s. civil rights commission announced tuesday that he was bestowing an ``uncivil rights award'' on the mayor of newark, n.j., for pressuring rep. peter rodino, d-n.j., to retire because he is white
chairman clarence pendleton, who is black, said that rodino receives the ``victim of uncivil rights award'' for the way in which he was treated by ``newark power brokers'' who have decided that ``he is not their representative _ he's just the wrong color.''
at a news conference where he criticized the civil rights restoration act and the resignation under pressure of gallaudet university president elisabeth zinser, pendleton said he was instituting his own personal ``uncivil rights award'' program in an effort to highlight ``the absurdities committed in the name of civil rights.''
pendleton's first recipient was newark mayor sharpe james, who is black. james has said the courts carved out rodino's 10th congressional district more than 12 years ago to elect a minority congressman, and that ``it's time to get that done.'' pendleton said james worked ``with several other newark politicians'' in pressuring rodino to retire
rodino announced march 14 that he would not seek a 21st term in congress. minorities, who make up the bulk of rodino's district, have clamored for several years for a minority representative
rodino has been pressured to retire so that a proper _ read this black _ representative can be elected,'' said pendleton. ``the notion that peter rodino doesn't represent the people in the 10th district is absurd. they have elected him to congress 20 times, and continue to support his leading role on civil rights issues.''
james declined to respond to the criticism from pendleton, said pam goldstein, a spokeswoman for the mayor. ``i will not dignify his comments with a response,'' she quoted james as saying
rodino also declined comment, said spokesman larry spinelli
pendleton said he would bestow his new awards ``as often as they are properly earned _ perhaps once a month. if the civil rights restoration act passes today over the president's veto, i suppose i will have more than enough material.''
pendleton said the civil rights restoration act represents ``an unwarranted invasion ... by big brother.''
the statute forbids distribution of federal funds to entire institutions, state and local government agencies and many corporations if any part of them practices discrimination. it was spurred by a 1984 supreme court ruling that civil rights laws applied only to a specific program or activity receiving federal aid
the head of the civil rights panel also said that one of his candidates for a ``victim of uncivil rights'' award had been zinser, who was named the first woman president in the 124-year history of gallaudet university for the deaf, only to resign following protests over the fact that she was not deaf
patrick steptoe, the doctor who delivered the world's first test-tube baby in 1978 and helped pioneer a technique that revolutionized infertilty treatment, has died of cancer. he was 74
steptoe, a gynecologist and obstetrician who pioneered the in vitro fertilization technique with physiologist robert edwards, died monday night at chaucer hospital in canterbury
on tuesday, he was to have been decorated by queen elizabeth ii as a commander of the british empire, an honor one step below a knighthood, for services to his country
an expert in infertility, steptoe also was to have received the british medical association's gold medal, one of the profession's highest awards, at its annual meeting in july
mr. steptoe made an invaluable contribution to medicine and raised the honor and dignity of the profession,'' the association said. british surgeons use the designation ``mr.'' instead of ``dr.''
the test-tube baby technique gave hope to millions of childless couples and spawned a range of fertility treatments for both men and women
more than 1,000 test-tube babies have been born as a result of treatment at bourn hall clinic, near cambridge, run by steptoe and edwards, and thousands of others have born elsewhere in the world
it is a very great loss to bourn hall and to me personally,'' edwards said. ``in the last three years, he was working under considerable difficulties but carried on
he wished to do service to his patients for as long as possible.''
truck driver john brown, father of louise joy brown, the world's first test-tube baby, said he and his wife, lesley, ``are forever in his debt.''
there is no way we, or any other couples mr. steptoe helped, can possibly repay him for what he has given them,'' brown said
louise was born on july 25, 1978, in oldham, england. four years later, the browns had a second test-tube baby, natalie jane
the birth of louise brown, the first human conceived outside the womb, was hailed as a medical breakthrough on the order of the first heart transplant. but some people were horrified, seeing it as the dawn of a ``brave new world'' of baby farms and genetic engineering
i am not a wizard or a frankenstein,'' steptoe once said
all i want to do is help women whose child-producing mechanism is slightly faulty.''
under the in vitro fertilization technique, which actually involves no test tubes, eggs are removed from the prospective mother and fertilized with the intended father's sperm in a glass dish. the resulting embryo is then implanted in the mother's womb
it took 10 years for edwards and steptoe to develop the technique
working at cambridge university, edwards worked out the procedure for fertilizing eggs in a laboratory dish, and steptoe adapted a technique known as laparoscopy, a way of seeing and operating inside the abdomen by inserting a tube with a fiber optic light
originally intended for women who were unable to conceive because of blocked fallopian tubes, in vitro fertilization has given rise to such procedures as embryo freezing, egg and sperm donation, embryo transfer and surrogate motherhood
steptoe, who was born on june 9, 1913, qualified as a doctor in 1939 and immediately went into world war ii service as a royal navy surgeon. he was a prisoner of war in italy from 1941 to 1943, and was discharged with the rank of surgeon lieutenant commander in 1946
he worked as an obstetrician in state hospitals, moving in 1951 to oldham, a northern england city where in the fall of 1967 he teamed up with edwards
in 1984, a furor erupted over allegations that they had experimented on embryos, although the scientists later insisted they had only observed embryos
the same year, the team proposed implanting embryos into animals to determine whether some conditions favorable to fertility exist in the animal's uterus but not in a woman's. the idea eventually was dropped
but steptoe said he and edwards never thought their work was in any way unethical. ``we are not creating life,'' he said. ``we have merely done what many people try to do in all kinds of medicine _ to help nature.''
steptoe said the greatest contribution of their work would likely be in early embryo research into genetic diseases
he is survived by his wife, sheena, and a son and daughter. funeral arrangements were incomplete
a car salesman didn't think he'd be stepping on any paws when he put a pair of seven-foot lion statues on the roof of his auto dealership and advertised ``the car institute.''
but a roar of sorts erupted from the art institute of chicago, which has lions guarding its entrance
i didn't think people would be confused,'' said joe levy jr., the car dealer, who said tuesday he had agreed to a compromise. ``i don't know how much of their traffic we've been getting. i think there's room for both of us.''
the art institute contended ads for the ``car institute'' violated a museum trademark
we agreed to discontinue the `car institute,''' levy said. ``but they've agreed to let us keep the lions'' on the building in evanston
robert mars, the art institute's vice president for administrative affairs, said the advertising was the real problem. to allow levy to capitalize on the institution's image might allow others to do the same, and in an offensive way, mars said
i think it maybe sends a signal out to people who all-too-frequently try to use images from our collection that aren't terribly appropriate,'' he said
mars said a mistake was made long ago when the museum did not protect its copyright of the painting ``american gothic'' by grant wood. ``now we can no longer say anything about how'' parodies use the stern-faces farm couple, mars said
levy said he got the call from the museum attorney about a month ago. last week he had his fiberglass lions painted the colors of nearby northwestern university ``to help clear up the confusion.'' one is now white, the other purple
we hope they don't object,'' he said
mars said the lions, even in purple and white, can stay
four palestinians who had sought political asylum in sweden were ordered expelled tuesday for undisclosed security reasons, a government official said
the order came after prime minister ingvar carlsson's government met in a special session to consider their appeal against a ruling by police and immigration authorities that they leave the country, said erik lempert, a senior official of the labor ministry
a fifth palestinian was granted a resident's visa for humanitarian reasons, despite objections by the national security police, lempert said
he said the government normally granted asylum to stateless palestinians arriving from lebanon since the 1982 israeli invasion of that country, but police objections ``weighed heavier'' in these cases
one of the four was married to a swedish woman expecting their child in april
lempert declined to specify the suspicions against the palestinians. lawyers representing them were ordered not to comment, but the attorneys were quoted by the national news agency tt as saying they would appeal. pvs, earlier on</note>
republican presidential hopeful bob dole campaigned in wisconsin on tuesday rather than return to washington for the senate override vote of president reagan's veto of civil rights legislation, saying ``i wasn't needed.''
dole indicated both opposition and support for reagan's veto of the civil rights bill in a confusing series of statements
on a radio call-in show, dole said he would vote to override the veto if he were in washington. but he added, ``if it were the deciding vote, i would side with the president.''
he later elaborated, saying the only reason he would vote to sustain reagan's veto would be to ``give (the white house) a chance to rework the bill.'' in a speech to milwaukee businessmen, dole said, ``that bill is not nearly as bad as advertised.''
in washington, his spokeswoman also issued a double-edged statement. dale tate said dole, republican leader in the senate, ``opposes the president on this issue'' and would like to reverse the supreme court ruling that prompted the legislation. but she said, ``if his vote were needed to sustain the veto, he would.''
in principle he opposes the president,'' she said
the democratic-controlled senate had more than enough votes to provide the two-thirds majority needed to override reagan's veto, with or without dole, who was campaigning in wisconsin in advance of the state's april 5 republican presidential primary
vice president george bush, the faraway front-runner for the gop nomination, announced on monday that he supported reagan's veto. ``i'm not going to start differing with the president after 7 1@2 years into the vice presidency,'' he said
dole was criticized by bush earlier in the campaign for failing to take a clear-cut position on key issues such as tax increases and arms control
and a variety of statements by dole and allies left a confused impression on the hotly debated civil rights bill
sen. alan simpson, the gop senate whip, said he had been authorized to say on the senate floor that ``were he (dole) present and voting, he would vote to sustain the president's veto.''
dole himself issued a statement for the record which did not say how he would vote
i have always supported legislation to overturn grove city to restore the broad civil rights coverage that existed prior to that case,'' he said
at the same time, i recognize that (the grove city bill) is not a perfect bill. i am not fully satisfied with it... but the fact remains that the administration and its congressional allies had the opportunity to offer amendments and they were voted down.''
the legislation stems from a 1984 supreme court ruling that says that an organization receiving federal aid must follow anti-discrimination rules only for the program that receives the aid, and not for the entire organization or institution
the legislation would erase that distinction and require that an entire organization follow the rules. dole was absent when the senate passed the bill in january. reagan vetoed the bill, saying it was too broad and infringed on the activities of religious groups, small buisnesses and others
civil rights groups have strongly suppored the bill and favor overriding reagan's veto.  total number of hemophilia cases to 615 sted 566.</note>
here are the latest statistics on acquired immune deficiency syndrome in the united states, as reported this week by the national centers for disease control:
total cases reported since june 1981: 57,024
cases, year to date: 6,670
total deaths: 31,836, or 56 percent of all cases
homosexual or bisexual males: 35,954, or 63 percent
intravenous drug abusers: 10,031, or 18 percent
homosexual male and drug abusers: 4,186, or 7 percent
heterosexual cases: 2,254, or 4 percent
transfusion or blood cases: 1,481, or 3 percent
hemophilia patients: 615, or 1 percent
undetermined transmission cause: 1,805, or 3 percent
childhood cases (under age 13): 908, or 2 percent
cases among whites: 33,966, or 60 percent
cases among blacks: 14,568, or 26 percent
cases among hispanics: 7,979, or 14 percent
cases among other: 511, or 1 percent

(note: these statistics are through march 21 and have been rounded by the cdc to the nearest whole percent. cumulative totals are for aids cases reported since june 1981, and include 75 cases subsequently found to have occurred prior to that date. the ``other'' classsification under age and race includes asians, american indians and native alaskans
the pentagon announced a series of high-level moves involving army generals on tuesday, saying the president had selected successors for two retiring officers
maj. gen. edwin s. leland jr. has been nominated by reagan for promotion to lieutenant general and assignment as chief of staff of the u.s. european command
assuming he is confirmed by the senate, leland, 48, will replace lt. gen. howard g. crowell jr., who is retiring. leland, a native of washington, d.c., now commands the 1st armored division, u.s. army europe
the president also nominated lt. gen. thurman d. rodgers for assignment as commander of the army information systems command, the pentagon continued. he would replace lt. gen. emmett paige jr., 57, has held the post since july 1984 and is retiring on aug. 1 after more than 40 years' service
rodgers, 53, a native of cookeville, tenn., now is director for information systems on the staff of the army secretary
maj. gen. bruce r. harris would be promoted to lieutenant general and to replace rodgers in the staff position. harris, 53, a native of sullivan county, ind., now commands the army signal center and signal school at fort gordon, ga
the soviet union on tuesday increased official pressure on armenia and azerbaijan to halt ethnic unrest that has left at least 32 people dead
the tass news agency said the presidium of the supreme soviet of the russian federation, the nation's largest republic, and equivalent bodies in the ukraine, byelorussia, georgia and uzbekistan called on the national parliament to take firm action to end the tension
the moves came amid increasingly negative coverage in the official press of armenian demands to annex the predominantly armenian nagorno-karabakh region, which is part of neighboring azerbaijan and the reported arrest of a leading armenian nationalist
tamara grigoryants, wife of armenian-born dissident sergei grigoryants, said in an interview that paryur arikyan was arrested tuesday evening by three policemen in central moscow after meeting with a western journalist
she said arikyan was accused of crossing the street illegally, and that he informed her of his arrest by calling from a pay telephone as the policemen stood by. arikyan said saturday he had traveled clandestinely to moscow after his passport was confiscated in armenia
the government newspaper izvestia on tuesday criticized armenian activists who it said gathered almost 4,000 people for a meeting in yerevan on march 19 to devise strategy to press their demands
on monday the communist party newspaper pravda charged the armenians' campaign has a ``clear anti-socialist spirit.''
ethnic rioting broke out in sumgait, a azerbaijani city, after armenians began protesting last month for annexation of nagorno-karabakh. officials say 32 people were killed, but armenian activists say the death toll was much higher and that most of the dead were armenians killed by azerbaijanis
the russian federation expressed ``concern and alarm'' over the ethnic unrest and asked the presidium of the national supreme soviet, the country's nominal parliament, to ``adopt resolute measures aimed at ... uniting in all ways the soviet peoples.''
the soviet constitution says little about the rights of autonomous regions such as nagorno-karabakh, but says the territory of a republic such as azerbaijan or armenia may not be changed without its consent. that means azerbaijan would have to approve the annexation of nagorno-karabakh to armenia
under soviet law, each of the country's 15 republics is ostensibly sovereign. but the appeals from the five soviet republics about nagorno-karabakh seemed designed to serve as a reason for the national government in moscow to act on the simmering territorial dispute
the policy-making central committee of the communist party rejected the demand for annexation on feb. 20, but soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev promised on feb. 26 that the issue would be considered when the central committee holds another meeting to discuss national disputes
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov told a regular news briefing that protests continued in armenia on sunday and monday. a nationalist source said armenians would gather again in their capital of yerevan on saturday to decide whether to call a general strike
gerasimov said the situation in azerbaijan and armenia still is too tense to allow foreign journalists to travel there
a curfew is still in effect in sumgait, although the situation there is regarded as absolutely normal,'' gerasimov said. ``in armenia i wouldn't call it normal because there are demonstrations going on and that's not normal.''
arikyan told the associated press on monday that 7,000 people had gathered in yerevan to protest the pravda article published earlier that day criticizing the movement to annex nagorno-karabakh
at a tuesday news conference in moscow before his reported arrest, arikyan, 38, a former political prisoner, read what he said was the text of a telegram from armenian journalist y. arakyelan to pravda editor viktor g. afanasyev
according to arikyan, the correspondent said the article was an ``editor's article expressing the will of the communist party central committee,'' rather than the views of those whose names were attached to it
arikyan, chairman of an armenian nationalist group called alliance for national determination, said the pravda article was an indication that authorities will not agree to unite nagorno-karabakh with armenia, despite appeals from local communist party and government officials
arikyan once headed an underground armenian nationalist group called the national unification party, and was jailed for 17 years beginning in 1969 for his political activities
he said armenian activists in yerevan claim 78 people were killed in sumgait. but, he said, ``i think a worse tragedy than sumgait awaits us.''
communist china's chief representative in hong kong was quoted tuesday as praising modern capitalism as a ``great creation of human civilization.''
xu jiatun's comments appeared in the pro-beijing wen wei po newspaper, which ran the text of an interview he gave with a chinese magazine, and appeared aimed at boosting confidence in hong kong after 1997, when china takes over the capitalist territory
we have some comrades who always fear capitalism, but in fact they don't understand that the modern capitalist system is a great creation of human civilization,'' said xu, who as head of the xinhua news agency branch is china's chief representative in hong kong
the xinhua official was quoted as saying china ``should systematically absorb the beneficial experience and knowledge from modern capitalism,'' which he praised for guaranteeing an enivronment of free competition, allowing production forces to develop, and creating a good legal system
in the past, we believed capitalism would quickly die out,'' xu was quoted as saying. ``looking from today's perspective, modern capitalism has a lot of room to develop.''
china's communist party last year reaffirmed its commitment to opening up the country and pushing market-oriented reforms to stimulate the economy
xu's comments not only indicated strong support for reform but also appeared designed to allay fears about what will happen to this bastion of capitalism after china takes over in 1997
much of hong kong's well-educated middle class are seeking to move overseas before the territory reverts to chinese rule, even though beijing has promised the territory can retain its capitalist economic system and enjoy ``a high degree of autonomy.''
but many of hong kong's 5.7 million people are refugees from political campaigns in communist china and remain pessimistic. xu acknowledged they have ``a kind of distrust of the communist party, which is completely understandable.''
he said residents will be allowed to criticize the communist party and socialism after 1997, but will be asked to ``love china and love hong kong.''
this is what we call `one country, two systems,''' xu was quoted as saying. ``this will benefit china's cooperation with every circle of people in hong kong, especially the middle class.''
the house voted 401-1 tuesday to continue and expand a program to encourage private companies to develop drugs for combatting rare diseases
the bill, which was sent to the senate, extends the so-called ``orphan drug'' program through fiscal 1990. it would also expand the program, which is overseen by the food and drug administration, to include special devices and foods needed to help people with unusual maladies
under the program, companies are given tax credits and seven-year exclusive marketing rights if they develop products for rare diseases. without incentives, the companies would not pursue development of those products because the small number of beneficiaries would not make it profitable, according to supporters of the legislation
the revised statute, while expanding the program, would triple its cost in the next few years. the current annual authorization of $4 million would grow to $14 million in fiscal 1990
the reagan administration has said it has no objection to the legislation
rep. henry waxman, d-calif., chairman of the health subcommittee of the house committee on energy and commerce, had also sought to include a provision to limit profits on orphan drugs. however, the restrictions were opposed by the pharmaceutical industry and waxman dropped them rather than face possible stalling tactics when the bill reached the senate
the only dissenting vote was cast by rep. philip crane, r-ill
a court on tuesday fined toshiba machine co. $15,750 for illegally selling sensitive technology to the soviet union, and ordered suspended sentences for two former toshiba machine executives
tokyo district court judge toshio yonezawa found that toshiba machine's actions ``seriously damaged the economic activities, foreign relations and trade policies of our nation, which is trying to protect free trade and international cooperation.''
between 1982 and 1984, toshiba machine, a subsidiary of toshiba corp., japan's second-largest electronics maker, sold $17 million in sophisticated milling machines to the soviet union, part of them allegedly through norway's state-owned kongsberg vaapenfabrikk. u.s. officials alleged the machines helped moscow build propellers that make submarines quieter and harder to detect
since the statute of limitations on that action had expired, however, the current case involved charges that parts and software were sold later in violation of foreign trade and exchange laws based on the regulations of the western allies' coordinating committee for exports to communist nations
the defense argued that the machine parts and software could have been produced by the soviet union and there had been no violation worthy of serious legal consideration
but yonezawa said, ``the violation cannot be dismissed as trivial, since it involved misleading explanations made by toshiba machine officials to the ministry of international trade and industry and the destruction of related papers after the incident was uncovered.''
yonezawa added that toshiba machine's actions ``fed distrust of the japanese government and industry in the united states.''
he held that the sale occurred ``with the approval of the company's president and under the direction of the corporation's top executives.''
hiroaki tanimura, former deputy senior project manager of the company's first engineering department, was sentenced to one year in prison, with the sentenced suspended for three years
ryuzo hayashi, a former manager in toshiba machine's material supply division, was sentenced to 10 months in prison, also suspended for three years
following the decision, joichi aoi, president of toshiba corp., told reporters, ``the toshiba group has been taking the utmost efforts to assure that no such incident will recur, and there will be no change in this policy in the future.''
earlier, in the milling machine case, the japanese government banned toshiba machine from exporting to any communist nations for one year
a bill authorizing $3.5 million in transitional expenses for president reagan's successor and $1 million for reagan to move to retirement in california next january was approved tuesday by the house government operations committee
the democratic-controlled committee rejected a republican move to increase the expense allowance for the outgoing president to $1.5 million from $1 million, the level in effect since 1976, to offset the effects of inflation
the proposed boost was opposed by rep. jack brooks, d-texas, the panel's chairman, who said the budget squeeze requires congress to ``make some hard choices'' on spending cuts
the panel approved raising the president-elect's allowance for transitional expenses to $3.5 million from $2 million, the level in effect for the past 12 years. it also rejected, 24-9, a move by rep. robert s. walker, r-pa., to forbid the president-elect from accepting private donations to supplement federal transitional funds
the $1 million for reagan's initial retirement expenses, if approved by the house and senate, would cover his moving expenses from the white house to california and the costs of establishing an office for six months, until funds for former presidents become available under a separate law
the military services had no problem meeting their recruiting goals last last year, but there were ``some adverse signs'' for the future in lower re-enlistment results, the pentagon said tuesday
releasing its latest quarterly report, the defense department said the army, navy, air force and marine corps signed up 66,300 recruits during the first quarter of fiscal 1988, which ended dec. 31
that compares with a combined goal of 65,400, and all four services met or exceeded their individual quarterly objectives, the pentagon said
moreover, the percentage of first-time enlistees with a high school diploma actually increased slightly _ from 92 percent during the period in fiscal 1987 to 93 percent in fiscal 1988
retention (re-enlistment) results for the first quarter of fiscal 1988 were also satisfactory, but with some adverse signs,'' grant s. green jr., assistant defense secretary for manpower, said in a statement
first-term re-enlistment rates trailed comparable fiscal 1987 statistics for three of the four services. and while overall career retention rates showed some improvement over fiscal 1987, retention among second-term and career navy petty officers continued to decline after falling short of objectives last year.''
the pentagon pays particular attention to the percentage of men and women willing to re-enlist after completing their initial obligation, viewing it as a measure not only of military readiness and experience in the force but also job satisfaction
according to the latest report, 46 percent of military personnel eligible to re-enlist for the first time during the period did so _ down from 49 percent during the comparable period in fiscal 1987
some of the individual service declines, however, were much more precipitous. for example, the air force's first term re-enlistment rate dropped from 74 percent to 62 percent over the year
the marine corps' rate dropped from 24 percent to 18 percent, and the navy's rate fell from 56 percent to 51 percent. the army managed to buck the trend with a small increase, from 40 percent in fiscal 1987 to 43 percent this fiscal year
green noted that various re-enlistment bonus programs had been suspended for 65 days during the period awaiting congressional action
but most retention measures have fallen several percentage points below their 1983-84 peaks, and this trend has been particularly noticeable among personnel in higher-technology skills that are in particular demand in the private sector,'' he added
meanwhile, dan howard, the pentagon's chief spokesman, restated the administration's strong opposition to a cut in the 4.3 percent pay raise proposed for military personnel in fiscal 1989, which begins oct. 1
the 4.3 percent hike exceeds the 2 percent proposed for civilian government workers and some congressional leaders are now arguing military and civilian workers should be treated the same
the comparability studies ... show an 11 percent gap between military and civilian pay,'' howard said. ``the 4.3 percent pay raise is fully justified unless we want to return to the situation that we saw in the past where the disparity was so great that good people couldn't afford to stay in the military.'' suggests^ ^eds: subs 2nd graf bgng ``the trends'' to explain why woodchucks used in study.</head>
extracts of a tropical plant appeared to reduce levels of hepatitis virus and liver cancer rates in woodchucks, a hopeful sign for the world's 200 million human virus-carriers at risk for the cancer, a scientist said tuesday
the trends emerged in analysis of data on about 60 animals that had become infected with the woodchuck version of the hepatitis b virus, said baruch blumberg of the fox chase cancer center in philadelphia. woodchucks are used in hepatitis research because the virus they carry so closely resembles the human hepatitis b virus
blumberg stressed that the results are only suggestive, and a prelude to a formal study of the plant extract's effects
even if it doesn't get rid of the virus altogether, it may still be useful,'' he said after speaking to science writers at a seminar sponsored by the american cancer society
that is because the virus now can lie dormant for decades after infection, and if the extract can extend that period, it may essentially block the progression to liver cancer until after a person has died of something else, he said
infection with hepatitis virus b has long been linked to later development of cancer originating in the liver, as opposed to cancer that starts elsewhere in the body and spreads to the liver
studies in taiwan have found that male carriers of the virus run more than 200 times the risk of developing liver cancer than non-carriers, giving them a 40 percent chance of dying from the disease, blumberg said
the cancer is particularly common in asia and sub-saharan africa, he said. in the united states, the cancer society expects about 6,000 new cancers of the liver this year
the best way to deal with the problem is vaccination at birth for people at risk of the disease, blumberg said. such a vaccine is not recommended for the american population generally because the overall risk is so low, he said
china and taiwan have programs for vaccinating newborn children, he said. his institution has established a vaccine program in philadelphia directed at newborn children of carrier mothers and others in their household. he said he hopes other such programs will be established
but the world already has about 200 million carriers of the virus, and more will be added every day until vaccination programs become fully effective, he said
the plant, called phyllanthus ammarus, grows in india and throughout the tropical world, blumberg said. it can be grown in the united states, he said
the extract of the plant appears to fight the virus by blocking a substance called dna polymerase that the virus needs to reproduce itself, he said
when the extract was injected into the bellies of woodchucks infected for a month, evidence of the virus disappeared, he said. those infected longer showed decreases in the amount of virus in their blood
treated animals also developed significantly fewer liver cancers than others, blumberg said
limited studies in animals suggest the extract does not cause significant side effects, he said. scientists are trying to isolate the portion of the extract that fights the virus, he said
raymond koff, a liver disease specialist and professor of medicine at boston university, said the work should be followed up with more study. ``innovative, exciting stuff has to be looked at,'' he said in a telephone interview
a gas distribution company has warned customers nationwide that cylinders of silane gas may have been contaminated the same way as one that exploded, killing three people, officials said tuesday
liquid carbonic industries corp. of chicago issued the warning monday that the cylinders of silane may have been contaminated with an unstable oxidizer, said dewey erzinger, the company's director of public relations
erzinger said he could not estimate the number liquid carbonic customers across the country, but said most are in the electronics industry. the company manufactures industrial and medical gases, such as silane, which is widely used to coat silicon wafers
erzinger said company officials are investigating the origin of the cylinder that exploded thursday at the gollob analytical services plant, killing three people and seriously injuring a fourth
the state department of environmental protection has tentatively traced the cylinder _ believed to contain a volatile mixture of nitrous oxide and silane _ through three states before it reached berkeley heights
the exact cause of the blast remains unknown, say officials with the dep and liquid carbonics
in its note to its customers, liquid carbonic said the explosion may have been caused by some kind of oxidizer being drawn back into the cylinder
if your process utilizes silane gas product in conjunction with oxidizers, such as nitrous oxide or oxygen, you are urged to make certain that oxidizers cannot be drawn back into your silane gas container,'' the notice said
meanwhile tuesday, liquid carbonic completed removal of 300 cylinders of silane from its harrison plant, erzinger said. he said the company may conduct similar removals at other plants around the country
on monday, nearly 1,000 workers were held off their jobs on the san francisco peninsula after canisters containing potentially explosive chemicals were discovered at semiconductor facilities there
chemical inspectors eventually concluded that the four canisters at advanced micro devices inc. in santa clara and teledyne semiconductor in mountain view were harmless
a similar precautionary evacuation took place sunday in pocatello, idaho, when officials of the gould inc.'s semiconductor plant examined silane cylinders belonging to liquid carbonic
one of the men killed in thursday's blast, dennis feeney, was a regional manager for liquid carbonic at the company's harrison facility. the two others killed were gollob employees
a liquid carbonic deliveryman, james diemer, lost a leg and suffered shrapnel wounds. he was in fair condition tuesday in the plastic surgery ward of bellevue hospital center in manhattan
sen. albert gore jr. got the meeting he'd sought with new york gov. mario cuomo on monday, but he got no endorsement for his presidential bid despite complimentary words from the governor
he's very bright,'' cuomo said of gore. ``he's very deep in his knowledge of government. ... he has a particular kind of appeal that's especially attractive to the democratic party at this moment.''
but cuomo said he and lt. gov. stan lundine are not ready to publicly back a candidate. he said of gore, ``it was nice of him to come by.'' but he added that during their private meeting at the state capitol, ``sen. gore said nothing that i haven't heard him say before.''
gore had tried to arrange a meeting with cuomo early last month in albany but couldn't. cuomo said gore had asked to stop at the capitol again monday as part of a campaign trip through new york in advance of the state's april 19 primary. gore also campaigned in connecticut monday
of course, i asked for his support and we talked about his desire to play the most constructive role possible in helping the country and helping the democratic party win a victory in november,'' gore said. the tennessee senator said they also discussed problems new york and other states are wrestling with such as housing, the homeless and aids
gore rose to third place in the battle for nominating delegates by winning five southern states in the super tuesday primaries on march 8
cuomo said the democratic race between front-runners michael dukakis, jesse jackson and gore has created a ``confused picture politically.''
we're _ stan lundine and i _ now accelerating the process of trying to determine how best to be useful to the democratic party,'' cuomo said. ``maybe we'll go beyond that and endorse somebody. we'll know within a couple of weeks.''
the fact that cuomo has yet to endorse any democratic candidate, coupled with his refusal to rule out accepting a draft for the nomination if there should be a deadlocked national convention, has kept alive the speculation that he might be angling for the nomination. howver, cuomo says he is not a candidate for president this year
later gore, in a quick swing through connecticut, predicted he would do well in the state's democratic presidential primary next tuesday despite massachusetts gov. michael dukakis' strong regional appeal here
i'm extremely optimistic that we're going to do very well here, in spite of the fact that it's in the backyard of one of my opponents,'' gore said during a brief stop at an office building construction site outside of hartford
we're going to surprise some people here,'' gore said
gore expressed hope that connecticut gov. william a. o'neill would make an endorsement soon, rather than remaining uncommitted until the democratic convention in atlanta in july
i'd love to have the governor's endorsement and i've asked him for his support,'' gore said. ``but i certainly understand why he wants to take a close look at the race and think about it some more.''
gore praised o'neill lavishly, calling him ``a tremendous leader'' who's done ``an outstanding job as governor.''
president reagan refused monday to discuss a possible pardon for former white house aide oliver north, and a presidential spokesman said north's lawyer had not contacted the administration about the matter
in response to a reporter's question at the end of a ceremony to sign an afghanistan day proclamation, reagan replied, ``not going to discuss that now.''
separately, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater repeated the administration's oft-stated position that ``there's been no discussions of pardons.''
he also said that the administration has not been contacted by north's attorney, brendan sullivan, who has been saying publicly that testimony may be sought from the highest officials of government
the president will cooperate but we'll just have to wait and see what the format takes,'' fitzwater said
north was indicted last week by a federal grand jury on charges he conspired to divert iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
earlier sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, said reagan should pardon north. he said north had been guilty of misleading congress but did not intend to break the law
i continually ask the question, where's the venality, where's the corruption, where's the criminal intent?'' hatch said on ``cbs this morning.'' ``i don't think anybody who watched oliver north believes that he intended to break the law or that he intended to be a criminal.''
asked if north had misled congress, hatch said, ``that's true. but keep in mind oliver north saw his buddies get killed in lebanon. he found the terrorists who had killed them through leaks. ... he was the fellow who helped plan the the grenada invasion. he was the fellow who captured the achille lauro terrorists through leaks.''
you go on right down the line. ... i think that he was a hero then, he's a hero today and i think we ought to get this behind us and i think a pardon would be the appropriate way to do that,'' hatch said
however, rep. thomas s. foley, d-wash., who also served on the committees that investigated the iran-contra affair, said the courts should decide the guilt or innocence of north and former national security adviser john m. poindexter, who also was indicted
for the president to pre-emptively pardon them in advance i think would send a terrible signal to the country about the even-handedness and objectivity of our legal system. remember they are all assumed innocent,'' foley said on the cbs program. says</head>
federal parole officials recommended tuesday that an anti-castro militant convicted of conspiring to bomb foreign freighters should be released after serving a three-month prison sentence for violating parole, his lawyer said
the suggested sentence, which includes time orlando bosch has spent in jail since returning to the united states, must be approved by the u.s. parole commission. the panel is expected to decide within three weeks
parole examiners made the recommendation recommended after a closed hearing tuesday, bosch's attorney, george yoss said
bosch, 61, convicted of conspiring to bomb foreign freighters and of firing a recoilless rifle in 1968 at a polish freighter docked in miami, served four years of a 10-year federal prison sentence
he has acknowledged violating his parole when he traveled to south america in 1974. he served 11 years in venezuelan jails until his acquittal on charges of bombing a cuban jetliner in which 73 died in 1976
but after serving his three-month sentence by may 16, bosch probably will be taken into custody by the u.s. immigration and naturalization service, said yoss. the ins has targeted bosch for possible deportation
bosch entered the united states illegally last month after his release from a venezuelan prison. since mid-february, he has been detained at the metropolitan correctional center in south dade
several prominent cuban-americans, including jorge mas canosa, head of the cuban american national foundation, testified before the parole examiners in a hearing closed to the public because it was an administrative procedure
mas canosa said after the hearing that bosch should be released because he had learned his lesson and now would work peacefully for the overthrow of cuban president fidel castro
it is a crime to keep this man behind bars,'' mas canosa said
dr. alberto hernandez, bosch's physician, said he testified that bosch suffered from stomach, heart and prostate problems. bosch's illnesses would be aggravated by a prison sentence, he said
ted kline, who prosecuted bosch in 1974, said he testified that bosch could be released safely
tom kowalski, the parole commission's atlanta regional administrator, said the decision would be forwarded to regional commissioner george mckenzie rast, who will make a recommendation to the full, four-member parole commission in washington
two men have been given a chance to avoid federal prison terms for their role in a racially motivated fight that resulted in the death of a mexican-american farm worker five years ago
walter pringle, 35, who faced a maximum 15-year federal prison term, was sentenced monday to 33 months in prison and assessed $4,450 in fines, costs and restitution. federal judge g. kendall sharp said pringle would not have to go to prison if he can pay the money by sept. 1
pringle was found guilty in january of violating the civil rights of joseph ozuna, 26, by beating him unconscious near seville, a town of about 650 residents 60 miles north of here
sharp also sentenced mark miller, 25, to 12 months in prison. sharp said he would suspend that sentence if miller could pay $1,500 in fines and restitution by sept. 1. miller had pleaded guilty to conspiracy and testified for the government in the january trial
both he and miller said later they would raise the money for the fines and stay out of prison
a federal jury acquitted pringle's ex-girlfriend, paula hires smith, 29, of violating the civil rights of gilberto garza, 17, by shooting him to death in the same fight
the 1983 case triggered controversy when pringle received a six-month jail sentence, a $15 fine and five years probation after pleading no contest to aggravated assault and battery, and ms. smith was given 10 years probation for her no-contest plea to manslaughter
outrage over what were considered to be light sentences in the state circuit court criminal case led to a federal investigation and the january trial on civil rights charges in u.s. district court in orlando
according to the federal indictment and information from miller, pringle and ms. smith pursued cousins ozuna and garza into the countryside. while pringle was beating up ozuna, ms. smith shot garza in the face with a rifle
i have been handing down sentences for 10 years, and i think without doubt this is the most difficult case i ever had in terms of meting out a sentence,'' sharp told pringle
but, the judge said, ``i am convinced that you will never do anything like this again.''
pringle had contended that drinking got him into fights, and the judge agreed, adding that only pringle knows whether he is really prejudiced against mexican-americans
three children and their mother died tuesday morning when the children set fire to their house while playing with matches, authorities said
the deaths follow a rash of similar fires here in recent months
kevin reardon, who heads a program aimed at preventing children from starting fires, said 11 children have been killed in the last four months in fires they started
fire battalion chief david zwayer identified the victims of tuesday's fire as patty compton, 36, and three of her children: joshua, 1, jennifer, 4, and cassandra, 5. all were dead at the scene, officials said
a fourth child, tanya compton, 7, and a woman identified as a family friend, dorleen wilson, 32, escaped the fire, zwayer said
police said the children were lighting matches and set fire to a couch. according to witnesses, ms. compton went outside, but returned to the house in an attempt to save her children
you (could) hear them crying and calling for their mom, and then their mom went into the house,'' said witness lakisha glasco, 12
on sunday, four children ages 10 and younger were killed when fire struck their home. a fifth child survived and was in poor condition tuesday in children's hospital
fire officials said they believe that fire also was caused by a child playing with matches
more coast guard installations would be forced to close next year if congress fails to increase the agency's budget by $300 million, the head of the coast guard said tuesday
these are not intended as threats or scare stories; these are the real choices that we face,'' adm. paul a. yost jr., commandant of the coast guard, told a house subcommittee
yost said the reagan administration's proposed fiscal 1989 funding level of $2.98 billion would not enable the coast guard to reopen any of the nearly 30 stations and offices closed in february because of a $103 million shortfall in the current budget
but yost said the administration's proposal would allow the remaining stations to stay open. in addition, it would restore to full levels drug patrols, which were reduced by 55 percent last month, and routine search and rescue patrols, which were eliminated
if congress approved a budget with only modest increases from 1988, the agency would have a $171 million shortfall next year that would trigger a more serious round of station closings, yost said
i can't even come up with a list of coast guard (facilities) that could be closed,'' he said
rep. earl hutto, d-fla., chairman of the house merchant marine and fisheries subcommittee on the coast guard and navigation, embraced the administration's budget proposal as ``the minimum necessary for the coast guard to continue to function in the manner expected of it by the congress and the american public.''
hutto and yost said while the 1989 budget request is a big jump from current spending levels, it really would just be bringing the coast guard up to past levels
when adjusted for inflation, the budget request for the next fiscal year is about the same as the 1983 spending levels. however, the coast guard since has increased its drug interdiction activities substantially
the congressional general accounting office found that from 1980 to 1987, the proportion of coast guard operating expenses devoted to drug operations more than tripled _ from 7 percent to 22 percent
meanwhile, the percentage devoted to more traditional coast guard duties, such as search and rescue patrols and marine safety, has been sliced from 60 percent to 51 percent, the gao said
last week, yost unveiled an administration plan to transer $60 million from other transportation department accounts to the coast guard to immediately upgrade patrol levels to last year's levels
foreigners would be barred from working as crew members aboard u.s. aircraft and ships during strikes against the carriers, under legislation approved, 302-114, by the house on tuesday
the restrictions would apply only to american-owned planes or ships that are entering or leaving the united states
supporters of the legislation said the measure would protect the rights of striking american workers by preventing companies from hiring foreigners to replace them
aliens should not be allowed to hurt american employees by working in their jobs as strike-breakers,'' said rep. marge roukema, r-n.j., the measure's sponsor
opponents said the bill would hurt carriers by forcing them to release foreign employees in the event of a labor walkout, and would invite retaliation by other countries
it is easy to be against foreign nationals,'' said rep. steve bartlett, r-texas
the legislation was written in response to a 1986 strike against trans world airlines inc. by its flight attendants in which the workers accused twa of using foreigners to serve on trans-atlantic flights
the bill was sent to the senate
newly issued guidelines for dealing with federal employees infected with the aids virus are in line with the general anti-discrimination recommendations of the government's health department
we worked very closely with the office of personnel managment in developing them,'' dr. robert windom said tuesday. ``the regulations are reasonable and reflect phs concerns.''
windom, no. 2 official of the department of health and human services, heads the seven-agency public health service that includes the centers for disease control, food and drug administration and national institutes of health
windom will review the guidelines thursday with personnel officers from about 30 major federal agencies
the federal government, as an enlightened and compassionate employer concerned with the health and welfare of its employees, has an obligation to show the way in addressing the realities of the aids epidemic,'' constance horner, director of the office of personnel management, said in a memo accompanying the guidelines' initial distribution this week
quoting from cdc statements on aids in the workplace, the personnel office memo says, ``the kind of nonsexual person-to-person contact that generally occurs among workers and clients or consumers in the workplace does not pose a risk for transmission of aids.''
the guidelines instruct federal agencies to treat aids-infected employees ``in the same manner as employees who suffer from other serious illnesses'' and say there is ``no medical basis for employees refusing to work with such fellow employees or agency clients
fellow employes who disrupt agency functions by refusing to work with an aids-infected person could be subject to ``appropriate corrective or disciplinary action'' under the guidelines
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a contagious disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections
for a few fleeting weeks, free enterprise thrived in brooklyn
that was back in the good old days, about two months ago, when a thrifty commuter entering the greenpoint avenue subway station in the morning could buy a $1 subway ride for 50 cents
the bargain was offered by three crafty entrepreneurs, who discovered the key to a padlocked gate next to a turnstile. they unlocked the gate, put the padlock on the turnstile and went into competition with the new york city transit authority
from about 5 a.m. to 7 a.m. weekdays, the subway station was turned into a bargain basement, according to an account in tuesday's new york newsday
and then the police found out
as of 2-15 fare for rider will be 55 cents per person,'' read a flyer handed to riders shortly after the police crackdown. ``and no pennies will not be accepted no more. ... people we had run in with transit police so that why we raise it. we couldn't afford of getting busted.''
the flyer ended on a promotional note: ``catch that fare special.''
it became amusing,'' observed transit police sgt. tom sullivan, still slightly astonished by this flowering of the entrepreneurial spirit. ``because we arrested them, they increased the fare.''
the police had been notified by an irate token clerk, who arrived with a uniformed police officer each morning at 7 a.m. to find her competitors fully engaged in business
the token booth was staffed only at rush hour. the rest of the day, patrons without tokens had to go to the main station entrance two blocks away; those with tokens could go through the cage-like turnstile _ until the discounters arrived
at first, the men scattered when the token clerk arrived. but after a while, sullivan said, ``they were being so brazen that they would just retreat to the stairwell and wait for the uniformed cop to leave.''
then they'd return to business, in full sight of the token clerk, whose business dwindled. about 100 riders a day were taking advantage of the reduced fare, plunking their money into a bucket beside the swinging gate
this really infuriated the railroad clerk,'' said sullivan
her complaints eventually led to undercover operations that resulted in the first arrests on jan. 29. and the second arrests on feb. 1. each time, the men were issued desk appearance tickets and released. and each time, they went right back to work
on feb. 16, the police raised the stakes against paul franklin, 35, kenneth norris, 36, and willie brown, 22. this time they went to jail on charges including disorderly conduct, petty larceny, criminal tampering and other crimes
so far, franklin, who, like brown, lived in an apartment near the station, has pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct and served eight days in jail. norris, who lived in a homeless shelter, has pleaded guilty to petty larceny and been sentenced to 70 hours of community service _ including washing subway stations
even as we made the arrests, we had one guy in handcuffs and people were still walking up to him and trying to hand him money,'' sullivan said. ``they were pretty slick in their operation. they thought they had all ends covered.'' differences</head>
commerce secretary c. william verity opened a new round of japanese trade negotiations on tuesday with an appeal for fast resolution of the differences separating the two sides
the negotiations involve u.s. demands that japan allow american and other foreign construction companies to compete for an estimated $60 billion in public works projects planned in japan over the next decade
verity announced that the american team would be headed by deputy u.s. trade representative michael b. smith, who is taking over from j. michael farren, a deputy commerce undersecretary who is leaving the department because he was passed over for promotion
i trust that everyone in this room shares my feeling that these negotiations on construction have gone on for too long already and that the time has come to bring them to a close,'' verity said in opening remarks
last week, president reagan's cabinet-level economic policy council set a two-week deadline for resolving the construction dispute. if the issue is not settled by the deadline, administration officials have indicated they will recommend that the president bring a trade complaint against japan, a process which could lead to u.s. trade retaliation against japan
the japanese have offered to allow u.s. companies access to seven public works projects. u.s. negotiators have contended in the past that this offer was too small and omitted sophisticated engineering jobs
but verity, in his remarks, indicated a willingness to consider the japanese proposal as a starting point
the japanese side has suggested that contracts worth $30 billion in seven major projects could be opened to bidding by our firms,'' he said. ``very well, then, we simply ask that you open them, and that, over time, you add additional projects until the japanese construction market is open.''
verity called on the japanese to open up ``the broadest spectrum of contract work'' to u.s. bidding
earthmoving and runway construction are not enough,'' he said
democrat richard gephardt charged tuesday that michael dukakis' support for tough trade legislation is just ``a political ploy'' that will end after the michigan caucuses are over
dukakis, the massachusetts governor, said his position on trade has been consistent, and his staff released quotations from last year indicating his support for major provisions of a senate trade bill
who is for a tough trade policy? who is going to be for a tough trade policy after michigan?'' gephardt asked in a telephone interview tuesday. ``the answer is, dick gephardt is and will be. mike dukakis hasn't been, isn't and won't be.''
when he is on the east and west coast, he wants to talk about free trade. when he's in michigan, he doesn't,'' gephardt said
gephardt's tough trade legislation, now in a conference committee on capitol hill, has been the capstone of the missouri congressman's platform
monday night, dukakis endorsed trade legislation sponsored by michigan sen. donald riegle, who in turn endorsed dukakis. gephardt quickly accused dukakis of having a ``battlefield conversion'' on trade, saying the riegle bill was the senate version of the gephardt legislation
dukakis and jesse jackson are tied for the lead in the polls on saturday's michigan caucuses, with gephardt a distant third. dukakis aides say that may be the reason for gephardt's attacks
on tuesday, gephardt stepped up the attack, questioning the sincerity of dukakis' support for such legislation
i think he remains against it. i think it is a political ploy,'' gephardt said. ``by what he has done, he is trying to have it both ways. ... now that he is in michigan and we are five days out from the caucuses, he wants to fool the people of michigan.''
dukakis said in michigan late monday that his position hasn't changed
he has been a strong opponent of the gephardt bill from the begining, but has always been an advocate of leveling the (trade) playing field,'' said dukakis spokesman leslie dach
dukakis' staff on tuesday pointed to quotes from the massachusetts governor last year in favor of the senate bill
on july 11, 1987, dukakis said, ``i think the trade bill which the senate approved yesterday says if there is a consistent pattern of unfair trade practices ... there i think we have to do something.''
i feel a lot better about the senate bill'' than the gephardt trade legislation, dukakis said on aug. 4, 1987
gephardt said dukakis ``has said in the past you don't need new legislation. ... he has been profoundly negative about everything i have said about trade.''
the congressman, too, provided quotes from dukakis last year _ quotes he said back up his charge of a flip-flop
the president today has all the authority he needs to do something about those unfair trade practices. we do not need more laws or more amendments,'' dukakis said at the aug. 8 debate at drake university, according to gephardt aides
in debates in dallas and atlanta, dukakis told gephardt, ``you want a law. dick, i want to act.''
and earlier this year in lansing, mich., gephardt aides said, dukakis said ``we do not need more legislation.''
the gephardt amemdment and the riegle bill do differ, but both try to strengthen potential retaliation against u.s. trading partners for unfair practices. in general, the riegle bill would target specific industries in foreign countries which engage in unfair practices. the gephardt amendment would trigger retaliation against another country for running a big surplus with this country in part through unfair practices
dukakis has always felt the president has had the authority to act. the riegle amendment ... gives the president a better way to get there, but he can pretty much get there on his own now,'' dukakis spokesman dach said
thousands of poor people are lining up for help at churches and soup kitchens as the country sinks deeper into political and economic crisis
it is a good thing people have such a good heart at times like this,'' israel gonzalez said monday as he cooked a big pot of rice over an open fire outside san jose church in san miguelito, a poor neighborhood on the outskirts of town
the poor have been hit hardest by a campaign to oust strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega that has crippled businesses, closed banks and dried up the supply of cash. noriega is chief of panama's 15,000-member defense forces and the power behind the civilian government
while a general strike paralyzed panama city on monday, scores of volunteers like gonzalez were working at soup kitchens run by caritas, a roman catholic community organization
the rev. francisco verar said his parish at san jose church is a made up ``mostly of people who are underemployed.''
they include ``women who wash and iron or work as maids and now cannot find a job, construction workers who have not worked since the crisis started or laborers who work in whatever they can find,'' he said
although food and money are scarce for almost everyone, help has been streaming in, the rev. laureano duran, director of caritas, said as he watched dozens of volunteers pick up bags of donated food
we have to help those who are worse off than we are,'' said a housewife who brought a sack of groceries
duran said caritas believes more than 6,000 families in the archdiocese are without money or food
gonzalez, the owner of a small neighborhood grocery store, said he has been cooking broth for several days for the thousands of people who have lined up at the san jose soup kitchen
my wife and i are working here now every day,'' he said. ``no one is buying anything anyway, so i am not needed at the store.''
as gonzalez cooked, wiping the sweat off his forehead, cirila flores and her six children waited for a hot meal
i live alone but i have always managed to get food for my children washing clothes and ironing,'' she said. ``now there are no jobs because no one has money. i have never been through a situation like this before.''
verar said the san jose kitchen has been feeding chicken and rice and vitamins to the needy
we are cooking at least 300 pounds of rice every day,'' he said. ``we think we will have some beans and lentil soup tomorrow.''
san jose also has a malnutrition clinic staffed by volunteer doctors and nurses
they starve to give food to their children,'' dr. carlos lizarraga said, pointing to a woman he said had not eaten since friday so she could feed her six children
my husband works in construction and he has not been paid,'' explained alicia flores, 26. ``i do not work and we are about to go out on the street and beg. it's all noriega's fault. we don't even have bananas to eat.''
the city council has approved an ordinance requiring guests checking into the city's 11 hotels and motels to show identification
the measure was proposed in january following the discovery of the bodies of two women in different hotel rooms. the deaths, one attributed to strangulation and the other to drowning, were not related, authorities said
mayor francis x. flaherty was expected to sign the ordinance in a couple of days, said mayoral spokeswoman anne turner. it would go into effect 20 days later, she said
councilman lincoln d. chafee, the only one of the seven council members to vote against the ordinance monday night, called the measure ``loose and vague'' and cautioned the council against ``stampeding to enact a bad bill.''
the ordinance was amended to say that information from a hotel registrant will be used only for emergencies or during criminal investigations. the american civil liberties union had complained that the original version violated the rights of individuals
the guest who pays for a hotel room would be required to show a driver's license, major credit card, state identification card, military identification card, passport, vehicle registration or vehicle title documents
councilman c. kenneth wild jr., who proposed the ordinance in january, said it would help police investigate cases such as those of the two women. identification would not be required of people other than the person signing for the room
neither woman had paid for the room where she was found dead. in the drowning, two people were charged with leaving the scene of a death, but no one has been arrested in the strangulation, police said
u.s. troops sent here for emergency training exercises will stay on to complete the maneuvers, a u.s. military spokesman said tuesday, although honduras says its border crisis with nicaragua is over
right now the plans are to make it a 10- to 14-day exercises. we have not received any directive as to when to begin redeployment,'' said u.s. spokesman maj. gary hovatter in a telephone interview
he said exercises were taking place tuesday at four sites
president reagan ordered 3,200 american troops to honduras last week at the request of president jose azcona hoyo, who had accused sandinista soldiers from neighboring nicaragua of penetrating honduran territory in pursuit of u.s.-supported contra rebels
president daniel ortega of nicaragua denied his troops were in honduras. last week honduran jets twice bombed nicaraguan positions to force them to leave. no casualties were reported
honduran foreign minister carlos lopez contreras told the associated press in an interview tuesday the border tension ``has virtually disappeared'' after both the sandinistas and the contras suspended hostilities and began truce talks
the three days of negotiations began monday in the small southern nicaraguan town of sapoa, near the costa rican border. the talks aim mainly at reaching a cease-fire so that both sides can strike a permanent peace accord in their 7-year-old war
the dispatch of the u.s. troops bolstered the american military presence in honduras to about 6,000 servicemen. the reagan administration billed it as both a show of support for azcona and a warning to the sandinistas against further actions in the border region
as the sandinistas pulled out of the bocay region, where the incursion took place, azcona said the additional u.s. troops would not be needed much longer
hovatter said, however, that the troops will complete their training first. the united states has been carrying out joint exercises with the honduran military periodically for five years as part of the reagan administration's policy of isolating the sandinistas
ten american soldiers were injured monday when their uh-1 huey helicopter crashed during an exercise near the southern honduran town of juticalpa, apparently as a result of mechanical failure
hovatter said five or six of the injured soldiers would be released for light duty
the nixon white house kept heavy pressure on federal reserve board chairman arthur burns to do its bidding but gently turned aside complaints from one fed critic, then-california governor ronald reagan, documents made public on tuesday show
among 400,000 pages of white house records released by the national archives is a sept. 17, 1973 letter from reagan to nixon complaining about the impact of a fed decision on california mortgage loans
the documents also included many internal white house memoranda suggesting that white house aides devoted considerable effort to encourage burns, appointed by nixon in 1970, to stimulate the economy prior to nixon's 1972 re-election campaign
critics claim the easy-money policy pursued by burns in the early 1970s did keep the economy humming through 1972, but set the stage for sharply rising interest rates and inflation in the following year, triggering a recession
in his letter to nixon, reagan contended that the fed and the federal home loan bank board were drying up the availability of mortgage money in california
they were doing this by easing restrictions that had kept interest rates which banks could pay on savings accounts below those offered by savings and loan associations, reagan said
the result, he wrote, ``has been a flow of funds from savings and loans to banks.''
since savings and loans are the ``major supplier of funds for home building in california,'' the result of the action threatened ``irreparable damage'' to his state's home-building industry, gov. reagan charged
present events have occurred which places the home-building industry in the state of california in a potentially grave situation,'' reagan wrote
the reagan letter was shunted back and forth among several aides, with tod r. hullin, an assistant to domestic policy adviser john ehrlichman, recommending that it be given ``special attention.''
although white house assistant kenneth dam wrote a draft of a white house response, the final job of answering reagan was given to george p. shultz, then nixon's treasury secretary and now reagan's secretary of state
shultz told his future boss that while the nixon administration ``shares your concern,'' a return to the former limitations on interests paid by banks would not solve the problem of california savings and loans
we have been limited in our ability to maintain the availablity of home mortgage credit,'' shultz said
then, he added: ``inflation is our most important domestic problem and this administration firmly believes that the nation is best served in the longer term by our vigorous efforts to curb inflation.''
the documents released on tuesday were a second installment of nixon white house material made public by the archives. an earlier 730,000 papers from the white house central files unit, containing many personal documents kept by nixon and his top lieutenants, was made public in december 1986
the newly released documents seemed likely to fuel longstanding speculation by critics that burns deliberately manipulated monetary policy to help re-elect nixon _ an allegation the late central bank chairman repeatedly denied
in any event, the documents show a pattern of close white house involvement with the fed on monetary issues during burns' tenure, including frequent meetings among burns and top white house officials
at one point, the white house even arranged an ``appreciation'' luncheon for burns in late 1971 to which 58 leaders from the financial community were invited
although the first 20 minutes of the late fed chairman's speech to the group ``was somewhat professorial,'' burns at the end of his speech ``was very optimistic. from this point of view, the lunch was a success,'' former white house aide peter flanigan said in a confidential memo to nixon
noting that financial writers were then brought into the luncheon to speak to burns, the memo continued: ``while arthur is no (then treasury secretary) john connally in terms of stimulating a response, the exercise was clearly a plus.''
in an august 20, 1970 memo to nixon, his then chief economic adviser, paul mccracken, praised burns for ``effective leadership'' at the fed in easing monetary policy and proposed that the money supply be permitted to grow even more rapidly
we urge this in no sense of trying to `take over' monetary policy, but merely as those who will be held accountable for the economy's performance during this period,'' mccracken wrote to nixon
the relationship between administration officials and the federal reserve system has always been a somewhat uneasy one,'' mccracken added. ``but it is the president who will be held politically accountable for the economic results of federal reserve policy.''
burns himself wrote a confidential note to nixon on march 9, 1970, pointing out how the nation's money supply had grown since he had been named fed chief five weeks earliers
let me add that the (fed) board's liberalizing action took place only on february 10 _ the first meeting of the federal open market committee over which i presided,'' burns wrote to nixon. the committee is the fed's chief policy-making unit. police probe</head>
a television evangelist who resigned as pastor of the orange county church he started is the target of a police investigation and lawsuits claiming he owes tens of thousands of dollars
richard hogue, who came here from oklahoma one year ago after facing financial difficulties in that state, said in a television interview tuesday he resigned as pastor of metrochurch sunday to concentrate on paying his debts
i'm just having to knuckle down and go back to work and take my time and try to work myself back out of this debt,'' hogue said in a telephone interview with station koco in oklahoma city
hogue was interviewed from miami, where he said he is ``looking to put together a major opportunity which could mean i could maybe be out of debt very soon.''
hogue frequently appeared on ``richard hogue weekdays'' on the ptl network formerly run by defrocked minister jim bakker and his wife tammy. he also occasionally hosted a show on trinity broadcasting network called ``praise the lord.''
trinity discontinued using hogue as a host three weeks ago
the red lights went off when we learned his board has resigned,'' tbn attorney norman juggert said
former metrochurch members june and david muehlberger of palm springs filed suit in orange county superior court on dec. 16, 1987, against metrochurch and hogue, alleging he repaid just $2,000 of a $126,000 they loaned him to buy pews
irvine police said monday they are investigating allegations of embezzlement as a result of the muehlbergers' complaint
we don't know if it's a civil problem or a criminal problem,'' sgt. scott cabe said. ``it just popped up in the last two or three days.''
in 1985, hogue resigned from his church in oklahoma, where he was a well-known pastor and tv personality
the los angeles times reported tuesday that hogue's former oklahoma attorneys are seeking $18,426 they claim he owes for legal services
we've been trying to catch the guy for two years,'' david livingston, attorney for the oklahoma law firm of mosburg, sears, kunzman and bollinger, was quoted as saying
the times also reported that an oklahoma couple sued hogue and alleged he failed to repay $142,000 on a $160,000 note for a 157-acre horse ranch. the newspaper also reported that hogue's oklahoma house was foreclosed for a $228,000 debt he owed gmac mortgage corp. of iowa
separately, hogue's assistant, mike maggard, said monday ``it appears that pastor hogue and (his wife) marilyn may be separating.''
joe chagra, a former lawyer who spent nearly six years in prison for plotting the assassination of a federal judge, says it feels good to be free of prison and free of drugs
chagra, 41, was released on parole friday from a federal prison in stafford, ariz
for all the sadness and the pain that you go through, walking out of that gate has to be the all-time high in life,'' he told the el paso times. ``i can't really tell you how good i feel.''
chagra pleaded guilty in 1982 of conspiring to kill u.s. district judge john h. wood jr., who had been scheduled to preside over the drug trial of joe's older brother, jimmy
wood, known as ``maximum john'' because of his tough sentencing of drug dealers, was murdered outside his san antonio home in 1979
jimmy chagra, who along with joe was accused of hiring charles harrelson to kill wood, was acquitted on a murder conspiracy charge and is imprisoned on a drug conviction. harrelson was sentenced to two life terms
joe chagra blamed his problems on a heavy cocaine habit and the influence of his two older brothers, jimmy and lee
now we know what a seductive drug cocaine is,'' said chagra, who said he is a convert to health foods and exercise. ``i'm sorry that (drug use) happened. it did. i can't change it. ... i don't anticipate any more problems in my life.''
lee chagra, the eldest brother, gained notoriety by successfully defending alleged drug dealers. he was gunned down in his office in december 1978
both lee and jimmy chagra lived flamboyantly, gambling huge amounts of money and using drugs. jimmy chagra once paid off a las vegas casino debt of more than $900,000 in cash, and he lost a $580,000 golf match
joe chagra, who has been disbarred, returned to el paso friday but declined to discuss what he plans to do
the only thing i won't do is make any hasty decisions,'' he said
lyn nofziger tried unsuccessfully to make then-interior secretary walter hickel an emissary to protesting students after hickel's famous protest letter to president nixon in 1970, according to newly released white house documents
nofziger, a long-time political aide to president reagan who was convicted of illegal lobbying last month, was working in the white house congressional relations office at the time
a memorandum from nofziger to h.r. haldemann, nixon's chief of staff, turned up in the latest batch of nixon white house files opened by the national archives on tuesday
hickel wrote nixon on may 6, 1970, after the invasion of cambodia by u.s. forces in vietnam had set off a storm of protest on the nation's campuses. he said that attacks on the protesters by vice president spiro t. agnew were creating an impression of a lack of concern for ``the attitude of a great mass of americans _ our young people.''
the letter, whose prompt appearance in newspapers dismayed the white house, said nixon should, among other things, talk with members of the cabinet from time to time. hickel was quoted in news accounts as saying he had had only two personal meetings with nixon since becoming secretary more than a year before
nofziger's memo, dated may 8, 1970, said: ``whether we like it or not, wally hickel is the kids' new hero. suggest we use him. suggest he meet with the president saturday and then send him out to talk to the kids
why not have the president meet with a group of kids tomorrow at mid-morning to take some of the steam out of the demonstration and give us some favorable publicity?''
the nofziger memo was directed, apparently by haldemann's office, to dwight chapin, nixon's appointments secretary. chapin seems to have sent it back to ken cole, haldemann's assistant, with the handwritten notation: ``ken cole _ good idea? _ c''
after that appeared the one word, unattributed: ``no.''
nixon did meet with protesting students, on his own without staff preparation, at 5 a.m. at the lincoln memorial. that meeting garnered much publicity, most of it in a tone of astonishment
hickel and nixon defended each other in public appearances immediately after that, but hickel did not get to see nixon and the president fired him on november 25 _ in a personal meeting
hickel was traveling tuesday and could not be reached, said his office in anchorage, alaska. nofziger had left for the day and also could not be reached, according to his washington office
a pennsylvania man who received political asylum in the soviet union says the socialist life suits him just fine
we have found this country to be free, with all freedoms you find in america. you may also attend the church of your choice. people also speak freely,'' theodore branch said in a letter from moscow to george sharrer of erie
branch, 43, and his wife, cheryle hoffman branch, 40, left the united states with a tour group in november. on jan. 19, soviet foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov announced that the branches had been granted political asylum and would be given jobs and an apartment
in the ussr there is no unemployment and no homeless people. also, medical care is free. this is also true in most cases for visitors. each employee receives one month's paid vacation each year,'' branch wrote in a letter sharrer said he received saturday
the branches lost their jobs at a florida radio station when it went off the air in 1986, and were unable to collect back pay of $6,500 which was awarded by a court
sharrer, an erie metropolitan transit authority driver for 11 years, said he talked with branch when the man rode home from his job as a janitor at an erie department store
i never heard anything from him about ideology,'' he told the erie daily times. ``he got disgusted with not being able to find a job. he kept saying he couldn't make ends meet with a minimum-wage job.''
the two sometimes ate together on the bus during a scheduled layover at the millcreek mall, sharrer said
one day, he told me he had been in washington and that he'd been approached by someone in the soviet embassy. he said he was offered a job working at a radio station. he said he was going to go over and see if he liked the job. he asked me for my address and said he'd write me and tell me how it was going,'' sharrer said
sharrer, a member of the naval reserve, gave a copy of branch's letter to his commanding officer and notified the fbi
i'm afraid to write him back because of my security clearance'' as a computer operator, sharrer said
president francois mitterrand ended months of speculation on tuesday by announcing that he will seek a second term
opinion polls have put the 71-year-old socialist in the lead for the two-stage election, beginning april 24, although he was not formally in the race
on tuesday, mitterrand appeared on the nationwide evening newscast of state-owned antenne 2 television. when asked if he would run, mitterrand paused dramatically, clearly relishing the moment, and answered with a single word: ``oui.'' yes
in reply to follow-up questions, the president said he decided to run because he thinks disunity threatened ``to tear the social fabric'' of france
i saw a risk that the country might fall again into the quarrels and divisions that have hampered it so often. i want france to be united ... not be taken in hand by the spirit of intolerance, by parties who want everything, by clans, by cliques,'' he said
as soon as mitterrand declared, michel rocard, until now the socialist party's only candidate, withdrew from the race and gave the president his full support
mitterrand's plans had been the subject of intense speculation. on some occassions he had indicated that he would preferred to retire and at other times hinted he would run because of a sense of duty
in the end, with four weeks remaining before voters go to the polls, duty called
the main conservative candidates, premier jacques chirac and former premier raymond barre, had criticized mitterrand for being coy and cutting short the democratic debate
mitterrand justified his silence by saying that with the premier campaigning it was up to the president to look after the nation's affairs in a non-partisan way
the conservatives hope to end what the french call ``cohabitation,'' created when the conservatives ousted the socialists from control of the national assembly in march 1986, but were left with a socialist president with two years to go in his term
the president is chief of state and has major duties in defense and foreign affairs. he appoints a prime minister who must be backed by a majority of the national assembly. the premier then names his cabinet and runs the government
mitterrand said tuesday that after watching the campaign, he feared opposing candidates were bringing on france disputes that threatened to damage the country
we need social peace,'' he said. ``someone has to face up to this, and i shall do it.''
chirac heads the neo-gaullist rally for the republic and barre the center-right union for french democracy
in a statement issued by chirac's campaign committee, the premier said: ``the stakes are now clear. there is on one side the socialist party which wants to retake power to lead a socialist policy and its candidate casts aspersion on all the others.''
there was no immediate reaction from barre
national polls consistently placed mitterrand ahead of barre and chirac in a campaign that has been more a contest of styles than policies
a handful of minor-party contenders, including andre lejoinie of the once-powerful communists, are expected to draw a combined total of 5 percent of the vote or less. jean-marie le pen of the extreme-right national front could get about 10 percent of the vote
a poll published in the journal du dimanche newspaper sunday indicated 55 percent of the 1,813 people polled were satisfied with mitterrand. forty-eight percent were satisfied with chirac as premier
another recent poll, however, indicated 30 percent of those queried were undecided
mitterrand told the tv audience tuesday night that he would pursue the programs and policies of the last seven years
i have maintained the confidence of the french people,'' he said
he suggested that if he won, he might dissolve the national assembly and call for new parliamentary elections
the first round of the elections is to be held april 24 with a run-off between the top two candidates scheduled for may 8
the tennessee valley authority, bidding to recover from the 1985 shutdown of its entire nuclear power system, won permission from the government on tuesday to restart the sequoyah unit 2 reactor near chattanooga, tenn
the 5-0 vote by the nuclear regulatory commission clears the way for the sequoyah plant to become the first of five licensed tva reactors to resume production of power. the approval was conditioned, however, on tva resolving a last-minute problem involving temperature detectors in the plant's pressurizer system
the unanimous vote also provided a clear indication that the nrc is not seriously concerned _ at least from a safety standpoint _ about allegations involving the tva's nuclear chief, steven a. white
in a case referred to the justice department last year, nrc investigators questioned white's veracity when he certified in writing that another tva nuclear plant, watts bar, met federal quality assurance standards. white has denied any wrongdoing
nrc chairman lando zech said the commissioners had reviewed the case, still pending at the justice department, and ``we have concluded ... that there is no presently known regulatory reason to preclude authorization to restart'' sequoyah unit 2
there is nothing unusual about the commission's consideration of a restart while investigations are ongoing,'' zech added
on capitol hill, tva chairman marvin runyon told the house public works subcommittee on investigations that ``tremendous progress is being made in our nuclear recovery efforts ... led by steve white.''
tva is about ready to turn its nuclear corner,'' said runyon
runyon said the tva hopes to have a second sequoyah reactor, unit 1, ready for restart within six months
the sequoyah facilities and three reactors at the browns ferry plant, near athens, ala., were closed in 1985 for safety improvements. after a management shakeup, construction of four other reactors was slowed down and plans for nine others were canceled. the tva still was left with $15 billion in long-term debts for the nuclear program
runyon said the first of the browns ferry plants should be ready for restart sometime next year
we're not going to rush this process,'' said runyon. ``we're proceeding deliberately, and we're putting public safety above all else. no one reactor will be restarted unless we are conpletely confident, and the nrc is fully satisfied, that it can be operated safely and efficiently for a good, long time.''
a blaze ignited in a kitchen and swept through more than 2,000 buildings in a northern burmese city, killing 113 people and leaving 20,000 homeless, government radio reported tuesday
in a separate development, insurgents attacked a famous hilltop pagoda and killed five pilgrims and a government soldier, the state radio said tuesday
the radio said the fire sunday afternoon burned two primary schools as it engulfed 2,096 buildings within two hours in lashio, a city of 200,000 in the northern shan states
efforts to communicate via telephone or telex with the associated press office in burma early wednesday to obtain more details were unsuccessful. it is often difficult to get phone or telex connections to the country
the report said most of the victims were trapped by the fire, which began in the kitchen of a chinese resident, chao wai lin
in addition to the dead, 64 people suffered serious burns, the radio said. the casualty toll was the largest ever reported in a fire in burma
more than 3,000 families lost their homes and damages were estimated at about $10 million, the radio said
lashio, 450 miles northeast of rangoon, is the largest city and business center in the northern shan states and the seat of the northeast military command
in the pagoda attack, the radio said insurgents of the karen national union attacked the kyaiktiyo pagoda in mon state monday with mortars, and then looted pagoda donation boxes and shops, robbed pilgrims and set fire to 13 shops and a fire station
it said 16 pilgrims and eight government soldiers were wounded before the rebels were driven off in a four-hour firefight
the pagoda, 120 miles northeast of rangoon, attracts large numbers of pilgrims from all over the country, especially between december and march each year
the karens are among several ethnic minorities in burma fighting the central government for greater autonomy
the nuclear regulatory commission on tuesday conditionally authorized a restart of the rancho seco nuclear power plant near sacramento, calif., after a 27-month shutdown which triggered a management shakeup and hundreds of plant modifications
the commission, in a 5-0 vote, stipulated that one remaining equipment problem _ excessive vibration in emergency diesel generators _ must be resolved to the satisfaction of the nrc's staff before the restart can begin
even if the generator problem is handled swiftly, rancho seco still faces an uncertain future. area voters are scheduled to decide on the day of the california primary, june 7, whether the 913-megawatt facility should be closed permanently
the reactor is the sole nuclear plant owned by the sacramento municipal utility district, but it represents about 55 percent of the utility's generating capacity and is directly responsible for 1,000 jobs and $75 million in wages. indirectly, as many as 3,000 jobs and $150 million in wages are affected
the plant, which has long history of problems, was shut down in december 1985 because of a power loss in its control system, leading to severe overcooling of the reactor. the nrc subsequently required major overhauls of the equipment, as well as deep changes in management and operator training programs
carl andognini, smud's chief nuclear officer, and ann taylor, a board member of the utility, told the commission the plant is ready for restart, except for the diesel problem, and pledged that safety would always remain the paramount concern in future operations
taylor said ``there's tremendous support for the plant, out there in the community.''
but ed smeloff, another board member, said he thought rancho seco should be closed permanently, even though ``i do believe it can be operated safely.''
smeloff said he thought the dangers were economic, arguing that the utility is too small to support an expensive nuclear plant with an uncertain potential for future production. ``rancho seco represents a $200 million per year risk,'' he said. ``we are not a large enough utility to support that kind of risk.''
one of the questions facing the voters is whether the plant should remain open provided it meets certain production goals. nrc chairman lando zech chided the smud board for wording the issue that way, saying ``you should have emphasized safety on the ballot. it gives the commission some concern about the judgment of the board.'' expenses</head>
a group of about 300 west coast citizens arrived in the nation's capital tuesday, hoping to persuade congress to spend more on domestic programs and less on the military
the group, including residents from washington, oregon and california, arrived five hours behind schedule because of mechanical troubles, but remained enthusiastic about its mission
this train is bound for congress,'' the residents sang upon their arrival at union station near the capitol. ``get this country back on track, get this deficit off our back.''
the group, part of the ``citizens' train'' which began a cross-country journey on saturday, was greeted by several lawmakers from the northwest
sen. mark o. hatfield, r-ore., told the group that lawmakers recently had been discussing the emergency deployment of u.s. troops to honduras but ``today they have been discussing you, an emergency deployment of citizens to washington.''
a leaflet from the group calls on the president and congress to establish a citizens' budget ``based on the ideals of the u.s. constitution and the bill of rights. further, we call upon the president and the congress to address the critical issue of the unprecedented national deficit with a keen regard for the well-being of all americans.''
the group planned to lobby congress on wednesday and thursday and attend several briefings and receptions with members of the west coast congressional delegations
almost a billion dollars must be allocated to the space station next year or america will have to abandon plans to build the orbiting platform, nasa administrator james c. fletcher said tuesday
a substantial cut in the space station budget, added to delays caused by cuts in earlier years, will make it useless for the national aeronautics and space administration to continue efforts to build the station, he said
this is year is crucial,'' fletcher told the senate subcommittee on science, technology and space. ``otherwise, we've got to just forget it and start over at a later date.''
but senators attending the hearing warned fletcher that would be extremely difficult to get nasa its entire requested budget in a year when federal dollars are tight because of deficit-cutting efforts. seeral pressed him on how much of a reduction could be tolerated in the space station program, but fletcher said the requested budget was the ``rock bottom'' that nasa needs
fletcher said a severe cut in the station budget last year caused a full year's delay, and another cut in fiscal year 1989, which begins oct. 1, would make it ``a waste of the taxpayers dollars'' to continue the underfunded program
nasa's 1989 budget calls for a total of $967.4 million for the space station. plans call for the station to be assembled in orbit and for crews to start living in the orbiting laboratory in the middle of the next decade
the station funds are part of a $11.5 billion appropriation request by nasa that would include money for space shuttle missions, advanced shuttle rockets, aeronautical research and a study of the technology that will be needed one day to send astronauts back to the moon and possibly to mars
the budget request, which was approved by president reagan, is a 24 pecent increase over nasa's current spending blueprint
fletcher said that unless congress passes the entire space budget, there is no way for the u.s. to maintain world leadership in space
the entire future of the civil space program rides at risk on this budget,'' he said. ``this is a crucial year ... it will make or break the civil space program.''
fletcher said the budget is the final boost needed for nasa's recovery from the 1986 challenger disaster, in which a space shuttle was destroyed and seven astronauts killed. the shuttle fleet has been grounded since while the space agency corrected flawed equipment that caused the accident
nasa tentatively plans to resume shuttle flights in august. two are planned for this year, seven in 1989 and 10 in 1990
without this increase, nasa will be in serious trouble,'' fletcher said. ``a major cut would be equivalent to the challenger disaster itself.'' haughey, sted houghey.</note>
a scholar abused research privileges at the library of congress and national archives to steal and try to sell letters signed by abraham lincoln, winston churchill and other historic figures, a prosecutor said tuesday
charles merrill mount also defaced some letters between lincoln and civil war generals to remove government markings that would have alerted a rare documents dealer to the fact they were stolen, assistant u.s. attorney martin murphy said in his opening statement at mount's trial
but mount's attorney, charles mcginty, argued mount had legally collected the documents and shoddy record-keeping led the library of congress and national archives to believe the letters were part of their collections
mcginty said the government would offer no evidence showing mount stole the documents, a point murphy conceded
mount, 59, a washington-based author of several artists' biographies, tearfully denied the allegations, but predicted he would be convicted
mount told reporters outside court that associates in ireland, including prime minister charles haughey, had seen the documents when mount lived in ireland during the 1960s. but mount said a government freeze on his assets prevented him from bringing witnesses to the united states to testify on his behalf
without witnesses, i'm going to be convicted,'' he said
mount is charged with two counts of interstate transportation of stolen property and faces up to 10 years in prison and a $10,000 fine if convicted. his trial is expected to last three weeks
mount was arrested in august when he tried to sell a 158-page collection of civil war documents to goodspeed's book store for $64,600. a month earlier, the store paid mount $20,000 for 23 letters signed by 19th-century painter james mcneill whistler, a churchill letter and one by henry james
the whistler letters, brought to boston in a plastic bag, were stolen from the library of congress last july, murphy told the jury
the civil war collection disappeared from the national archives within a week before mount's aug. 5 letter to goodspeed's offering to sell the documents, murphy said. mount spent the last five days of july viewing the collection, murphy said
mcginty asked the jury to note testimony about keeping records at the library of congress and national archives and how government records were stored before the archives opened in the 1930s
he said thousands of historic records were lost and stolen after the civil war because they were kept in basements, attics, and even the white house garage
records at the institutions show they should have possession of numerous documents that actually are in private collections, mcginty said
the government's top health officer said tuesday that hospitals have engaged in a kind of medical arms race that assures neither quality care nor good value for the dollar
sometimes you can save money and also improve care, like concentrating certain procedures in hospitals that specialize in them,'' said health and human services secretary otis r. bowen. ``this not only leads to better results for the patient, it also allows us to benefit from economies of scale.''
bowen's remarks to a conference of the health care quality alliance followed a report by the 28-member coalition that cautioned against emphasizing cost control to the point that the ``quality of care _ and quality of life _ are adversely affected.''
the health secretary acknowledged that the government is concerned about rising costs in the medicare and medicaid programs, but said, ``we won't accomplish anything if we sacrifice quality for lower costs.''
one reason today's health care is so expensive is that the financing of that care is little more than a collection of disincentives to practice cost-effective medicine,'' he said
bowen contended that ``hospitals, in order to attract doctors and their patients, have bought and often duplicated the latest in medical hardware in a kind of medical arms race.''
another reason for concern, he said, is that government tax policies which do not tax employer-paid health insurance coverage like some other fringe benefits ``have encouraged employers and unions to bargain for ever-greater first-dollar coverage in health insurance plans.''
compounding this folly,'' bowen continued, ``most insurance plans cover expensive high-tech procedures and slight preventive services. and all of this has made patients and their families all but oblivious to costs, since they pay so little out of pocket.''
turning to medicare, he said creation of the program 23 years ago ``created a powerful incentive for the health care industry to develop the technology to treat the chronic, degenerative diseases that afflict the aging.''
bowen said he was not suggesting those procedures are bad. ``on the contrary,'' he said, ``they have improved the quality of life for americans of all ages.''
still to be decided is how much is too much. ... how much heroic medical care and how many procedures to keep a dying patient alive are desirable for the patient, the family and, not least of all, for society at large? when is such care merely prolonging the act of dying rather than contributing to longer life, or at least some type of quality to it?''
bowen, a physician whose first wife died of cancer and whose mother recently died in a nursing home, said: ``sometimes our high-tech capability lures us into pursuing expensive answers when less costly ones are available. our veneration of technology has become a cultural blindspot that sometimes keeps us from pursuing practical solutions to our problems.''
the theme of the conference was ``balancing health care costs, quality, and access: the challenge for the next administration.''
the alliance membership includes the american medical association, the alzheimer's disease and related disorders association, the arthritis foundation, the american cancer society, the american academy of pediatrics and the national council on the aging. east, but no firm decision; picks up at pvs 3rd grasf, ``state department.''</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz will probably travel to the middle east within two weeks if israel agrees to further discussions on his regional peace plan, an israeli diplomat said tuesday
asher naim, the information minister at the israeli embassy, said he expects israel's cabinet will vote to keep alive the shultz peace initiative when the issue is debated
apparently, secretary shultz will be in the middle east ... in two weeks time again,'' he told reporters at the national press club
israel will not reject the u.s. peace proposals, naim said, ``and if the government indeed decides a neutral way _ that means you continue negotiations _ then probably secretary shultz will go to the middle east.''
state department spokesman charles redman said tuesday that shultz had not yet decided to return to the mideast, where he conducted a diplomatic shuttle last month
another state department official, who spoke only on condition he not be named, said shultz probably would make his decision by the end of this week after being briefed by presidential envoy philip habib about his tour of four arab capitals. habib visited jordan, egypt, and saudi arabia this week, and is due back by thursday following a stop in morocco
habib will bring with him reactions from the arab leaders to shultz's plan, which calls for israeli-arab talks to begin may 1 on palestinian self-rule, and for the next phase to start by dec. 1 to determine the future of the israeli-occupied territories. so far, syria is the only party to have rejected the plan
shultz's plans also may be shaped by his talks this week in washington with soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze about the u.s. peace plan, which envisions international sponsorship for the arab-israeli negotiations, the official said. a group of u.s. and soviet negotiators were scheduled to discuss the mideast on wednesday, he said
naim, addressing reporters at the national press club, said shultz would be coming back to the region because the israeli government will not reject his plan, despite internal divisions. ``they won't vote `no.' they'll probably decide to continue negotiating about the plan,'' he said
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, who visited washington last week, rejects the international auspices proposed by shultz for the talks. his rival, foreign minister shimon peres, has accepted the plan
president reagan, in an unusually blunt statement, warned shamir against rejecting the plan and said the united states would not change its proposals to suit shamir's reservations
but naim hinted at one possible avenue for continued negotiations with israel over the shultz plan. ``there are some suggestions to cushion israel's fears about an international conference,'' he said
naim was referring to proposed guarantees by the united states that an international conference would not have any power to impose solutions on israel. other u.s. officials have suggested these guarantees would be included in a memorandum of understanding between israel and the united states
redman said the united states also might promise israel that the guarantees would be binding on future administrations
we really have the sense that if we can get this thing moving, that there really is no difficulty in having it move right across the boundaries of one administraiton to another,'' he said
congress on tuesday overrode president reagan's veto of a sweeping civil rights bill, restoring broad anti-discrimination protections that were sharply restricted by the supreme court
the senate voted 73-24 for the override, and the house followed suit 292-133. both votes exceeded the two-thirds margin needed to hand reagan a stinging defeat
congressional support for a $4.4 billion atom smasher is dwindling rapidly because of budget constraints and irritation with the site-selection process, house members said tuesday
although seven states remain in the running for the superconducting super collider, lawmakers say the huge project is in jeopardy
some even advocate that it be scrapped at once
now that all but seven states have been eliminated from the ssc site-selection process, the remaining states should help put an end to the process,'' said rep. don ritter, r-pa. ``it's time to face up to the facts.''
testifying before the house science, space and technology committee, ritter said a financial commitment to the high-energy physics project would endanger funds for scientific research in other fields
ritter, whose home state did not seek the project, said the house budget committee recognized the conflict by appropriating $100 million for the collider in fiscal 1989 rather than the $363 million president reagan requested
congressional delegations from the states picked as finalists said tuesday they are forming a task force to seek support for ssc funding
my fear is we will end up with a site to build the ssc and no funds for construction,'' said rep. carl pursell, r-mich
rep. sherwood boehlert, r-n.y., said that with the demand for budget cuts and the current feelings of lawmakers whose states were bypassed, ``it will be well-nigh impossible to pay for this thing.''
the collider would be a 53-mile, underground ring of magnets capable of whipping proton beams into each other with 20 times the force of the world's most powerful existing accelerator
scientists hope to learn more about the nature of matter from studying the subatomic particles created by the proton collisions
the project is expected to bring thousands of construction jobs, permanent employment for as many as 3,000 people and an annual budget of $270 million to the host state
an independent panel appointed by the department of energy reviewed 35 bids from 25 states before picking seven finalists: illinois, texas, arizona, colorado, michigan, north carolina and tennessee
energy secretary john herrington said he would announce a tentative choice for the site in november and confirm the selection in january 1989
but the science committee's chairman, rep. robert roe, d-n.j., told doe undersecretary joseph selgado at the hearing that ``a question of credibility is arising'' about the selection process
he said said several lawmakers have complained that the department failed to use the criteria it had established previously when the seven finalists were chosen
democratic sen. albert gore jr. told students at a campaign stop tuesday that combating illegal drugs would take precedence in foreign policy if he is elected president
gore told a crowded gathering at traverse city high school that he would use the military to stop the flow of drugs into the united states
he said the nation's drug problem reflected ``a spiritual crisis ... an absence of hope.''
we have to have the courage to say there's nothing more important in our foreign policy than stopping'' illegal drugs, gore told the students. ``i'll change that and put the war on drugs at the top of our foreign policy agenda.''
he commented while campaigning in michigan, where polls show him trailing badly just four days before the state's democratic presidential caucuses
earlier in the day, gore canceled a speech at the university of wisconsin in madison to return to washington to cast a vote to override president reagan's veto of a civil rights bill
he also stopped in harrisburg, pa., where he met with gov. robert p. casey, who is neutral in the presidential race, and received the endorsement of state legislative leaders
gore said he was ``a little bit'' surprised at vice president george bush's decision to go along with reagan's civil rights veto
he added, ``when push comes to shove the vice president never disagrees with president reagan. i don't remember a time in eight years when he has been willing to express any disagreement with the president
he really has not carved out an identity of his own in this election,'' gore said
in harrisburg, he called pennsylvania ``an excellent opportunity for a gore victory.'' in michigan, he said he expected to ``do significantly better than expected.''
gore is running far behind in polls in michigan, and he is competing in the state without campaigning intensively. his campaign has been airing radio commercials featuring an endorsement by singer johnny cash, but has not aired television ads
he is running television commercials in wisconsin, a state where he figures to have a greater opportunity to demonstrate broad appeal outside his native south. gore is scheduled to speak to the state legislature in madison, wisc., on wednesday
in traverse city, gore spoke to an overflow crowd of about 700 students at an event held after school had ended for the day. the auditorium was filled with hand-lettered posters, such as one saying, ``al's your pal.''
with him was the state house speaker gary owen, a gore backer, and the mayor of traverse city, bryan crough, who also endorsed him
gore's comments on drugs were in response to questions from students. he pointed to the alleged involvement in massive drug smuggling by panama strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega. he has repeatedly accused the reagan administration of having continued support for noriega even after it had evidence of drug involvement
early senate ratification of the agreement banning medium-range nuclear weapons worldwide hit a potentially major roadblock tuesday with the reopening of a long-festering constitutional feud between congress and the white house over the interpretation of treaties
several members of the senate foreign relations committee expressed dismay at the development. they said it could delay ratification of the new intermediate-range nuclear forces or inf treaty until after the planned summit meeting later this spring between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
on another front, however, the senate intelligence committee reported unanimously that soviet compliance with the new treaty can be monitored with ``great certainty.''
but the panel made clear that detecting soviet efforts to cheat on a future pact making sharp cuts in long-range strategic arms would strain u.s. intelligence capabilites
the treaty interpretation controversy was raised in testimony before the foreign relations panel by sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the senate armed services committee
nunn said a recent letter from white house counsel arthur b. culvahouse jr. effectively undercut previous assurances from secretary of state george p. shultz that administration testimony on the new pact is ``authoritative.''
the dispute stems from the reagan administration's unilateral re-interpretation last year of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty with the soviet union in order to permit the deployment of a ``star wars'' missile defense system
the new culvahouse letter undercuts the shultz assurance, nunn told the committee, by asserting that some administration responses may be less authoritative than others
culvahouse suggested that the testimony of a secretary of state may be more authoritative than that of other administration witnesses or responses in writing to questions by members of congress, nunn said
culvahouse has since issued a second letter asserting that his original remarks were not inconsistent with the shultz statement. but nunn said he finds that unacceptable
it doesn't solve my problem,'' nunn said. ``it simply asserts there is no conflict. you can assert anything ... it puts the shultz statement in the trash can, saying that certain testimony is not to be taken seriously.''
he said the culvahouse assertion casts doubt on the authority of several administration interpretations on a list of ambiguities in treaty language. that might have to be resolved point by point in a time consuming process on the senate floor, he said
nunn said he believes the controversy must be resolved by the full senate and that another letter, even one from the president, would not be acceptable
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said, ``this is the major stumbling block and could create grave perils if we don't resolve it.'' he predicted that the issue could result in a serious partisan split inside the committee and in the senate
it would be tragic if this treaty was destroyed because we had a procedural dispute with the president,'' said sen. brock adams, d-wash
the intelligence committee report was presented to the senate foreign relations committee as that panel prepared to consider a series of amendments to the medium-range missile pact, the final phase of a two-month process of intense examination
the treaty was signed by reagan and gorbachev on dec. 8. it eliminates nuclear-armed missiles with a range of between 300 miles and 3,400 miles in europe and elsewhere and provides the most intrusive verification system in arms control history
sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., the foreign relations chairman, said earlier he hoped the panel could complete its work by the end of the week, sending the treaty to the senate floor for a vote expected sometime in april. vote tallies in both parties predict ratification by far more than the required two-thirds or 67 votes
the intelligence committee conducted its own review of treaty provisions, concentrating on the u.s. capability to monitor soviet compliance with a variety of information-collecting techniques, including the use of spy satellites and on-site inspection
the intelligence community will be able to monitor the drawdown and elimination of declared soviet missile launchers and associated equipment with great certainty,'' the panel said in its final report
but sen. david boren, d-okla., the intelligence panel's chairman, said that effective verification of a future pact cutting strategic intercontinental arms by up to 50 percent would require a significant and expensive bolstering of u.s. intelligence capabilities
the committee recommended ``investing more in programs that would be most helpful in verifying a start treaty, in preventing technological surprise and in supporting u.s. policy and operations in crises,'' boren said
speaking for the committee, boren said that because a strategic arms reduction or start treaty would not involve a ban on an entire class of weapons but would rather impose limits on total numbers of weapons that will make ``the detection of cheating far more difficult.''
the intelligence committee said also that the extensive on-site inspection requirements of a strategic arms treaty _ with soviet inspectors given access to some of the most sensitive u.s. military facilities _ could have a significant impact on u.s. intelligence operations
it said that while it has overall confidence in the ability of the u.s. to detect soviet cheating on the inf treaty, ``soviet compliance with some of the treaty's provisions will be difficult to verify.''
the panel noted, for example, that a controversy between the central intelligence agency and the defense intelligence afency over the number of ss-20 missiles in the soviet arsenal remains unresolved, with the dia estimating a larger number
but it said the treaty's ban on flight testing will ultimately limit the utility of any covert ss-20 force. salvadoran party</head>
the united states should establish stronger ties with the rightest party that won convincing victories in municipal and legislative elections in el salvador, a congressman who monitored the weekend elections said tuesday
sunday's elections, which had a 70 percent voter turnout despite threats of violence by leftist guerrillas, proved that the republican nationalist alliance will be a major force in el salvador, said rep. john g. rowland, r-conn. the party, known by its spanish acronym arena, won a majority of the elections over the moderate christian democrat party of president jose napoleon duarte
we really need to concentrate on working with the arena political party,'' rowland told reporters at a news briefing
we need to get more involved. we have invested there millions and millions of dollars in foreign aid. it's the only country that's had any democratic reform of significance over the last few years. it would be a shame to see the whole thing fall apart,'' he said
rowland pointed to arena's strong electoral support across a wide cross-section of salvadoran society and efforts by the party to moderate its views. and he noted the low profile taken by former army maj. robert d'aubuisson, the party's controversial founder who has been accused of links to salvadoran death squads
my impression is that arena is not as nearly as right ... as we had originally suspected. there's tremendous support among the people,'' rowland said. ``there are some bad apples, of course, within their party, but our information suggests that maybe they're not the crazies that you might suspect.''
rowland was one of six house members who monitored the elections
our observations concluded that it was a fair and open election,'' he said
a jury tuesday recommended a former state trooper be sentenced to life in prison without parole for murdering his trooper girlfriend, the first woman state trooper in the nation slain while on duty
circuit judge j.c. norton will not be bound by the jury's recommendation when he sentences joe duncan, who was accused of killing elizabeth cobb to collect $350,000 in life insurance
no date for sentencing was set immediately
ten members of the dallas county jury voted for life imprisonment without parole, while two voted that duncan should die in the electric chair. the jury convicted duncan of capital murder monday night after about three hours of deliberation
in a sentencing hearing tuesday, duncan's daughter pleaded that his life be spared. ``he was _ he is _ the best father you could have,'' 14-year-old tanya duncan said
duncan, 33, was convicted of shooting miss cobb, 31, in the head at close range oct. 11. her body was found the next day behind the wheel of her patrol car, which was parked behind a rural church
at the time, the fbi described miss cobb as the first female state trooper in the nation slain while on duty
prosecutors charged that duncan killed miss cobb for a $250,000 life insurance policy that paid an extra $100,000 if she died in the line of duty. the slaying occurred 10 days after the policy went into effect on the rookie trooper, with duncan as beneficiary
defense attorney henry pitts said the trial's most decisive factor was evidence showing duncan gave investigators conflicting accounts before his arrest
jurors saw a videotape that showed duncan denying he knew anything about miss cobb's death, and a second tape in which he told investigators he found the slain trooper's body shortly after she was killed. duncan said he didn't tell anyone of finding her body for fear he would be accused of the crime
forty wild welsh ponies were shot dead and left to rot on this great salt lake island because the rancher who rents the island said he could not afford to capture and move them
the carcasses were discovered saturday by a private pilot on a recreational flight, said antelope state park superintendent mitch larsson, who had gone to the island monday, concerned the animals may have died from disease
the uninhabited island was leased to rancher dallen ward last fall, and ward killed the horses to make way for sheep he plans to move from his home in almo, idaho, said weber county sheriff's lt. archie smith
ward said monday that the horses were over-grazing the island, and the cost of moving them was prohibitive
we looked at every avenue possible and economically i couldn't do it,'' he said, explaining he would have had to hire a crew to round up the horses and rent a barge to move them
he also said he could find no buyers for the animals
ward said he shot the animals himself, but he refused to discuss details
bruce dibb, an attorney for the owner of the island, steven richards sr., said the horses were introduced about 30 years ago with commercial recreation in mind. however, the enterprise never got off the ground and the horses became wild
dibb said his client removed about 100 horses by barge last year, but the others eluded capture
the shootings probably did not violate utah law, said john fox, a special deputy for the utah humane society. ``unless it can be proved the horses suffered or didn't pass out right away, it is legal,'' he said
however, fox said ward may have violated the law by not burying the horses within 48 hours, a misdemeanor
smith said he planned to speak to weber county attorney reed richards to determine whether charges should be filed
the ponies appeared to have been dead for about two weeks, said utah veterinarian michael marshall, who accompanied larsson to the island monday
there is no real danger from the carcasses other than maybe a bird pecking on them, then flying across to the mainland with that material,'' marshall said. ``but i don't see any way to bury them. you would have to airlift a backhoe over there to do it.''
north carolina's attorney general is preparing to ask the u.s. supreme court to uphold a state law requiring professional fund-raisers for charities to tell potential donors how the money will be used
the nation's highest court is scheduled to hear arguments wednesday on north carolina's petition to reverse lower-court rulings, which struck down the 1985 law as a violation of the first amendment's freedom of speech guarantee
both sides agree that the outcome of the case could have a nationwide impact on the professional fund-raising industry, which attorney general lacy thornburg called a ``multi-multimillion-dollar business,'' and on smaller charities that lack personnel to raise money
it's really a question of survival,'' said errol copilevitz, a kansas city attorney representing the national federation of the blind of north carolina inc. and the optimist club of north raleigh, n.c., which filed a lawsuit in 1985 challenging the law
about 75 charities have filed a friend-of-the-court brief opposing the statute. many are represented by independent sector, an umbrella group including such organizations as the american red cross and the american cancer society, copilevitz said tuesday
thornburg said maine, connecticut, indiana and west virginia had filed briefs in support of north carolina's law
the most controversial provision requires professional fund-raisers to tell people they solicit what portion of the money will be spent on the charitable cause and how much will be used to cover expenses
the purpose of the law is to promote honesty through disclosure ... in very much the same way that banks and other institutions are required to tell, for example, what their interest rate is going to be,'' thornburg said at a news conference
a study of fund-raising campaigns conducted in north carolina by professionals on behalf of charities between 1980 and 1984 showed that, on average, only 13 percent of gross receipts were returned to the charities, he said
the law presumes that whenever a professional group retains 35 percent or more of the gross receipts, it has reaped an excess profit, thornburg said
the solicitations licensing branch of the state department of human resources is empowered to increase the charity's share if it finds excessive profit for the fund-raisers
if allowed to stand, the law would bolster public confidence in charities, thornburg said. ``we feel that if a donor knows in advance what portion of the funds are going back to the charity, then they will much more freely give.''
but wayne shevlin, president of the raleigh chapter of the national federation of the blind of north carolina inc., disagreed
if the first thing you have to say is how much is going for expenses, most people ... are going to hang up before you've had a chance to go through the spiel,'' shevlin said
the law might drive out of business many small- and medium-sized charities, he said
copilevitz said most potential donors who want information on how the money will be spent ask for it. many states _ including north carolina _ require professional and amateur fund-raising groups to provide such details on request, he said
most states regulate fund solicitation, he said, but north carolina's law goes far beyond any other
u.s. district judge earl britt struck down the measure as unconstitutional on may 14, 1986, a finding upheld by the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals in richmond, va., on april 23, 1987. economy average to 28.2 mpg sted 28 mpg.</note>
federal fuel-economy standards will cause thousands of traffic deaths next year by discouraging the use of safer, larger cars, two researchers said tuesday as the government reported a slight increase in auto fuel efficiency last year
fuel economy regulation inevitably leads to smaller, lighter cars that are inherently less safe than the cars that would be produced without a binding fuel-economy constraint,'' said a study by robert w. crandall of the brookings institution in washington and john d. graham of the harvard school of public health in boston
they estimated the standards would cause 2,200 to 3,900 traffic deaths next year
also tuesday, the transportation department told congress that passenger cars sold in the united states got 28.2 miles per gallon last year overall, up 0.2 miles per gallon from the previous year
transportation secretary jim burnley said americans tended to buy slightly heavier, higher performance cars last year than in prior years, and imports showed a shift way from subcompacts to compacts, increasing their market share by 8 percentage points
among the big three automakers, chrysler corp. had the most fuel efficient cars fleetwide in 1987, at 27.6 mpg, down from 27.8 mpg in 1986
ford motor co. had a fuel-economy of 26.8 mpg, unchanged from the previous year, and general motors corp.'s was 26.4 mpg, up from 26.2 mpg the previous year
weighted by sales, imports had an fuel economy of 31 mpg, down from 31.7 mpg the previous year
domestic cars averaged 26.7 mpg, up from 26.6 mpg the year before
burnley used the report to reiterate his support for elimination of the fuel-economy requirement, saying it placed u.s. manufacturers at a disadvantage against their foreign competition
the greatest contribution we can make to keeping jobs in the united states and to making the domestic auto industry competitive on a worldwide basis is to repeal the (fuel economy) rules,'' burnley said. ``thousands of american jobs are threatened because of an anachronistic law that is doing substantial harm to our economy and our trade balance.''
the corporate average fuel economy standards _ cafe for short _ from 1978 sought to encourage more fuel efficient cars and thereby reduce petroleum use at a time of shortages and soaring prices
the required fuel economy this year is 26 mpg of gasoline. manufacturers that fail to meet the standards are liable to fines
using mathematical models, crandall and graham estimated the cafe standards had reduced the weight of cars by 500 pounds, to 3,100 pounds, despite sharp declines in oil prices after 1981 that in an unregulated market would be expected to encourage manufacture of larger cars
that decline in weight ``caused by cafe is associated with a 14 to 27 percent increase in occupant fatality risk,'' the study said. they applied that range to existing traffic fatality figures to make their estimate of the number of additional deaths likely in 1989
the estimate took into account such factors as the tendency of occupants of smaller cars, compared with those of larger cars, to buckle their safety belts, the study said
the study also said the cafe standards, by raising the cost of desirable high-performance cars, have encouraged people to drive their cars longer, extending ``the useful life of older, less safe and higher-pollution cars.''
rep. bob carr, d-mich., said at a news conference marking the study's release he hopes the conclusions will help win support for legislation he introduced last year to abolish the cafe standards
congress is not the place to design auto models,'' carr said, acknowledging the bill's chances of passage this year are slim
the study by crandall and graham is scheduled for publication next year in the journal of law and economics
the study was released by the competitive enterprise institute, a public-issues group espousng free-market principles. crandall and graham said they did the study without funds from the institute. middle east. picks up 6th graf pvs, `former u.s...'.</note>
the justice department sued tuesday to force the palestine liberation organization to close its mission to the united nations, and the plo envoy defiantly responded that he could live on the street as a refugee
the government sought a federal court order barring the plo; zehdi labib terzi, head of the plo's observer mission; and five other plo officials or employees from continuing to operate the mission or any plo office in manhattan or at any other location
the action is required under the 1987 anti-terrorism act, which found the plo and its affiliates were a terrorist organization responsible for numerous violent incidents, including the murder of an american citizen during the hijacking of the cruise ship achille lauro in 1985
terzi said he would have no comment on the plo's possible legal response until he reads the complaint
the only asset we have in this country is the building we live in,'' he told reporters. ``maybe they want me to live on the street, but this would not be the first time the palestinians become refugees.''
he called efforts to freeze plo funds ``financial terrorism to strangle us.''
earlier tuesday, he had said, ``if they force me to leave, i will have to move to the united nations'' on international territory, out of reach of u.s. marshals. in 1973, plo chief yasser arafat spent a night at the united nations because he could not stay on u.s. territory
in amman, jordan, plo foreign affairs spokesman farouk kaddoumi said tuesday before the suit was filed,:``we will keep the office open until the american police seal it off. then we will go to the united nations and live there
this will become a continuous headache to the u.s. administration,'' said kaddoumi
former u.s. attorney general ramsey clark, the plo's legal counsel, was not available for comment, his office said tuesday. clark did not immediately return messages left at the office
clark has said, however, that he would seek to have the federal complaint dismissed on grounds that u.s. courts lack jurisdiction in the matter involving an international treaty, in this instance between the united states and the united nations
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar said he would have to wait until the u.n. general assembly adopts a resolution wednesday before commenting on possible legal action
the 159-member general assembly is to vote on a resolution supporting the plo's right to operate and deploring u.s. moves to shut the mission. the draft of the resolution calls on the secretary-general to take measures to allow the plo to carry out its official functions as a u.n. invitee
in a separate action last september, the state department ordered the closing of the plo's information office in washington. that was before congress passed the anti-terrorism act, which president reagan signed on dec. 22. the law took effect monday
under the law, congress determined that ``the plo and its affiliates are a terrorist organization and a threat to the interests of the united states, its allies and to international law and should not benefit from operating in the united states.''
earlier this month, secretary of state george shultz called the act ``one of the dumber things that the congress has done lately.''
a lawsuit filed tuesday alleges that an underground prison facility for women in lexington, ky., was designed specifically to house political activists and that inmates are subjected to inhumane treatment
civil liberties groups filed the suit in u.s. district court here against nine federal officials, including attorney general edwin meese iii. it seeks the immediate transfer of the inmates from the high-security facility to the general population of a federal women's prison
the lexington control unit opened in november 1986, now houses five inmates and contains 16 basement cells constructed beneath the federal prison at lexington. the u.s. bureau of prisons said last october it will phase out the unit, the only high-security unit for women in the federal prison system
the primary purpose for the creation of the unit was to confine prisoners whose political associations and affiliations were determined to pose a security threat,'' said the suit, alleging violation of the women's constitutional rights. ``all the women in the unit are suffering psychological and physical harm as a direct consequence of their isolated confinement in this underground segregation unit.''
a new medium- and high-security facility for women will be opened in june in marianna, fla., and the phaseout in lexington will be completed shortly thereafter, said bureau of prisons spokeswoman kathryn morse. she declined to comment on the suit
the ``small basement facility'' has ``virtually no natural light'' and is illuminated 24 hours a day by fluorescent lights, said the suit, prepared by the national prison project of the american civil liberties union and other attorneys
the women, the suit said, are monitored continuously by staff and video cameras, have no opportunity to participate in any of the activities available to the general prison population and are subjected to random strip searches
we believe the women's lives are in danger,'' said susan waysdorf, a spokeswoman for civil libertarians supporting the suit. ``they're beginning to experience signs of behavior modification, general disorientation, vision problems, loss of appetite, sleeplessnes.''
among the inmates are silvia baraldini, convicted of racketeering and conspiracy in aiding a $1.6 million brink's armored car heist in nyack, n.y., that left a guard and two police officers dead. another inmate at lexington is susan rosenberg, linked by law enforcement officers to the same bungled brink's robbery
baraldini, serving a 43-year term, was transferred to lexington after refusing to be interviewed by an fbi agent, the suit said
rosenberg, serving a 58-year term for possession of weapons and explosives in connection with a 1985 police raid in new jersey, was told that she would be confined to the unit until she changes her political beliefs, the suit alleges
when civil liberties groups began to expose lexington as a ``political prison, federal officials hurriedly brought in two other women serving long sentences,'' a coalition of prominent civil libertarians said in a statement about the lexington unit
one of the women brought in later, sylvia brown, serving a 27-year term for violating probation and escaping from a federal prison, was told that her release from the unit would depend on her lack of interaction with the political activists, the suit added
president reagan harshly criticized the process of gerrymandering on tuesday, complaining that republicans are getting short-shrift treatment in the redrawing of congressional boundary lines.
i promise you this: as far as the president of the united states is concerned, he's not going to be sitting around his garden sniffing roses in 1988,'' reagan told a group of republican elected officials
i'm going to be out on the campaign trail, telling the american people the truth about how the electoral process has been twisted and distorted,'' he said
reagan noted that reapportionment is scheduled in 1991, and said that ``having republicans in state and local offices is the only hope we have of getting a fair deal. and that's what we're asking for -  an end to the anti-democratic and un-american practice of gerrymandering congressional districts.''
gerrymandering is the political process by which congressional district lines are redrawn in such a fashion as to benefit the party in power, whether democratic or republican
reagan said there were 367 congressional races contested by both major political parties in 1984. in these contests, the president said, republicans won half a million votes more than democrats, but the democrats won 31 more seats
in his remarks, reagan said that ``gerrymandering has become a national scandal. the democratic-controlled state legislatures have so rigged the electoral process that the will of the people cannot be heard. they vote republican but elect democrats.''
the president maintained that ``the congressional map is a horror show of grotesque, contorted shapes. district lines jump back and forth over mountain ranges, cross large bodies of water, send out little tentacles to absorb special communities and ensure safe seats.''
reagan said that while republican party chairman frank fahrenkopf has challenged democratic gerrymandering in courts, ``ultimately, it's in the state legislatures that the battle for fairness must be won. and that's why republicans are going to have to campaign with all our heart and soul for republican state legislative candidates.''
reagan has steadfastly refused to take sides in the competition for the republican party nomination to succeed him, but has indicated he will campaign actively for the nominee
in his talk tuesday, the president signaled that he would hit the campaign trail for an array of other causes, including his plan to speak out against the practice of gerrymandering. says agreement expected wednesday. picks up 4th graf pvs, victor hugo ...</note>
nicaragua's defense minister, gen. humberto ortega, said at the end of a second day of peace talks between sandinista and contra rebel negotiators that he expected a ``concrete agreement'' on wednesday
he declined to elaborate, telling a news conference, ``obviously we aren't able to go into details.''
earlier tuesday both sides said they had exchanged proposals, which agree on major points, for an extended cease-fire accompanied by amnesty and release of political prisoners
contra leader adolfo calero told reporters, ``we worked hard during the day. we clarified (points that coincide) and we are working on differences.''
it was a fruitful day and tomorrow could be even better.''
calero described the second round of talks as ``direct and frank.''
the two sides began three days of meetings monday at this town on the costa rican border, trying to end a civil war that president daniel ortega says has cost 26,500 lives since 1981. both sides suspended battlefield action during the talks
the sandinista delegation proposed a 30-day truce that could be extended to three months, during which the u.s.-supported contras would lay down their weapons and join a ``national reconciliation dialogue.''
victor hugo tinoco, the deputy foreign minister, announced the proposal at a news conference. for every rebel who stops fighting, he said, the leftist government will free one of the 3,300 political prisoners it considers eligible for release
most prisoners are former members of the national guard, as the army was called under the late president anastasio somoza, whom the sandinista revolution overthrew in july 1979
contrary to previous sandinista demands, tinoco said rebels who put down their arms would be free from prosecution without applying for amnesty and could take party in nicaraguan political life
they would be permitted to operate uncensored newspapers, magazines and radio stations, but television would remain a government monopoly
contra proposals, as outlined to reporters by spokesman bosco matamoros, call for a 45-day truce beginning on good friday, april 1. rebel fighters would move to cease-fire zones and a permanent truce would be negotiated by sandinista and contra leaders
matamoros said the contras demand ``total and unconditional amnesty'' when the cease-fire begins, so anyone who had left nicaragua for political reasons could ``rejoin the political, economic and social process without any conditions.''
contra leaders also want to join a national dialogue between the sandinistas and their internal political opponents
an agreement signed monday night by president ortega, the defense minister's brother, and leaders of eight opposition political parties has a significant effect on that contra demand
it says the parties pledge to discuss ``internal political issues exclusively with the government'' and the ``government will discuss exclusively with rebel groups'' all matters involving a cease-fire
according to matamoros, other contra demands include immediate, total amnesty, freedom for all political prisoners and an end to mandatory military service
tinoco said: ``at the moment at which a cease-fire is signed, whether it be for 30, 60 or 90 days, according to what the counterrevolution wants, at that moment the leadership of the nicaraguan resistance (contras) will be able to rejoin civic and political life and even participate in the national dialogue that seeks a reconciliation of all nicaraguans.''
both sides propose international monitoring of the cease-fire. the sandinistas would have a 15-member international commission including representatives of the united nations, organization of american states, contadora and its support group
contadora is made up of mexico, venezuela, colombia and panama, and began trying to negotiate peace in central america several years ago. the support group is argentina, brazil, uruguay and peru
the battlefield truce appeared on tuesday to be holding. it was the first agreed suspension of fighting since truce for christmas and new year's during which some fighting was reported
alfredo cesar, a former sandinista who leads the contra delegation, called the exchange of proposals ``a step ahead.'' on monday night, he told reporters: ``neither side seeks a military victory over the other.''
both cease-fire and reconciliation talks are required under the peace plan signed aug. 7 by the five central american presidents. it also calls for greater democracy in the region and an end to both foreign aid to insurgents and the use of one country's territory for attacks on another
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, nicaragua's roman catholic primate, is attending the talks as one of two observers
he acted as mediator in four previous cease-fire conferences in which the sides did not meet face-to-face. they were held outside nicaragua and ended without agreement
the other observer is joao baena soarez, general secretary of the organization of american states
the battle for first place in the michigan caucuses will heat up the airwaves thursday as jesse jackson goes on television with an ad featuring bill cosby and michael dukakis counters with a radio ad featuring detroit mayor coleman young
jackson's campaign is spending about $90,000 in the last 48 hours before the saturday voting across the state, said spokeswoman pam smith
one of the major parts of the $70,000 television buy will be an ad featuring an endorsment by cosby, the popular television star. the ad was run first before the iowa caucuses and was run across the south before super tuesday
smith said the jackson television buy will be divided equally between detroit television and other markets across michigan. the $20,000 radio buy will be spread across the state she said
dukakis' campaign, which has already been on the air in michigan, will start running an ad featuring the endorsement of the massachusetts governor by young, detroit's longtime mayor. bob boorstein, a dukakis aide, said the radio ad will air on radio stations around the metropolitan area through saturday
dukakis has been running a biographical television ad for the last week in michigan. boorstein said the campaign added an ad emphasizing dukakis' executive experience _ contrasting that to the legislative experience of his rivals. dropouts</head>
north carolina should encourage students to finish high school by denying driver's licenses to people under the age of 18 who drop out, the lieutenant governor said tuesday
lt. gov. bob jordan, a democrat who plans to run against republican gov. jim martin in the nov. 8 general election, held a series of news conferences across the state to introduce a package aimed at reducing the state's dropout rate
jordan is expected to win the democratic nomination in the may 3 primary. martin has no opposition
a similar bill failed during the 1987 legislative session, but jordan said he was confident he could steer the measure through the democrat-dominated general assembly
jordan said martin had made no proposals to reduce the dropout rate although during his term nearly 100,000 youngsters _ one student in four _ have left school without a diploma
martin told reporters jordan's proposal was reasonable and interesting but said he did not know whether it would work
jordan said that if elected he would set a goal of halving the rate by 1992
the driver's license provision would give young people an incentive to remain in school, jordan said. under the proposed law, dropouts would have to wait until their 18th birthday to get a license, while those still in school could take the license test at age 16
the state of north carolina should do what a lot of parents do,'' he said. ``when their kids don't study or don't do well in school, they take away some privileges. some parents take away their car keys.''
jordan's package also includes hiring more guidance counselors and additional technical training
a cold front off the northern pacific coast on tuesday stirred up strong wind, while the central plains and southern third of the nation enjoyed unseasonable warmth
winds of 20 to 40 mph were common along the washington state coast, where a storm warning was in effect for coastal waters. a gale warning was posted for the oregon coast
a low pressure system over eastern south dakota produced strong northerly wind across western south dakota and the central high plains with speeds of 25 to 40 mph. a gust of 49 mph was clocked late tuesday morning at rapid city, s.d
strong southerly wind at 20 to 35 mph reached from central texas across eastern kansas and western and northern missouri into southeastern iowa and northern illinois
rain fell in western washington and oregon, with snow in the mountains expected to amount to 6 to 10 inches in the cascades
precipitation elsewhere was very light and spotty. clear to partly cloudy skies prevailed in the north and east
unseasonably warm weather extended across the southern third of the country and the central plains, with midday temperatures mostly in the 70s and low 80s
after some record cold temperatures for the date in the northeast on tuesday morning, a warming trend began in the afternoon and was expected to continue through wednesday. midday temperatures climbed into the upper 20s and 30s from the great lakes region to the northern atlantic coast
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est tuesday ranged from 23 degrees at saranac lake, n.y.; caribou, maine; and limestone, maine, to 88 degrees at palm springs, calif. the early-morning low was 15 degrees below zero at saranac lake, n.y
the national weather forecast for wednesday called for rain showers, with snow showers in the mountains, from the pacific northwest across the northern rockies. snow was predicted in parts of minnesota, scattered showers and thunderstorms in northeast texas across missouri into michigan, and scattered showers and rain from the lower great lakes through new england
high temperatures in the 30s and 40s were forecast across most of the northern tier of states, in the 70s and 80s across the southern third of the country, 90s in the southwest deserts, and in the 50s and 60s across most of the rest of the nation
danas, an influential weekly newspaper in zagreb, on tuesday called for pope john paul ii to visit communist yugoslavia
it said in an editorial, ``in slovenia there is not a single serious reason against a papal visit.... if there are reasons elsewhere against the pope's trip, then these should be dealt with in a public discussion.''
if john paul should come to yugoslavia, he probably would visit only slovenia and croatia, the two northern republics that are predominantly roman catholic, according to danas
at the annual meeting last week of the slovenian socialist alliance, a communist-led organization, alliance secretary-general joze smole said it was time to do ``everying possible'' to arrange a papal visit
danas noted allegations that croatian authorities were opposed to a papal visit and said the decision could not be made by one republic alone
it is expected that if the pope visits croatia, he would honor the late cardinal aloisius stepinac, who was convicted of collaborating with nazi troops in world war ii. the cardinal died under house arrest in his native village and his body was buried in the zagreb cathedral
danas said there have been 11 visits to the vatican in the past year by yugoslav state representatives, compared to one by a ranking catholic leader _ cardinal agostino casaroli's visit to djakovo, croatia, in 1985 to mark a st. method's anniversary
smole said yugoslavia ``should at least honor the principle of reciprocity in its relations with the holy see.''
government officials have said a papal visit could take place when agreement is reached on all conditions
there was speculation that such a visit was discussed when premier branko mikulic had a 30-minute audience with the pontiff on jan.30
danas said the clergy of the orthodox church and atheists probably ``would not gladly see the pope in yugoslavia, but the opposition does not come from these quarters alone
the situation in yugoslavia is so complex that a papal visit, unless it gained a kind of (national) consensus, would indeed become a motive for political showdowns.''
press conditions in haiti improved after the duvalier dictatorship fell, but a restrictive code and government intimidation still cause concern, the inter-american press association said tuesday
an iapa delegation said that after president jean-claude duvalier fled to exile in france in 1986, ending 29 years of harsh rule by the duvalier family, radio stations and newspapers flourished
local newspapers resumed political commentary. bans were lifted on newspapers published abroad by exiles. radio stations _ the main source of news in a country where illiteracy approaches 80 percent _ rehired staff members who had been deported or hounded into exile
when jean-claude duvalier fled haiti in february 1986, the media, like haitians in general, assumed that they had democracy and acted accordingly,'' harold hoyte, managing director of the barbados nation, told the iapa
haitian publishers, radio and tv station directors, opposition leaders and officials all agree that there was, in fact, almost total freedom,'' said hoyte, who traveled to haiti on march 17-18 and spoke with newly elected president leslie manigat and many others
the sense of journalistic freedom changed when the provisional government, a military-led junta, issued a press code in july 1986. it required journalists to have university degrees, declare news sources, and be accredited annually
haitian reporters told the delegation the code raised concern. they also expressed concern about recent communiques from the information ministry and armed forces cautioning the news media about publishing or broadcasting reports from abroad that might be perceived as negative to the image of haiti or its leaders
managers of newspapers, radio and television stations were almost unanimous that there is now self-censorship of certain news, and an awareness that to offend the army is to risk new repression,'' hoyte said
he said manigat supports the press code and ``brushed aside the delegation's arguments that the best press law would be no press law at all.''
in general, hoyte said, ``the delegation was satisfied that conditions for the press in haiti are much better than those under the duvalier dictatorship, but also notes with concern the atmosphere of intimidation and mistrust, and the prospect of a new press law which will maintain some of the present limitations.''
three delegation members stopped off in port-au-prince last week before going on the dominican republic for the iapa meeting. the others besides hoyte were wilbur landrey, foreign editor of the st. petersburg (fla.) times and chairman of the iapa freedom of the press committee, and iapa president ignacio lozano, editor of la opinion in los angeles, calif. threats</head>
a prosecutor accused of fabricating death threats against herself during extradition proceedings for two sikhs charged with terrorism gave fbi agents a description used to make a sketch of a suspect, a lawyer for the sikhs said tuesday
the fbi showed the sketch to several new jersey sikhs during an investigation of the threats against special assistant u.s. attorney judy g. russell, and one was ordered to appear before a federal grand jury, said lawyer ronald kuby
kuby represents sukhminder singh. he and ranjit singh gill are accused of terrorism in india
a federal magistrate ruled in february that gill and singh could be extradited. the hearings were conducted amid tight security partly prompted by the threats to ms. russell and an anonymous letter sent to the magistrate, ronald j. hedges
in a hearing before hedges on monday, u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. said there was evidence that ms. russell may have manufactured the threats
laboratory tests found the same typewriter was used to address the envelopes and to fill out ms. russell's application to the justice department in 1983. the typewriter was found in her home along with three similar letters in envelopes, as well as materials apparently used to make the letters out of words cut from newspapers and magazines, the prosecutor said
ms. russell, who left the u.s. attorney's office before the hearings began but handled the case as a special assistant, is in a private hospital. her attorney, robert j. fettweis, has declined to comment
federal authorities have said they would request a new extradition hearing to avoid the appearance of impropriety, and were considering how much of the proceedings should be repeated
kuby said tuesday he wanted all pretrial arguments repeated before a new magistrate and possibly outside of new jersey
at monday's hearing, alito said the allegations about ms. russell have no bearing on the case's final outcome
during the investigation into the threats, kuby said, one of his clients, amarvir ``sonny'' singh, was ordered to appear before a newark grand jury investigating the threats
they didn't question him, they just viewed him'' to see if he matched the sketch, kuby said. amarvir singh was later told by investigators not to return for a lineup, kuby said
the lawyer said agents told sikhs they interviewed that the sketch was based on ms. russell's description of a man who shouted a threat at her in a shopping mall
first assistant u.s. attorney michael chertoff said he would not comment on the shouted threat because it was not on the public record. fbi spokesman michael mines said he would not comment on a continuing investigation
jagjit singh mangat, president of the new york-based sikh cultural society, said fbi agents apologized to those who were questioned about the alleged threats
the allegations ``damaged the sikh community quite a bit,'' mangat said. ``everybody is looking at us as a terrorist, but we are not.''
justice department officials outside of the u.s. attorney's office in newark are investigating the russell case, and have the power to pursue an indictment, chertoff said
here are tuesday's major developments in central america:
panama city _ gen. manuel antonio noriega's opponents scorned an offer to negotiate his resignation and kept panama shut down with a general strike intended to force him out. an estimated 90 percent of business and industry was closed, and many government employees stated home
sapoa, nicaragua _ negotiators for the sandinistas and contra rebels said they exchanged proposals that agree on major points and envisage an extended cease-fire, amnesty and release of political prisoners. they began three days of meetings monday at this town on the costa rican border. defense minister humberto ortega told reporters he expected a ``concrete agreement'' would be reached wednesday
washington _ president reagan sought to revive his stalled effort to aid the contras and said congressional democrats would be at fault if the rebel movement ceased to exist for lack of supplies. the last aid package ran out feb. 29
tegucigalpa, honduras _ a u.s. military spokesman said american soldiers, sent to honduras for emergency training after nicaraguan soldiers were accused of crossing the border last week to attack contras, will stay on to complete the maneuvers. ``right now the plans are to make it a 10- to 14-day exercise,'' maj. gary hovatter said
a judge on tuesday gave bishop college two months to come up with $200,000, but rejected a motion to take the struggling school out of protection of bankruptcy court
u.s. bankruptcy court trustee george mcelreath had sought to dismiss the school's chapter 11 reorganization petition. that would have left bishop vulnerable to lawsuits from its 400 creditors, who are owed more than $12.5 million
u.s. bankruptcy court judge robert mcguire, in denying mcelreath's motion, ordered the school to raise $50,000 every two weeks beginning april 5. if the school cannot prove it has the cash on hand within three days of each deadline, he will reconsider the motion to dismiss the chapter 11 petition
it's a good deal,'' said bishop attorney t. glover roberts. ``it's incentive for the school, especially the students, to do something.''
roberts said the school, which has failed to meet its payroll for two months, has operating expenses of $200,000 a month and would not have survived if the trustee's motion had been granted
bishop is in a deeper and deeper financial hole,'' roberts said
observers in the packed courtroom, mostly bishop students and faculty, applauded mcguire's ruling. afterward, many joined in singing the school's alma mater in the courthouse lobby
judith swift, attorney for bishop's largest creditor, its faculty-staff committee, praised the judge's ruling
clearly the debtor is in violation on matters of legal concern, but law is about equity, too,'' swift said. ``the equity here is the human concerns of the students and faculty.''
swift told the judge that 28 of the school's approximately 50 faculty and staff members had agreed to work without pay for the rest of the term if bishop was allowed to stay open
only two creditors joined mcelreath's motion to dismiss the chapter 11 protection
though he rejected the motion, the judge said mcelreath was right to carry out his duty as court-appointed trustee to point out bishop's violations of the bankruptcy filing. the most notable, the judge said, was the accrual of nearly $700,000 in new debt since the school filed for protection last may
school officials are hoping for aid from the u.s. department of education, which is expected to decide next week whether to renew $400,000 in funding for the school. that funding was lost last year when the southern association of colleges and schools failed to renew bishop's academic accreditation because of its financial problems
bishop's board of trustees voted earlier tuesday to allow conversion of the school's bankruptcy filing from chapter 11 to chapter 7 at the end of the spring semester in late may unless the school's dire financial situation changes
under chapter 7, bishop would close and its assets would be sold to pay creditors
school officials are also working to get back $150,000 from two churches that recently withdrew donations. the churches backed out after dallas businessman clifford sugerman reneged on a $300,000 pledge
sugerman had promised to match donations up to that amount
sugerman, whose chapter 13 bankruptcy petition filed in 1985 is still an open case, gave no reason for dropping the pledge and his sugarman foundation is now under investigation by the state attorney general's office
bishop college, affiliated with the national baptist churches, was founded as a college for blacks in 1861. it currently has about 300 students
foreign minister r.f. botha apologized on behalf of the government tuesday for a police search of the west german consul's home, but also criticized west germany's policies
police searched the home of erhard loeser, west germany's acting consul-general, on monday. they were looking for heinrich grosskopf, a 24-year-old white south african accused of a car-bombing last week that killed three people
officials claim grosskopf carried out that bombing and at least one other on orders from the outlawed african national congress, the predominantly black guerrilla group fighting to end domination by south africa's white minority
botha gave no reason why police decided to search loeser's home and coupled his apology with an attack on foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher of west germany for suggesting a boycott of south african products as a means of protesting the apartheid racial policy
he said the suggestion was ``callously irresponsible'' and a boycott would ``deprive people of their livelihood.''
the foreign minister also criticized genscher for questioning the fairness of legal proceedings for the ``sharpeville six,'' a group of blacks granted a one-month stay of execution last week. they were convicted of complicity in the mob killing of a black official
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which south africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. and 2 grafs after 22nd graf pvs, bgng: ``senate gop ...'' to update with moral majority comment.</note>
congress overrode president reagan's veto of a major civil rights bill tuesday, ending a four-year battle to restore broad protection for women, minorities, the elderly and the handicapped
a 73-24 vote in the senate, followed by a 292-133 tally in the house, handed reagan a severe political defeat and reversed a 1984 supreme court decision that sharply restricted the reach of four anti-discrimination statutes
the votes in both chambers exceeded the two-thirds majority needed to enact a law over a presidential veto. it was the ninth time congress had rejected a reagan veto
the white house pledged to enforce the new law, which reagan had called a federal ``power grab.''
we presented an alternative civil rights act which stated the president's strong views against discrimination in this country,'' a white house statement said. ``the congress chose to override the president's veto. we will work to implement the new law.''
people who voluntarily take federal funds have an obligation to treat everybody else fairly,'' said rep. barney frank, d-mass., summing up the rationale of lawmakers who have been pressing for the civil rights restoration act since the high court ruling
the moral majority, which had campaigned against the bill, said after the vote that the legislation would cause ``severe damage to the free exercise of religion'' and ``will put at risk our other guaranteed freedoms.''
the court said only specific programs or activities receiving federal aid had to comply with four major civil rights laws
the restoration act bars discrimination by institutions, government agencies and some corporations that receive any federal aid. that means if a college physics department, for example, receives federal assistance, the entire college would fall under the civil rights laws
reagan and his congressional allies argued for a less sweeping alternative, saying the act went far beyond simple restoration. they said it would curtail religious liberty and expand federal control over the private sector
it's a blank check to the bureaucrats and the litigators,'' said rep. james sensenbrenner, r-wis
but house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said in a statement that reagan's veto was ``wholly unnecessary and it provoked an unnecessary confrontation. the new law will not end illegal discrimination. but it does represent a step forward in making america truly a land of equal opportunity for all.''
supporters in the house erupted into cheers and applause when the two-thirds mark was reached. in the senate, the mood was more subdued
sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., chief senate sponsor of the bill, said the senate had demonstrated that ``this country does not want to retreat on protections of rights for the american people.''
the opposition leader, sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, said: ``sometimes you win some and sometimes you lose some. that's the nature of our process.''
ralph neas, executive director of the 185-group leadership conference on civil rights, called the votes ``a bipartisan reaffirmation of civil rights and a bipartisan repudiation of the civil rights extremism of the reagan-bush administration. it was a great victory for civil rights and for the nation.''
the u.s. chamber of commerce, however, said the bill ``does little to protect these basic rights'' and may end up ``imposing unncessary regulatory burdens'' on businesses, farmers and others
opponents contended the bill had little to do with civil rights and had much to do with what reagan on tuesday called ``a power grab by washington, designed to take control away from states, localities, communities, parents and the private sector and give it to federal bureaucrats and judges.''
reagan had proposed an alternative last week that would enable more institutions to escape regulation on religious grounds and limit most corporate compliance requirements to specific plants or facilities receiving federal aid
as they voted tuesday, many lawmakers, even some who voted to sustain reagan's veto, denounced a last-minute campaign against the restoration act by the conservative moral majority
they said they received hundreds of calls from people who said they had been told the bill would force them to hire homosexual ministers and teachers, give new privileges to drug addicts and intrude on their freedom to practice or contribute to their religions
rarely has the legislative process been subjected to such a campaign of misinformation and distortion,'' said sen. george mitchell, d-maine
senate gop leader bob dole of kansas and acting gop leader alan simpson of wyoming also criticized the campaign. simpson said he was concerned about erroneous claims that ``massive new rights'' would be created, while dole said in a statement that there were ``serious misconceptions about what this bill does.''
jerry c. nims, president of moral majority, said in a statement after the vote that the override is likely to be ``the major political issue for evangelicals in the 1988 elections.''
if enough people are not voted into office to change what's occurred, we will have entered the moral dark ages,'' nims said
dole, who was absent for the initial vote, was on the campaign trail tuesday for the gop presidential nomination and did not vote then either. on a radio call-in show in milwaukee, dole said he would vote to override the veto if he were in washington. but he added, ``if it were the deciding vote, i would side with the president.''
eight gop senators who initially voted for the bill switched tuesday and supported reagan. they were simpson, thad cochran of mississippi, paul trible of virginia, john warner of virginia, larry pressler of south dakota, charles grassley of iowa, john danforth of missouri and christopher bond of missouri
in addition, two senators who didn't vote last time _ sens. malcolm wallop of wyoming and james mcclure of idaho _ sided with the president
the supreme court ruling came in a challenge to federal regulation mounted by tiny grove city college in pennsylvania. in its attempts to reverse the decision, congress became enmeshed in controversies over abortion, religions and federal intrusion and was unable to pass a corrective measure until this year
the restoration act says entire institutions and government agencies must not discriminate if any program or activity within them receives federal aid. entire corporations are covered if they provide a public service such as health care or if the aid goes to the business as a whole, as in the chrysler corp. bailout
farmers receiving crop subsidies, people using food stamps and other individuals receiving federal assistance would not be subject to regulation. an institution's refusal to perform or pay for abortions would not be considered discrimination against women
the supreme court decision applied specifically to title ix of the 1972 education amendments barring sex discrimination in federally funded education programs. it was interpreted also to cover the 1964 civil rights act barring racial discrimination in federally assisted programs; the 1973 rehabilitation act barring discrimination against the handicapped in any program or activity receiving federal aid; and the 1975 age discrimination act barring employment discrimination against older people. update with dukakis endorsements</note>
democratic presidential contenders paul simon and albert gore jr. broke off campaigning tuesday long enough to return to their senate desks and vote to override president reagan's veto of a civil rights bill. republican contender bob dole stayed away and straddled the issue
with saturday's michigan caucuses looming as the next campaign test for the democrats, rep. richard gephardt attacked michael dukakis for a ``battlefield conversion'' on trade issues so important to the automotive industry. dukakis aides retorted that the massachusetts governor has long been in favor of trade legislation, just not gephardt's proposal
jesse jackson was in michigan, too, turning his anti-drug crusade into a slap at the reagan administration's central american policy. ``the no. 1 threat to your lives today is drugs,'' he told a high school audience in lansing. ``we're not threatened by 3 million sandinistas and if so, can't be saved from them by 15,000 contras.''
dukakis, at the massachusetts statehouse in boston, did change his stance on one issue, agreeing tuesday to support a ban on furloughs for first-degree murderers after public pressure stemming from the release of a murderer who raped a maryland woman
i try to listen, i try to learn,'' said dukakis, who previously had called the furlough program for murderers essential for maintaining order in the state's prisons
later, dukakis made a trip to connecticut to pick up endorsements from sen. christopher dodd and gov. william o'neill. o'neill predicted dukakis would do ``extremely well'' in next week's primary
sources said dukakis also would win the backing on wednesday of new jersey sen. bill bradley, whose name crops up consistently in speculation about a darkhorse emerging as the democratic nominee in a deadlocked convention
that would leave new york gov. mario cuomo alone among the prominent non-candidates who has yet to make an endorsement
an abc news poll suggested a matchup between dukakis and vice president george bush in the general election could be a close race. the network tuesday night its nationwide poll of 1,007 people gave dukakis 48 percent and bush 47 percent. the margin of error was 3.5 percent, abc said
bush was in washington during the day, and the only other gop hopeful, pat robertson, was cutting his staff to avoid exceeding a federal spending limit. aide connie snapp said the payroll has been cut from a maximum of 230 to about 100, and another 30 or 40 aides may be released later in the month
reagan's veto of the civil rights bill and the democratic-controlled congress' attempt to override dominated the political news during the day. the senate voted 75-24 to overturn the president's veto, more than the two-thirds majority needed. the house also voted to override, 292-133
simon, who is hoping to win the wisconsin primary on april 5, said he sponsored the legislation in 1984 when it was first introduced
this is something that ought to appeal to the basic good instincts of every member of the senate and the house,'' he said. he said the issue involved is, ``are we going to make real the dream of equality in the constitution?''
gore returned to washington from harrisburg, pa., after collecting endorsements from several legislative leaders. he also met with gov. robert casey, but came away without an endorsement
gore used the civil rights bill to attack bush, the prohibitive front-runner for the republican nomination. gore said bush, who announced monday that he supported reagan's veto of the measure, always sides with the president, ``even when the proposals are unfathomably dumb.''
when push comes to shove the vice president never disagrees with president reagan,'' he said, adding that bush didn't disagree with selling arms to iran for hostages or in keeping panama strongman manuel noriega on the cia payroll despite evidence of drug involvement
bush's top campaign spokesman, pete teeley, dismissed suggestions that bush would begin looking for an issue to disagree with reagan on, just to prove his independence
the fact is, six months ago everybody was writing that george bush had to disagree with the president in order to get the nomination. everyone now sees that that was a myth,'' the spokesman said
far, far behind in the republican presidential race, dole said he stayed in wisconsin rather than return for the senate vote because ``i wasn't needed.''
he said he was personally opposed to the president's veto. but asked on a milwaukee radio station call-in program, he said, ``but if it were the deciding vote, i would side with the president.''
dole, who was attacked by bush earlier in the campaign for not taking firm stands on issues such as arms control and tax increases, placed a formal statement in the senate record that did not take a precise stand
in part it said, ``i have always supported legislation to overturn grove city to restore the broad civil rights coverage that existed prior to that case. ... at the same time, i recognize that (the bill) is not a perfect bill. i am not fully satisfied with it... but the fact remains that the administration and its congressional allies had the opportunity to offer amendments and they were voted down.''
dole was absent when the bill passed the senate originally in january
the legislation stems from a 1984 supreme court ruling that says an organization receiving federal aid must follow anti-discrimination rules only for the program that receives the aid, and not for the entire organization or institution. the legislation would erase that distinction
gephardt's repeated jabs at dukakis centered on the trade issue that is central to his own campaign. the missouri congressman is the sponsor of legislation calling for retaliation against unfair trading practices. dukakis opposes the gephardt provision but declared a few days ago that he favors a different proposal backed by sen. don riegle _ the michigan senator who bestowed his endorsement on monday
we're getting some battlefield conversions,'' gephardt said. observers</head>
nicaragua told the security council tuesday the united states is plotting an invasion of that central american nation
honduras, meanwhile, rejected nicaragua's call for u.n. observers to visit the honduran-nicaraguan border, where there was fighting last week between soldiers of the leftist sandinista government and u.s.-backed contra rebels
nicaraguan envoy rita delia casco, said of the alleged u.s. plot:
the danger is not past. indeed, it is growing. america plans to provide a central american gulf of tonkin incident to serve as a pretext for direct invasion and escalation of intimidation and threats.''
the united states sent 3,200 soldiers to honduras last week at the request of the honduran president, who accused nicaraguan soldiers of penetrating honduran territory while chasing the rebels. president reagan said the u.s. move was to show support of honduras and as a warning to nicaragua
ms. casco, director of the foreign ministry's department of international organizations, said the situation ``points to the possibility of imminent imperialist military action on a broad scale.''
the gulf of tonkin incident occurred when washington said north vietnamese boats attacked two u.s. destroyers in that waterway on aug. 2, 1964. congress passed the gulf of tonkin resolution five days later and the united states began a military buildup in south vietnam that led to major american involvement in the vietnam war
a four-member u.n. team was leaving tuesday night to inspect the nicaraguan side of the border with honduras
u.n. spokesman francois giuliani told reporters that honduras turned down a u.n. offer to send observers to that country
honduran ambassador jorge ramon hernandez told the council a u.n. team was not necessary because the five central american presidents, in a regional peace plan signed last august, had set up an executive committee to verify compliance with the accord
hernandez said sandinista troops invaded honduras and his nation had the right to self-defense
our military response has been limited so far and the international assistance we are asking for basically has a deterrent nature,'' he said
honduran jets raided nicaraguan positions last week in the bocay region, which straddles the border between the two countries. no injuries were reported
on sunday honduran officials said the nicaraguans were withdrawing and the u.s. troops would leave the country soon. maj. gary hovatter, a u.s. military spokesman in honduras, said tuesday that the american troops were conducting training exercises that could last from 10 to 14 days
u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun, the deputy permanent representative at the u.n., told the council that nicaragua had launched a massive attack against the rebels, who have base camps in honduras
the sandinistas committed aggression against honduras,'' he said. ``it was not the other way around.''
okun said the sandinistas retreated into nicaragua without crushing the rebels because honduras reacted forcefully and the united states demonstrated its determination to help honduras
he said stability will return to central america only when nicaragua complies with the regional peace plan and gives up ``its self-appointed right to subvert neighboring democracies and to launch premeditated attacks.''
president francois mitterrand, who said tuesday he will seek re-election next month, has managed in one seven-year term to be both the least and most popular chief executive in the 30 years of the fifth republic
mitterrand, 71, led the leftist surge in may 1981 that ousted president valery giscard d'estaing and the center-right alliance that had controlled the national assembly for 23 years
the victory avenged socialist mitterrand's defeats in the presidential elections of 1965 by charles de gaulle and 1974 by giscard d'estaing
after five years, french voters turned against the socialists in the march 1986 parliamentary elections and returned control to the right _ creating what became known in france as ``cohabitation'' between a socialist president and a conservative premier
socialist policies had dragged mitterrand's popularity rating in public opinion polls as low as 27 percent, but under the unwanted marriage with the conservatives it soared again to a consistent 55 percent or more
the president pursued costly social programs after the socialists gained power, but then reversed course, instituting austerity measures
economic troubles brought his party to power, and caused its downfall five years later. after the socialist defeat, mitterrand eased into the role of elder statesman and held himself above the day-to-day battles of governing, commenting on issues only occasionally
he was born oct. 26, 1916, in jarnac in western france and attended universities in paris, earning degrees in law and letters. he was drafted into the army in 1938, and shot and captured during the german invasion in may 1940
mitterrand escaped from a prison camp in germany, returned to france and created a resistance network. his long feud with de gaulle began when mitterrand refused to unite his resistance group with de gaulle's
it was in the resistance days that he met danielle gouze, and they married in 1944, soon after france was liberated. he held several government posts, including interior and justice minister, during the chaotic postwar fourth republic
in the early 1970s he built the moribund socialist party into a major political force, but the union of the left he formed with the communists fell apart in 1977
not until the final days of the 1981 campaign did the two main leftist parties join forces again to defeat giscard and oust the conservatives
mitterrand shocked much of the west by bringing communists into his government, but the union lasted only three years. in 1984, the communists pulled out in a dispute over economic policy. climax</head> update with hearing in recess until wednesday. picks up 4th graf pvs, `even though...'. a longer version moved on financial wires.</note>
dissident stockholders dropped their opposition to texaco inc.'s financial reorganization plan tuesday as a federal judge opened a hearing on whether to implement the proposal
texaco, the nation's third-largest oil company, announced that 96 percent of the shares voted, 174 million of 181 million, backed the plan, which would allow the company to emerge from bankruptcy court protection
after receiving the vote results, u.s. bankruptcy court judge howard schwartzberg heard comments on the plan, but no one opposed it
later, he recessed the hearing until wednesday morning
even though the plan received more than the two-thirds vote needed from shareholders, the final decision on whether the plan was fair and equitable rested with schwartzberg
if schwartzberg confirms the plan, texaco could emerge from bankruptcy protection by mid-april, which would be a year after it sought protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code
texaco was the biggest company ever to seek refuge in the bankruptcy courts
shortly before the hearing, harvey miller, the bankruptcy lawyer representing texaco, announced that attorneys for dissident shareholders had dropped their opposition to the reorganization plan
those stockholders had objected to provisions that would free officers and advisers of texaco, pennzoil co., the former getty oil co., the sarah getty trust and the j. paul getty museum from all liability arising out of the court fight that resulted from a texaco-pennzoil battle over getty oil
texaco said it was forced into bankruptcy court by a requirement that it post a multibillion-dollar bond while appealing the $10.3 billion judgment held against it by pennzoil
a houston jury had awarded the judgment in november 1985 after finding texaco had interfered wrongly with pennzoil's agreement to acquire part of getty oil before texaco bought getty itself
in december, pennzoil agreed to accept $3 billion in cash from texaco to drop the judgment. the settlement was the keystone of the overall bankruptcy reorganization plan, which would require texaco to pay its other creditors an additional $2.5 billion
while some shareholders first opposed dropping liability for executives in the pennzoil matter, others were unhappy with anti-takeover provisions of texaco's charter and bylaws that they argued entrenched management and lessened accountability
the leader of the latter group was takeover specialist carl c. icahn, who controls 14.8 percent of texaco's common stock, making him the company's largest shareholder. despite his opposition to those provisions, however, he had said he would vote for the reorganization plan
icahn's involvement _ along with reported interest by fellow takeover artist t. boone pickens and others _ made texaco a prime target for takeover speculation in recent weeks
the company cleared another obstacle on friday when it announced it had reached a framework for resolving a dispute with the internal revenue service
in january, the irs said it was pursuing claims totaling as much as $6.5 billion against texaco. but friday texaco said it would put into escrow $1 billion over the next four years while negotiating the dispute after emerging from bankruptcy reorganization
demonstrators protesting against the state grand jury in the tawana brawley case met counter-demonstrators for the first time on tuesday, while at least two protesters scuffled with police
there were no arrests
roughly 100 marchers led by the rev. al sharpton and brawley family lawyer c. vernon mason gathered outside chanting, ``governor cuomo, haven't you heard? this is not johannesburg.'' that group was predominantly black
about 75 whites, who at first watched silently, began to shout back. ``get tawana to testify. we care too,'' some of them said
there was no scuffling between the two groups
miss brawley, a black 16-year-old, claims she was kidnapped and sexually assaulted by at least six white men during four days in november. mason and another attorney, alton maddox jr., have advised their client not to cooperate with investigators
sharpton's group had promised to disrupt grand jury proceedings in the case. about 50 people from new york city joined as many local residents tuesday morning for a march from the mid-hudson bridge
later, members of sharpton's group attempted to push through a line of police who stood shoulder to shoulder in front of the doors of a state armory, where the grand jury has been meeting. at least two protesters struggled with police and were taken into a van, but were released and allowed to return
if it comes necessary for arrests to be made, we'll make them,'' police chief stewart bowles said. ``i'd rather not.''
despite temperatures which hovered near 30 degrees, sharpton said his group would stay all night or even several days until the grand jury was disbanded. some 15 to 20 protesters remained at the scene at midevening
a spokesman for attorney general robert abrams would not say if the grand jury was meeting tuesday, but there was no sign of grand jury activity
gov. mario cuomo selected abrams to investigate and, if necessary, prosecute the case
at one time, sharpton, maddox and mason had insisted that abrams personally handle the case. they have since demanded a special prosecutor, but cuomo has refused
maddox says abrams has violated the law by disclosing certain facts about the grand jury, such as the instructions it received, its purpose for forming and its makup. he said state law requires that grand jury proceedings be secret
this story is from a report filed by richard pyle, a member of the pentagon media pool in the persian gulf
the u.s. navy is preparing to shepherd its 40th convoy through the persian gulf war zone and officers say alertness is as high as when the operation began eight months ago
they said, however, that a permanent high level of alertness takes a toll on the crew
the hardest part of the mission is that you have to stay ready 24 hours a day. there's no time, really, to let your guard down,'' said cmdr. paul rinn, 40, of the bronx, n.y
he commands this missile frigate, one of 16 navy ships serving in the escort and patrol squadron called the middle east force
rinn spoke with members of a pentagon news media pool tuesday on the bridge of his ship, one of the navy's newest perry-class frigates
soon afterward, officers in the combat information center were monitoring radio traffic about an iranian attack on a commercial vessel off dubai, 90 miles away
messages said the greek-flagged tanker stavros g.l. was attacked at 2:45 p.m. approximately 30 miles north of dubai and was on fire
the u.s. frigate jack williams, a sister ship to the roberts, went to the tanker's aid from about nine miles away. the williams rescued 14 crewmen in a lifeboat, according to lt. cmdr. mark van dyke, a navy spokesman
when the fire was under control, the tanker's skipper asked that the crew be returned to the ship, van dyke said
it was believed to be the third time a u.s. warship gave ``humanitarian assistance'' to a ship attacked by iranian gunboats in the gulf. the last was christmas day when the uss elrod rescued crewmen from a burning vessel in the southern gulf
iran has attacked seven neutral ships in the gulf since friday. iraq has raided a similar number of iranian owned or chartered tankers beginning earlier in march. iraq and iran have been at war since september 1980
the roberts, a 445-foot vessel launched two years ago, began its latest mission after a three-day resupply stop and the first liberty for the 209-man crew since arriving in the gulf nearly a month ago
soon after entering international waters tuesday, rinn ordered the crew to general quarters to ``clear the mind'' after the port call
they test-fired defensive gun systems as part of the effort to renew vigilance
on its last mission in the northern gulf, the $400 million warship had a series of ``close encounters'' with iraqi aircraft, the captain said
from 30 to 40 iraqi air missions came near his ship en route to attacks on iranian vessels, rinn said, including three mirage f-1s armed with exocet missiles that flew wing-to-wing 50 feet above the water
he said the jets came within five miles of the roberts, heading away and not demonstrating hostile intent
you can basically say we were a blink of an eye away from anything that could happen,'' rinn said
i'm never going to allow my ship to be shot at and hit,'' said rinn, adding the fate of another sister ship, the uss stark, ``is not lost on us.'' the stark lost 37 of its crew when hit by an iraqi exocet missile last may 17. held, changes to conform grafs 1-7. pick up 8th graf pvs, in catholic west belfast...</note>
a protestant gunman who attacked a funeral for ira guerrillas last week was charged tuesday with murder in the killings of six roman catholics, including three who died in the cemetery onslaught
michael stone, 33, was taken to court under heavy guard and police testimony said stone told officers his ``military operation'' was in retaliation for attacks by the outlawed irish republican army
police quoted stone as telling interrogators, ``i alone carried out this military operation as a retaliatory strike against provisional sinn fein, the ira, in response to the slaughter of innocents at la mon, darkley, brighton and enniskillen,'' referring to some ira attacks in the last decade
he stood silently in the dock through the 10-minute hearing while a police officer also testified that stone told detectives: ``i would state i am a dedicated free-lance loyalist (protestant) paramilitary. no surrender.''
stone was charged with killing three people march 16 at a funeral in milltown for three ira members shot by british security forces in gibraltar. an alleged accomplice is being held by police. he has not been identified
stone also is accused of killing three other catholics shot in sniper attacks between november 1984 and may 1987. the victims were a milkman, a bread delivery man and a carpenter, none with known ira links
an outlawed protestant guerrilla group, the ulster freedom fighters, claimed responsibility for each of those murders
in catholic west belfast, where british authorities ordered a ``massive murder investigation'' after the killing of two british soldiers during another ira funeral on saturday, police erected road blocks at main roads into the ghetto
british soldiers, rifles in hand, patrolled the streets
police sources say up to 30 suspects have been identified from an army video and tv footage of saturday's rampage
a funeral mob dragged the soldiers from their unmarked car, stripped and beat them. they were shot out of sight of the cameras in a soccer stadium
in london, prime minister margaret thatcher attacked britain's two television networks, the british broadcasting corp. and independent television news, for refusing to give police their unscreened film of the horrifying scenes. the networks said handing over the film would endanger the lives of their crews
either one is on the side of justice in this matter or on the side of terrorism,'' mrs. thatcher said in the house of commons as her rank-and-file supporters clamored for the government to seek a court order to force the networks to yield their film
government sources said lawyers were considering legal moves
the two soldiers, whom the army has acknowledged should not have been in the area, were attacked after they drove up to the funeral cortege
some of the tense crowd apparently suspected another protestant assault following the gun and grenade attack at milltown catholic cemetery
in milltown, stone, still hurling hand grenades and firing until his gun jammed, was captured by enraged mourners at the funeral and beaten before police arrived
the guerrilla attacks stone cited in his statement to police dated back to feb. 17, 1978, when bombers killed 11 people at a restaurant outside belfast
at darkley, a village in county armagh near the border with the irish republic, gunmen fired on the congregation in a protestant chapel on nov. 20, 1983, killing eight people
in the brighton bombing on oct. 12, 1984, the ira blew up the hotel where mrs. thatcher was staying during a conservative party conference. she escaped injury, but five people were killed and 30 injured
at enniskillen, in northern ireland's county fermanagh, the ira bombed a service for war dead on november 8, killing 11 people
the victims were among at least 2,639 people killed in sectarian violence in protestant-dominated northern ireland since 1969. the ira is fighting to end british rule and unite the province with the catholic republic of ireland under a lefist administration
in londonderry, northern ireland's second-largest city, police said several people were held for questioning about the murder on monday of a policeman at a checkpoint. the ira has claimed responsibility
earlier tuesday, police sealed off the main shopping precinct in londonderry after discovering a 25-pound homemade bomb. police detonated the device in a controlled explosion. picking up 4th graf pvs, `i'm sad...'.</note>
harold thomas left his rotting, frigid shack along the river in january for a new life with an elderly new mexico couple, but after three months he returned home tuesday to start over again
i just wasn't progressing,'' thomas said as he was greeted by a throng of reporters at a downtown bus station. ``they were looking for a more experienced man
i thought i'd get some wages,'' he added. ``they treated me very nice but no wages.''
the couple paid thomas room and board and deposited $300 for him in a portales bank about a month ago. on monday, thomas withdrew the money and boarded a bus for chicago. he said the money was put into an account after media reports appeared indicating he wasn't receiving a regular salary
thomas hopped in a cab and headed for a girlfriend's apartment where he said he would be staying
i don't have a job, not right off,'' he said. ``but i've got a few ideas of my own. i'm going to be looking.''
i'm sad that it turned out like it did because we really liked the man,'' ethel gilman said tuesday by phone from her home in portales, n.m. ``he was very pleasant and friendly. we tried to treat him as good as we did our own family.''
thomas, 34, also said he was homesick after working at the wrecking yard owned by mrs. gilman, 68, and her 75-year-old husband, roy. he said he hoped to find a new job and planned to marry in chicago
the gilmans read about thomas in an associated press story describing his life in a shack along the chicago river during subzero temperatures. the couple offered him a job and a place to stay
thomas arrived jan. 17 in portales, an eastern new mexico farming and ranching community of about 11,000 people. he lived in an 8-foot-by-30-foot trailer in the wrecking yard where he worked tearing apart old cars and rebuilding engines
on tuesday, mrs. gilman blamed past news reports in part for why the couple's relationship with thomas didn't last. she was angry that reports focused on thomas being paid in room and board
she said people who read those stories had ``been calling us from everywhere saying we've been trying to make a slave out of harold. all we did was try to help him.''
before leaving new mexico, thomas said he hoped his brother would help him find a place to stay
thomas and his brother, myles, 35, were arrested jan. 18, 1987, on a lake michigan tour boat and later pleaded guilty to burglary. they were sentenced to two years probation
thomas had been living on the boat at the time as shelter from the cold, said kay o'sullivan, the brothers' probation officer
ms. o'sullivan said tuesday that she wasn't surprised he was returning
i felt there probably wouldn't be many people he could be friends with down there because there probably aren't many blacks in portales,'' ms. o'sullivan said. ``i just felt he didn't think this through.'' graf pvs, `returning from ...' minor editing thereafter to trim; subs last graf, `in another ...' with 2 grafs to clarify ministry spokesman's comment on firebombers.</note>
thousands of israelis mobbed prime minister yitzhak shamir on his return from a u.s. visit tuesday and cheered him for his firm opposition to an american peace plan. in the occupied lands, violence continued
the army said troops shot and killed a palestinian man in a clash monday night, bringing the arab death toll in 15 weeks of protests in the occupied territories to 107, according to u.n. figures. the israeli army has suffered one fatality
at least three more protesters were wounded in clashes, and a palestinian who allegedly collaborated with israeli authorities was shot and killed by fellow arabs, palestinian reports said
an israeli soldier was taken to a hospital after being hit in the chest with a rock during a demonstration tuesday in the gaza strip refugee camp of deir el balah, an army spokesman said
returning from a week-long visit that included talks with president reagan and secretary of state george p. shultz, shamir said u.s. officials had set no deadlines for israel to accept the plan
no one demanded anything from us,'' he told reporters at tel aviv's ben gurion airport. ``it all depends on us.''
shamir also hinted shultz was considering a return to the middle east in another attempt to defuse israeli-palestinian tensions
asher naim, the information minister at the israeli embassy in washington, said shultz will travel to the middle east in two weeks to continue negotiating for acceptance of his regional peace plan. state department spokesman charles redman said tuesday that shultz had not yet decided to return
naim also said israel's cabinet probably would vote to keep alive the shultz peace initiative when it debates the issue in two weeks
entering jerusalem, shamir's car was mobbed by thousands of delighted supporters, who danced, sang and waved banners saying: ``shamir remains strong.''
these good wishes went with me wherever i went,'' shamir told the crowd, mostly members of his right-wing likud bloc and jewish settlers. ``no one dared force on me decrees that lovers of the land of israel could not accept.''
shamir used harsh words to restate his objections to the shultz plan
these proposals, in our opinion, will not bring peace closer, and the peace may even be harmed if (our) disagreements are not taken into consideration,'' he said
shamir has repeatedly objected to a major component of the u.s. plan _ an international forum that would launch peace talks between israel and its arab neighbors. he fears the forum would be hostile to israel and force concessions from territories occupied in the 1967 middle east war
shultz's plan also calls for three years of self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip, with talks on an overall settlement to begin in december
foreign minister shimon peres, who heads the centrist labor party and has supported the shultz plan, toured the gaza strip on tuesday and discussed granting autonomy to its 650,000 mostly impoverished residents before implementing autonomy in the west bank
it would be a scandal and a mistake to just get up and leave gaza,'' peres told reporters. ``but if we could reach an arrangement of autonomy ... with jordan which would enable us to live on terms of security with gaza, i'm for that.''
the death toll rose as the body of a palestinian was found in the hills of tubas, a west bank village 50 miles north of jerusalem
an army spokesman confirmed troops shot the man monday night when their patrol was attacked by protesters hurling rocks, metal bars and bottles
in gaza, the body of a palestinian man was found in an orchard in the village of beit hanoun, israel radio said. the man's skull had been crushed. a military spokesman denied army involvement in the death, but villagers said the man was beaten to death by troops
a third palestinian died when he was shot from a passing car in southern gaza by assailants assumed to be arabs, the army said. palestinian journalists said the man, naim abu lafyeh, was killed for collaborating with authorities
troops also shot and wounded a resident of khan younis refugee camp when he attacked an officer with a metal pole, israel radio said. officials at ahli arab hospital said they admitted two palestinians suffering injuries inflicted by troops
in the west bank, members of two arab councils resigned tuesday a day after an underground leaflet called for israeli-appointed municipal officials to leave their jobs, the arab-owned palestine press service said
in another development, a ministry spokesman said defense minister yitzhak rabin told a parliamentary committee he authorized civilians to shoot at firebomb throwers if their lives were endangered and shooting was the only way out
state-run radio said earlier that israelis were allowed to shoot if the assailant was not standing in a crowd
the volcano that killed about 23,000 people in a 1985 eruption showed signs of activity tuesday, and officials warned residents in the surrounding region, the volcano institute of manizales said
officials at the institute sounded a preventive alarm, but said it was not necessary to evacuate people living near the nevado del ruiz volcano
the volcano erupted nov. 13, 1985, melting glacial ice on its slopes and sending an avalance of mud which buried the nearby town of armero
institute spokesman alvaro acevedo said seismographs ``registered abnormal seismic activity and the expulsion of abundant ashes'' from the mountain, about 65 miles west of bogota
but acevedo said the situation is similar to other periods of volcanic activity the institute has registered since the 1985 catastrophe
the volcano erupted on july 29, 1986 after tremors. there were no injuries
the institute lies about 25 miles from the volcano
eritrean separatists have taken three soviet soldiers prisoner in ethiopia and a fourth is missing, the government announced tuesday
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said the four were among 13 soviet military advisers captured in ethiopia last week by forces fighting the leftist government to establish an independent eritrean state
gerasimov told reporters at a news briefing that the eritrean people's liberation front recently ``has intensified combat operations.''
he said nine of the soviets captured returned to their command posts, three were identified by their captors as prisoners of war and one remained missing
ethiopia has strong political ties to the soviet union
gerasimov had no details of the incident or the conditions in which the soviets are being held
eritrea, a former italian colony on the red sea, was administered by britain from world war ii until 1952 when it was federated with ethiopia under a u.n. resolution. ethiopia incorporated it as a province in 1962, touching off a rebellion for independence
some eritrean groups have signed an agreement to unite, but not the eritrean popular liberation front, which is composed mainly of urban-born christians
according to the international institute for strategic studies military balance 1987-88 edition, there are an estimated 1,400 soviet technicians and advisers in ethiopia. an estimated 2,500 cuban combat troops also are in ethiopia supporting the addis ababa government
japanese patrol boats recovered the bodies of 11 crew members wednesday after a philippine cargo vessel capsized in rough waters off the pacific coast of northern japan, officials said
one crewman was rescued after the tuesday night incident, and patrol boats and helicopters were searching for 10 other seamen, said michiaki katsumata, spokesman for the maritime safety agency's regional office in shiogama, 190 miles northeast of tokyo
katsumata said feddrico sandaga, 60, was picked up near the 6,812-ton captain trader, which ran aground in 20-foot water and then capsized about two miles northeast of shiogama in miyagi prefecture
katsumata said officials are still attempting to identify bodies of the 11 victims and to establish the cause of the accident
the captain trader, owned by a shipping company in manila, was headed for shiogama from hakodate in hokkaido island with 4,000 tons of pig iron when it ran aground, katsumata said. martin sheen</head>
it's hard to imagine a more miscast version of ``julius caesar'' than the all-star revival currently ambushing audiences at the new york shakespeare festival public theater
not since elizabeth taylor and richard burton curdled noel coward's ``private lives'' several seasons back has so much star power been used to so little effect. in this case, the big guns parading around in white and burgundy togas are al pacino, martin sheen, edward herrmann and john mcmartin
each operates independently on stage, never connecting with the other performers or the play. a variety of acting styles are adrift in this endless, exhausting production that seems much longer than its two hours and 30 minutes
this is a ``julius caesar'' that doesn't connect on any level _ not as political drama, personal tragedy or even historical pageantry. coming right after the public's spirited and sensual ``midsummer night's dream,'' it is a major disappointment
julius caesar'' is a transition play, bridging the historical plays and the later great tragedies. the drama requires actors comfortable in both settings. there are none in this production, and director stuart vaughan is at a loss to impose any sort of style or unity to the diverse proceedings
pacino, as mark antony, gives the evening's most bewildering and idiosyncratic performance. the actor has a magnetic physical presence, and it's impossible not to watch him when he is on stage. his antony moves like a feral, street-wise gang leader who belongs more in the bronx than in ancient rome. so does his accent
to compensate for his blue-collar patois, pacino speaks in a slow, deliberate cadence. he spits out each word carefully as if he were afraid of mispronunciation. what's left is language devoid of any feeling or emotion
sheen, in the pivotal role of brutus, has much the same problem with the play's poetry. he gives an unshaded, monotone performance. sheen's brutus also lacks the patrician bearing that should be the hallmark of this play's most interesting character. he's a cipher and that blandness dilutes the tragedy
as a result, interest shifts to another of the conspirators, cassius, played by the usually reliable herrmann. a tall, vulture-like villain, the actor starts out strongly, insinuating his way into the good graces of brutus. his explanation of why caesar should be killed is chillingly logical and effective. but once the deed is accomplished, herrmann falters. his performance turns petulant, and cassius becomes a scolding old maid furious that things have turned out wrong
mcmartin's caesar is also problematic. although he captures the man's vanity, there's little here to suggest a charismatic leader. he's laconic rather than a commanding figure whose popularity threatens the empire
the supporting cast is equally unmemorable and all over the forum in acting ability and accents, although jerry mayer has a nice moment or two as a comic cobbler
vaughan's direction collapses in the second act. awkward battlefield tableaux alternate with more intimate scenes that show the unraveling of the assassins' lives. it's a toss-up as to which scenes are more chaotic or unmoving. the deaths of brutus and cassius seem to come more as a relief than as the inexorable result of fate. the tragedy is nowhere to be found
the setting, designed by bob shaw, doesn't help the drama. the playing area is all exposed brick _ as are the inevitable columns _ making the stage look like a soho loft undergoing renovation
julius caesar'' is the second production in the public theater's ambitious marathon to present all of shakespeare's 36 plays over a six-year period. next up is ``romeo and juliet,'' starring peter macnicol and cynthia nixon as the star-crossed lovers. it begins performances april 19. maybe it can get the public's shakespeare celebration back on track. picks up 2nd graf pvs bgng: the officials ..., editing to tighten.</note>
the united states has offered to fly panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega to exile as an inducement to get him to leave that troubled country, u.s. officials said tuesday
the offer came last week when two state department envoys met with noriega in panama and encouraged him to step down, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
noriega has refused to accept any arrangement that involves his departure from panama, although the government of spain has offered him asylum
the two state department envoys _ william g. walker and michael kozak _ told noriega in their meeting that the u.s. proposal to fly him into exile might be the ``last best offer'' he would receive for ending the crisis in a way that ensured his personal safety, one official said
the official said the offer would also allow noriega's family and friends to accompany him
senior administration officials believe noriega will be forced from office shortly because of growing opposition to his rule in the panamanian defense forces
the officials, speaking only on condition they not be named, said the anti-noriega sentiment within the military has been accelerating over the past week and is probably the most important factor working against his survival as defense chief
they said noriega's efforts to overcome the crisis probably were not helped with his conditional offer monday night to resign before the may 1989 presidential elections
state department spokesman charles redman said panamanians regard the offer as a ``ploy to buy time,'' a view he said was shared by the united states
the message from panamanians is clear. for the good of panama, noriega should leave,'' redman said, referring to the hostile reaction of panamanian opposition leaders to the proposal and to the continued virtual shutdown of the country because of a general strike
his presence is the root cause of continued political and economic instability,'' redman said. ``the ongoing general strike is only the most recent demonstration of the overwhelming opposition from all segments of panamanian society to noriega's continued rule.''
president reagan, arriving on capitol hill on tuesday for talks on his campaign to aid the nicaraguan contra rebels, said ``we feel noriega should leave panama'' when reporters asked him about the situation in panama
at the white house, spokesman marlin fitzwater said any proposal that calls for noriega's resignation as defense chief but does not include his actual departure from panama ``is like getting the fox out of the hen house, then giving him quarters next door.''
fitzwater said noriega's plan would allow him to remain in control of the defense forces
noriega's offer to resign, announced monday night in a national broadcast by civilian chief of state manuel solis palma, was conditioned on a dialogue with the opposition
fissures in the defense forces were evident last wednesday when there was a coup attempt against noriega. even though the plot was crushed, officials said, a number of officers knew about the conspiracy but said nothing, rather than tip off noriega
the coup attempt was the tip of the iceberg,'' one official said
discontent within the military ``is what everybody was looking for,'' he said. and almost without warning, ``there it was.''
this development is more significant than the wave of strike activity in recent weeks and the country's acute cash shortage, reflected in the government's inability to meet the public payroll, according to the officials
redman said the defense forces were weakened on monday when a series of promotions were announced. he said the promotions were based on ``political, not professional, reasons.''
noriega was said to have been defiant last friday during a 3{-hour meeting with two state department envoys who encouraged him to resolve the crisis by seeking political asylum in spain or another third country
noriega told the envoys they had come under the influence of panamanian ``oligarchs'' opposed to him and that the americans ``were dumb enough to believe them,'' one official said
the two officials _ walker and kozak _ appealed forcefully to noriega to step down but were rebuffed
they told noriega that unless he resigns, the panamanian defense forces could fall into disrepute and suffer the same fate as the nicaraguan national guard. this was a reference to the military force which served under the somoza family dynasty and was dismantled by the sandinista government after the 1979 revolution
noriega also was told that the reagan administration is eager to see the defense forces survive and to continue its prescribed role as guardian of national sovereignty
walker and kozak reportedly encouraged noriega, who is under indictment on drug smuggling charges in florida, to accept an offer by spain under which he would be allowed to go to that country, provided he asks for asylum and the united states does not seek his extradition the drug charges
the united states says the legitimate government in panama is that of president eric arturo delvalle, who tried to dismiss noriega on feb. 25
but the noriega-dominated national assembly voted to oust delvalle and palma was named new head of state. noriega opponents then called for a general strike in protest
mikhail s. gorbachev said tuesday it's absurd to blame moscow for nicaraguan conflicts and the soviet union has no military-political plans for central america
we are not reckless adventurers,'' the soviet leader said
gorbachev also said his economic and social reforms have brought an ``upsurge of ideological clashes'' in his own country that are still going on
his remarks came as foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze conferred in washington with secretary of state george p. shultz on issues including the superpower dispute over nicaragua
shultz wants moscow to stop military aid to nicaragua's leftist sandinista government, while shevardnadze voiced ``serious concern'' about u.s. policies in central america. the united states backs nicasraguan rebels, known as contras
assistant secretary of state rozanne l. ridgway and state department spokesman charles e. redman accused the soviets on monday of furnishing an unceasing supply of weapons to the sandinistas
gorbachev, the general secretary of the soviet communist party, outlined the soviet position on central america at a kremlin meeting tuesday with uruguay's president, julio sanguinetti, the official tass news agency reported
tass quoted gorbachev as saying, ``we will never understand how nicaragua can threaten the united states and the western hemisphere in general; we will never accept the absurd claim that the `hand of moscow' is the cause of the conflict and an obstacle to resolving it.''
the soviet leader said that ``the u.s.s.r. does not have any military-political plans in respect to that region and this theme has never even cropped up in our relations with the nicaraguan leadership,'' according to tass
why should we need this?'' gorbachev said. ``to provoke the united states or somebody else in latin america? we are not reckless adventurers.''
gorbachev said the soviets never supplied arms to leftist rebels in el salvador and guatemala
he made no specific mention of u.s. charges of arms deliveries to the nicaraguans
gorbachev also referred in his conversation with sanguinetti to domestic affairs, saying the economic and social reforms he introduced have brought ideological clashes.''
he said that those disputes ``have not yet subsided because people want to know fully why things that had come into being in extraordinary, extreme circumstances were retained also in normal conditions.''
tass did not specify what gorbachev was referring to. he may have been talking about the drive by some armenians to annex the predominantly armenian region of nagorno-karabakh, which has been part of neighboring azerbaijan since 1923
gorbachev said he expects the shultz-shevardnadze negotiations will help set the agenda for his fourth summit meeting with president reagan, which both sides have said will take place in moscow in late spring or early summer
the talks ... will show if there is a real possibility to prepare a treaty on strategic (long-range nuclear) offensive arms in time for president reagan's visit to moscow, whether it will be possible to reach agreement on questions of the afghan and middle east settlement and on other pressing issues,'' gorbachev was quoted as saying. two medical examiners, dismissed for day, picking up 7th graf `the jury...'.</note>
the jury in the robert chambers jr. trial, deliberating the so-called ``preppie murder'' case for a sixth day, focused tuesday on testimony regarding pinpoint hemorrhaging in jennifer levin's eyelids
the jurors, after being rebuffed in their request for medical testimony about the specific amount of time a person's neck must be squeezed in order for the person's eyelids to hemorrhage, widened the request to all testimony regarding the hemorrhaging
state supreme court justice howard e. bell agreed to allow reading of testimony by prosecution witness dr. maria landy, assistant new york city medical examiner, and defense witness dr. ronald kornbluth, the los angeles medical examiner
near the end of the day, the jury asked for a repeat of specific parts of ms. landy's testimony, and, as lawyers argued over the request, the jury was dismissed for the day
earlier tuesday, shortly after the jury began its sixth day of deliberation, the panel was called into the courtroom. a court reporter read this statement, which was agreed upon by the prosecutors and the defense:
the amount of time needed to cause the pinpoint hemorrhaging in the lower eyelid was less than or equal to the time needed to cause her death. there was no testimony from the doctors who testified in this case that specified a specific minimum or maximum period of time that it took to cause the hemorrhages as opposed to the time it took to cause her death.''
chambers, 21, is accused of second-degree murder in the 18-year-old woman's death on aug. 26, 1986
the jury, which got the case thursday, could also convict chambers of the lesser crimes of first- or second-degree manslaughter or criminally negligent homicide
the prosecution maintains he used her blouse to strangle her. chambers said in a statement to police that he killed her accidentally when she hurt him during a rough sexual encounter
chambers said the death occurred nearly instantaneously when he reached up and pulled miss levin off him, flipping her to the ground
the kind of hemorrhage mentioned by the jury often results from strangulation. medical experts who testified at the trial disagreed about how long the pressure had been maintained in miss levin's case. erroneous. ochoa, not escobar gaviria, was released from prison by judge.</note>
pablo escobar gaviria, sought as a top man in the notorious medellin drug cartel, escaped arrest after a shootout early tuesday between his heavily armed bodyguards and soldiers, the army's 4th brigade said
it reported that at least one man, not identified but thought to be one of escobar gaviria's personal guards, was injured. the army would not elaborate
at least 25 bodyguards were arrested after the clash and a variety of firearms and documents were seized, the army communique said. the haul also was said to include communications equipment, 13 vehicles and ammunition
the army said escobar gaviria's wife, maria victoria, and her sister were arrested elsewhere in medellin carrying ``several documents of interest.''
escobar gaviria was indicted in 1986 on federal drug charges in the united states. another federal drug indictment in florida last month named escobar gaviria, panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega and 14 others
in its communique, the army said that after escobar gaviria was located, patrols from the 4th brigade, backed up by helicopters, surrounded the wanted man's luxurious country estate at 5:45 a.m. tuesday. the estate is on medellin's outskirts, 180 miles northwest of the capital, bogota
but the army said troops tripped a sophisticated alarm system of lights and sirens, allowing escobar gaviria to escape in the shootout that ensued between soldiers and his bodyguards
the medellin cartel is considered the main cocaine trafficking organization in the world. u.s. authorities have charged the cartel is responsible for up to 80 percent of all the cocaine that reaches the united states
colombia's justice ministry in january ordered the arrest of escobar gaviria and others named as cartel leaders for extradition to the united states, the army said. among those sought are jorge ochoa, juan david and gonzalo rodriguez
troops immediately spread out in the small communities near the country residence, but escobar gaviria eluded detection, the army said. government</head>
legislators voted tuesday to keep the presidential system of federal government rather than switch to the parliamentary structure with a prime minister. president jose sarney called the action ``an important victory.''
sarney said the 344-212 vote by the lawmakers rewriting the constitution was ``better for the country. congress understood that.''
later tuesday, legislators approved a five-year term for presidents, rejecting by 305-223 a proposal to set the term at four years
the present presidential term is for six years, and sarney was installed in office in 1985
sarney had opposed a change to the parliamentary system, saying it would bring further economic and social chaos
opponents argued that a parliamentary structure was an option for the nation that emerged in 1985 from 21 years of military rule
presidentialism doesn't exist and doesn't work anywhere but the united states,'' said sen. affonso arinos of the liberal front party. ``military, authoritarian and dictatorial regimes emerged mostly because of presidentialism in brazil.''
leftist legislators opposed to sarney backed the presidential system. but they also demanded direct presidential elections this year with sarney stepping down in march 1989. sarney said he would leave office in 1990
we didn't want a queen of england, we want elections, direct elections this year,'' said rep. jose genoino of the leftist workers' party
the lawmakers have been meeting since february 1986 to rewrite the constitution
sarney, 57, was elected vice president in a 1985 electoral college election organized by the outgoing military regime. but president-elect tancredo neves died before inauguration in march 1985 and sarney took power as the nation's first civilian president since a 1964 military coup
brazilians have not voted directly for the presidency since 1960
gerhard claas, general secretary of the baptist world alliance, has died from injuries sustained in a traffic accident near lodi, calif., the alliance announced tuesday
claas, 59, was the chief administrative officer of the alliance, an international baptist organization which has a membership of more than 35 million worldwide. the organization conducts teaching, development and disaster relief efforts in third world nations
claas was traveling in california to a series of fund-raising meetings when the car in which he was riding collided monday with a truck on a rural road in san joaquin county near lodi, 80 miles northeast of san francisco
he died later in the day. two other people, the rev. mervyn betts, 74, and his wife nora, 67, of san francisco, also were injured, sheriff's deputies said
claas was a citizen of west germany, where he had served in a number of pastoral and administrative posts
claas is survived by his wife, the formed irmgard saffran, of mclean, va., and three children: regina, gabriele claas gloeckner, and martin, who live in west germany. papers</head>
a judge ruled tuesday that harvard university was entitled to papers of the late playwright tennessee williams after harvard attorneys promised that earnings from any publication would benefit his sister
williams, the author of plays including ``a streetcar named desire'' and ``cat on a hot tin roof,'' died in 1983 at age 71
the hearing, one of the final steps in distribution of the williams estate, came after harvard objected to a plan by southeast bank in miami, which holds the papers as executor of the estate, to give the manuscripts ``in trust'' to harvard
the trustees for the 78-year-old sister, rose williams, wanted the papers given ``in trust'' so the actual manuscripts could be sold if she needed additional money for medical and living expenses
she has been institutionalized for 53 years in ossining, n.y., having undergone a lobotomy to relieve an unstable mental condition. many of williams' plays are said to reflect the special tenderness and concern he felt for his sister and others who are lonely or mentally disabled
the university held that it had the right to clear physical possession of the documents and monroe county circuit judge helio gomez agreed, saying he found no limitation in williams' will on giving the papers to the school
harvard attorney frank connors assured miss williams' trustees that if anything had commercial value, she would have the benefit
attorney jim hendrick, who represents miss williams' trustees, told the judge that contents of some of the papers ``may be scandalous, and may make reference to persons still living
they may not be appropriate to make public at this time,'' hendrick said
the papers, reportedly appraised at $175,000, include sealed envelopes said to contain manuscripts such as the one that later evolved into ``the rose tattoo,'' and the first draft of ``sweet bird of youth'' as well as written notes and notebooks of various kinds, hendrick said
they include various plays and manuscripts, including some that have not been published, he said
the estate was valued in the millions and has been distributed gradually since his death, but hendrick declined to place a value on the overall estate
hendrick said the question about the papers was the last contested portion of the will of which he was aware. he predicted that legal procedures surrounding distribution of the estate should be concluded in the next month
u.s. and honduran troops will hold joint maneuvers now that nicaragua has withdrawn its soldiers from the honduran border and halted fighting for truce talks with the contra rebels
nicaragua announced monday its troops had withdrawn from the border, and the honduran military reported sandinista soldiers had retreated
col. manuel suarez benevides, the honduran armed forces spokesman, said monday the 3,200 u.s. troops that rushed to honduras after a reported incursion by 2,000 sandinista troops won't be needed much longer. ``it'll be a very short time. we're talking days only,'' he said in an interview
the u.s. troops were to begin a new set of joint maneuvers with the honduran army today, according to a u.s. military spokesman. details of the exercises were not made public
strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega offered to resign before the may 1989 presidential election if opponents agree to talks with his regime, but the opposition and the united states rejected the offer
the general has to go immediately _ not eventually,'' said aurelio barria, head of the national civic crusade, an opposition umbrella group. ``there will be no dialogue with him.''
in washington, the state department also dismissed noriega's resignation offer as ``little more than ... a ploy'' to keep noriega's cronies in power and the general in control of the armed forces
noreiga should go, and the sooner the better for panama,'' said state department spokeswoman anita stockman
the supreme court is considering whether abused children should have the right to sue public officials for failing to protect them from their parents
but the justices have decided to avoid another children's rights issue: whether public school students enjoy any constitutional protection against paddling or other corporal punishment by teachers and administrators
the court announced monday that it will tackle the parental abuse issue in the case of a wisconsin boy, joshua deshaney, who suffered serious and permanent brain damage from beatings by his father
nearly a year after texaco inc. filed for bankruptcy protection, the nation's third-largest oil company faces an uncertain future clouded by corporate raiders, tax bills and its legal fight with pennzoil co
the final phase of texaco's historic bankruptcy case was expected to begin today in white plains, with the opening of court hearings that could lead to final approval of the company's reorganization plan
u.s. bankruptcy court judge howard schwartzberg was expected to announce the results of a shareholder vote on the plan, then hear final arguments by interested parties. if schwartzberg confirms the plan, texaco could emerge from bankruptcy protection by mid-april
texaco filed for chapter 11 protection from its creditors on april 12. it was the biggest u.s. company ever to do so. texaco claimed it was forced into the move by a requirement that it post a multibillion-dollar bond while appealing a $10.3 billion judgment held against it by pennzoil
the disclosure that a former federal prosecutor may have fabricated death threats against herself and a magistrate during an extradition case has shocked her former colleagues
on monday, u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. said that judy russell allegedly cut out words from newspapers to form threatening messages that she received in the mail during the case she was handling against two sikhs accused of terrorism in india
a search of her house turned up similar threatening messages in a travel bag and scissors apparently used to clip newspapers and magazines, alito said. news digest: washington _ civil rights; panama city, panama _ panama; sapoa, nicaragua _ nicaragua-talks; san salvador, el salvador _ salvador-assess; washington _ us-soviet; undated _ political rdp; washington _ high-tech candidate; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham; jerusalem _ israel. ^by the associated press</note>
higher postage rates, including a 25-cent charge for first-class letters, will take effect april 3, the postal service announced tuesday
the postal service has been managing the costs of operating a growing universal delivery system and moving a volume of mail that has nearly doubled'' to more than 160 billion pieces this year, said john l. griesemer, chairman of the postal service board of governors
the new rates reflect higher costs of delivering mail, griesemer said. ``to all our customers, we can only repeat our pledge of better service,'' he said
senior administration officials believe panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega will be forced from office shortly because of growing opposition to his rule in the panamanian defense forces
the officials, speaking only on condition they not be named, said the anti-noriega sentiment within the military has been accelerating over the past week and is probably the most important factor working against his survival as defense chief
they said noriega's efforts to overcome the crisis probably were not helped with his conditional offer monday night to resign before the may 1989 presidential elections
president reagan sought tuesday to revive his stalled effort to aid the nicaraguan contras and said congressional democrats will be to blame if the supply-starved rebels fade from existence
in an hour-long meeting on capitol hill, reagan appealed to republican house members to unite behind a new effort to push through congress some kind of help for the contras, whose last u.s. aid ran out feb. 29
rebel supporters said their chances of prevailing on the divisive issue were improved by last week's incursion into honduras by troops of nicaragua's leftist sandinista government, which was making some moderates nervous about leaving the rebels without aid
the nixon white house kept heavy pressure on federal reserve board chairman arthur burns to do its bidding but gently turned aside complaints from one fed critic, then-california governor ronald reagan, documents made public on tuesday show
among 400,000 pages of white house records released by the national archives is a sept. 17, 1973 letter from reagan to nixon complaining about the impact of a fed decision on california mortgage loans
the documents also included many internal white house memoranda suggesting that white house aides devoted considerable effort to encourage burns, appointed by nixon in 1970, to stimulate the economy prior to nixon's 1972 re-election campaign
little deandra anrig was flying her kite when it suddenly started to fly her, her parents say. it was just a short hop, but one the 8-year-old isn't likely to forget
a twin-engine plane caught the 200-pound nylon test line of deandra's kite and carried her about 100 feet _ over her daddy's head and almost into a tree, she said tuesday
she let go, but said she was still sore after two days' rest. the plane, meanwhile, is grounded because of damage apparently caused by getting tangled in the kite string
extracts of a tropical plant appeared to reduce levels of hepatitis virus and liver cancer rates in woodchucks, a hopeful sign for the world's 200 million human virus-carriers at risk for the cancer, a scientist said tuesday
the trends emerged in analysis of data on about 60 animals that had become infected with the woodchuck version of the hepatitis b virus, said baruch blumberg of the fox chase cancer center in philadelphia. woodchucks are used in hepatitis research because the virus they carry so closely resembles the human hepatitis b virus
blumberg stressed that the results are only suggestive, and a prelude to a formal study of the plant extract's effects
cornell university is cataloging books, personal papers, videotapes and periodicals with names like ``mom guess what!'' and ``fag rag,'' hoping its new gay archives will help bring the study of human sexuality out of the academic closet
the materials, comprising one of the nation's most extensive collections on homosexuality, are nearly all gifts from the mariposa education and research foundation, founded in 1979 by physiologist bruce voeller, who felt universities were neglecting human sexuality
the basic endowment for maintenance of the archives, $824,000, came from the estate of david goodstein, a cornell alumnus who became wealthy on wall street and later published the national gay magazine, ``the advocate,'' until his death in 1985
the shortage of good books in the soviet union is being assaulted in a two-front war, with 3,500 previously banned titles being published and a new law in the works that will allow a vanity press
soviets have complained for years that while state bookstores are overflowing with political reflections, moralistic fiction and the works of communist party officials, people are hard pressed to lay their hands on the best writing of soviet, russian and foreign authors
two newspapers referred to the ``book deficit'' on tuesday in announcing programs aimed at expanding the pool of quality literature available at bookshops or public libraries
cbs, once nicknamed ``the tiffany network,'' has found the glitter gone from its prime-time schedule this season and expects to finish last in the nielsen ratings for the first time in 35 years of record keeping
though cbs' regularly scheduled prime-time programs are getting better ratings than those of abc, special sports programs including the winter olympics and the super bowl carried abc ahead. the network also had the world series this season
in 35 years of a.c. nielsen co. television ratings, cbs has finished in first place 26 times. it was second the other nine seasons, including the past two won by nbc
because shows such as ``dynasty'' must tiptoe around sex talk, aaron spelling productions has set its new abc show ``heartbeat'' in a women's clinic, where it can be right out in the open, couched in the glow of healthy openness
oh, please, ``st. elsewhere,'' come back!
tonight's two-hour premiere features difficult childbirths, artificial insemination and numerous gynecological exams. to start off, there's an emergency birth that requires forceps and incisions
oh, honey, bring in the potato chips!
kate mulgrew plays hapless, overworked dr. joanne springsteen, who founded the clinic with dr. eve autry (laura johnson, who is married to harry hamlin of ``l.a. law''). ben masters plays dr. leo rosetti, a pediatrician and object of joanne's lust
ray baker is psychologist stan gorshalk, who counsels the hospital's patients in matters psycho-sexual. in tonight's episode, he confides to another doctor that he and his wife haven't had sex in nine weeks. and the cobbler's children have no shoes
the show wants to offer up-to-date health information, like tonight's debate over mastectomy vs. lumpectomy in cases of breast cancer. women's fears are unlikely to be assuaged by gorshalk's argument that patient wendy (kathleen wilhoite) should be encouraged to face the fact that she very well might die. that should have 'em flocking in for mammograms
meanwhile, a couple who can't conceive are advised by the leering ``fertility specialist'' (darrell larson) to go for artificial insemination. after the procedure _ yes, we get to be there _ the nurse practitioner (gail strickland) gently suggests orgasm aids in successful implantation, and leaves the woman in a darkened examination room alone
in between trying to hit the sheets with leo, joanne contends with a friend who's pursuing a career and can't be bothered with an ``incompetent cervix,'' meaning the baby will be born prematurely if she walks around too much. joanne saves the day by borrowing a newborn from the nursery to convince the expectant mom she should stay in bed at least until the baby can be safely delivered after the next commercial
meanwhile, eve confronts wendy's sexist family doctor, who thinks wendy ought to have a radical mastectomy instead of a lumpectomy. what good is a breast, anyway, says the doc? it's ``just a piece of fat.'' huffs glamorous eve in her spandex dress, ``so are some of your body parts. would you like to chop them off and replace them with silly putty?''
some bad taste seems unintentional. dr. cory banks (lynn whitfield) is in a crisis because her husband is off on a building job in mexico, causing her to remark, ``sometimes i wish that whole construction project would get swallowed up in an earthquake.''
with any luck, ``heartbeat'' will get swallowed up by bad ratings
it is with great relief that thursday finds ``the days and nights of molly dodd'' back for another spring run on nbc
fans of jay tarses' touching, offbeat half-hour comedy, which premiered last spring for a limited run, will be glad to know, as molly's mom reassures in voiceover at the beginning of the episode, that molly ``continues to bang her knees against the cruel furniture of life.''
in the first new show, ``here's why you shouldn't get too attached to your cat,'' molly gets a new job, working in a cluttered bookstore for a befuddled but engaging bookworm, moss goodman (david strathairn)
and her friend nina (maureen anderman) is burglarized. ``do you know what it's like to come home and find your apartment ransacked, underwear hanging out of the drawers?'' rages nina. ``yes,'' says molly, ``but i'm a bad example.''
enter molly's new love interest, detective nathaniel hawthorne (richard lawson). replies nina upon being introduced to him, ``hello. i'm policewoman elizabeth barrett browning.''
elsewhere in television:
m-a-s-h still no. 1 _ nielsen's latest computation of the 50 top-rated tv shows of all time has the 1983 final episode of ``m-a-s-h'' still no. 1 with its 60.2 rating and 77 share. the rating is a percentage of all homes with televisions. the share is a percentage of sets in use. the ``who shot j.r.?'' episode of ``dallas'' from 1980 is still second with a rating of 53.3. the only show from this season _ the numbers are computed through the first week of march _ is january's super bowl xxii, ranked 46th. . .
jake's journey _ ``monty python'' alumnus graham chapman is starring in a new comedy series he has co-written for cbs, ``jake's journey,'' loosely based on mark twain's ``a connecticut yankee in king arthur's court.'' hal ashby is directing. chris young co-stars as an american boy whose family moves to england where he finds a python-esque fantasy world. no air date yet
is the united states headed downhill, spending and taxing away its might and power?
the thesis has arisen again, popularized by, among other events, an academic's best-selling book describing the rise to dominance and eventual deterioration of mighty nations through the ages
several factors fit into the notion that assigns the latter role to the united states, including budget imbalances, big defense budgets, trade difficulties, slow growth and onerous taxes
hastening the demise, according to neat but perhaps not correct analyses, is the kontradief theory, named for a russian economist who many years ago claimed to have found a 50-year cycle of economic rise and fall
as viewed by the most gloomy of forecasters, the u.s. economy and much of the world's economy has entered a decline phase
the gloomy prospect seemed to fit a paul erdman scenario, judging at least by the covers of his books. he is, you might know, author of ``the crash of '79,'' ``the last days of america'' and ``the panic of '89.''
he laughed. no way, said the economist-author. while the country has troubles, he said, it is in the process of renewing itself, with lots of 30-year-olds with new ideas and energy now entering positions of power
forget it,'' he said of the decline thesis. ``we've got the resources. we're dynamic. and we've got an infusion of the best of other countries through immigration.''
why, he asked, should we listen to ``a dead russian economist who made his observations before airplanes flew and before the development of service economies?''
but oddly, in the midst of one of the longest economic expansions ever, the notion of a dynamic america is sometimes lost, buried under concern for the worst aggregation of economic problems since the great depression of the 1930s
but dynamic america exists in the concepts of many scholars, among them david birch, who won a wide following for his research on small business while teaching at massachusetts institute of technology
small business, says birch, represents renewal. it has become the ``big picture in america.''
such businesses are innovating, exporting and creating jobs, he reminded a meeting of national small business united, an organization of independent business people that had it origins during the 1930s
turbulence in the business community often gains attention, with takeovers and demises and problems at well-known companies. but underlying the surface turbulence, birch suggests, is a strata of economic stability and growth
we turn over about 8 to 10 percent of our corporations and about 8 to 10 percent of our jobs in this country every year,'' said birch, founder and president of cognetics inc., an economic research firm in cambridge, mass
it means, he continued, that ``we turn over half of the american economy every five years _ half of all the companies and half of all the jobs change every five years.''
new business, he pointed out, find niches, create products and eventually compete and force larger companies to innovate or die
after tracking about 12 million businesses for close to two decades, ``what we began to realize was that there was this huge changing of the guard taking place,'' he said
the dinosaurs were dropping like rocks, and a whole bunch of little manufacturing companies were taking their place,'' he added
the turbulence that accompanies the process is economic decay and a waning of power to some viewers. to others, it is seen as renewal
argentines may have fallen out with the english over the falkland islands, but the upper-crust still likes the way they talk
that is evident on the quaintly british campus of st. george's college in quilmes where argentine children are still being sent to learn english with the proper accent and prepare to go on to cambridge or oxford
for as much as $7,800 a year in tuition, the 330 boys and girls who attend the only british-style boarding school in argentina are assured as fine an education as if they lived in england, said headmaster graham sims
ninety instructors from britain teach children aged 3 through 18 the fundamentals as well as computer programming, chemistry, advanced mathematics and english literature
english at st. george's is the most common classroom language, although argentina's education ministry requires that bilingual schools teach some courses in spanish
the school operates on british discipline
we are very strict and that means the boys and girls are not allowed any physical contact in school. holding hands is out,'' sims said in an interview. ``we've all got to lead disciplined lives. if not we become pretty hopeless human beings.''
st. george's is in quilmes, a city of 100,000 people 12 miles south of buenos aires. once a popular residential area for the british who earlier this century built most of argentina's railways, it is most noted now for a brewery and the school
dotting the 62-acre campus are a chapel, rugby fields, gardens, two swimming pools, a horse-riding academy and dormitories where students are required to place their folded clothes and towels on racks in the bathrooms
the only inkling this is not britain is when schoolchildren break into spanish after class or when argentina's flag is raised each morning outside the administration building
it really is a little piece of britain in argentina,'' said ray mckay, counselor at the lincoln school in northern buenos aires, the only american school in argentina. ``the student body is almost all argentines from wealthy families who want their kids to speak english.''
lincoln has 550 students, most of them children of u.s. embassy personnel, diplomats and businessmen in argentina. its schedule follows the u.s. system, with summer vacation from june through august. the english-style and argentine schools have their vacation from january to march, the southern hemisphere summer
st. george's, founded in 1898, is considered one of the four top schools in argentina for learning english
we offer a 24-hour-a-day education experience,'' said peter stoyle, director of studies at st. george's. wakeup calls are at 6:30 a.m. and lights are out across campus by 10 p.m., which is the normal dining hour in argentina
student magdalena winter, 15, hopes someday to become a diplomat
most people here believe we're getting a very good education so we learn to put up with things that maybe we don't always like,'' she said
three other top british-style schools, st. andrew's, st. catherine's and northlands, are in the northern suburbs of buenos aires, but they do not offer boarding
st. andrew's is observing the 150th anniversary of its founding by scottish settlers. with 1,900 students, st. andrew's is the largest of the british-tradition schools and oldest of the bilingual schools in argentina
one of its headmasters, watson hutton, was credited with introducing soccer to argentina at the turn of the century
without him there'd be no (diego) maradona,'' said headmaster kevan prior, referring to the star of argentina's 1986 world cup champions
st. andrew's has been coed since 1980
we have a particular ethos, particular spirit, something the parents of argentine upper middle-class children choose,'' prior said
tuition is $1,600 to $2,400 a year
northlands school near st. andrew's is considered the top girls school in argentina. headmistress jehane taylor takes pains to separate her school from anything british
this is an argentine school with no funds from england that happens to teach english,'' she said
sensitivities over anything british comes from problems regarding the britain's falkland islands in the south atlantic, off argentina. the argentines have claimed them since 1833 and here they are called the malvinas. argentina invaded the falklands in april 1982 and were driven off by british forces three months later
during the falklands these british-style schools got lots of phone treats, some of them obscene,'' said mckay of the american school. ``some kids were pulled out by their parents and there were some classroom tiffs over the so-called imperialist british
so it's really kind of remarkable now that so many argentines send their kids to these schools. i suppose it's kind of the snob thing to do.''
st. catherine's school for girls, like st. george's, offers the international baccalaurete program for its 1,100 students. the program allows students to enter colleges in the united states at a second-year level or qualify for advanced study in england
a st. catherine's coordinator, marie philpotts, described the school as ``british to a certain extent.'' tuition ranges from $1,050 to $1,600 a year compared to $1,000 to $2,000 a year at nortlands
mrs. taylor, head of northlands, said the tradition of argentines sending their children to english-style schools goes back several generations
the school, founded by a british governess in 1920, gives 985 students ``an anglo-saxon point of view and a latin point of view,'' giving students ``different ways of looking at knowledge,'' mrs. taylor said
the ouster by southern baptist officials of a scholar for contending that god upholds his compact with judaism opens an old wound in christian-jewish relations
it also pointed to a lingering, but increasingly repudiated, attitude in some church quarters
historical church theories that god revoked his commitment to jews, replacing it with a pact with christianity, figured for centuries in anti-jewish prejudice and persecution
however, many protestant and roman catholic scholars have rejected that notion, as have some denominations
if god's covenant has been broken with the jews, it's reasonable that other covenantal relationships might also be broken,'' says the rev. george j. sheridan, who was removed from his post
therefore, we in the church would be an endangered species.''
however, sheridan contends that god doesn't go back on his promises, either to the mother religion, judaism, or to the offspring of it, christianity, and he cites romans 11:
remember, it is not you (christians) that support the root, but the root that supports you ... and so all israel will be saved ... for the gifts and call of god are irrevocable.''
sheridan, 46, of union city, n.j., was dismissed after 13 years of working with jews as regional director of the interfaith witness department of the southern baptist home mission board
my point is that the covenant with the jews was not abrogated,'' he said in an interview, maintaining that they are saved through god's mercy, just as are christians, but without accepting jesus
christians, unlike jews, needed jesus to draw them to the one, same god, sheridan said
a letter notified him he was relieved from his assignment jan. 31 because of his ``theological position relative to evangelizing the jewish people'' _ something he opposed as unnecessary
it also offends jews, implying their faith is useless
sheridan's ouster ``strikes me like the middle ages,'' commented rabbi leon klenicki, director of the interfaith department of the anti-defamation league of b'nai b'rith
in atlanta, the mission board's president, the rev. larry lewis, said sheridan's view wasn't acceptable. the board lately came under fundamentalist sway, as have most of the 14.6-million-member denomination's agencies
lewis said, ``the bible teaches there is no other way to salvation except through a personal faith in jesus christ.''
sheridan, with degrees from southern baptist theological seminary in louisville, ky., and princeton theological seminary in princeton, n.j., linked his ouster to the heresy of marcionism
that's what this thing borders on,'' he said. ``the marcion heresy was that the god in jewish scripture (the old testament) is different than the god of the gospels (new testament).''
marcion, a second-century preacher whose views were condemned by the church, rejected the old testament, which historic christianity accepts along with the new testament
i believe in jesus christ,'' sheridan said, ``that jesus christ is god, but for me to believe that the god of jesus christ is not the god of jews rooted in their scripture is the heresy of two different gods.''
sheridan said that after a tense meeting with officials last year, he wrote a letter at their request outlining his views, and his dismissal followed. in it, he said in part:
the scriptures provide a chronicle of how god has taken the initiative in concrete historical ways to save god's people..
in the bible the term `savior' properly is ascribed to god...in the christian gospel, god comes to the world in the person of a man, jesus...in the new testament, the title `savior' is applied sometimes to god and sometimes to jesus christ,'' emphasizing that he bears ``the authority of god.''
this established that jesus christ is the revelation of god who, as the hebrew scriptures teach, is the one and only `savior' of the people of god. to distinguish between the god revealed in the hebrew scriptures and the god revealed in jesus christ is, for christians, a heresy..
god saves his people, the entire bible asserts. this salvation is not brought brought about by the goodness of the people, but by the merciful initiative of god. jesus christ provides the way for the nations to be engrafted into the people of god..
i find in the entire christian bible no hint that god cancels out lovingkindness freely dispensed or promised. in fact, we find the gifts and the call of god are irrevocable
for this biblical reason...i believe that the jews of today, as ever, receive salvation through their having been chosen by god in covenant with abraham, moses and the prophets
the election of the church is prefigured in this election of israel, and if the election of one is subjection to cancellation, so, too, is the election of the other.''
how do you figure it _ three movies in a row with the same basic plot? last year it was dudley moore and kirk cameron changing brains in ``like father, like son.'' now we have judge reinhold pulling a switch with his young son, fred savage, in ``vice versa.'' soon to come: george burns trading identities with his college-age grandson, charlie schlatter, in ``18 again.''
such coincidence is unfortunate, since all three movies possess the capacity to entertain
vice versa,'' in fact, is a nifty comedy of the supernatural variety. it benefits from a clever script by dick clement and ian lafrenais (who also produced), lively direction by brian gilbert and the inspired teaming of reinhold and young savage as the misplaced father and son
the role reversal is caused by a golden skull stolen from a thai temple. in ``like father, like son,'' it was a laboratory potion; in ``18 again,'' an auto crash
reinhold is a chicago department store executive who is a less than adequate part-time parent. his 11-year-old son lives most of the time with his mother who is now remarried. during a brief visit, father and son touch the skull and become transformed
the fun begins, though both victims are distressed by their new identities. reinhold is more interested in rock music and his pet frog, but he reports to the office and tries to fake his way through matters that are as foreign to him as trigonometry
savage attends school, but he is bored by the childish doings and finishes his tests in a few minutes. he withers the school bullies and barks orders to his limo driver. he devises a radio transmitter so he can guide reinhold through an all-important sales meeting with the store chief (william prince)
much of the hilarity is played off reinhold's attempts to resist the advances of his sexy date, corinne bohrer, and to explain his bizarre behavior to his secretary, gloria gifford
reinhold (``beverly hills cop''), with his loony face and rubbery body, is perfect for this kind of tomfoolery. matching him all the way is fred savage (``the princess bride''), who draws big laughs by mouthing his adult dialogue. director gilbert and the writer-producers have devised a genuinely sweet-natured movie, with only a few swear words by savage to warrant the pg rating
from columbia pictures. running time: 98 minutes
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions. arts and entertainment package.</note>
when richard lester (``a hard day's night,'' ``superman ii'') came out with ``petulia'' in 1968, it quickly became a cult favorite with its quirky portrayal of life and love among the rich at the end of a turbulent decade
the critically acclaimed warner bros. movie starring julie christie and george c. scott is among the videocassette releases for march from warner home video
also highlighting the video debuts this month for home viewing: the jane fonda-jason robards-dean jones 1966 romantic comedy, ``any wednesday'' ($59.95, vhs@beta, no rating), which has made the rounds on commercial tv sliced and diced; ``innerspace,'' the 1987 steven spielberg sci-fi presentation starring dennis quaid and martin short; the sally field and michael caine comedy, ``surrender'' ($89.95, vhs@beta, rated pg)
just in time for the easter holiday are three movie classics with religious themes: 1959's ``the nun's story'' ($59.95, vhs@beta, no rating), starring audrey hepburn; 1952's ``the miracle of our lady of fatima'' ($59.95, vhs@beta, no rating), starring frank silvera and angela clark; and 1979's ``jesus'' ($59.95, vhs@beta, rated g), starring british stage actor brian deacon in the title role. a spanish-dubbed vhs only version is available of ``jesus'' for $59.95
reviewed this week are ``innerspace'' and ``petulia.''
innerspace'' ($89.95, vhs@beta, rated pg)

innerspace'' is last summer's fantasy adventure offering from the steven spielberg factory. its one claim to distinction is the spirited comic presence of martin short
the movie, directed by joe dante, takes off from the notion _ first explored in ``the fantastic voyage'' 20 years ago _ that a man can be ``miniaturized'' and injected into the bloodstream of another
in this case, the shrinking man is a daring but drunken test pilot played by dennis quaid and the unwitting recipient is a walter mitty-like supermarket clerk played by short
the overly complicated plot involves rival scientists and enemy agents trying to steal the computer chips that make the ``miniaturization'' possible. since quaid's air supply is limited, short _ aided by a newspaper reporter played by meg ryan _ must race the clock to retrieve one of the chips needed for ``re-enlargement.''
some of the hijinks are clever, but the frenzied car chases grow tiresome. the special effects are good but occasionally graphic, especially one scene in which a villain is dissolved in a pit of gastric acid
short makes a believable and likable character out of jack putter, who starts the movie on the brink of a nervous breakdown but ends up a self-assured hero. quaid and miss ryan have less to work with, and several other capable actors are more or less wasted in minor parts, including kevin mccarthy, fiona lewis and henry gibson
innerspace'' is harmless enough for helping kids 8 and over while away a rainy afternoon. adults, however, may grow weary before the caper has run its course
_ by mike silverman, associated press writer
  

petulia'' ($59.95, vhs@beta, rated r)

what is dr. archie bollen doing in a high-tech motel with the rich, lovely and utterly weird petulia? darned if he knows
we're about to become lovers,'' she informs him as he tries to unhook the feathery jacket to her sparkling gown. they don't. not then, anyway
the scene in the first 30 minutes of richard lester's ``petulia'' introduces us to the title character played by julie christie who has just picked up the recently divorced bollen (george c. scott) at a san francisco charity ball while her husband (richard chamberlain) looks on
bollen declares petulia a ``kook,'' but she haunts him in more ways than one, ultimately showing up at his apartment with a stolen tuba and broken ribs and crawling into his life. but even bollen's love can't save petulia from herself and a violent marriage
using flashbacks and flashforwards, lester and cinematographer nicolas roeg, present a stark, sometimes funny, sometimes frightening portrait of love among the spoiled rich during the turbulent end of the 1960s. on the small, home screen in the 1980s, the movie holds up just fine with some richly textured images and closeups that show a beautiful christie, a young chamberlain as remembered from tv's ``dr. kildare'' days and a somewhat sexy scott
there are also a few cameo surprises, such as janis joplin with big brother and the holding company entertaining at the benefit. music by the grateful dead also permeates the flick
petulia,'' with its love triangle and battered wife themes easily plays today, and like ``the graduate'' gives a savage portrait of a time not forgotten
joseph cotten, arthur hill, shirley knight, kathleen widdoes and pippa scott fill out the cast
_ by dolores barclay, associated press writer
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions

savage'' (rca) _ eurythmics

on ``savage,'' the eurythmics are misanthropic, caustic and a bit paranoid. they're strong on attitude but weak on delivery
the record emphasizes a big beat, mostly via programmed drums and bass lines that make for mechanical music. worst is the opening cut, ``beethoven (i love to listen to).'' add singer annie lennox's dry delivery, and the resulting sounds have both the pulse and personality of a locomotive
lost in the thundering shuffle are the lyrics by lennox and dave stewart, which positively snarl on paper. lennox spends much of the record telling us that love is cheap and men merit no respect. ``love is a temple, love is a shrine, buy some love at the five and dime,'' she sings on the best song, ``you have placed a chill in my heart.''
oddly, lennox and stewart ease up on the syncopation on the last two cuts of the record, which closes with the upbeat ``brand new day.'' after 11 songs filled with cynicism, it's hard to believe the optimistic message is sincere. but maybe it presages more subtlety and finesse on their next record

live _ the road'' (mca) _ the kinks

it's bad news when the best thing on an album titled ``live _ the road'' is a studio cut. but that's the case with the kinks' latest record
it opens with a new composition, ray davies' engaging, autobiographical ``the road.'' ``there's gas in my tank, and i've still got a ways to go,'' the veteran rocker sings. on the rest of the album, recorded in concert last summer, the kinks play with the verve of a driver intent on getting good mileage
there are stirring moments in the 50 minutes of music: ``come dancing,'' sparked by dave davies' fluid guitar work; the provocative ``art lover,'' which only ray davies could have written; and the rocking ``destroyer'' and ``around the dial.''
but ``it,'' the album's other new song, and ``cliches of the world'' are too long and too ambitious. the other performances are routine, with riffs and tempos that belong in a heavy metal cutout bin
live _ the road'' is not a bad set, and the kinks deserve credit for reprising some of their lesser-known material from the 1980s (at one point they tease the audience with a false start of ``lola''). but from such a well-respected band, it's a disappointment
george burns paced the darkened backstage of the caesars palace showroom, hummed softly and flicked ashes from his ever-present cigar
i'm just making sure i can still walk,'' he dead-panned to a couple sitting in the wings
moments later, as the orchestra struck up ``ain't misbehavin','' burns sauntered on stage to a standing ovation, a rarity for the opening of a las vegas show. he would receive two more before exiting an hour later _ a sign of the respect audiences hold for this man who was a vaudeville star in their grandparents' time
at 92, burns shows no signs of slowing down. he's a regular at the palace on the las vegas strip and at other caesars properties in lake tahoe, nev., and atlantic city, n.j. his pace would satisfy, and slow, most performers half his age
however, burns has just completed a new movie, ``18 again,'' which opens april 9. and he's working on a new book about the one true love of his life, gracie allen, his stage partner, confidante, best friend and wife for 38 years until her death in 1964. the book, ``gracie: a love story,'' is due out in october
irving fein, burns' longtime friend and manager for 14 years, says the book will be ``a loving, warm story about gracie allen that has never before been told
george will always have this special love for gracie,'' fein said during burns' recent appearance here. ``he goes to her grave (in los angeles) once a month. he talks to her, tells her everything he's doing. he'll say `i just got back from vegas. we did great.' or `i just finished a movie. it's about me and my grandson and how we switch places
he'll spend a lot of time just standing there talking to her, letting her know what's happening in his life. she's still a very special part of his life.''
burns gives his long-time mate the credit for his success
if it wasn't for gracie, i wouldn't be here,'' he said, puffing on a cigar in his dressing room before a recent caesars show. he crossed the room to a bar, poured a cup of coffee, then settled in a chair next to the piano
morty jacobs, his pianist of 18 years, began picking out tunes burns sang as a teen-ager three-quarters of a century ago
what key is that?'' burns inquired of jacobs. ``take it half a tone lower.''
we'll do some lovin', then you'll ask for more,'' burns sang, tapping shiny patent leather shoes on the dressing room floor
onstage, opening act susan anton was belting out a raucous version of ``old time rock and roll,'' a signal for burns to exit his dressing room. he walked briskly back and forth in the darkened area, stopping to talk to workers or softly humming some of the songs he would sing
miss anton dedicated her final song, ``forever young,'' to burns. he took a long drag on his cigar, then entered to the standing ovation
in 1981 i played god,'' he said, referring to the first of three movies in which he played the deity. ``i was a nervous wreck. we're both the same age, but we grew up in different neighborhoods
why shouldn't i play god? anything i do at my age is a miracle
i've written six books. that's pretty good for a guy who only read two.''
his formula for acting?
if the director wants me to cry, i think of my sex life
if the director wants me to laugh, i think of my sex life.''
about that sex life?
i'd go out with women my age, but there are no women my age.''
another put-down: ``there isn't anything i can't do now that i couldn't do when i was 18 _ which shows you how pathetic i was at 18.''
burns smokes 15 to 20 cigars and drinks several martinis a day
what do his doctors think of that?
they're all dead.''
burns began in show business at the age of 8, quitting school to form a group of child singers known as the peewee quartet. born nathan birnbaum to a poor family on new york's lower east side, he had only to look to his 11 brothers and sisters for his own ensemble
he bounced around the vaudeville circuit until he was 27. ``then people discovered i had a talent _ a big talent. i was married to her for 38 years
gracie didn't tell a joke, she explained it,'' burns recalled of nearly four decades as straight man for the zany comedian
burns admits he was devastated _ personally and professionally _ by miss allen's death in 1964. a decade later, in august 1974, burns underwent a triple heart bypass. at age 78, he was the oldest bypass patient in history at that time
four months after his surgery, burns' longtime friend, jack benny died. benny had been scheduled to star in the movie ``the sunshine boys.'' burns was tabbed to take his place, won an academy award for best supporting actor, and was on his way to his second time around
lee chul-soo draws stark pictures of exhausted factory workers and peasants clawing the earth with their hands because he sees beauty in their suffering
beauty lies in the ordinary lives and suffering of the common people,'' the artist says with a shy smile
lee is a leader of the growing ``minjung'' or grass-roots school of art that has evolved in south korea in recent years as a reaction to decades of authoritarian rule and the impact of industrialization
minjung artists, who have attracted a wide following among young korean artists, advocate using art to fight for democratic reform by depicting the hardships of poor workers, peasants and slum dwellers
minjung art aims to expose the social evils and injustices in society. it also participates in the movement of the masses,'' said lee, a quiet, gentle man who often smiles as he explains his ideas
the bold, realistic style of minjung art and its bleak portrayal of life are considered shocking in a society where artists generally concentrate on landscapes or happy rural scenes
minjung art is about the suffering of many koreans who work long hours for a very meager living and spend their lives in poverty, lee said. it also is about how industrialization has destroyed traditional rural values and made life bleak and polluted, he said
lee's bold woodcuts and portraits feature haggard men and women drained by unrelenting labor and bleak, hopeless lives. a man claws at the stony earth of his fields, a woman working at a sewing machine in a factory dreams of heaven, a begger huddles in front of a church
i want to instill a detailed, concrete sense of reality into my works,'' he said
many of lee's subjects have disproportionately large hands and feet that have become a trademark of his work. lee says he doesn't know why he makes feet and hands so large
some critics have denounced the new style as violent and crude political propaganda that is not art. ``skepticism over the quality of the works by minjung artists lingers on,'' said one critic
lee rejects charges that his work is crude propaganda. he defends it as a reaction to decades of oppressive rule and says his only goals are democracy and aiding the poor. ``you have to compare our works with the violent nature of the political powers that be,'' he said
but lee also rejects the idea that he is a political artist, saying his work is a repudiation of politics. ``politics oppresses humans,'' he said
lee says his works are inspired by the hope that a fair society based on greater equality and compassion can be built. he dreams of a kinder, gentle world and says showing how people suffer can help bring change
i'm not a radical,'' he said. ``i'm an optimist.''
minjung art is also anti-western because its followers say that western influence has eroded traditional korean values and brought industrialization and other dehumanizing influences
western influence has brought with it decadence,'' lee said
lee moved to the countryside two years ago because of concern that industrialization was destroying traditional rural values. his work often features a rural life he fears is slipping away
some of lee's works were recently displayed at a seoul gallery. a steady flow of visitors viewed the lines of stark woodcuts displayed on whitewashed walls in the grimy, basement gallery
lee admitted the show was a sign of political liberalization and of how artists are allowed freedom. the government of president roh tae-woo, which took office in february, has promised to end authoritarian rule and allow complete freedom of expression
lee makes a living as a book illustrator and spends much of his time working to develop minjung art. he says he wants to develop the quality of the art and establish it alongside other artistic schools
we are striving to give better forms and flesh to our ideas,'' he said
in the past decade, george thorogood has gone from playing hole-in-the-wall saloons to headlining stadiums. but the whiskey-voiced rocker figures his career holds a few more roadhouse bars before he hits the retirement home
i can't wait until i become a has-been _ a has-been that never was, actually,'' he said with a cackle. ``i can't wait till that happens, because i know i can make a living playing bars. and have a lot of fun _ a great time.''
which is, he says, what his band the destroyers are having now on their national tour _ although thorogood makes no bones about saying they'd rather play stubb's barbecue, a small texas blues bar, than madison square garden
we started out, and still are, a bar band,'' said thorogood, whose career has kept alive the sound of muddy waters, howlin' wolf and other blues legends. ``it's just that the bars are a little bigger these days.''
thorogood and company are to blame for that. since 1977, they've cranked out a series of successful albums and singles, starting with a remake of hank williams' ``who do you love?'' on their debut album and stretching to the current lp ``born to be bad.''
despite his success, thorogood has not catered to top 40 radio, studiously avoided studio tricks and stayed about as far from the mainstream as any contemporary band can
even if i tried, i'm not going to be able to get out of this style of playing,'' thorogood said during a manhattan stop in the tour. ``there might be a different hook here or there, but basically it's going to be your two-, three-chord rock or your slow, tough-guy blues
i don't want to change that, and i couldn't if i wanted o, because i have tried _ i have sat down and tried to play other styles of stuff, and it was a disaster.''
with that in mind, thorogood and band included some classic covers on the new album: elmore james' ``shake your money maker,'' chuck berry's ``you can't catch me'' and hank snow's ``i'm movin' on.''
thorogood also wrote several songs in the same vein for ``born to be bad'' _ songs which, he stressed, carry no deeper message than ``let's all have a good time.''
i figure, i'm not operating on anybody's skull here. it's not brain surgery, man,'' said thorogood. ``it's just two chords. and people are supposed to dance to it and laugh at it, and two hours later forget about it. that's what entertainment is.''
thorogood was introduced to the blues scene in his native delaware, an area he quickly admits was no roots-rock hotbed
i was so foolish staying in the philadelphia area, because it's not a blues area,'' he said. ``if i had my wits about me, i would have gone to san francisco or chicago, where people know this sound their whole lives.''
but no matter where he he grew up, thorogood believes it was inevitable he'd end up listening to muddy waters and chuck berry
i think the things you're supposed to hear in your life will come to you. you don't go finding them; they come to you,'' he said. ``so it just came to me a little later.''
once thorogood heard the music, he began taking it to audiences with the zeal of a bible belt preacher delivering the good word
the band is constantly on the road: in 1981, they went on a ``50-50 tour'' in which they played in all 50 states on 50 consecutive dates
and while they have moved up from bars to arenas, thorogood figures that sooner or later he'll be back on the roadhouse circuit playing for barroom crowds, enjoying his golden years with a cold beer and some hot licks
i always thought, wow, wouldn't it be great if i did `bad to the bone' and i was 60, and i had on a gut on me like (jackie) gleason, and i walked out there with a t-shirt that said something like, `sex machine.'''
scholars entering yale university's 3 million-volume sterling memorial library are discovering there's definitely more to a book than its cover
the library's ``eccentric books'' exhibit includes works containing a rotting tortilla encased in plastic, a miniature stand-up portrait of humphrey bogart and a three-dimensional illustration of sperm fertilizing an egg
these are more-than-a-book books,'' says gay walker, the library's arts of the book department curator who put together the exhibit
the more than 110 books in the exhibit have flaps, fold-outs, revolving wheels, unusual shapes, cutouts or objects such as a pair of 3-d glasses. although children's books are represented, most of the volumes are aimed toward adult readers
walker says the earliest known example of an eccentric book is johannes mueller's 1474 ``kalendar,'' also known as ``regiomontanus.'' the text contains two cutout, movable discs tied onto a diagram that shows the movements of the moon
the yale exhibit has a fascimile of the book printed in 1937 as well as several original copies of 16th-century books with revolving diagrams by petrus apianus, the royal astronomer for charles v
another early innovation was the flap, cutout paper pasted onto a book page that either added to an illustration or revealed one when lifted up
euclid's ``elements of geometry,'' translated into english by h. billingsley and printed in london in 1570, was the oldest example of a flapped book identified by walker. it contains several illustrations of geometrical figures that use flaps to illustrate the solid figure, she says
anatomy books also made early use of flaps revealing various layers of the body by as early as 1573, walker writes in a catalog of the exhibition. among them was george spratt's 1833 ``obstetric tables,'' which had several printings. fifteen of its lithographed plates contain a total of 50 flaps, with explicit illustrations
there are books with eccentricities in other fields besides the sciences. in the exhibit are children's books with all kinds of innovations, including one that folds out into a five-room miniature house, landscape books, humor books, art books and many more
pull-tabs depress a computer key in one book and cause a robot's pants to fall down in another. in ``the great movies live'' by maxim jakubowski and ron van der meer, paper versions of screen stars in famous scenes from flicks ranging from ``casablanca'' to ``king kong'' literally stand up from the pages
in ``100 million million poems'' by raymond queneau, 14 lines of poetry cut from 10 pages but still attached to the binding can be combined into almost limitless poetic possibilities
jonathon miller's and david pelham's ``the facts of life,'' published in 1984, uses tabs, wheels, flaps and moving and stationary pop-ups in its illustrations, including one in blue and gray showing the fertilization of a human egg
included in a category that walker labels artists' book, are wesleyan university artist and english professor joseph reed's two books made out of candy boxes. one is a whitman sampler box that contains a mostly visual essay on walt whitman
the other, the ``book of eights'' has the eight dwarfs, a new addition being stuffy; the eight deadly sins, the eighth being ``boringness''; and the eight wonders of the modern world, which include trump tower in new york and graceland, the late elvis presley's home in memphis, tenn
a 1977 volume of ``eye,'' a yale art magazine, contains the plastic-encased tortilla
eccentric books published today are especially popular in the children's fields, says walker. pop-up books, popular in the victorian age, have been revived by waldo h. hunt, a los angeles publisher, who manufactures them in colombia, she says
walker says the idea for the exhibition started when she was invited to give a talk on any subject she chose, which ended up being eccentric books
the librarian found that very little research had been done in the area. she devised the categories such as flap and pop-up to which she assigned the books
walker also designed the exhibit's catalog, which contains two pop-ups and a serrated edge. she produced the catalog on a home computer, had its cover printed professionally and bound the 61-page work by hand at night in her home
the exhibit is open through april 15
fiddler vassar clements has played country music, jazz, rock 'n' roll and classical for groups as diverse as the grateful dead and the boston pops
and for the past two decades, he's recorded in the top studios with his instrument. it's been a romance of sound separated only by the styles he performs
when the rhythm is good, i can play it,'' clements says
the 59-year-old artist has just released an album with the intriguing title ``new hillbilly jazz.'' the name signifies a sound as versatile as the man who plays it
it's heavy rhythm, solid, dynamic,'' he said in his soft southern voice that contrasts the exuberance of his playing. ``but it's not fidgety music. it's smooth, danceable.''
this marks his 20th year in nashville where he's added luster to the city's country style after relocating from kissimmee, fla
people ask me what kind of music i'm playing, and i say i don't know,'' he said. ``it's just happy, moving music.''
along the way, he played with rock veterans the grateful dead on their ``wake of the flood'' album and toured with them when they were known as old and in the way
it was a departure from the country music he grew up playing when he and his cousins formed a band
it was a challenge and i loved that,'' he recalled about his days with the dead. ``it's exciting to take a chance.''
he also played with the boston pops, joining his close friend john hartford when hartford was a guest artist in a pops concert
in addition, he recorded with the monkees. that was by coincidence. he was working on a recording session when someone asked him if he wanted to stay and play on another one
i didn't know until later it was the monkees,'' he said
he's had no problem adjusting to the various styles, even on short notice such as the monkees' session. ``you just go in and do it. after so many years, no tunes change much. i've never had a problem with that.''
clements taught himself to play at age 7 and has no formal training. the first song he learned was ``there's an old spinning wheel in the parlor.''
it took forever,'' he said
it was god's gift, something born in me,'' he said about his talent. ``i was too dumb to learn it any other way. i listened to the (grand ole) opry some. i'd pick it up one note at a time. i was young, with plenty of time and i didn't give up. you'd come home from school, do your lessons and that's it. no other distractions
i don't read music. i play what i hear.''
but he understands how helpful it is for youngsters to be grounded in classical music and formal training. ``it should help them,'' clements said
he was employed at the kennedy space center in florida for a year in the mid-1960s, working on plumbing. at various times, he also worked in a georgia paper mill, was a switchman for atlantic coast railroad, sold insurance and had a potato chip franchise
but music was always part of his life
i'd always play. square dances, anything,'' he said
all the performing carried him to nashville where one of his first breaks was being featured on the album ``will the circle be unbroken'' by the nitty gritty dirt band
he then became heavily in demand for recording sessions of all types. this year, he was nominated for a grammy award with french jazz violinist stephane grappelli for their ``together at last.''
it was a truly great time,'' he said about working with grappelli. ``it was a challenge, but it came easy. we felt alike on a lot of things.''
clements won't say that he's getting better at playing, but prefers to say that it just comes easier
if i quit improving, i'd have to quit. it would be work and there'd be no sense staying in a rut and not learning anything. i'd hate to play the same way all the time. it would become mechanical.''
clements, who owns three fiddles and still practices some, has no favorite song. ``when things go right, i enjoy playing all of them, anything that comes up.''
similarly, he doesn't mind if his instrument is called a fiddle or a violin
i say fiddle, but if someone says violin it doesn't matter.''
texaco inc.'s time under bankruptcy court protection may be drawing nearer a close as the last shareholder votes are counted on a proposed financial reorganization plan
at a hearing beginning today in white plains, n.y., u.s. bankruptcy court judge howard schwartzberg is expected to announce the result of that balloting and listen to final comments by parties to the case
the judge then must decide whether or not to confirm the plan, enabling texaco to step from under court protection under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code
texaco filed for protection from its creditors last april to avoid having to post a multibillion-dollar bond while appealing a $10.3 billion judgment held against it by pennzoil co
the federal government says it posted a $23.9 billion deficit in february after a $16.1 billion surplus the previous month
the treasury department said monday that for the first five months of the current budget year, the government has run up a deficit of $89.7 billion, 4.9 percent lower than the red ink incurred in the same period a year ago
investment in plant and equipment by u.s. business is likely to increase about 8.8 percent this year but only 0.5 percent in 1989, according to a new survey
manufacturers are likely to lead the way this year with a 12.5 percent increase in investment, but trail in 1989 with a 2.9 percent decrease, data resources inc. of lexington, mass., said in a survey released monday
general electric co. has launched a double-pronged attack in its bid for roper corp. by boosting its tender offer to $507 million and filing lawsuits challenging roper's agreement to merge with whirlpool corp
ge's latest bid, up $9 a share to $54 for roper's outstanding stock, surpasses the $50-a-share sweetened bid whirlpool made last week for the appliance and lawn equipment maker
roper said it is reviewing ge's new tender offer and plans to hold a board meeting this week to determine the company's position on the sweetened bid
an investment group that owns an 11 percent stake in kansas city southern industries inc. is offering $60 a share, or about $594 million, for the rest of the railroad concern's common stock
kansas city southern, which also has interests in financial services, said monday its board would consider the all-cash proposal soon
the company has nearly 11.1 million shares outstanding, and the investment group led by howard kaskel claims it controls about 1.2 million shares
r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. has cleared some hurdles in the path toward winning federated department stores inc. while its rival, campeau corp. reconsidered its strategy following a major court defeat
macy announced monday that the waiting period during which the federal government could ask for information about the possible antitrust implications of a macy-federated merger had expired with no further requests. a request would extend the waiting period automatically
meanwhile, campeau was trying to decide how to proceed following a federal judge's determination that federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense could stand
batus inc. is taking its campaign for farmers group inc. to the company's shareholders, soliciting proxies to support reconsideration of its bid for one of the nation's largest insurers
batus said monday the non-binding resolution will be introduced at farmers' annual stockholders' meeting may 20 at the company's los angeles headquarters
farmers' board earlier rejected a hostile takeover offer of $63 a share, or $4.4 billion, and called upon its shareholders to do the same
bank of new york co. says it is beginning a $1.08 billion tender offer for irving bank corp. after having received approval to make the bid from the securities and exchange commission
sec approval os the registration statement allows bank of new york to issue its prospectus, bank of new york spokesman owen brady said monday
irving spokesman david santos dismissed the development as ``pretty much a non-event.''
a federal judge has threatened to fine eastern airlines $10,000 per day for future breaches of a court order that has blocked the carrier from trying to sell its profitable east coast air shuttle
u.s. district judge john h. pratt also on monday ordered eastern to halt its efforts to gain federal permission to complete the proposed deal
pratt wrote that in attempting to sell its shuttle, eastern had engaged in ``deliberate and intentional conduct'' that violated a ruling the judge issued last summer. that july 2 order had forbidden the company from changing working conditions of 12,000 mechanics and other ground workers represented by one of the airline's unions
eligible stockholders in six financially troubled production credit associations in the omaha, neb., and spokane, wash., districts will receive par value cash or credit for their stock, the farm credit system assistance board says
eric p. thor, head of the board, said monday the compensation will go to those whose stock either was frozen or not retired at par when the associations went into liquidation
the supreme court has agreed, in a case brought by phone customers in minnesota, to consider making it easier for people to use a federal anti-racketeering law to sue businesses
the court also agreed monday to hear a reagan administration appeal aimed at allowing some creditors to collect more money from debtors who declare bankruptcy
the justices also agreed to study the case of a laid-off pennsylvania man in a matter that could decide an important issue for lawsuits alleging age bias in employment
stocks stumbled monday in the slowest trading volume this year. the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 20.23 to 2,067.14
bond prices slipped and interest rates edged up
the dollar fell against most major currencies
platinum, gold and silver futures prices advanced, oil prices were mixed, and soybean futures rose
roper corp., which resisted general electric co.'s previous moves to snatch it from whirlpool corp., says it will study ge's latest, sweetened $507 million buyout offer
the giant appliance maker's new offer for roper came on monday just hours after ge filed suit challenging roper's agreement to merge with whirlpool in a $470 million deal
ge on monday increased its tender offer for roper's outstanding shares by $9 to $54 a share, topping whirlpool's $50-a-share offer in a bidding war that, according to some analysts, may have run its course
the prices are pretty generous to what we on wall street would call the intrinsic value of roper,'' said cornelius sewell, an analyst with argus research corp
roper rose $2.50 a share to close at $55.50 in composite new york stock exchange trading, adding to friday's $5.75 a share runup
in a statement issued after the stock market closed, roper said it was reviewing ge's new tender offer and planned a board meeting later in the week to determine the company's position on the sweetened bid
whirlpool began the legal battle last week, suing ge on the grounds the fairfield, conn.-based conglomerate tried to ``sabotage'' a whirlpool-roper merger with a competing bid
ge said roper rebuffed a merger proposal last november, and contended the roper board authorized a $37.50-a-share merger with whirlpool after whirlpool threatened to mount a hostile takeover bid, according to delaware state court documents
ge, which on march 6 made its initial $45-a-share offer, alleged roper failed to ``test the price'' before agreeing to merge with whirlpool. ge also contended roper concealed ge's interest in the company when it advised shareholders to tender their stock to whirlpool
roper also gave benton harbor, mich.-based whirlpool a so-called ``lockup option'' to purchase 1.6 million newly issued shares for $37.50 each if their deal fell through, which would make any subsequent roper acquisition more expensive. ge is seeking to block the issue and transfer of those shares
in a separate suit filed in u.s. district court in delaware, ge claimed both whirlpool and roper failed to adequately disclose terms of their merger agreement under securities and exchange commission laws and neglected to mention ge's interest in roper
whirlpool alleged in its suit last week that a ge executive tried to persuade roper to break its contract with whirlpool. the suit said ge ``intentionally, maliciously and unjustifiedly engaged in a continuing course of conduct to sabotage'' the deal
part of whirlpool's lawsuit seeks $117 million in damages, or the difference between its $50-a-share offer and original offer
ge vowed to ``vigorously defend itself'' against the charges and is seeking to transfer the suit from u.s. district court in grand rapids, mich., to federal court in delaware
roper, headquartered in augusta, ga., last week endorsed whirlpool's sweetened bid. robert cook, roper's president and chief executive officer, said then that the company ``has a strong desire to see this combination successfully completed,'' although he had no further comment when contacted monday
david whitwam, whirlpool's president and chief executive, stated monday that his company remains committed to pursuing its attempts to block ge and acquire roper
analysts say a roper-whirlpool merger would move whirlpool ahead of ge as the nation's leading appliance maker. for ge, acquiring the appliance and lawn equipment maker would enhance its supplier relationship with sears, roebuck &amp; co. and give it a valuable share of the gas stove market
analysts estimate that roughly two-thirds of roper's sales come from its agreement to supply sears with its kitchen appliance and lawn equipment products
ge's bid stems from its decision last year to expand its market share by selling gas stoves. rather than manufacture the gas stoves, ge now purchases them from four companies, including roper, said ge spokesman jack batty
still smarting from a major courtroom defeat last week, campeau corp. says it is working on other options in its battle to acquire federated department stores inc
campeau got another legal setback on monday and faces further courtroom entanglements over its attempt to acquire federated, which has accepted a rival offer from r.h. macy &amp; co. inc
a federal judge on monday rebuffed campeau's proposal to extend its $6.18 billion tender offer so it would expire simultaneously with macy's offer, if he removed federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense
judge leonard sand, in a closed-door session, said the poison pill would remain in place at least until federated makes a final recommendation to its shareholders, said campeau spokeswoman nancy raeside
in a key ruling on friday, the judge had denied campeau's request to block the use of federated's poison pill, which campeau says will prevent it from completing any takeover of federated
the defense makes a takeover prohibitively expensive by allowing federated shareholders to buy more of the company's stock at a steep discount
margaret nicolaides, a campeau spokeswoman, said the toronto-based developer was ``definitely working on other options.'' she said she could not elaborate on what those options were
however, there were reports that campeau was considering sweetening its bid or proposing a friendly merger. neither tactic has met with success in the past during the company's months-long quest for federated
in another matter, judge sand scheduled a wednesday hearing over a macy complaint that campeau made false statements in full-page advertisements in thursday editions of the new york times and wall street journal
separately, macy announced that the waiting period during which the federal government could ask for information about the possible antitrust implications of a macy-federated merger had expired with no further requests. a request would extend the waiting period automatically
the retailer also confirmed it had agreed to sell 11 of federated's 14 abraham &amp; straus stores if it wins the takeover fight. the agreement, reached with new york state attorney general robert abrams over the weekend, calls for macy to divest new york-area a&amp;s stores because they are in direct competition with macy branches
in georgia, where macy stores would compete with federated's rich's chain, attorney general michael bowers said the state will not oppose a macy-federated combination. but analysts speculate that macy might sell the rich's stores anyway
macy is conducting a $6.3 billion tender offer for federated under an agreement with federated management
macy is offering $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $5.4 billion. macy would exchange shares in the merged company, macy's-federated inc., and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares. analysts have estimated the total value of the offer at $6.3 billion
federated stock rose 62{ cents to $66.87{ in new york stock exchange composite trading monday
campeau's bid is a two-step, all-cash package that would be worth $68 a share, or $6.18 billion. it is offering $75 each for 70.5 million federated shares, and proposes to acquire the remaining stock for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger
macy's offer expires at midnight est april 4. the campeau offer must remain open at least until midnight friday, pending a securities and exchange commission ruling on whether campeau must submit documents on its financing for the takeover. moving on general news wires.</note>
the union trying to prevent eastern airlines from selling its lucrative east coast air shuttle says it is happy with penalties a federal judge has levied on the carrier, but the company says it plans to appeal the sanctions
u.s. district judge john h. pratt on monday said he would fine eastern $10,000 per day if the airline commits any future violations of a court order that had blocked the shuttle deal
pratt also ordered eastern to halt all efforts to get government permission to go through with the sale. and he said the airline's top officials would have to write to all 32,000 eastern employees, informing them that the carrier had flouted an earlier court order and promising that no further violations would occur
he imposed most of the sanctions we asked for,'' edgar n. james, a lawyer for the international association of machinists and aerospace workers said. ``there weren't any surprises, but it's pretty strong.''
but company officials insisted their court fight was not over
eastern continues to believe strongly that we have not violated any court orders,'' the company said in a written statement read by spokeswoman karen ceremsak from the airline's headquarters in miami
john j. gallagher, eastern's attorney, said the airline would go to court today to appeal the penalty and the original finding of contempt
pratt found eastern in contempt on march 10 for violating an order he had issued july 2. that order had forbidden the company from changing working conditions of the 12,000 mechanics and other ground workers represented by the machinists
eastern, owned by texas air corp., announced feb. 5 that it would sell its shuttle to a newly created texas air subsidiary for $225 million. the shuttle flies between washington, new york and boston
frank lorenzo, chief executive of texas air and eastern, has argued that financially ailing eastern needed the cash. but union leaders have insisted the move was aimed at stripping labor of power at the carrier by transferring thousands of workers to another corporate entity within texas air
the machinists' union had asked pratt to force a court appearance by lorenzo to discuss the shuttle deal. but in his ruling monday, pratt said lorenzo could send another corporate representative
the union had also asked pratt to fine eastern $20,000 daily for future violations of the judge's orders. the judge instead ruled the airline would face $10,000-a-day fines for violations committed after april 5
pratt did not grant a union request that the airline restore the jobs of all eastern employees who quit because of the announcement that the shuttle would be sold
in 1986, texas air, also the corporate parent of continental airlines, took over eastern, a large carrier that lost $182 million last year
since that time, lorenzo has sought wage concessions from unions and has tried selling several of eastern's most profitable assets to other texas air subsidiaries that he also controls. unions representing eastern employees have waged well-publicized fights to thwart him. industries</head>
investor howard kaskel, who says his plans to boost shareholder values have been rebufffed repeatedly by kansas city southern industries inc., is moving to take over the company
an investment group led by kaskel said monday it was offering $60 cash a share, or about $594 million, for the 89 percent of the railroad concern's common stock that it does not already own
the new york investor, in a letter to the company's management, also indicated he would attempt to place his own slate of directors on the kansas city southern board if it rejected or failed to act on the buyout offer by april 4
kansas city southern, which also has interests in financial services, said its board would consider the all-cash proposal soon at a special meeting
the company has nearly 11.1 million shares outstanding, and the kaskel group claims it controls about 1.2 million shares
in new york stock exchange trading, kansas city southern jumped $8.75 a share to $55 on monday
kaskel outlined the merger proposal in a letter to landon h. rowland, president and chief executive of kansas city southern, and requested an opportunity to negotiate ``all aspects of the offer, including price.''
he said completing the proposal was subject to reaching a definitive agreement, approval by the requisite number of directors and stockholders and satisfaction of all regulatory requirements
kaskel said he had made various proposals to company management over the past eight months on ways to maximize shareholder values
unfortunately, you have rejected each of my suggestions,'' kaskel wrote
in addition, he said he found it ``dismaying'' that the board erected obstacles ``designed to entrench itself and to prevent stockholders from realizing a full return on their investment.''
among these steps, kaskel cited the recent issuance of about 1.4 million shares, or almost 15 percent of the company's then-outstanding common stock, to employee stock ownership plans at $49 a share
this could only have been motivated by the board's desire to place substantial voting power in its hands as a means of opposing'' proposals that may be brought before its shareholders, the letter read
kaskel also cited kansas city southern's continued efforts to acquire the southern pacific railroad despite southern pacific's ``binding agreement for its sale to the denver rio grande.''
other than rowland's announcement that the board of directors would consider the offer at a special meeting, kansas city southern indicated it had no further comment until the board had an opportunity to study the offer
kansas city southern owns the kansas city southern railroad, which operates on about 1,500 miles of track in missouri, arkansas, oklahoma, kansas, louisiana and texas
it also owns 87 percent of dst systems inc., a kansas city-based concern that provides data systems and record-keeping services for mutual funds, insurance companies and other financial services providers
the company also owns 80 percent of janus capital corp., a denver-based concern that provides investment advice and had about $915 million in funds under management at the end of february, according to kansas city southern's vice president and secretary, albert mauro
for the fiscal year ended dec. 31, kansas city southern reported a profit of $17.7 million, or $1.82 a share, on revenue of $507.6 million
the british investor pursuing a hostile takeover of koppers co. says he is willing to acquire only the company's core construction materials business _ which the company already has said it may sell as a defensive measure
brian c. beazer, who along with the investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc. has offered to acquire koppers for $56 a share, or $1.6 billion, made his offer in a letter to koppers chairman charles r. pullin on saturday
in the letter, the bidders raised their offer to $56 a share from the initial $45 a share bid rejected by koppers, which also manufactures chemicals
beazer, chairman of the british construction company beazer plc, said previously he would sell the chemicals business if he gained control of koppers. his new offer remains open until april 1
koppers has stated that under a defensive recapitalization plan it is contemplating, it might sell part or all of the construction materials business to third parties
selling the businesses to beazer might save the rest of koppers, but ``i don't know how bright a move that would be,'' said securities analyst gregory drahuschak of butcher &amp; singer in pittsburgh. ``it's the lion's share of the company's earnings and revenue.''
the construction materials and paving services businesses are on solid footing after five years of retrenchment at koppers, he said. the company reported 1987 earnings of $10.8 million on revenue of $1.5 billion
the real persistent grower for the corporation has been the construction materials business,'' said robert kanters, analyst for legg mason wood walker inc. in pittsburgh. ``the chemicals business, they feel, is able to do some sustainable growth, but it's been kind of a more volatile business in recent years.''
koppers stock rose $3.75 a share to $57.50 on monday on the new york stock exchange
beazer proposed meeting pullin as early as sunday, but no meeting was held and none has been planned, koppers spokesman robert o'gara said monday
o'gara declined further comment beyond sunday's announcement that management would study beazer's latest proposals
southland corp. is raising $320 million in financing for its recent leveraged buyout through a loan from its convenience store licensee in japan
principal and interest on the loan from seven-eleven japan co. ltd., will be repaid from future royalties the company owes southland for use of the 7-eleven name, southland said monday
of the loan proceeds, $300 million will be applied toward repayment of debt incurred in the recently completed $4.9 billion leveraged buy-out, which took the company private, officials said
what we're doing is borrowing against the value of future royalties so we can have cash in hand right now to repay more expensive debt that we incurred in the leveraged buy-out,'' said southland spokeswoman cecilia norwood
seven-eleven japan opened its first store in tokyo in 1974 and currently operates about 3,300 7-eleven stores in japan
the $320 million _ 41 billion yen _ reflects more than 10 years worth of future royalties, ms. norwood said
southland operates 8,000 7-eleven and other convenience units in the united states and canada, as well as southland food division's six food centers. area licenses and affiliates operate more than 4,100 7-eleven stores in 16 foreign countries
southland also owns half interest in citgo petroleum corp
citicorp international, ltd., arranged the financing in conjunction with diamond lease company, ltd., and tokyo leasing company, ltd., which acted as lead managers for a syndicate of japanese financial institutions, southland said
bank of america has signed a business cooperation agreement with the people's republic of china, and says it is the first u.s. bank to make such an arrangement
the deal was signed in hong kong with china trust and investment corporation for foreign economic relations and trade, or fotic, a government-owned agency supervising all of china's major trading enterprises, bank of america spokesman jim mitchell said monday
under the agreement, bank of america and fotic will cooperate in several types of business: joint ventures, barter trade, trade finance, leasing, foreign exchange and the raising and utilization of funds
bank of america senior vice president stephen hunt, the bank's hong kong area manager, signed the agreement with fotic's deputy general manager, wan wen-li
best western is trying to become best eastern as well
the phoenix-based hotel company says it is undertaking a global expansion that it hopes will extend its reach to japan, china and 10 other asian nations
best western international inc. already has affiliate lodging properties in 33 countries in north america, europe, the middle east and the south pacific
by april, a hong kong office will be opened by carlton hotels international of canada, which will act as recruiting agent for best western in 11 countries, including china. the other countries are the phillipines, taiwan, brunei, thailand, indonesia, malaysia, singapore, hong kong, macao and south korea
ron evans, best western chief executive officer, said the company conservatively plans to have links to at least 20 more hotels within three years through the venture with carlton and that company's overseas connections
carlton already is involved in joint venture projects with the government in china and its development arm is active throughout southeast asia
best western separately will seek out new member properties in japan
the efforts are part of a master plan to have best western operations in 50 countries by 1992, increasing its member properties from some 3,300 to about 4,200
the chain also will seek properties in south america, greece, turkey and some african countries
best western enters the relationship with carlton already having made an initial entry into the region by opening a best western garden hotel in singapore last year
evans said best western's properties in asia ``will reflect the local traditions and ambience, the local architecture.''
that's why foreign countries like best western,'' he said. ``we are not converting (foreignn properties) to a cookie-cutter image. they keep their cultural traditions. we are there only to enhance their bottom lines.''
the dollar was mixed but generally firmer in early european trading today. gold prices eased
in tokyo, where trading ends before europe's business day begins, the dollar closed at 127.07 yen, down 1.28 yen from friday
but the tokyo finish was an improvement on trading in europe on monday, when japanese markets were closed for a national holiday and the dollar closed in london at 126.85 yen
in later trading in london today, the dollar was quoted at 127.30 yen
dealers in tokyo blamed the drop largely on fears the u.s. trade deficit will grow in the second half of this year
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late monday's rates, included: 1.6915 west german marks, up from 1.6880; 1.3980 swiss francs, up from 1.3970; 5.7505 french francs, up from 5.7380; 1.8964 dutch guilders, down from 1.8970; 1,252.50 italian lire, up from 1,249.25; and 1.2472 canadian dollars, down from 1.2494
in london, the british pound was quoted at $1.8285, unchanged from late monday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $450.40 a troy ounce, compared with late monday's $449.50, but then fell back. at mid-morning today the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $449.40
in zurich the noon bid price was $449.45, down from $450.50 late monday
earlier in hong kong, gold rose $3.61 an ounce to close at a bid $451.87
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.37 a troy ounce, down from monday's $6.47
the dollar fell 1.28 yen on tokyo foreign exchange markets today and the leading stock index fell more than 123 points following declines on markets in london and new york
traders in tokyo blamed fears over the increasing u.s. trade deficit and increasing interest rates in the united states for the declines
the dollar opened at 126.96 yen, down 1.39 yen from its close friday, when it gained 0.92 yen. monday was a japanese national holiday. in today's trading, the dollar ranged between 126.80 yen and 127.16 yen before closing at 127.07 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the 225-issue nikkei stock average, which gained 93.97 points friday, closed at 25,842.75 points, down 123.51 points, or 0.48 percent
stephen jennings, a trader for kleinwort benson in tokyo, said the yen will continue to strengthen based on worries over the u.s. trade deficit and increasing interest rates as reflected in bond market increases from 8.5 percent to 8.72 percent
he predicted the yen will continue to strengthen and could hit 115 to the dollar by the end of the year if the present trends continue
we just don't expect the trade deficit to improve in the united states,'' he said. ``we expect the decline to begin in the second half of this year.''
the dollar's sharp decline in early trading today followed similar declines on overseas markets monday, said a currency dealer at mitsubishi bank in tokyo. the dollar closed down 0.90 yen in new york and down 1.40 yen in london in monday's trading
tokyo was looking at what was happening in foreign markets and that caused the dollar to fall below 127 yen,'' said the dealer, who spoke on condition of anonymity
he said the bank of japan intervened slightly to support the u.s. currency
stock prices were narrowly mixed at midday tuesday, with trading depressed by declines in new york and tokyo and by the lack of institutional buying interest in the market
the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 stocks was off 3.6 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,837.5
volume was a modest 211.7 million shares, up from 191.7 million shares at the same time a day earlier
the market remained locked in a narrow range on tuesday with institutions again reluctant to buy stock near the start of the current extended trading account, dealers said. the small size of individual share transactions indicated that tuesday's trading was dominated by private client orders rather than institutional investors, they added
investors have been reluctant to take major decisions at the start of the three-week account which began last friday, extended from the normal two-week period to take in the easter holiday weekend
the london stock exchange divides trading into either two-week or three-week periods for accounting purposes. trades generally must be completed within 10 days of a period ending
london share prices also were depressed tuesday by previous falls in new york and tokyo, dealers said. report. picks up 2nd graf pvs, separately, the ... ^durable goods orders fell sharply last month</note>
orders to u.s. factories for ``big ticket'' durable goods continued to fall sharply in february, the government reported today
the commerce department said orders for durable goods, items expected to last at least three years, totaled a seasonally adjusted $111.4 billion last month, a 1.8 percent decline which was identical to the drop in january
it was the first time since the spring of 1986 that durable goods orders had been down for two consecutive months
the back-to-back drops surprised analysts, who had been predicting that orders would turn up again in february following a january decline which was blamed on volatility in the aircraft sector
separately, the treasury department said monday the federal government ran a $23.9 billion budget deficit in february, following a rare surplus the previous month
the $16.1 billion january surplus occurred because that month's social security checks were mailed early and counted in the december spending figures
for the first five months of the current budget year, the government has run up a deficit of $89.7 billion, 4.9 percent lower than the deficit incurred in the same period a year ago, according to treasury calculations
on wall street, analysts blamed inflation fears and lingering post-crash anxiety for the broad decline in stock prices
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell sharply at the opening and remaining lower throughout the session, closing down 20.23 points at 2,067.14. broader market indices also fell
on the bond market, analysts said prices slipped and interest rates edged up in light trading that reflected continued uncertainty about the outlook for inflation and the economy
the treasury's closely watched 30-year bond fell \ point, or about $2.50 for every $1,000 in face value, as its yield rose to 8.70 percent from 8.67 percent late friday
foreign exchange trading also was quiet, with the dollar responding to declines in stocks and bonds by dropping against all major currencies except the canadian dollar
oil futures prices rallied, with crude piercing the $17-a-barrel level before sliding back in late trading following a statement by saudi king fahd on prices and production
fahd suggested that cheating on production quotas and prices by some members of the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries encouraged further weakness in prices
that punctured the rally on the new york mercantile exchange, where contracts for april delivery of west texas intemediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, closed at $16.49 per barrel, down 9 cents from friday. the april contract had been up as much as 45 cents during the day. reference to january and february declines and include comment. picks up 7th graf pvs, the weakness last month. ^by martin crutsinger</note>
orders to u.s. factories for ``big ticket'' durable goods fell again sharply in february, the government said today in a report that surprised analysts who had been looking for a rebound
the commerce department said orders for durable goods, items expected to last three or more years, totaled a seasonally adjusted $111.4 billion last month, a 1.8 percent decline which was identical to the drop in january
it was the first time since the spring of 1986 that durable goods orders had been down for two consecutive months. the back-to-back declines were the largest since a 2.3 percent plunge last august
the two drops surprised analysts, who had been predicting that orders would turn up again in february following a january decline which was blamed on volatility in the aircraft sector
the weakness provides evidence that the economy slowed during the early part of 1988 as businesses cut back on orders in an effort to get control of bulging inventories
the economy is weak. it hasn't fully recovered from the stock market fallout,'' said michael evans, head of a washington forecasting firm
but evans, who earlier had been forecasting a recession, said he now believes the country will be able to muddle through without a downturn during this presidential election year
he said he was expecting overall economic growth, as measured by the gross national production, to average around 1.8 percent in the first three months of the year, down from gnp growth of 4.5 in the fourth quarter
the weakness last month was widespread, with only the transportation sector showing any strength. orders for cars, trucks and aircraft showed a 3.5 percent gain to $29.3 billion following a 9 percent drop in january
orders in the volatile defense category fell 7.9 percent to $7.8 billion. without this decline, total orders would have fallen a slightly smaller 1.3 percent
the key category of non-defense capital goods, considered a good indicator of industry investment plans, fell 5.9 percent last month. this sector is expected to provide much of the strength for the economy this year as businesses step up investment spending to meet growing export demand
orders for electrical machinery fell 7.3 percent while orders in the non-electrical machinery sector were down 8.8 percent, the biggest drop for any sector
orders for primary metals such as steel dropped 0.2 percent following a 14.4 percent plunge in january
shipments of durable goods dipped 0.1 percent in february to $108.8 billion as a large decline in machinery shipments was partially offset by an increase in transportation
a trades union congress committee belatedly voted tuesday to back a single-union deal at an electronic components plant that ford motor co. has scrapped
ford decided against opening the $73 million plant in dundee, scotland after it was unable to win a single-union agreement, and the automaker said tuesday that despite the committee's vote, its decision was irrevocable
ford had reached an agreement with the amalgamated engineering union to represent the expected 450 workers at the plant, but other unions representing workers at 21 ford plants in britain balked at the plan
ford's decision caused an uproar in britain, where unions have been squabbling among themselves about how best to counter the erosion of their power under conservative prime minister margaret thatcher
the unions are particularly divided about whether to accept single-union and no-strike deals, which have become more common in britain in recent years
on tuesday, members of the finance and general purposes committee of the trades union congress, britain's large umbrella labor organization, voted 11 to 10 to back the single-union deal
the decision goes to the tuc's general council on wednesday for ratification
gavin laird, general secretary of the engineering union, said he would fly to detroit to ask ford executives to reverse their decision after the ratification
but britain's and ford's biggest union, the transport and workers general union, held out against a single union agreement
ford blamed the failure of the unions to reach agreement for its decision to cancel the deal
in detroit tuesday, ford spokesman john emmert said the company still considered its decision as final
we certainly intended it to be irrevocable, and i don't have anything in mind which would suggest that it isn't,'' emmert said in a british broadcasting corp. television interview
stocks rose early today after stumbling in the previous session over inflation fears and lingering anxiety stemming from the crash five months ago
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks rose 5.31 points to 2,072.45 by 10 a.m. on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange's composite index of all listed issues rose 0.33 to 151.80. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.28 to 298.46
gaining issues outnumbered losers by more than 5-to-3 on the nyse, with 605 up, 364 down and 477 unchanged. volume totaled 21.1 million shares after the first half hour
on monday the dow jones industrials dropped 20.23 to 2,067.14. losing issues outnumbered gainers by about 2-to-1 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,042 down, 502 up and 444 unchanged
big board volume totaled 128.83 million shares against 245.75 million shares the previous session. it was the lowest level since a 111.58 million-share day dec. 29. million, edits to conform; picks up 8th graf pvs: the non-public ...</note>
merv griffin today boosted his bid to acquire resorts international inc. to $295 million while also waging a court fight to help him win control of the hotel-casino company
griffin co., the entertainer-businessman's private investment company, said in a statement today that it decided to increase its initial bid of $225 million, or $35-a-share, after reviewing ``appraisals regarding the value of resorts.''
based on 6.43 million class a and class b shares outstanding, griffin's latest bid for both classes of stock is valued at about $46 a share
separately, griffin said monday it filed a $500 million federal lawsuit in new york against real estate developer donald trump and resorts' directors, claiming breach of fiduciary duty to shareholders, among other things
trump, who has voting control of resorts and is the company's chairman, sued griffin last week, accusing the entertainer of interfering with trump's contractual agreement to acquire complete control over resorts
since making its initial offer thursday, the griffin co. has indicated it may raise the price if justified by non-public information from resorts, a hotel-casino concern with operations in atlantic city, n.j. and the bahamas. griffin said trump made that information available late last week
trump, who is making his own $22-per-share bid for the resorts stock he doesn't already own, said he won't boost his offer and has maintained that he will not sell his shares to griffin
resorts' board said it decided not to pursue griffin's initial bid because, in light of trump's rejection, the issue was moot
griffin said in a statement today that he would not approve any deal between resorts and trump ``unless class a shareholders receive a premium over my prior $35-a-share offer.''
the non-public documents were contained in a securities and exchange commission filing trump made on friday to supplement his tender offer for resorts
trump's tender offer, which had been scheduled to expire monday, was extended until 12:01 a.m. est on april 1
griffin's president, michael nigris, said the documents included a $1.3 billion appraisal of resorts' properties, including a when-completed value for its luxurious but troubled taj mahal hotel-casino in atlantic city
the appraiser further said it was prepared to support a bank mortgage loan of $550 million guaranteed by resorts, nigris said
based on those numbers, we may be able to sweeten our $225 million bid,'' nigris said monday
the $550 million mortgage is the amount trump has said will be needed to complete the taj mahal. when resorts began work on the project in 1984, it estimated the total price at $535 million. that figure has since soared to $938.5 million based on trump's estimates
trump became involved with resorts last year when the company ran into financial difficulties with the proposed 42-floor, 1,250-room taj mahal. he bought up most of resorts' class b common stock, which carries 100 votes per share, thus giving him 88 percent voting control
he also pledged to help arrange financing for the costly taj mahal project and, in exchange, was granted a five-year operating contract for resorts properties valued at about $100 million
resorts has 752,000 class b shares. it has 5.7 million class a shares that carry one vote each. resorts</head> increasing bid, picks up 4th graf pvs: both contestants ...</note>
in this corner: affable, courtly and somewhat portly mervyn edward griffin, the singer and talk show host who in recent years has emerged as a wily and successful businessman
and in the far corner: brash new york real estate developer donald j. trump, best known for building designer-label skyscrapers, owning casinos and having more than a modest dose of braggadocio
late last week, griffin and trump squared off over control of resorts international inc., the new jersey-based hotel-casino concern that trump has been offering to acquire for $22 per share, or about to acquire. griffin last week offered $35 per share, or $225 million for the atlantic city-based company, which also has operations in the bahamas
the battle escalated today when griffin increased his bid to $295 million, which values both class a and class b resorts shares at about $46 each
both contestants among america's wealthiest men. trump is listed by forbes magazine as worth at least $850 million, and personally claims $3 billion in wealth. forbes lists griffin as worth $300 million
for 23 years, griffin served as host of the popular ``merv griffin show,'' one of tv's longest-running series, winning 10 emmy awards in the process
in 1986, he sold privately-held merv griffin enterprises _ producer of the ``merv griffin show'' and two of his other successful creations, ``wheel of fortune'' and ``jeopardy'' _ to coca-cola co. for a reported $250 million. but he remains chairman of the company, and there is speculation he may take over as host of ``wheel of fortune'' when host pat sajak leaves to do his own show
unlike many entertainers who squander their money through bad investments and mismanagement, the 63-year-old griffin has earned a reputation in hollywood as a shrewd businessman
he has parlayed his entertainment fortune into a business empire that includes radio stations, a major closed-circuit television operation widely used at racetracks, and extensive real estate holdings in beverly hills and northern california
griffin, whose hobbies are music, tennis and good food, lives stylishly, but not ostentatiously, in a 10,000-square-foot beverly hills mansion near the homes of mca inc. chairman lew wasserman and investor marvin davis
by contrast, the 42-year-old trump, who in a decade transformed himself from a local landlord into a national real estate mogul, has worked hard to make his name synonymous with ostentation
he routinely travels in one of his fleet of five helicopters. when william bricker was ousted as chief executive of dallas-based diamond shamrock corp. amid criticism over his imperial lifestyle, trump purchased his luxurious boeing 727 private jet
his primary home is a $10 million triplex penthouse atop his glitzy trump tower in midtown manhattan. for relaxation, he retreats to his 118-room mansion in west palm beach, fla., or his 15-bedroom georgian manor in greenwich, conn
i can't afford for things not to be the best,'' trump has said, contending the glamour attached to his name _ and the buildings that bear his name _ allows him to attract prices of $1,700 per square foot for some of his new york condos
with a massive war chest to spend, trump was attracted by the lure of profits in takeover speculation. in the past year, he bought stakes in allegis corp., holiday corp. and bally mfg. co., and raked in about $122 million in profits when he later sold the stock to the company or rival suitors
earlier this year, trump said he was considering buying up to 24.9 percent of entertainment conglomerate mca, the parent of universal studios which is frequently mentioned as a takeover target. but nothing has come of it
likewise, nothing has come of his indications in january that he might buy up to 15 percent of federated department stores inc. _ which later became the takeover target of campeau corp
but when griffin decided to battle trump for resorts, the fight generally was expected to be short and victorious for trump
griffin is offering more money, but trump holds 88 percent of resorts' voting power through his ownership of nearly all of its class b common stock, which carries 100 votes per share
trump has insisted he will oppose griffin's proposal, and for that reason resorts' board decided it was moot to pursue the issue with the entertainer
but griffin has persisted. on monday, he slapped trump and resorts' directors with a $500 million lawsuit, accusing them, among other things, of breach of fiduciary duty
that action came after trump on friday filed a $250 million suit against griffin and his allies, claiming fraud, stock market manipulation and interference with trump's contractual arrangements with resorts
meanwhile, some holders of resorts' 5.7 million class a shares who had earlier indicated they would support trump's $22-per-share offer now are having second thoughts, their lawyers say. securities</head>
a unanimous supreme court today ruled that states are barred from regulating the way interstate natural gas companies issue securities to finance their operations
the court, ruling in a dispute between the michigan public service commission and a detroit-based pipeline, said the federal energy regulatory commission has sole authority to regulate such financing
justice harry a. blackmun, writing for the court, said the state authority sought by the michigan agency is pre-empted by the federal natural gas act of 1938
a federal appeals court previously had ruled against the michigan authorities
michigan law required pipeline companies to get advance approval from the state public service commission before issuing securities
the law was passed to assure that the securities were being issued for a legal purpose _ one related to the more efficient delivery of natural gas
the regulatory law was challenged in 1984 by american natural resources, which operates a pipeline system carrying natural gas to distribution customers in michigan, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas, missouri, ohio, tennessee and wisconsin
according to court documents, the anr has plans to issue $150 million in securities to help finance projects costing about $560 million
blackmun said the 0 21.90  +.09  mon.'s sales 20,000.                mon.'s open int 88,173.             

mar    189.70 191.30 189.30 191.30 +1.80 may    189.00 189.90 188.50 189.80  +.20 jul    189.80 190.60 189.50 190.60  +.30 aug    190.80 191.00 190.30 191.00  *** sep     191.00 191.50 191.00 191.50  *** oct     192.00 192.50 192.00 193.50 +1.30 dec    194.00 194.50 193.70 194.50  _.20  mon.'s sales 28,000.                mon.'s open int 59,633.           
stocks turned mixed today, strengthened by higher bond prices and takeover-related buying, but restrained by investor reluctance to participate in a market still suffering post-crash uncertainty
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 1.16 points to 2,068.30 by 11 a.m. on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange's composite index of all listed issues rose 0.10 to 151.57. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.20 to 298.38
gaining issues barely outnumbered losers on the nyse, with 613 up, 558 down and 527 unchanged. volume totaled 45.5 million shares after 90 minutes
rising prices in the bond market injected some optimism on wall street because they dampened anxiety over inflation and higher interest rates. bonds were buoyed by lower oil prices and a government report that showed a surprising drop in factory orders for durable goods in february
some stocks also were boosted by rumored and actual takeovers, reflecting a stunning increase in merger activity over the past several weeks
nevertheless, stockbrokers said the relatively low volume of trading and the lack of any significant economic signals showed that many investors remain reluctant to re-enter the market in the aftermath of the october crash
people still are wounded,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon read &amp; co. ``those wounds have not scarred over yet. there's fear we could be looking at another downdraft.''
among the most active issues, lucky stores shot up 14\ to 46{ after rival chain american stores announced a $45-a-share tender offer for the company. kansas city southern, target of a $60-a-share takeover attempt by a new york investor group, advanced 2~ to 57~
on monday the dow jones industrials dropped 20.23 to 2,067.14. losing issues outnumbered gainers by about 2-to-1 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,042 down, 502 up and 444 unchanged
big board volume totaled 128.83 million shares against 245.75 million shares the previous session. it was the lowest level since a 111.58 million-share day dec. 29
a.h. robins co. says it will submit another amended reorganization plan as the result of a court hearing on the adequacy of the company's disclosure statement
u.s. district judge robert r. merhige jr. and u.s. bankruptcy judge blackwell n. shelley conducted the hearing monday, listening to a series of objections to the disclosure statement
the document is the basis by which women with dalkon shield injury claims and other creditors of robins will decide how to vote on the company's reorganization plan
robins spokesman roscoe e. puckett jr. said monday evening that as a result of the hearing, the company ``will submit a sixth amended and restated plan of reorganization incorporating certain changes,'' mostly in the wording of the statement. the new plan will be filed in bankruptcy court by march 28, he said
merhige set an april 25 deadline for mailing the plan of reorganization to dalkon shield claimants and the company's other creditors for a vote. the votes must be received by july 11 and a confirmation hearing will be july 18, puckett said
merhige also said he hoped to choose by april 11 the five trustees who will administer the nearly $2.5 billion compensation fund for dalkon shield victims
the u.s. supreme court, in a related action monday, let stand a ruling against a $15 million emergency fund to help women who became infertile from using the intrauterine device, which robins sold in the early 1970s. the supreme court also refused to review a ruling that placed on hold several lawsuits against the insurer of the iud
robins has been in chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings since august 1985. the richmond-based maker of pharmaceuticals sought court protection from creditors as lawsuits mounted against the birth control device
joseph f. mcdowell iii, a manchester, n.h., attorney for 35 users of the iud, told merhige and shelley the disclosure statement should not go out because it appeared to give a discharge from liability to not only robins but to its insurer, corporate directors and members of the robins' family
attorneys for robins and the aetna casualty &amp; surety co. that insured the dalkon shield said claimants voting to ratify the reorganization plan are not prevented from subsequently going to court. mcdowell's objection was overruled
an attorney for the internal revenue service challenged an arrangement for robins to repay the federal tax agency's priority claim over a six-year period
we're being asked to make a $62 million unsecured loan at prime interest,'' said stuart gibson, an irs tax lawyer
merhige, however, overruled the objection. ``it's your own fault,'' the judge told gibson. ``i asked you to settle it ... and you couldn't do it.''
in washington, the supreme court upheld the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals' decision to reject the $15 million emergency fund, which merhige had approved as a means of helping women still of child-bearing age to regain fertility through special surgery
the emergency fund was challenged by robins' stockholders as giving preferential treatment to a select group of claims while the final reorganization was pending
the high court's decision not to review the stay of lawsuits against aetna upheld merhige and the 4th circuit. the appeals court said the suits brought by women in kansas and new hampshire inevitably would pull in robins and thus would detract from the ongoing bankruptcy proceedings
ford motor co. said it will begin exporting its lincoln continental and mercury sable cars this spring to south korea, where they will sell for about three times their u.s. prices
south korea dropped a ban on car imports last year, but tariffs, taxes and fees remain in place
ford said monday that the continentals and sables will sell in south korea for about $42,000 and $75,000, respectively. in the united states, sables sell for about $14,000 to $16,000 while continentals fetch between $25,000 and $30,000 per car
general motors corp. also has begun a small-scale program to ship luxury cars to south korea. gm said its buicks and cadillacs also will sell for about three times their u.s. prices
grain and soybean futures prices opened mostly lower today on the chicago board of trade
analysts said soybean futures were pressured by accelerated overnight selling by farmers, while corn prices were hit by news that vermont sen. patrick leahy is moving ahead with legislation that would ultimately put more corn on the market
wheat futures were higher, after a decline on monday
at the opening, wheat was } cent lower to \ cent higher, with the contract for delivery in march at $2.96{ a bushel; corn was 1 cent to 1} cents lower, with march at $2.00{ a bushel; oats were { cent lower to 1 cent higher, with march at $1.91{ a bushel; and soybeans were { cent to 1\ cents lower, with march at $6.29 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly higher at the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were unchanged to .20 cent higher, with april at 73.65 cents a pound; feeder cattle were unchanged to .15 cent higher, with march at 82.20 cents a pound; live hogs were .15 cent lower to .30 cent higher, with april at 45.40 cents a pound; and frozzen pork bellies were .05 cent to .28 cent higher, with may at 55.15 cents a pound. ^lasergraphic</head>
once again, detroit is asking itself whether the neon glare of a colony of gambling casinos can attract cash and jobs to a city short on both
voters in the nation's sixth-largest city rejected casino gambling in 1976 and 1981 by margins of 3-to-2 in advisory votes. this time, a battalion of civic leaders is studying the issue at the behest of mayor coleman a. young amid criticism from local pulpits and unfavorable results of a recent poll
a 67-member commission will issue a report on the casino questions by mid-may. even a favorable recommendation would have to be followed by another city-wide referendum and approval by the michigan legislature and gov. james blanchard
following young's lead, most members of the detroit casino gaming commission have taken a carefully noncommittal public stance on the issue
i don't know if casino gambling is good for detroit,'' said co-chairman samuel gardner, former chief judge of detroit recorder's court. ``i never really sat down and concentrated on it. i can think of good things and bad things. but i don't have all the facts.''
to young, the vagaries of detroit's manufacturing economy justify another look at casino gambling. unemployment, which has risen and fallen with the uneven fortunes of the auto industry, peaked at more than 20 percent in the mid-1970s and averaged about 11.5 percent in 1987, more than 3 percentage points higher than the statewide rate
while auto sales have recently shown some improvement, the industry is struggling to protect jobs these days, not create them
i don't think it's a panacea to all our problems,'' young said in announcing the casino study. ``by the same token, i don't believe that any enterprise that offers the prospect of 50,000 jobs can be cavalierly dismissed, especially without an in-depth examination.''
other than citing 50,000 potential construction and casino jobs, young has been reserved about who would develop the facilities or where they would be located. specifics have come from real estate developer patrick meehan, who for several years has proposed developing as many as 12 casinos on belle isle, an island park in the detroit river. meehan, however, has been excluded from the commission and has been criticized by young for acting without proper authority
will it be the major industry in detroit? absolutely not,'' said commission co-chairman frank stella, a suburban business executive. ``in london it isn't; in puerto rico and vienna it's not. if it's going to be here, it's going to help create jobs'' and augment the local tourism and convention trade, he said
this might create some jobs. jobs to chauffeur people, be a bodyguard or shuffling chips,'' said a critic ralph slovenko, a professor of law and psychiatry at wayne state university in detroit
casinos have provided thousands of jobs and millions of dollars of revenue for new jersey since they were legalized in atlantic city. but james w. hughes, chairman of the urban planning and policy department at rutgers university, said casinos have fulfilled their darker prophecies, too
hughes, who coauthored a 1983 book, ``the atlantic city gamble,'' said the jobs created have been mostly menial employment. higher positions have been filled with outsiders, including experienced nevada dealers, and workers skimmed from other fields, such as nurses whose interpersonal skills qualified them for jobs as dealers
slovenko also was unimpressed by the potential property tax base created by multimillion-dollar casinos, saying, ``everything that's coming into the city has got so many (tax) abatements, they end up hardly paying anything.''
you're potentially creating a monster with limited economic benefits, unless it's really tightly linked to hotels and downtown convention facilities ... as an ancillary device,'' hughes said in a telephone interview from new brunswick, n.j
other critics have accused young of stacking the commission with casino supporters, although stella estimated that backers and opponents each comprise about 10 percent of its membership and the rest, including himself, are undecided
casino opponents, led by detroit accountant thomas barrow, who unsuccessfully challenged young in the 1985 mayoral election, collected enough signatures to place a casino referendum on the aug. 2 primary ballot. results of one poll and the potential influence of hundreds of preachers appear to point toward defeat of the issue
a statewide telephone survey of 350 residents, conducted recently for the detroit free press, showed 53 percent opposed to casino gambling in detroit and 39 percent in favor, with the rest undecided or having no opinion
a coalition of protestant clergy has pledged to rally support against the casino proposal
there is power in the word, and the word as we understand it is that casino gambling is in opposition to the will of god,'' the rev. john peoples, a city council member and co-chairman of the coalition, told the free press
gov. blanchard has expressed skepticism about casinos' benefits but said he would keep an open mind while awaiting the commission's findings
young, despite proclaiming objectivity and pledging to abide by the commission's recommendations, said in announcing the study that the odds on casino gambling might be narrowing
i don't think detroiters ever had a serious discussion in which the facts were presented'' prior to the 1976 and 1981 referenda, he said. ``i think detroiters voted in full ignorance the previous two times.'' grafs 10-11 with 4 grafs to update that lukman press conference may not deal with opec, may be held wednesday or thursday.</note>
the recent surge in oil prices ground to a halt when the markets got word of saudi king fahd's latest statements on the current state of prices and crude production
fahd suggested in a statement issued monday that cheating on quotas and prices by some members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries encouraged further weakness in prices
that sent prices into full reverse on the new york mercantile exchange, where contracts for april delivery of west texas intemediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, gave up an early 45-cent gain to close at $16.49 per barrel, down 9 cents from friday
among refined products traded on the exchange, wholesale heating oil closed up 0.35 cent at 45.40 cents per gallon, after having risen to 46.70 cents per gallon earlier. unleaded gasoline gave up a 1.41-cent gain to close up 0.12 cent at 46.11 cents a gallon
the decline continued in early trading today. west texas intermediate was down 28 cents to $16.11 a barrel, while heating oil was off 0.05 cent to 43.35 cents a gallon and gasoline fell 0.51 cent to 45.60 cents a gallon
the basic factor in balancing supply and demand is the commitment of all member states to opec-decreed quotas and prices. but if one member fails to live up to this commitment, then the result will affect the market. this is what we witness presently,'' the official saudi news agency quoted fahd as saying
under these circumstances, it would be difficult to ask those committed (to opec output and price controls) to modify the situation at the expense of their quotas,'' the king said
analysts said saudi arabia is believed to have been discounting its oil lately, and that some traders interpreted fahd's remarks as justifying that action
as such, it undermined a recent rally by reiterating the kingdom's well-known postition that it would not sacrifice its own production or prices to bolster the market while other cartel members continue to cheat
prices, which had been sagging, rose strongly after opec president rilwanu lukman, nigeria's oil minister, said last thursday he would announce new measures to bring stability to the market at a press conference today
however, a source close to lukman said today that the press conference was expected to focus on nigeria's domestic oil policy, although questions on opec might be raised by reporters
in addition, a spokesman for the state-owned nigerian national petroleum corp. said the press conference, although originally scheduled for today, was more likely to take place wednesday or thursday
lukman's announcement last thursday came one day after he declared he would not seek an early meeting of opec ministers, despite a weeks-long trend of eroding prices at the time
thus, many analysts said monday they were not certain what measures lukman could announce that could have any substantive effect on prices
most people don't believe he's got anything new to tell the world,'' said donald morton, vice president for energy futures in the boston office of prudential-bache securities, inc
james steel, an analyst at refco inc. commodities, said he believed there were fears prices would drop sharply, once disappointment over lukman's comments set into the market _ and that the saudi king had thus stepped in to soften the blow
i think that's why fahd made the statement today,'' steel said
stocks turned mixed today, strengthened by higher bond prices and takeover-related buying, but restrained by investor reluctance to participate in a market still suffering post-crash uncertainty
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 1.49 points to 2,065.65 by noon on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange's composite index of all listed issues was unchanged at 151.47. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.16 to 298.34
gaining and losing issues were about even on the nyse, with 636 up, 645 down and 520 unchanged. volume totaled 65.3 million shares in the morning session, compared with 65.76 million monday morning
rising prices in the bond market provided some optimism to wall street because they dampened anxiety over inflation and higher interest rates. bonds were buoyed by lower oil prices and a government report that showed a surprising drop in factory orders for durable goods in february
some stocks also were boosted by rumored and actual takeovers, reflecting a stunning increase in merger activity over the past several weeks
nevertheless, stockbrokers said the relatively low volume of trading and the lack of any significant economic signals showed that many investors remain reluctant to re-enter the market in the aftermath of the october crash
people still are wounded,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon read &amp; co. ``those wounds have not scarred over yet. there's fear we could be looking at another downdraft.''
lucky stores was the most active issue, jumping 14] to 46| in heavy trading after rival chain american stores announced a $45-a-share tender offer for the company
kansas city southern, target of a $60-a-share takeover attempt by a new york investor group, advanced 2\ to 57\. on the amex, resorts international class a shares rose 3 to 31| after entertainer merv griffin boosted his offer for the company in a takeover battle with developer donald trump
the supreme court today rejected the internal revenue service's attempt to impose stiffer taxes when individuals or business partnerships form corporations to obtain financing
by an 8-0 vote, the court said real estate developers in kentucky should not be subjected to a heavier tax burden because they formed corporations for the sole purpose of borrowing money
jesse c. bollinger, either individually or in partnership with others, developed eight apartment complexes in the lexington, ky., area beginning in 1968
to obtain construction-financing loans, bollinger formed corporations to borrow the money at 8 percent interest. kentucky's usury law at the time limited the interest non-corporate borrowers could be charged to 7 percent, and lenders were not willing to finance bollinger's projects at that rate
when bollinger and his partners sought to claim business losses connected with the apartment projects on their individual federal income taxes, the irs disallowed it
the tax agency said the losses must be attributed to the corporations, deemed to be the true owners of the apartment complexes. that designation worked to the tax disadvantage of bollinger and his partners
a federal appeals court ruled against the irs, and today's decision upheld that ruling
writing for the court, justice antonin scalia said the corporations had been formed for a legitimate, non-manipulative purpose
it seems to us that ... tax-avoiding manipulation (is) adequately avoided when ... the corporation is acting as agent for its shareholders with respect to a particular asset (the apartment complexes) is set forth in a written agreement at the time the asset is acquired,'' scalia said
he also noted that the corporations at issue in this case functioned ``as agent and not principal with respect to the asset for all purposes, and the corporation is held out as the agent and not principal in all dealings with third parties relating to the asset.''
the case is commissioner, irs vs. bollinger, 86-1672. offer</head>
italian investor carlo de benedetti has increased his holdings in societe generale de belgique sa by 3.53 percent, but it was not known if his alliance held a majority stake in belgium's largest holding company, officials said tuesday
an official at de benedetti's french investment company cerus sa, who asked not to be named, did not know whether the public offer gave de benedetti and his allies control of the company
this alliance claimed to control 47.01 percent of societe generale's shares before tuesday. the newly purchased shares would apparently raise this to 50.54 percent. but the cerus official said the 47.01 percent might have included some shares from the public offer
on march 10, a franco-belgian alliance opposing de benedetti claimed to control 50.7 percent of societe generale
tuesday's announcement was the latest twist in one of europe's biggest and most complex takeover battles. it failed to provide definite clues about the outcome, more than two months after de benedetti first announced his bid for 166-year-old societe generale
on march 10, de benedetti called for shareholders meeting, which should make it clear which side has a majority. the meeting is set for april 14
meanwhile, a court case was still pending on a societe generale capital increase to fend off de benedetti. the ruling in that case might still dramatically change the stakes each side claims to hold
cerus, the investment firm through which de benedetti was vying for control of societe generale, said tuesday it had obtained 1.087 million additional shares, or 3.53 percent of the company's total share capital, including warrants
cerus launched a public offer for the extra shares on feb. 15. the bid was to have expired march 4 but has since been extended
the offer was designed to acquire 2.1 million shares, or about 7 percent of the share capital of societe generale
cerus offered 8,000 francs, or $228, for ordinary shares in the last stage of its public offer
reacting to tuesday's announcement, the management of societe generale, which opposes de benedetti, said there were no defections from the franco-belgian alliance to cerus' camp
de benedetti wants to turn societe generale into the platform of a pan-european holding company while the franco-belgian group wants to keep the company firmly entrenched in the belgian economic fabric
on tuesday, societe generale announced its net profit in 1987 fell 22.1 percent to stand at 4.138 billion francs. societe generale has a stake in over 1,200 companies world-wide and the government has stressed the company is vital for its investment strategy, technological development and its relations with its former colony zaire
the de benedetti group consists of cerus, the u.s. investment bank shearson lehman hutton inc., the swiss bank companie de banque et d'investissements and the food giant nestle sa, two belgian partners and several smaller allies
the franco-belgian alliance is anchored around the french investment firm companie financiere de suez and belgium's biggest insurer, groupe ag sa and includes several other partners
a federal jury has awarded a record $7.95 million to the estate of an ibm executive and his wife killed in a delta air lines crash outside dallas, including more than $6 million for his lost potential earnings at the computer company
the jury at u.s. district court in manhattan deliberated just five hours before returning its verdict at 8:30 p.m. monday in the suit by the estate of philip d. estridge, 47, of new canaan, conn., and his wife mary ann
estridge, who received much of the credit for moving ibm into the personal computer market, and his wife were among 137 people killed when the lockheed l-1011 crashed on approach at dallas-fort worth international airport on aug. 2, 1985
i thought it would have been more, and it should have been more,'' said attorney lee kreindler, who had asked for $25 million for estridge and $5 million for his wife. ``i was a little disappointed with the numbers.''
but evelyn eubanks, one of three daughters who filed the suit, said they were happy with the judgment and the end of the case
we don't think anything could have happened any better and we're definitely relieved it's over,'' she said. ``it doesn't make it better, but it helps us to live with it.''
kreindler said the sum awarded monday was a record for compensatory damages in a wrongful-death suit. the breakdown was $6.25 million for estridge's loss of earnings, $750,000 for loss of enjoyment of life and $100,000 for mental anguish
for mrs. estridge, the jury awarded $750,000 for loss of enjoyment of life and $100,000 for mental anguish
shortly before estridge died, the jacksonville, fla., native was named overseer of ibm's worldwide manufacturing operations, based in new york, at a salary of $240,000 yearly
although the trial was held in new york city, the award was reached under the law of estridge's new home state of connecticut to allow for the salary projection figures, kreindler said
delta lawyer john sabetta declined to comment on the award, but told judge john e. sprizzo he would appeal. delta spokesman bill berry referred all calls to the company's insurance carrier, u.s. aviation underwriters, and had no comment
the estridge verdict came on the same day of opening arguments in another suit stemming from the fatal crash
a wrongful-death suit on behalf of julie ann zarnt of boca raton, fla., opened monday with a 12-minute videotape highlighting her 15 years of life
the first half of the tape was made from silent home movies. it showed her as a newborn first coming home and as a toddler celebrating birthdays and christmas
in the stock market, the names, numbers and skills of the players change but the game remains about the same no matter how many times we are told that ``it's a whole new ball game.''
never was that advice more freely offered, more uncritically accepted and more avariciously followed than in the stock market of 1987, which crashed to reality on oct. 19
it is, by popular agreement, the big lesson emerging bit by bit as the event recedes into history, and as once giddy and greedy minds resume more sober interpretations of the economy
the various studies under way or completed seem to emphasize such factors as ``portfolio insurance'' and futures trading and other technical factors that arose over the past decade and seemingly changed the market's makeup
no doubt, such factors could have contributed, but it is now patently clear they couldn't have done so without the presence of the same old psychological undercurrent that boosted stock prices beyond reason
the omens were there to absorb or ignore:
shares sold at 22 times earnings, vs. a long-time norm under 15. they were priced at 2{ to 3 times a company's liquidation value, a full point above the long-term norm. dividend yields were half what they should have been
critics with a classic education in the ways of the stock market pointed to these lessons, and more, and were scorned as old-fashioned. who were they to argue with sophisticated electronic computations? do computers lie?
the oldtimers' admonitions have left an eerie echo, a painful one, somewhat akin to parental warnings that were ignored because, every child knows, parents issue warnings to children because that's what parents are supposed to do
looking back, some of the market's smartest investors, including big-name portfolio managers for mutual funds, insurers and the like, wonder how they got drawn into a market they knew was headed for a fall
they knew, but apparently couldn't resist the temptation of what they thought was easy money, just as others before them fell because they were governed by emotions peculiar to the human species
it is still a debate with some of them as they review the crash. they knew the old rules still applied. they knew the market was destined to correct its imbalance _ that is, fall. they knew the rules of the game hadn't changed
but, they ask, was it reason or emotion that governed their decision to jump in? was it unreasonable to assume that a market propelled ever higher, no matter how irrationally, offered an opportunity to make a quick buck?
was it reasonable or foolish to ignore the stories of quick profits by your brother-in-law and not be tempted to do the same? or, for a fund manager, was it foolhardy or sensible to try keeping pace with dice-throwing competitors?
you can blame the crash on new trading techniques, the acceleration of trading activity by means of computers, and the instantaneous communications that seem to exaggerate advances and declines
something might be done eventually to mute the adverse effects of these factors, but judging from the evidence of last fall there is little that can be done with the players themselves
the names and numbers change, and some of the techniques, too, but the game will always be played by human beings, and they can be expected to act no differently
digital equipment corp. says it has signed the nation's biggest explosives company as a customer because it can give ``more bang for the buck'' than international business machines corp
digital said tuesday it sold atlas powder co. a vax 8700 for its dallas headquarters and three microvax systems for production facilities in joplin, mo.; tamaqua, pa.; and frankfort, ky
the contract is for between $2 million and $3 million, including related data-storage devices, according to darwin wolfe, the company's director of information services
atlas, a subsidiary of dallas-based tyler corp., is switching from ibm
shareholders attending what could be firestone tire &amp; rubber co.'s last annual meeting tuesday voted to shorten the company's name but had little to say about bridgestone corp.'s bid for the tire maker
about 900 people attended the half-hour meeting, where shareholders voted to change the company's name to firestone, inc
shareholders asked only two questions about bridgestone's offer to pay $80 a share, or $2.6 billion, for firestone's outstanding shares. stockholders will meet again april 25 to vote on the tender offer
bridgestone's bid, which was accepted by firestone's board, exceeds a $1.86 billion offer from italian tire maker pirelli s.p.a
after the meeting, firestone chairman john j. nevin met briefly with reporters and discussed firestone's talks with bridgestone and pirelli. firestone and bridgestone had planned a 75 percent joint venture until pirelli made its unsolicited, $58-a-share bid for all of firestone's 32 million outstanding shares
nevin said he told both bridgestone and pirelli in negotiations that firestone was holding talks with a third firm that he declined to identify
nevin speculated that bridgestone was able to make its tender offer quickly because of its prior knowledge of firestone. bridgestone purchased a plant from firestone in 1983
i don't want to speculate on what bridgestone would have done under other circumstances. but i think all of the background that bridgestone had acquired in discussions with us earlier certainly made it much more possible for bridgestone to move quickly in a two-week period,'' said nevin
i think that had we announced in mid-february that the board of directors had decided to enter into a joint venture with pirelli rather than bridgestone, i think it was improbable that bridgestone then would have made an unsolicited tender offer ... this was by no means an unfriendly action on bridgestone's part,'' nevin said
he reiterated that he has no plans to buy back from bridgestone any of firestone's non-tire businesses, including its 1,500 mastercare car repair operations
opec president rilwanu lukman postponed indefinitely a scheduled news conference that was expected to have focused on stabilizing sagging oil prices, the guardian newspaper said
last week nigerian petroleum ministry officials said lukman would announce tuesday new measures to bring stability to the market
but the ministry said the news conference had been called off, according to the newspaper. no new date was given
lukman has accused the western news media of trying to destabilize the oil market to bring down prices, adding opec would not be driven into taking emergency measures to stop the fall of oil prices
he also has vowed the cartel would stand firm on its decision to produce 15.60 million barrels of oil a day. a barrel of oil is equivalent to 42 gallons
stocks were mixed today in another slow trading session that brokers attributed to underlying investor reluctance to participate because of post-crash uncertainty
we're right on the top of the fence and don't know which way we're going to fall,'' said robert o'toole, manager of over-the-counter trading at shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks, confined to a narrow range through most of the session, was up 3.15 points to 2,070.29 by 2 p.m. on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange's composite index of all listed issues rose 0.25 to 151.72. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.75 to 298.93
gaining issues narrowly led declines on the nyse, with 768 up, 648 down and 511 unchanged. volume totaled a sluggish 97.84 million shares with two hours of business left
stocks were helped somewhat by a surprising drop in factory orders for durable goods in february. the report by the commerce department suggested to some strategists that the economy isn't as strong as previously believed, thereby raising the possibility that interest rates won't creep up
some stocks also were boosted by rumored and actual takeovers, reflecting a stunning increase in merger activity over the past several weeks
nevertheless, stockbrokers said the relatively low volume of trading and the lack of any significant economic signals showed that many investors remain reluctant to re-enter the market in the aftermath of the october crash
people still are wounded,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon read &amp; co. ``those wounds have not scarred over yet. there's fear we could be looking at another downdraft.''
lucky stores was the most active nyse issue, jumping 14[ to 46] in heavy trading after rival chain american stores announced a $45-a-share tender offer for the company
speculation about a possible takeover also affected grocery chain kroger, which rose 1| to 36[. speculative buying affected a range of other companies including pillsbury, up 1[ to 36[; usg, up 2} to 37|; and himont, up 3\ to 44\
on the amex, resorts international class a shares rose 3| to 32\ after entertainer merv griffin boosted his offer for the company in a takeover battle with developer donald trump. index; no pickup</note>
share prices closed narrowly mixed tuesday on the london stock exchange, with many stocks depressed by continued thin trading in the opening days of an extended trading account period
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was down 5.7 points, or 0.3 percent, at 1,835.4 at the close, its worst level for the day
volume was barely changed at 357.1 million shares, compared with 357.3 million on monday
shares opened lower following a sharp decline on wall street on monday, and an attempted rally in mid-morning quickly ran out of steam. a feeble opening in new york on tuesday further dampened sentiment in london afternoon trading
dealers said there was little institutional business as many investors kept to the sidelines in the early days of the extended trading account, which runs for three weeks instead of the usual two to include the easter holiday weekend. the account began last friday afternoon
the london exchange divides trading into either two-week or three-week periods for accounting purposes. trades generally must be completed within 10 days of a period ending
canada said monday it will accept two rulings of the general agreement on tariffs and trade by lowering protectionist barriers on wine and liquor and pacific coast fish processing
trade minister pat carney told the house of commons in ottawa that canadians would be ``exposed to the law of the jungle'' in world commerce if the government did not support the rulings, scheduled for ratification tuesday by the full council of gatt, which is based in geneva
canada had the option of fighting or ignoring the rulings by the 95-nation gatt, which sets international trade rules and adjudicates disputes between members. but that course could have led to retaliation, such as duties on canadian goods
a preliminary gatt ruling last fall said canada's province-by-province system of marketing alcoholic beverages unfairly favors domestic wine, beer and liquor
the gatt panel was assessing a longstanding complaint against canadian liquor boards by the 12-nation european community, which wants to sell more wine and brandy in canada
carney said canada will open borders to more foreign wine and liquor, as the gatt asked, but protection will continue for the $3.4 billion canadian beer industry
canadian wines, mostly of low quality, have a 45 percent share of the domestic market because of a government policy limiting imports. ontario province puts a 66 percent surcharge on foreign wines
the europeans do not plan large-scale beer exports, although beer was included in their complaint. but if canada dropped its import barriers for beer, the path would be cleared for the major u.s. breweries to swamp the canadian market
at present, canadian provinces only permit the sale of beer brewed within each province by the nation's 40 breweries, with a few foreign imports. u.s. beers are brewed in canada under license
the brewers association of canada warned last week that 19,000 canadian jobs would be lost if the american beer companies moved in
carney said the government is reviewing a petition by canada's 33 wineries to launch a gatt challenge to the heavy subsidies enjoyed by european economic community vineyards. in the meantime, the government will consider adjustment programs for canadian wine growers and winemakers, she said
on west coast fish, the gatt preliminary ruling condemned canada for curbs on the export of raw salmon and herring. the fish is currently processed in british columbia before shipment, raising its price and discriminating against u.s. fish processing companies
carney said the government would accept the gatt ruling but will introduce new measures to force canadian fishermen to land their catch in british columbia. some are now selling salmon or herring off their boats to u.s. fish companies
the dollar ended slightly higher against most major foreign currencies in european trading tuesday. gold prices fell
most of the day's activity occurred in cross trades that did not involve the dollar. the pound and the yen gained against the west german mark, while the french franc steadied against the mark on expectations that president francois mitterand would announce that he will run in next month's election
with attention focused elsewhere, ``nobody is too sure what to do with the dollar,'' said keith dipple, chief trader at banque francaise du commerce exterieur in london
dealers said the yen remains strong because of expectations that japanese financial institutions will buy the currency at the end of the japanese fiscal year
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 127.07 yen, down 1.28 yen from last friday. the japanese markets were closed for a national holiday on monday
later in london, the dollar was quoted higher at 127.10 yen
in london, it cost $1.8300 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.8285 late monday
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late monday, included: 1.6935 west german marks, up from 1.6880; 1.4015 swiss francs, up from 1.3970; 5.7540 french francs, up from 5.7380; 1.9015 dutch guilders, up from 1.8970; 1,253.25 italian lire, up from 1,249.25, and 1.2468 canadian dollars, down from 1.2494
gold fell in london to a late bid price of $448.75 a troy ounce, compared with late monday's $449.50. in zurich, gold also was lower, closing at a bid $448.50 down from $450.50 late monday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $3.61 an ounce to close at a bid $451.87
silver bullion prices fell on the london market where the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.46 a troy ounce, compared with monday's $6.47
stocks turned narrowly higher today in another slow trading session that brokers attributed to underlying investor reluctance to participate in the market because of resilient post-crash uncertainty
we're right on the top of the fence and don't know which way we're going to fall,'' said robert o'toole, manager of over-the-counter trading at shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks, confined to a narrow range through most of the session, was up 2.16 points to 2,069.30 by 3 p.m. on wall street
among broader market indicators, the new york stock exchange's composite index of all listed issues rose 0.16 to 151.63. the american stock exchange's market value index rose 0.44 to 298.62
gaining issues barely outnumbered declines on the nyse, with 772 up, 679 down and 502 unchanged. volume totaled a sluggish 116.58 million shares with an hour of trading left
stocks were helped somewhat by a surprising drop in factory orders for durable goods in february. the report by the commerce department suggested to some strategists that the economy isn't as strong as previously believed, thereby raising the possibility that interest rates won't creep up
brokers said the market also received a boost by sharp increases in borrowed shares sold on the nyse and amex in the month ended last tuesday. an increase in so-called short sales of stock often is considered good for the market because it means these borrowed shares eventually must be repurchased
some stocks also rose because of rumored and actual takeovers, reflecting a stunning increase in merger activity over the past several weeks
nevertheless, brokers said the relatively low volume of trading and the lack of any significant economic signals showed that many investors remain reluctant to re-enter the market in the aftermath of the october crash
people still are wounded,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon read &amp; co. ``those wounds have not scarred over yet. there's fear we could be looking at another downdraft.''
lucky stores was the most active nyse issue, jumping 14\ to 46{ on volume exceeding 3.4 million shares, after rival chain american stores announced a $45-a-share tender offer for the company
speculative buying affected a range of other companies including pillsbury, up } to 45; usg, up 3| to 38{; and himont, up 3~ to 44~
on the amex, resorts international class a shares rose 3\ to 31~ after entertainer merv griffin boosted his offer for the company in a takeover battle with developer donald trump
wheat and soybean futures prices ended higher while corn futures slipped slightly tuesday at the chicago board of trade
the november-delivery contract for soybeans rose 7 cents to a contract high of $6.66 a bushel
wheat futures were supported by notions that india, still suffering the effects of a recent drought, would be offered a substantial amount of u.s. wheat under the agriculture department's export bonus program
corn prices, however, were pressured by news that vermont sen. patrick leahy is moving ahead with legislation that would ultimately put more corn on the market
on the close, wheat was 1 cent to 2} cents higher, with the contract for delivery in march at $2.99 a bushel; corn was unchanged to 1{ cents lower, with march at $2.00{ a bushel; oats were { cent lower to 5 cents higher, with march at $1.95{ a bushel; and soybeans were 2 cents to 3{ cents higher, with march at $6.29 a bushel
stocks ended mixed today in extremely light trading that brokers blamed on widespread investor apathy, despite another rash of takeover-related buying that boosted the value of some issues
there is absolutely no interest in the broad section of stocks with the exception of takeover targets,'' said john j. muldowney, manager of equity and over-the-counter trading at scott &amp; stringfellow inc. in richmond, va
the uncertain outlook for interest rates and resilient anxiety from the stock market crash five months ago also played roles in the lack of trading, brokers said. 0.05. ^new york: brokers said.</note>
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 0.99 to 2,066.15
advancing issues barely outnumbered declines on the new york stock exchange, with 747 up, 731 down and 488 unchanged
big board volume totaled 142.0 million shares, against 128.83 million in the previous session
the nyse's composite index rose 0.05 to 151.52
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 0.62 to 298.80
there is no evidence g.d. searle and co. withheld information from the food and drug administration in winning approval for its copper-7 intrauterine contraceptive device, an fda spokeswoman said tuesday
fda officials met with searle representatives last week to discuss whether company documents recently unsealed in a minnesota court case challenging the iud were available to the government agency before it approved the device in 1974
the gist of our initial review is that we've had that information all along, and that we got it when we initially began reviewing'' searle's application for approval of the iud, said spokewoman susan cruzan
there's no evidence they didn't give us all the necessary inforatmion when we began our review,'' she said
the searle iud remains on the government approved list, but the company stopped selling it in 1986, citing growing costs from court suits
the company faces about 500 suits by women who claim that the copper-7 caused them to develop pelvic infections. the company has won 14 of the 17 suits that have gone to trial and maintains that the device was, and is, safe
the dollar finished mixed in dull trading tuesday as buyers focused their attention on other major currencies
gold prices declined. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $448.65 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, down from monday's late bid of $449.45
currency dealers said the dollar traded in a narrow range in lackluster activity. ``there was a lot of activity but no results _ the dollar didn't go anywhere,'' said robert ryan, a senior trader at irving trust co
as the dollar languished, investors turned to other currencies, namely the japanese yen. ``people seem to be buying yen against mostly anything else these days,'' said lou calvello, a foreign-exchange trader with prudential-bache securities inc
dealers both at home and in europe said japanese financial institutions are likely to continue to buy yen as the japanese fiscal year draws to a close on march 31
it will be interesting to see where the japanese money will go after the end of their tax year,'' ryan said
in european dealings, the dollar finished slightly higher against most major currencies, but most of the day's activity occurred in trades in other currencies
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 127.07 yen, down 1.28 yen from last friday. the japanese markets were closed for a national holiday on monday
later, in london, the dollar was quoted higher at 127.10 yen. in new york, the dollar closed at 127.02 yen, up from 126.92 on monday
in london, it cost $1.8300 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.8285 late monday. later, in new york, it cost $1.8330 to buy one pound, more expensive than monday's $1.8297
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late monday, included: 1.69175 west german marks, up from 1.6894; 1.39895 swiss francs, up from 1.3986; 5.7500 french francs, down from 5.7545; 1,252.825 italian lire, up from 1,249.00, and 1.24575 canadian dollars, down from 1.24905
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late monday, included: 1.6935 west german marks, up from 1.6880; 1.4015 swiss francs, up from 1.3970; 5.7540 french francs, up from 5.7380; 1.9015 dutch guilders, up from 1.8970; 1,253.25 italian lire, up from 1,249.25, and 1.2468 canadian dollars, down from 1.2494
gold prices declined. on the new york commodity exchange, gold closed at $448.70 a troy ounce, down from $450.20 late monday
gold fell in london to a late bid price of $448.75 a troy ounce, compared with late monday's $449.50. in zurich, switzerland, gold closed at a bid $448.50, down from $450.50 late monday. earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $3.61 an ounce to close at a bid $451.87
silver rose to $6.465 a troy ounce on new york's comex from monday's $6.447. in london, silver traded at a late bid price of $6.46 a troy ounce, down from monday's $6.47
ailing first republicbank corp. might have to be split into pieces to make texas' largest bank-holding company more attractive to investors, experts said
first republicbank, weakened by a run on deposits and multimillion-dollar losses, received a $1 billion injection of capital from the federal deposit insurance corp. last week
but because it could take as much as $5 billion to rescue the nation's 13th-largest bank holding company, banking regulators are considering breaking up the holding company as a marketing alternative
fdic chairman l. william seidman said, ``that certainly is an option.''
the holding company's banks in major markets could be packaged together or in regional or in statewide combinations, experts said
the first thing you think of is splitting the company into bite-size morsels,'' said james sexton, a former director of supervision at the fdic who is a consultant at bracewell &amp; patterson, an austin, texas law firm
it's a very large bank for someone else to acquire,'' said tanya azarchs, a banking analyst with standard &amp; poor's corp. in new york. ``i don't see anyone on the scene that's willing to do that.''
first republic reported a 1987 loss of $656.8 million, $3.92 billion in problem assets and had deposit outflows of more than $2 billion this year. assets total about $33.2 billion
the bank holding company, however, is in the process of consolidating some of its banks, which could make a breakup more difficult. those moves already have cut the number of banks from 103 to 73, and plans are to continue mergings until only 40 remain
the holding company has banks in dallas, austin, houston and san antonio
although the breakup of the holding company could make it more accessible to investors, some argue it would be better if the company remained intact
these banks are intertwined, having common management, borrowers and computer systems,'' sexton said. ``breaking off chunks presents some tough administrative problems.''
the stock market languished tuesday and finished narrowly mixed, reflecting what brokers called widespread investor apathy despite another rash of takeover-related buying that boosted some issues
economic uncertainty and resilient anxiety about the market's condition five months after the october crash generally were blamed for another slow trading day
there is absolutely no interest in the broad section of stocks with the exception of takeover targets,'' said john j. muldowney, manager of equity and over-the-counter trading at scott &amp; stringfellow inc. in richmond, va. ``i think that overall, there is a belief that maybe this thing's not over and people are just taking a wait-and-see attitude.''
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, which fell 20.23 points monday in the slowest trading of the year, vacillated in a tight range and ended down 0.99 point to 2,066.15. most broader market indicators rose marginally
volume on the new york stock exchange totaled 142.0 million shares, slightly more than the 1987 low of 128.83 million shares traded monday
in another similarity to the previous session, the stock market mirrored the behavior of the bond market, a sensitive barometer of the economy's health. bond prices finished barely changed, reflecting uncertainty over whether interest rates will rise, drop or stabilize
we're right on the top of the fence and don't know which way we're going to fall,'' said robert o'toole, manager of over-the-counter trading at shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york. ``it's very slow. the only thing good is that when the market's down, volume dries up. that indicates there's not much selling.''
the number of advancing stocks narrowly outnumbered declines in composite trading on the new york stock exchange, with 765 up, 736 down and 481 unchanged
as with the previous session, the big winners were rumored and actual takeover targets, led by lucky stores, which jumped 14{ to 46} in heavy trading after american stores offered $45 a share for the supermarket company. american stores fell 2| to 57~
federated department stores rose 2] to 69\ after canadian developer campeau raised its offer for the retailer. other prominent speculative takeover-related stocks included pillsbury, up 1{ to 45}, and kroger, up 1{ to 36
resorts international gained 3| to 32\ after entertainer merv griffin raised his offer for the casino company to $35 a share in a takeover battle with new york real estate developer donald trump
among the blue chips, merck rose 2\ to 160{, ibm fell | to 113[, primerica rose } to 31] and exxon fell | to 43{
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 170.57 million shares
the wilshire associates 5,000 equity index, which measures the value of all u.s. stocks, rose $2.03 billion or 0.08 percent to $2.663 trillion
the nyse composite index of all listed issues rose 0.05 to 151.52
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 0.02 to 312.02, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index rose 0.10 to 268.84
at the american stock exchange, the market value index rose 0.62 to 298.80. the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market rose 1.19 to 379.76
platinum future prices surged a second straight day tuesday at the new york mercantile exchange as a ``whiff of inflation'' and uneasiness about south africa rippled through the markets
platinum broke through a barrier at $510 a troy ounce, climbing $7.70 to $8.30 higher with the contract for march delivery settling at $510.40
on other markets, petroleum futures prices finished mostly higher in volatile trading; wheat and soybean futures prices were higher, but corn slipped slightly; and livestock and meat futures prices were higher across the board
platinum is a good indicator of inflationary sentiment, because it's a precious metal and an industrial metal,'' said jack barbanel, analyst with gruntal &amp; co., new york. ``it's a hedge, but it's also affected by fundamentals
some of (tuesday's) rise is the whiff of inflation some traders are picking up on. but you can discount $3 or $4 of the $7 (advance) to south africa,'' he added. ``we're beginning to seem some political unrest and that makes people nervous.''
south africa provides nearly all of the west's platinum, which has industrial applications as varied as x-ray scanning equipment and catalytic converters for autos
a nationwide strike monday marking the 28th anniversary of the sharpeville massacre was honored by as many as 90 percent of the workers in the indian ocean city of port elizabeth. similar protests were staged elsewhere despite increasingly tough government measures
gold did not join the runup, finishing 50 cents to $1.60 cents lower with march at $448.70 a troy ounce on the new york commodity exchange; silver was 1.5 cents to 1.8 cents higher, with march at 646.5 cents a troy ounce
petroleum futures finished mixed after another volatile day new york mercantile exchange
reports that opec president rilwanu lukman would _ and then would not _ hold a news conference to unveil price-stabilizing measures brought wild swings monday. the same reports pressured tuesday's opening and may have sparked a surge at the close
the same things that played havoc yesterday was responsible for today's games as well,'' said nauman barakat, energy futures analyst with smith barney harris upham &amp; co., new york
west texas intermediate crude oil was 40 cents lower to 11 cents higher, with april at $16.09 per 42-gallon barrel; heating oil was 30 cents to 95 cents higher, with april at 46.26 cents a gallon; and unleaded gasoline was 21 cents to 47 cents higher, with april at 46.32 cents a gallon
after tuesday's close of business, the american petroleum institute's weekly distillate report was generally construed as slightly bearish for crude
support for wheat and soybeans at the chicago board of trade came soon after the open when monday's big player, c&amp;d commodities, began buying again
c&amp;d's buying didn't match monday's levels _ the chicago-based house bought 20 million bushels of beans the previous day, compared to just 4 million tuesday. but it did helped trigger buying that pushed the november contract for soybeans up 7 cents to equal a contract high at $6.66 a bushel
wheat settled 1{ cents to 3{ cents higher, with the contract for delivery in march at $2.99 a bushel; corn was { cent to 1 cent lower, with march at $2.00{ a bushel; oats were 2{ cent lower to 5 cents higher, with march at $1.95{ a bushel; and soybeans were 2 cents to 8\ cents higher, with march at $6.32 a bushel
a strong move toward frozen pork bellies helped both the livestock and pork complexes advance at the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle settled .20 cent to .73 cent higher, with april at 74.25 cents a pound; feeder cattle was .25 cent to .50 cent higher, with march at at 82.35 cents a pound; live hogs were .05 cent to 1.38 cents higher, with april at 46.57 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .23 cent to 1.45 cents higher, with march at 55.45 cents a pound
stock-index futures climbed on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poors 500 index settled .05 point higher at 270.65. the underlying spot index advanced .10 point. closing at 268.84. newswires</note>
democrat richard gephardt charged tuesday that michael dukakis' support for tough trade legislation is just ``a political ploy'' that will end after the michigan caucuses are over
dukakis, the massachusetts governor, said his position on trade has been consistent, and his staff released quotations from last year indicating his support for major provisions of a senate trade bill
who is for a tough trade policy? who is going to be for a tough trade policy after michigan?'' gephardt asked in a telephone interview tuesday. ``the answer is, dick gephardt is and will be. mike dukakis hasn't been, isn't and won't be.''
when he is on the east and west coast, he wants to talk about free trade. when he's in michigan, he doesn't,'' gephardt said
gephardt's tough trade legislation, now in a conference committee on capitol hill, has been the capstone of the missouri congressman's platform
monday night, dukakis endorsed trade legislation sponsored by michigan sen. donald riegle, who in turn endorsed dukakis. gephardt quickly accused dukakis of having a ``battlefield conversion'' on trade, saying the riegle bill was the senate version of the gephardt legislation
dukakis and jesse jackson are tied for the lead in the polls on saturday's michigan caucuses, with gephardt a distant third. dukakis aides say that may be the reason for gephardt's attacks
on tuesday, gephardt stepped up the attack, questioning the sincerity of dukakis' support for such legislation
i think he remains against it. i think it is a political ploy,'' gephardt said. ``by what he has done, he is trying to have it both ways. ... now that he is in michigan and we are five days out from the caucuses, he wants to fool the people of michigan.''
dukakis said in michigan late monday that his position hasn't changed
he has been a strong opponent of the gephardt bill from the begining, but has always been an advocate of leveling the (trade) playing field,'' said dukakis spokesman leslie dach
dukakis' staff on tuesday pointed to quotes from the massachusetts governor last year in favor of the senate bill
on july 11, 1987, dukakis said, ``i think the trade bill which the senate approved yesterday says if there is a consistent pattern of unfair trade practices ... there i think we have to do something.''
i feel a lot better about the senate bill'' than the gephardt trade legislation, dukakis said on aug. 4, 1987
gephardt said dukakis ``has said in the past you don't need new legislation. ... he has been profoundly negative about everything i have said about trade.''
the congressman, too, provided quotes from dukakis last year _ quotes he said back up his charge of a flip-flop
the president today has all the authority he needs to do something about those unfair trade practices. we do not need more laws or more amendments,'' dukakis said at the aug. 8 debate at drake university, according to gephardt aides
in debates in dallas and atlanta, dukakis told gephardt, ``you want a law. dick, i want to act.''
and earlier this year in lansing, mich., gephardt aides said, dukakis said ``we do not need more legislation.''
the gephardt amemdment and the riegle bill do differ, but both try to strengthen potential retaliation against u.s. trading partners for unfair practices. in general, the riegle bill would target specific industries in foreign countries which engage in unfair practices. the gephardt amendment would trigger retaliation against another country for running a big surplus with this country in part through unfair practices
dukakis has always felt the president has had the authority to act. the riegle amendment ... gives the president a better way to get there, but he can pretty much get there on his own now,'' dukakis spokesman dach said
allis-chalmers corp., a once-mighty industrial giant that filed for bankruptcy reorganization last june, tuesday reported a net loss of $15.2 million, or $1.17 per share, for the fourth quarter of 1987
the loss, on sales of $109.3 million, compared with a loss of $5.8 million, or 52 cents per share, for the same period of 1986 when sales totaled $116.8 million
for the year, allis-chalmers reported a total loss of $29.3 million compared with a loss of $8.6 million in 1986. sales in 1987 declined to $410 million from $510.3 million in 1986
wendell f. bueche, chairman and chief executive officer, said the results reflected obligations from years before the company scaled down by selling off many of its businesses. once a major producer of farm machinery, the company later diversified into production of a wide range of other equipment
bueche said the cost of health care benefits for retired employees was disproportionate to the company's size, althoughthe company has implemented a strategy aimed at reducing that expense
economists stuck by their optimistic predictions for u.s. manufacturing on tuesday in spite of a government report that orders to american factories for ``big-ticket'' durable goods fell 1.8 percent in february
in other news, the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 0.99 point to 2,066.15; the dollar was mixed against other major currencies; and bond prices were little changed in light trading
the commerce department said orders for durable goods _ items expected to last three or more years _ totaled a seasonally adjusted $111.4 billion in february, following an identical 1.8 percent january decline
it was the first time since the spring of 1986 that durable goods orders have fallen for two consecutive months
economists maintained that manufacturing companies still were enjoying good business because the weaker dollar has boosted export demand
what we have is a two-month hesitation after some big increases,'' said allen sinai, chief economist of the boston co
still, analysts said the back-to-back declines showed businesses were cutting back on orders in the early part of 1988 in an effort to get control of bulging inventories. inventories swelled at the end of 1987 while consumer demand fell
cynthia latta, an economist with data resources inc., noted that while new orders fell in february, the total backlog of unfilled orders rose 0.7 percent to $397.1 billion, the 12th consecutive monthly increase
this backlog suggests that factories can keep humming along for a while even though new orders dropped,'' she said
fortune 44 co. of boulder is getting out of the fortune cookie business, saying the slow market for the cookies could spell problems for the company's future
company officials announced the decision on monday, citing continuing losses and sales which have not met expectations. fortune 44 believes the lack of sales are due to the limited market, the infrequent purchase cycle and intense competition in the low-price end of the fortune cookie market, officials said in a written statement
when's the last time you bought fortune cookies?'' said the company's controller, mary lou schwab. ``we're in the grocery store business where things have to turn. people buy fortune cookies but mostly for a special occasion.''
the company will service existing customers through may, she said
started in 1983, fortune 44 employs eight people and offers 20 different varieties of the cookies, including its wish biscuits and lucky chan lines
company officials said they have received inquiries from competitors interested in acquiring its lines and said fortune 44 is pursuing those inquiries. management also is seeking an acquisition or merger candidate and is having ongoing discussions with two companies, the statement said
the company is optimistic it can find a merger or acquisition that can benefit shareholders, officials said
fortune 44 reported assets totaling nearly $1.2 million last september; it has 110 shareholders
a department store chain's attempt to avoid paying taxes for merchandise catalogs received by its louisiana customers sparked skeptical questioning tuesday in the supreme court
andrew rinker jr., representing new orleans-based d.h. holmes co., seemed to be having little success in arguing that his client should not have to pay a louisiana ``use tax'' on the catalogs' value
rinker spent nearly 30 minutes responding to the justices' questions. by contrast, shreveport, la., lawyer robert g. pugh concluded his presentation for state tax officials in less than 10 minutes because he was asked so few questions
the court's decision is expected by july
rinker, from new orleans, contended that no tax should be assessed because the catalogs are published in other states and mailed directly to louisiana residents
the state imposes a tax on all tangible personal property bought or used within louisiana
when rinker argued that the department store chain actually had paid for a service _ delivery of the catalogs _ and not for goods, several justices seemed to disagree
holmes put this whole operation into creation,'' said chief justice william h. rehnquist
justice sandra day o'connor questioned whether delivery of the catalogs, even through the u.s. mail, is ``an activity that can be taxed.''
she later seemed to answer her own question in the affirmative: ``holmes caused the distribution in louisiana. it ordered it. it paid for it.''
when rinker contended that it is holmes' customers, not holmes, who use the catalogs, justice byron r. white responded, ``holmes is having that use provided.''
when justice thurgood marshall asked, ``could holmes have made a dollar in the state of louisiana without the catalogs?'' rinker said many of the customers who frequent holmes' 13 stores in louisiana did so long before catalogs were mailed out
those are pretty old people,'' white quipped
rinker acknowledged that the department store chain could be subjected to the louisiana tax if the catalogs are delivered to the state and distributed from there. but he said the current set-up precludes state tax liability
pugh argued that the real taxable activity undertaken by holmes is ``maintaing a market in louisiana for their sales.''
d.h. holmes co. also operates stores in mississippi, alabama and florida but 82 percent of its catalogs are mailed to louisiana residents
the state tax imposed on holmes is based on 82 percent of the catalogs' value, and the validity of applying the tax to the catalogs was upheld by state courts
the case is d.h. holmes co. vs. mcnamara, 87-267
csx corp. said tuesday it has agreed to sell its oil and natural gas exploration subsidiary to houston-based total minatome corp. for $612 million
the sale of csx oil &amp; gas corp. is expected to be completed in about 30 days, said csx chairman hays t. watkins in a joint announcement with minatome president jean-pierre donnet
the csx subsidiary's principal operations are located in the united states, mostly along the gulf coasts of texas and louisiana, and in the north sea
total minatome is involved in exploration and production in wyoming, oklahoma, the gulf coast and the gulf of mexico. it is a wholly-owned subsidiary of total compagnie francaise des petroles, which is based in france
the deal will allow total minatome a chance to expand its u.s. and north sea operations and is in keeping with csx's plan to concentrate on its primary transportation, pipeline, property and technology groups, donnet and watkins said
merrill lynch &amp; co. inc. and its futures trading subsidiary agreed to pay a $150,000 fine to settle administrative charges arising from alleged fraud committed by a financial consultant in the firm's dallas office, the commodity futures trading commission said tuesday
the consultant, charles dennis scott of arlington, texas, was charged by the agency with fraud resulting from illegally allocating trades in cotton futures contracts among his own and his customers' accounts
merrill lynch was charged with being liable for scott's conduct between december 1980 and august 1982, for failing to properly supervise him and for failing to keep proper records
the firm also was charged with hindering the cftc investigation in 1983-84 by failing to promptly provide documents. according to dennis klejna, cftc enforcement director, the delay amounted to 18 months
the firm, its subsidiary and scott all settled the charges without admitting or denying them and were ordered to refrain from future violations
scott agreed to pay a $40,000 fine and accepted a suspension of his registration for three weeks beginning on wednesday. he also agreed to a permanent ban on trading for his own account
klejna said he could not release information on how many customers were affected or the amount of the alleged fraud
michael geczi, a spokesman for merrill lynch, had no immediate response to the cftc announcement
sears, roebuck and co. said tuesday it has begun its $19-a-share tender offer for all outstanding common stock of western auto supply co
the tender offer expires april 18, unless extended
as previously reported, directors and management of western auto have agreed to sell to sears 52.3 percent of the outstanding shares upon completion of the tender offer
sears said the deal is expected to cost $250 million for the stock, plus $152 million in assumed debt. decker withdrawing bid; no pickup</note>
black &amp; decker corp. withdrew its $77-a-share bid for american standard inc. tuesday, halting the bidding war over the plumbing giant, and allowing a $2.45 billion leveraged buyout spearheaded by kelso &amp; co. to go forward
under the agreement reached tuesday, the towson-based tool manufacturer agreed not to purchase shares of american standard until kelso has had an opportunity to pursue its $78-a-share tender offer, according to a black &amp; decker announcement
under the agreement, kelso will pay black &amp; decker $25 million for withdrawing its bid, as soon as kelso begins purchasing stock under its tender offer or acquires at least 20 percent of american standard's shares in any other transaction
seventy-seven (dollars) was our top price,'' said barbara lucas, a black &amp; decker spokeswoman. ms. lucas said black &amp; decker had initially thought kelso's financing would not come through but it appeared kelso would be able to finance the deal
a spokeswoman for new york-based american standard said the company had no comment on the agreement
they (black &amp; decker) would still be making a deal at $77 if kelso-american standard wasn't able to pull it off,'' said analyst cornelius v. sewell of argus research corp. in new york
sewell said american standard's transportation products division, valued at about $600 million, is likely to be sold to pay off the debt incurred by kelso to purchase the company
american standard had resisted black &amp; decker's takeover overtures for months, including a sweetened $2.4 billion, or $77-a-share, offer made last week
instead, american standard agreed to a $78-a-share leveraged buyout spearheaded by the new york investment banking firm. last week american standard said its board would recommend kelso's $2.45 billion offer to shareholders
the agreement reached tuesday, including the $25 million payment, is conditioned on black &amp; decker not renewing its takeover bid for american standard
if kelso terminates its merger agreement with american standard or fails to purchase shares by may 2, black &amp; decker is free to pursue the acquisition of american standard, according to black &amp; decker
earlier tuesday, the new york stock exchange halted trading in black &amp; decker and american standard shares for three hours in anticipation of an announcement by black &amp; decker
nyse vice president richard torrenzano said at the time that black &amp; decker ``initiated a call'' to the exchange and ``shared with us information concerning the american standard bid which materially could affect the price of their stock.''
no announcement was forthcoming
both stocks began trading again at 1:43 p.m. est. after resumption, american standard rose 12.5 cents to $77 a share while black &amp; decker was unchanged at $20.125 a share. california, where most suits filed, other details, reax, moving list of plaintiffs lower. changes byline; also moved on general newswires</note>
eight states on tuesday filed suit accusing dozens of insurance companies of conspiring to create the liability insurance crisis, making coverage unavailable or too costly for many governments and businesses
the companies' actions were ``a major contributor to the insurance crisis that forced so many cities and businesses up against the wall,'' california attorney general john van de kamp said at a news conference
it was the public and the consumer who paid the price for this collusive exercise in corporate greed,'' he said
david ostwald, a vice president of the insurance services office, a 1,400-member rate and policy advisory organization named in the lawsuits, called the claims unfounded and denied the existence of a conspiracy
the lawsuits filed in u.s. district court here by seven states accuses major u.s. and british insurance firms, reinsurers and ostwald's trade group of using secret agreements and internal pressure several years ago in an effort to eliminate the most common type of general liability policy, that covering any damage that occurs during the policy term regardless of when the damage is discovered
reinsurers provide vital backup coverage for other insurers, van de kamp said
the attorneys general of california, new york, west virginia, wisconsin, minnesota, massachusetts and alabama filed similar suits in u.s. district court in san francisco, naming 32 insurance companies, underwriters and associations
van de kamp said arizona would sue in the same court wednesday. a separate lawsuit was filed in state court in austin, texas
these defendants have sucked the blood of our nation's economic well-being,'' texas attorney general jim mattox said at a news conference. texas filed suit in state court because the state ``has one of the toughest, best antitrust laws in the nation,'' he said
as a result of the conspiracy, california's suit said, property damage insurance for local governments, non-profit agencies such as child care centers, and various businesses suddenly became unavailable or prohibitively expensive
in california and elsewhere, local governments cut back or eliminated services, such as parks and police, because of insurance expenses, van de kamp said. many local government officials blamed rising damage awards in injury suits and joined the insurance industry in efforts to restrict the right to sue
the lawsuits claim the companies targeted for elimination coverage for spills and other types of pollution incidents and general liability for damage discovered after the life of a policy, known as ``occurrence'' coverage
the companies instead favored more limited policies, covering only losses that were suffered and claimed within the policy term, excluding damage that was discovered later, the suits said
the lawsuits said four major insurance companies _ hartford, allstate, cigna and aetna _ started a campaign in 1984 to curtail coverage that was generally available in the industry
according to the suits, the companies got major u.s. and british reinsurers, including underwriters at lloyd's of london, to threaten a boycott of any u.s. insurance company that provided the broader coverage
among other things, the plaintiffs seek to restructure the insurance services office by giving non-insurers a majority on its board and making public its data on insurance coverage losses
ostwald said from his office in new york city that pollution insurance and ``occurrence'' coverage remained available, with some restrictions
pollution coverage was changed in response to expansive court decisions, he said
it's simply incorrect to assert that an attempt was made to impose this policy on the marketplace,'' he said, referring to the alleged effort to scrap ``occurrence'' coverage
insurance rates increased mainly because of ``a demonstrable increase in claims losses and a drop in interest rates, slowing down (insurers') investment income,'' he said
steven perelman, a spokesman for aetna casualty and surety co., a defendant in texas and california, termed the action ``another political move by political officeholders who have consistently opposed any and all efforts to address the real problems of the nation's liability system.''
david willis, spokesman for the cigna property and casualty group, also named in both lawsuits, said, ``it's really an ingrained condition of how we operate in all our jurisdictions that we conform to whatever antitrust regulations exist. we do not violate laws.''
in addtion to iso, the suit in texas named eight companies that served on the iso executive committee: aetna, cigna, fireman's fund insurance co., hartford fire insurance co., liberty mutual insurance co., st. paul fire and marine insurance co., the travelers insurance co. and usf&amp;g corp
also named in texas were the reinsurance association of america and reinsurers merrett non-marine syndicate no. 799 and robin a.g. jackson. merrett is part of lloyd's of london, and jackson is its underwriter
in california, the defendants are: iso, hartford; allstate insurance co.; aetna; cigna; peter n. miller; robin a.g. jackson; merrett underwriting agencies mgt. ltd.; three quays underwriting ltd.; janson, green ltd.; edwards and payne management (u.a.) ltd.; c.j. warrilow-hine &amp; butcher ltd
also, j. brian hose &amp; others ltd.; harvey bowring ltd. _ murray lawrence &amp; partners; k.f. alder &amp; others (u.a.) ltd.; d.p. mann &amp; others (u.a.) ltd.; unionamerica insurance co. ltd.; cna re (u.k.) ltd.; terra nova insurance co. ltd.; excess insurance group ltd.; kemper reinsurance london ltd.; continental reinsurance co. (u.k.) ltd
also thomas a. greene &amp; co. inc.; ballantyne, mckean &amp; sullivan ltd.; r.k. carvill &amp; co. ltd.; general reinsurance corp.; constitutional reinsurance corp.; mercantile &amp; general reinsurance corp. of america; prudential reinsurance corp.; north american reinsurance corp.; winterthur swiss insurance co.; reinsurance association of america
