slot machines line the walls of supermarkets and bars in this gaming resort, but they don't belong in doughnut shops or laundries, officials decided
clark county commissioners voted monday to prohibit new slot machine licenses for machines in laundries, bakeries, doughnut shops, fast-food restaurants, movie theaters and professional offices
existing licenses are not affected
several owners of self-service laundries said they depend on slot machine revenue to cover the high cost of doing business, with the slots generating about 25 percent of revenues. other laundry owners stressed that customers need something to do to keep occupied while their clothes spin and tumble
commissioners said it is too hard to regulate the machines if they are allowed to continue to proliferate in different businesses. details. pick up 15th graf pvs: journalists saw ... with deletions to trim and conform</note>
plainclothes police stormed a building housing an opposition party office and its radio station tuesday, setting off a rock-throwing protest by foes of gen. manuel antonio noriega's military rule
carlos ivan zuniga, leader and presidential candidate of the popular action party in 1984, was beaten and arrested. zuniga, owner of radio 10-fm, was released hours later
the plainclothes police and later a riot squad fired dozens of shots into the air to disperse the crowd outside the building. the brawl occurred as an anti-noriega strike called by the opposition civic crusade entered its second day and appeared to be picking up support
witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals, said plainclothes police with shotguns and pistols rushed into the popular action building on via espana, smashing furniture and equipment inside the radio station
radio 10-fm was under censorship orders to play only music, but had been broadcasting news supporting the strike
an angry crowd gathered outside the building and started throwing rocks at the officers. an unidentified radio station employee was slightly injured
leaders of the civil crusade, a coalition of 180 business, professional, labor, student and political groups, told a news conference tuesday night the strike shut down 85 percent of panama's economic activity. they said 90 percent of industry and construction were paralyzed
they conceded that transportation was down by only 10 percent, but said retail commerce was 40 percent of normal
carlos gonzalez de la lastra, a crusade leader and a strike organizer, said ``this demonstrates the panamanian people's repudiation of the dictatorship of gen. noriega and the fervent desire for complete democracy.''
the government, through some of the news media it controls, has been calling the strike ``a complete failure,'' alleging business and transportation were functioning normally
the young security men at the radio station, dressed in jeans and t-shirts, outnumbered the protesters and broke up the demonstration after 40 minutes
the demonstrators were banging pots and pans in the streets and distributing leaflets
at least four men were punched, kicked and beaten with rubber truncheons during the melee as they were arrested and shoved into police vehicles
two women were among those arrested on via argentina, an upper middle-class neighborhood. they were not beaten, but one was slapped on the buttocks as she was hustled into a car
at first only about 15 demonstrators from the popular action party were involved at the radio station building, but the crowd swelled to about 150 when residents came out on balconies or sidewalks to join in beating pans. many people bolted for cover, however, when security agents came to screeching stops in 4-wheel-drive toyotas
the agents jumped out and began shooting. some residents returned to balconies from time to time, shouting ``murderers!'' and ``cowards!''
zuniga, leader of popular action, was beaten and shoved into a vehicle. the car was blocked by another vehicle and zuniga, a white-haired man of about 60, fled down the street with his torn shirt fluttering and security men in pursuit
bystanders created interference and zuniga dived into a car that sped away, but he was caught later
eric arturo delvalle, ousted as president last week by noriega, remained in hiding tuesday. he predicted serious economic trouble
delvalle's successor, manuel solis palma, accused the united states of ``lies and defamation'' about noriega and the panama defense forces, the 17,000-member military and police organization commanded by noriega, the real power behind the civilian government
journalists saw at least three people wounded by birdshot fired by either the plainclothes agents or soldiers who arrived later. one man was bleeding from the head, but did not seem to be seriously injured
calm was reported elsewhere in panama city. by midafternoon, the strike had drastically thinned traffic and the crowds on the streets
strike leaders said 12 panamanian-owned banks were closed. most international banks opened, but did comparatively little business
only one employee and five guards occupied the main area of the large chase manhattan bank branch. the scenes were similar at citibank and the bank of boston
some international institutions shut down, including the bank of tokyo
solis palma, delvalle's replacement, inaugurated a new session of the legislative assembly with an anti-american speech. the assembly, which noriega controls, dismissed delvalle last friday
noriega has been the victim of the most violent and terrible campaign of lies and defamation that any leader has ever received,'' solis palma said. he accused the united states and opponents of the government of ``the clear political intention of bringing ill repute on the panama defense forces.''
he said the united states ``wants to asphyxiate the panamanian people economically.''
solis palma said the united states has been ``a traditional enemy'' of panama. ``they send to our country destabilizing agents who try to sow chaos in a nation that let its entrails be opened to serve the world,'' he said in a reference to the panama canal
panamanian officials have claimed protests at home and the indictment of noriega on drug charges in florida are the work of american conservatives who oppose the 1977 treaties under which the canal is to be turned over to panama on dec. 31, 1999
in a videotape of delvalle distributed by his associates, the former president pledged to remain in panama and continue resistance to noriega
he said the crisis would make it impossible for panama to get new loans from abroad and described the country as ``totally bankrupt.''
delvalle predicted the lack of credit would force the government to raise taxes, which he said ``will increase unemployment and social unrest.''
mandatory drug testing in the workplace will be studied for the first time by the supreme court in a case that involves government workers but could have an impact on private businesses as well
the justices on monday agreed to decide whether the u.s. customs service, in the interest of fighting drug smuggling, may force those applying for or holding drug-enforcement jobs to be tested
the court will hear arguments in the case next fall, with a decision on the constitutionality of the reagan administration program not expected until 1989
the court also may be called upon soon to study drug and alcohol testing for federal railway workers. a federal appeals court in san francisco ruled on feb. 11 that the railway testing program is unconstitutional and the reagan administration said it will appeal that ruling to the high court
allan adler of the american civil liberties union said the high court's action on testing of government workers could influence private employers, depending on how broad the court ruling is
the big question is whether the court is going to determine this on a narrow, fact basis or will it attempt to articulate broad principles'' involving workers' reasonable expecations of privacy, he said
he said a narrow ruling relying on the special security needs of the customs service would limit the impact in part because ``most (private) employers have shied away from random, generalized testing.''
but a sweeping endorsement of testing by the court could change that
the case before the justices is limited to whether public officials violate constitutional rights by testing those who are not suspected of using drugs
the outcome will affect tests conducted by federal, state or local governments but not by industry. under the law, governments may not violate any rights protected by the constitution, but private individuals or corporations have more leeway
customs service workers in sensitive jobs must provide urine samples in restroom stalls as a person overseeing the procedure waits outside the stall. the tests are conducted by an independent company hired by the service
administration lawyers said the tests are needed to prevent agents who used drugs from being bribed or blackmailed. they said any sacrifice of personal privacy is outweighed by the need to stop drug smuggling
government lawyers said the tests are particularly important now because the customs service plans to recruit some 3,000 new employees, including many in the 18-25 age range in which use of illegal drugs is most prevalent
the customs service adopted the test procedure under an executive order president reagan signed in 1986
the procedure is being challenged by the national treasury employees union, which said subjecting workers to the test is a humiliating invasion of privacy
the union welcomed the high court's intervention
union president robert m. tobias said the court's ruling will clear up ``a legal and moral morass ... and, we hope, destroy reagan's plans for wholesale testing of the federal work force.''
the transportation department, with 30,000 employees, has adopted random testing for its workers. the program covers those in safety-related jobs such as air traffic controllers, federal aviation administration pilots and workers with high-rated security clearance
the customs service tests, which are not administered randomly, were upheld by the new orleans-based 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals
the appeals court said the tests may be considered searches but do not intrude unnecessarily on the privacy rights of workers
in other actions monday, the court:
_agreed to decide whether states may bar a man from trying to prove he fathered the child of a woman married to someone else. the ``reverse paternity'' case challenges a california law, similar to those in many other states, that always considers the woman's husband the father
_asked the reagan administration, in a case from oklahoma, whether it thinks high-stakes bingo games run by indian tribes are subject to state sales taxes
_said it will decide whether employees of a pentagon intelligence agency are entitled to administrative hearings when the government fires them as security risks. candidate</head>
while massachusetts republicans searched for a candidate for what many believe is a hopeless situation, sen. edward m. kennedy raised $1.32 million in preparation for his re-election bid
federal election commission reports show the massachusetts democrat has $1.01 million in his campaign account after spending $457,640 during 1987. he raised $826,790 in the last six months of 1987 alone
we will have a strong candidate,'' promised joe malone, executive director of the state republican party, in a recent interview. ``as of now, discussions are still going on.''
but it is no secret that the state's few big-name republicans, including party chief raymond shamie, have no desire to put on a quixotic campaign against kennedy, who is seeking his sixth term
one potential candidate is thomas carhart, a program analyst at the pentagon's strategic defense office who is considering a senate run. his family is from the amherst area
carhart said in a recent interview he would decide in several weeks whether to run
carhart, 44, is a graduate of west point and the university of michigan law school. he has been a platoon leader in vietnam, an analyst at the rand corp., the editor of a tax journal, author of a book about vietnam, an attorney and a leading activist against the controversial vietnam memorial in washington
but carhart has little experience in politics and is a virtual unknown in massachusetts. republican party strategists are quietly working to get a better-known candidate to run against kennedy
the senator's year-end fec report showed he received most of his 1987 campaign contributions _ $1.06 million _ from individual contributors. the remaining $263,000 came from political action committees
president reagan is indicating he would sign a bill giving only humanitarian aid to nicaragua's rebels if it preserves his option of seeking military funds in the future
reagan told the american legion convention that ``preventing the consolidation of a pro-soviet regime on the american mainland is a crucial test of national security.''
on the eve of today's scheduled house rules committee consideration of a humanitarian aid package, he seemed resigned to the fact there will be no immediate vote for military aid
some say they're willing to support some type of humanitarian aid, but are doing everything they can do disband the freedom fighters,'' reagan said. ``but there's nothing humanitarian about asking people to go up against soviet attack helicopters armed only with boots and bandages.''
reagan used the american legion address to remind congress of his intentions as he prepared to leave for the summit with nato partners in brussels, belgium. he is concerned about possible showdown votes on contra aid, first in the rules committee and later in the week on the house floor
the committee is weighing a $30.5 million contra aid bill, sponsored by rep. david bonior, d-mich., and other democrats, which would provide no military assistance
a rival republican bill would be in much the same form as the $36.2 million piece of legislation that reagan had sought earlier this year, except there would be no money contained in the bill for a military escrow account
in an attempt to win enactment of the $36.2 million measure in early february, reagan told congress he would consult with leading lawmakers before releasing the $3.6 million in an escrow fund for military use. the house defeated the bill by eight votes. it was passed in the senate, but the vote was only symbolic
the cia's authority to carry out airlifts of supplies to the rebels expired at midnight. reagan did not mention this monday. but he did say that ``whatever package emerges from the congress must include a provision for expedited procedures that would allow us to request official military aid to the freedom fighters should the peace process break down.''
reagan said that since the $36.2 million contra aid package was defeated, the sandinistas have been ambivalent about promised reforms, causing cardinal obando y bravo to suspend peace talks he has been mediating
unless the freedom fighters remain a viable force, the peace process will remain what it was before _ an empty charade, dragging endlessly and fruitlessly on while the soviets continue the military buildup on the american mainland,'' reagan said
reagan told his audience that if all assistance is stopped, the rebels ``will be picked off one by one'' by the leftist sandinista regime in managua
are we going to cut them off now and leave them defenseless against the sandinistas? if we do, who will ever trust in the united states again? how can we remain a world power if we gain a reputation for pulling the plug on the people that placed their trust in us?''
congress may be upset about the number of officers in the u.s. military, but the armed forces of some of america's closest allies are much more top-heavy, a survey has found
of 11 nations surveyed by a military journal, only two had a lower ratio of admirals and generals to active-duty personnel than the united states _ austria and west germany
moreover, the no. 1 country among those surveyed _ canada _ has built a military force whose ratio of generals and admirals to active-duty forces is more than three times that of the united states
the survey was conducted by the monthly magazine ``armed forces journal'' and the results summarized in its march issue, published today. the magazine said it contacted the defense ministries directly or else turned to foreign embassies in washington for the information needed to make a comparison of active-duty forces
austria possesses easily the leanest of the military establishments surveyed, with just 5 generals leading an active-duty force of 54,700, the survey found. that translates to just 0.9 generals per 10,000 active-duty personnel, the magazine reported
the next eight countries fall into a range that runs from 4 generals and admirals per 10,000 active-duty personnel to about 9 generals per 10,000. the united states is in this group with a ratio of 4.9 generals and admirals for every 10,000 active-duty personnel
the final two countries _ britain and canada _ are in a class by themselves, the magazine reported. britain has 476 generals and admirals to lead its 320,000 men and women on active duty, or a ratio of 14.9 per 10,000, while canada has 141 generals and admirals for 87,254 active-duty personnel, or a ratio of 16.2 per 10,000
at the other end of the scale, west germany followed austria with 199 generals and admirals for its 495,000 on active duty, or a ratio of 4.0 generals and admirals per 10,000 troops
the united states has slightly more than 2.1 million men and women under arms. as of november, when the information was compiled, congress had authorized 1,073 slots for generals and admirals and 1,057 of those jobs were filled
either number produces the same ratio of roughly 4.9 per 10,000
congress, complaining about what it calls ``grade creep,'' imposed the cap of 1,073 active-duty slots for generals and admirals in 1981. lawmakers have refused ever since to raise it despite repeated pentagon entreaties
congress also ordered the defense department in its fiscal 1987 budget to begin reducing the number of lower-ranking officers in the military. the pentagon is under orders to reduce its officer corps of colonels and captains by 6 percent by fiscal 1990 _ or more than 18,000 job slots
before the cutting began, the army, navy, air force and marine corps had more than 308,700 officers on active duty, or roughly one officer for every 5.9 enlisted personnel. by next september, that number must fall to 302,620, with additional cuts to follow
the contra rebels, looking for a tax-exempt organization to carry out fund raising, used a legal shortcut to take over a foundation begun by political conservatives to promote understanding of ``governmental systems.''
by reconstituting an existing foundation, the contras avoided the time nd lengthy application process generally entailed in applying to the internal revenue service for tax-exempt status
what now goes by the name of the nicaraguan resistance educational foundation was originally the john davis lodge foundation for international studies, according to irs records
the contra foundation has not filed its first tax return yet because the changeover occurred just last fall
the lodge foundation stated in its application for tax-exempt status in 1982 that its purpose would be to ``foster, develop and promote, among people of the world, in a nonpartisan basis, a greater understanding and awareness of comparative governmental systems, international policies and the relationships between sovereign states.''
the late john davis lodge was a connecticut governor and congressman, and ambassador to argentina, switzerland and spain. the grandson of sen. henry cabot lodge of massachusetts, he was an ardent anti-communist and chaired ronald reagan's 1980 presidential campaign in connecticut. he died in 1985 at age 82
he was also a mentor to conservative political consultant roger stone of virginia. stone set up the lodge foundation in 1982 to host forums and publish educational materials
it was set up as a hardline anti-communist'' organization, but the foundation never really got off the ground and published only one monograph by former united nations ambassador jeane kirkpatrick, stone said
last fall, stone learned from his wife that the rebels needed a foundation to collect money for their cause
it so happens that ann stone has a direct mail fund-raising business and the contras are one of her clients. ``she had something to do with it,'' roger stone said of the idea to turn his foundation over to the contras
she made the argument it was consistent with the original purposes of the foundation.''
so last october, stone and two business partners, charlie black and paul manafort, whom stone had installed as original board members, met and voted themselves off the board. they turned the organization over to newly elected board members ernesto palazio, the contras' washington spokesman, and two miami contra officials, leonardo somarriba and mario zeledon
now the foundation is the principal conduit for funds the contras are raising privately. the rebels have placed increasing emphasis on these efforts in the wake of congress' recent rejection of new u.s. aid
the contras say the money they are raising from u.s. citizens is for humanitarian aid only
raising money for weapons is not a tax-exempt function, and contra backers ran afoul of that law in last year's iran-contra scandal
the irs permits changes in purpose and makeup of a foundation as long as the new group is still within the guidelines of tax-exempt purposes, said irs spokesman wilson fadely
the contra foundation in december received $140,000 from the fund created in memory of the late cia director william j. casey, and contra officials said the money was for a rehabilitation hospital for their wounded and maimed soldiers. card user</head>
the government still prints money on paper for all debts public and private, but the reagan administration says it will gladly take plastic
the office of management and budget on monday announced a new progam to increase dramatically the government's use of credit cards _ both for buying and selling
not only will the government start accepting credit cards from the public for such items as passports and payments on college loans, but the omb said it also hopes to develop a plan under which government officials and purchasing agents will use cards
eventually, the office of management and budget will be able to require that all purchases made (by the government) under $2,500 be by credit card,'' the omb said in president reagan's ``management'' report on the federal government
in fact, the report itself can be purchased by mail with visa or mastercard, for $6.50. (the president's fiscal 1989 budget costs $18)
budget director james c. miller iii told a white house news briefing he did have a few qualms about use of credit cards as an alternative to legal tender _ for a goverment that was $150 billion in the red last year
but, he added, by allowing citizens to repay their government debts with credit cards, ``we're collecting some of this (debt) rather than just letting it ride.''
under the expanded program, the government is expected to process 130 million credit-card transactions annually by 1991, or $6.5 billion worth, said joseph wright, deputy omb director
it will make us the largest credit card user in the world,'' wright said
wright said, however, that the cards won't be accepted for tax payments _ at least not yet. that would require seeking legislation from congress, something the administration isn't now prepared to do
however, wright said the subject is being explored with the internal revenue service
the government for some time has accepted credit cards for specified items, including publications of the government printing office
more recently, the customs service has accepted credit cards for duty collection at most u.s. airports and the u.s. mint is now accepting them for coin sales
the management report also said that the government is studying, for possible future use, a system under which ``smart cards'' would be issued by the government to people who receive social security and other payments and benefits
these cards (would) have embedded on them information about the cardholder that can be accessed electronically. potentially (the) cards could make available funds for food stamps, social security payments, or grants and control their use electronically through central computers.''
and what's to keep the government from running up large interest payments on its past-due credit card accounts, just like it has with the national debt?
we're not going to pay (interest) because we're not going to let them go beyond 30 days,'' wright said. companies, efforts to reach macy's for comment, other detail. no pickup. a version moved on financial wires.</note>
r.h. macy &amp; co. has proposed a $6.6 billion merger with federated department stores inc., topping a rival $6.1 billion offer from toronto-based campeau corp., federated said late monday night
the $73.80-a-share offer from macy's was disclosed as federated's board considered a $68 a share negotiated offer from campeau for all of federated's 89.6 million common shares outstanding
the board took no action on the campeau bid but directed its management, and advisers to investigate macy's proposals, to negotiate a definitive agreement and submit both negotiated agreements to the board as soon as possible, the company stated
officials of federated, the nation's largest operator of department stores including such well-known retailers as bloomingdale's, filene's and bullock's, did not know when the board would get the proposals, according to spokeswoman carol sanger
macy's would make a cash tender offer for approximately 80 percent of federated's outstanding shares at $73.80 per share, federated said
the board of directors of the merged company, which would be renamed macy's-federated inc., would include significant representation from the existing federated board, federated said
federated operates more than 650 department stores, specialty stores, mass merchandising stores and supermarkets in 36 states. annual sales exceeded $11 billion in 1987
macy's, which was taken private in a $3.6 billion management leveraged buyout in 1986, operates 100 department stores and recently opened three specialty clothing stores. its annual sales were $5.21 billion in the fiscal year that ended last aug. 1
macy's offices in new york were closed when federated announced the proposal late monday, and a spokesman could not be reached for comment
federated had announced earlier that its board was considering a third-party proposal that was competitive to campeau's offer
a campeau spokeswoman declined earlier monday to comment on the last-minute bid, although campeau repeatedly has stated it wanted the opportunity to meet competing offers
soviet officials are optimistic about a strategic arms accord being reached before a summit this summer despite president reagan's remark last week that not enough time is left
the soviets hope major disagreements in the strategic arms reduction talks can be settled at a march 22-23 meeting in washington between secretary of state george p. shultz and his soviet counterpart eduard a. shevardnadze
we remain optimistic,'' said a soviet diplomat who has been involved in the negotiations in geneva on long-range weapons. he spoke only on condition of anonymity
we are near the finishing line,'' he said, and ``there is still plenty of time'' before shultz and shevardnadze meet
shultz and shevardnadze ordered their aides to draft, before that march meeting, agreements on three areas: verifying compliance, dismantling weapons, and exchanging data on the arsenals
these three drafts constitute the bulk of the work to be done'' on the treaty, although several major points of disagreement remain, the soviet official said
reagan, in an interview published last friday by the washington post, said he did not think it possible to reach an accord before the summit, which is expected in late may or early june
we're not at this moment anticipating that it would be ready for signature then,' reagan told the post. but he said the deal was possible before he leaves office next january
the proposed treaty would cut strategic nuclear arsenals by 35 percent to 50 percent, setting a limit of 6,000 on the overall number of warheads with ranges of more than 3,400 miles
the soviets are balking at a u.s. demand to limit the number of warheads on land-based missiles to 3,300 and the number of warheads aboard so-called heavy missiles to 1,650, according to u.s. officials
and the soviets want to set a limit on numbers of sea-launched cruise missiles, above the 6,000 warhead ceiling. u.s. officials have objected to such a limit, in part because it would be difficult to verify
the soviet official repeated a remark by kremlin leader mikhail s. gorbachev that technology exists to detect nuclear weapons aboard naval vessels, a statement that u.s. experts question
such things as sublimits need to be worked out at the highest political levels,'' such as the shultz-shevardnadze meeting in march, the official said
the bulk of the work, the technical details, is in the three drafts and needs to be worked out at the expert level'' before the tough political decisions, he said
the official also said the kremlin might drop its objections to tests in space of reagan's star wars missile defense system if some limits could be negotiated beforehand
he said the soviet union would countenance some space tests as long as both sides agreed they did not violate the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
the diplomat noted that reagan and gorbachev agreed at the december summit in washington to abide by the abm treaty
but the joint communique issued at summit did not address u.s.-soviet disagreement on the extent to which the treaty restricted space tests of weapons such as lasers and other devices that were not in use when the abm pact was signed
the soviets are seeking a u.s. response to their proposal to set limits on tests for various star wars components such as lasers, the official said
u.s. negotiators have rejected such limits, saying that compliance would be impossible to verify in space
here, at a glance, is the latest on aids
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a contagious disease that destroys the body's immune system. it is incurable and usually fatal. death comes from infections or cancers that the body cannot fight
aids is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus, or hiv, and is spread through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, transfusion of infected blood or blood products, or from an infected birthing mother to her baby
chief victims of aids have been homosexual men and intravenous drug abusers. health officials estimate that heterosexual contact is responsible for 4 percent of cases and that between 1 million and 1.5 million americans have been exposed to the virus
screening for aids is conducted by testing blood for the presence of antibodies to the aids virus. the test tells only if a person has been exposed to the virus. a person with a positive test has a 20 percent to 30 percent chance of developing aids over a five-year period, according to the federal centers for disease control
as of feb. 22, aids had been diagnosed in 54,233 americans, of whom more than half, or 30,355, have died since june 1, 1981, according to the centers for disease control. no one is known to have recovered from aids
numerous types of medicines against the aids virus are now being studied. they are in three categories: antivirals that combat the virus; anti-infectives that treat the opportunistic infections and malignancies that occur with aids; and immune modulators that strengthen the immune system. an antiviral, azt (for azidothymidine), has received food and drug administration approval and early results show it is effective in halting progress of the aids virus. at least 16 other antivirals are in some stage of development and testing
scientists also are searching for a vaccine against the virus, but this research is in early stages
a congressional critic of federal officials' flying in style on taxpayer-supplied executive aircraft says he's unhappy with an army move to clip the wings of the corps of engineers
rep. mike synar, d-okla., expressed his displeasure monday after the army told him the corps had been been stripped of day-to-day control of three aircraft that have been called wasteful by army and congressional auditors
james ambrose, who stepped down friday as undersecretary of the army, said he ordered the executive aircraft placed in a central pool, forcing the corps brass to compete against other army commanders for their use
the pooled operation, we anticipate, will yield economies,'' ambrose told synar's government operations subcommittee on environment, energy and natural resources
lt. gen. elvin heiberg iii, the three-star chief of engineers, told the hearing that ``i concur with the decision made by my boss. ... we'll have to compete.''
last summer, the army audit agency said the corps had been using the aircraft not for emergencies such as floods but for routine and ceremonial matters, many of them overseas trips on which leaders were accompanied improperly by spouses
ambrose said that before they can use any of the aircraft, heiberg and other corps leaders will have to get flight-by-flight permission from the director of army staff in the pentagon
synar said he was displeased because the director of staff has been responsible for authorizing travel by corps spouses, who army regulations say must have an ``unquestionable official'' role in a government-financed trip
unless he does a better job than he has done with spouse travel, this isn't going to be much of a safeguard,'' synar said
heiberg and other corps officials have defended their use of the aircraft on grounds that they are more efficient than commercial flights
ambrose's action partially settled an in-army fight between the corps and the army auditors, who said last year that tax dollars could be saved by selling the planes and having corps officials use commercial or charter flights
ambrose said the army would decide later this year whether to sell the aircraft, including castle i, the 14-passenger jet that has been used to ferry key members of congress on trips to visit water projects around the nation
before the aircraft can be sold, however, congress will have to repeal a law forbidding such a sale. the prohibition was quietly enacted in december at the behest of one of those flyers, rep. tom bevill, d-ala., chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee that handles corps funding
bevill said he disagreed with the army auditors and with similar findings made over the years by the congressional general accounting office
all three planes are needed,'' bevill said. ``they do their best work when there's floods and emergencies.''
u.s. district judge emmett r. cox's handling of the 1985 vote fraud trial of three alabama civil rights activists has come under fire during a senate judiciary committee hearing on his nomination to the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals
morton stavis, president of the center for constitutional rights in new york, told the panel monday that cox displayed ``an intolerance toward and a failure to respect'' a black lawyer involved in the trial and issued rulings that raised questions about his sensitivity to racial issues
stavis' testimony marked the second time that the vote fraud trial has been used as the basis for opposing one of president reagan's judicial nominees
the trial, which civil rights groups charged was part of an effort by the reagan administration to intimidate black voters in the south, ended in innocent verdicts for all three activists
it then became the focal point of a 1986 campaign by civil rights groups against reagan's nomination of u.s. attorney jefferson b. sessions iii to a federal judgeship in south alabama
sessions, who was prosecutor at the vote fraud trial, was rejected by the judiciary committee, marking the first time that one of reagan's judicial nominees has been voted down in committee
while the sessions nomination drew opposition from a host of civil rights groups, stavis was the only witness monday who testified in opposition to cox. the committee did not vote on the nomination, but sen. howell heflin, d-ala., who presided at the hearing, predicted that cox would win senate confirmation within a month
stavis criticized cox's decision during the 1985 trial to bring criminal contempt of court charges against howard moore, a california lawyer who represented one of the activists. cox had ruled that moore's questioning of a witness violated his order barring defense attorneys from raising the issue of selective prosecution
that contempt ruling later was reversed by the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals in atlanta. stavis, who represented moore, told the judiciary committee that ``there was absolutely no foundation'' for the contempt charge
cox acknowledged monday that the appeals court had ``fairly concluded'' that he had been wrong to cite moore for contempt. ``they educated me on the law of criminal contempt,'' he said
stavis also charged that cox had shown a lack of racial sensivitity by refusing to delay the trial for two weeks so the jury could be selected from a jury pool drawn from the selma, ala., area, which had a much larger percentage of blacks than did the jury pool drawn from the mobile, ala., area
cox declined during the hearing to respond specifically to stavis' testimony about the jury selection issue. but he told reporters afterwards that racial considerations played no part in his handling of the case
the reagan administration says it won't go forward with $105 million in retaliatory sanctions against brazil at this time, citing ``some progress'' in relaxing trade barriers against u.s. computer software sales
the administration earlier this year announced that it would slap the duties on a variety of brazilian products to protest the restrictions
however, since then there has been a thaw in u.s.-brazilian relations, both on the trade and third world debt front
a new software law in brazil, which calls for a new set of regulations governing imports of foreign-made computer programs and other software, helped prompt the administration decision to delay its sanctions
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter, citing ``recent progress,'' in the dispute, said in a statement on monday: ``the united states will delay sanctions against brazil pending review of the implementing regulations for brazil's new software law
subsequent to that, we will review our options and consider what actions, if any, to take.''
the list of specific brazilian exports to be targeted had never been released, even though a preliminary list included brazilian-made shoes, aircraft, automobiles and electronics equipment
the issue of access of u.s. computer software companies to markets in brazil ``will remain a high priority for the u.s. government,'' yeutter said
recent brazilian actions, and discussions with representatives of the government of brazil, demonstrate progress on this issue,'' yeutter said. ``some of our immediate concerns have now been met.''
the new brazilian law will regulate commercial sales of all software, both domestic and foreign. it calls for new regulations to be issued by april 19
as a result, we feel it would be inappropriate and counterproductive to proceed with our previously announced plans to retaliate,'' yeutter said. ``that proposed action will be placed on hold until we have a chance to evaluate brazil's response on the software regulations.''
adding to the atmosphere of eased relations between brazil and its key trading partners has been brazil's participation in negotiations on a loan restructuring package
key portions of that pact were reached over the weekend as brazil, latin america's largest debtor nation, agreed to make a $700 million interest payment to make it current for all of 1988 and the last quarter of 1987
brazil hasn't repaid any principal on its $114 billion foreign debt since 1983. in february 1987, it decreed a moratorium on interest payments but late last year agreed to resume them
a throat operation couldn't stop katharine hepburn from making the upcoming tv film ``laura lansing slept here,'' but it wasn't an easy decision
hepburn said her problem became evident when she showed up for the first script reading last fall in vancouver, british columbia
she opened her mouth and ``no voice. total hoarse. just a rasp,'' she wrote in the march 5 issue of tv guide. ``i was thinking: do it _ don't do it. ... if i can't talk, then there is no movie _ that's a lot of people out of work.''
she identified herself as her doctor's aunt nora when she checked into vancouver general hospital, but ``everyone immediately recognized me, and they were trying not to show it.''
a day later, she found out the growth wasn't cancerous. it was ``just one of those growths that the human body throws out to torment us,'' hepburn said
he may not have been known as ``carter the magnificent'' during his presidency's trying times, but jimmy carter assumed the title temporarily during a fund-raising event here
carter donned a turban and pretended to divine the contents of sealed envelopes monday as he imitated ``carnac the magnificent,'' the character created by talk-show host johnny carson
the former president was at the crested butte ski resort briefly to help raise money for handicapped skiers. he planned to be back in plains, ga., today to meet with democratic presidential hopeful richard gephardt
former secretary of defense caspar w. weinberger is joining a law firm headed by former secretary of state william p. rogers as a washington-based specialist in international law and finance
the announcement was made monday by the 275-lawyer firm of rogers &amp; wells, whose headquarters is in new york
the firm said weinberger will not engage in any work involving the federal government, defense contracts or any other matters connected with the defense department
weinberger served as secretary of health, education and welfare and as budget director during the nixon administration. he was senior vice president and general counsel of bechtel corp. from 1975 until 1980, and became secretary of defense in 1981. he resigned from president reagan's cabinet late last year
several months ago, pulitzer prize-winning playwright and actor jason miller looked at his 80-year-old father and realized theater could benefit from the energy and experience of the elderly
miller then decided to start a theater group for senior citizens in this former coal mecca
we're talking about the vitality of senior citizens, the intelligence, the talent that's lying dormant because there hasn't been an opportunity to express themselves,'' he said
rehearsals began last week for the group's first play, ``it's a sin to tell a lie,'' written by miller, who played a priest in the movie ``the exorcist.''
senior citizens' theater should be as viable and as energetic as children's theater, but nobody has senior citizens' theater,'' said miller, winner of a 1973 pulitzer prize for ``that championship season.''
the one-act play is scheduled to open april 9 at the scranton public theater and will tour nursing homes in northeastern pennsylvania, offering senior citizens free admission, miller said
a soviet film crew is making a documentary to honor the 90th birthday of industrialist armand hammer, who has been dealing with soviet leaders since lenin
the crew from gosteleradio, the soviet union's government television company, accompanied hammer to northeastern new mexico to visit the college he funded here, the armand hammer united world college of the american west
the crew spent a couple of hours filming at the college monday before heading on to new york with hammer, who is chairman of occidental petroleum corp
gosteleradio requested the one-hour film be made in honor of hammer's birthday may 21. the documentary is slated to be broadcast the night of may 21 on soviet television
hammer first went to the soviet union in the 1920s as a physician to battle a typhus epidemic. he decided the soviets needed a trade representative more than they needed his medical skills
actor eric roberts was put on probation for six months by a judge who told him to ``stay out of trouble.''
roberts, 31, was sentenced monday for a dec. 3 incident in which he went to a woman's apartment at 2:30 a.m., pounded on the door and demanded to be let in. the woman instead called police
roberts was charged with attempted assault, resisting arrest and other lesser charges after he allegedly took a swing at one of the officers. the major charges were dropped in january, and roberts agreed to plead guilty to harassment, which is punishable by up to 15 days in jail
judge bruce allen told the actor that if he stayed out of trouble during the next six months his record for the current offense will be sealed
roberts starred in the movies ``king of the gypsies,'' ``the pope of greenwich village'' and ``star 80.''
interest rates on short-term treasury securities were mixed in the latest auction with three-month bills dropping to the lowest level since november while rates on six-month bills edged up
the treasury department sold $6.4 billion in three-month bills monday at an average discount rate of 5.62 percent, down from 5.64 percent last week. another $6.4 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.86 percent, up from 5.83 percent last week
the rates on three-month bills were the lowest since 5.49 percent on nov. 30 while the six-month bills were the highest since they averaged 6.03 percent on feb. 16
the new discount rates understate the actual return to investors _ 5.78 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,857.90 and 6.12 percent for a six-month bill selling for $9,703.70
in a separate report, the federal reserve said the average yield for one-year treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages, dropped to 6.63 percent last week, down from 6.70 percent the previous week
the cat came to stay but the capitol mice played anyway _ around an ambassador's feet
house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash., has a mouse problem
he shares it with other members of the democratic leadership who occupy offices in the oldest part of the capitol, the part that survived after the british burned the building in 1814
the mice call it home but house leaders and their staffs call it disturbing
so traps were set and baited with cheese
the mice ignored then
then foley called in reinforcements
he brought his cat to work, a feline with a proven reputation as a champion mouser
the cat moved in with the foleys a dozen years ago while they were on vacation in the caribbean
since the cat had chosen them, and not they the cat, they gave the animal an appropriate name _ ``roger the lodger.''
roger was brought in to lodge for awhile in foley's office suite on the first floor of the capitol, sharing quarters not only with the mice but with foley's dog, alice, who accompanies the majority leader to work on a daily basis
expectations ran high for roger. but the results were poor
roger the lodger bagged no mice
the mouser's failure was underscored on monday during a meeting in an adjoining office used by rep. david bonior, d-mich., the chief deputy democratic leader
bonior was conferring over coffee with jan kinast, the polish ambassador to the united states
suddenly a mouse darted out from behind a small chest
it ran across the carpet and disappeared under the conference table, literally at the startled ambassador's feet
the house leadership is looking for a new weapon in its war against mice
the senate's sergeant at arms _ henry giugni _ became an instant celebrity last week when he followed orders and arrested sen. bob packwood, r-ore
giugni's posse had packwood carried onto the senate floor to constitute a quorum so consideration could continue of a controversial campaign financing act, then besieged by a filibuster
it was not the first time a senate sergeant of arms has been the focus of attention by the senate and the press
on feb. 7, 1935, the senate voted to fire sergeant at arms david s. barry
barry's offense: the 72-year-old former journalist had written a magazine article entitled ``over the hill to demagoguery'' which he had thought would be published after he left office
but the publication date was moved up and when the article appeared it began with these words:
contrary, perhaps, to the popular belief, there are not many crooks in congress; that is out and out grafters, or those who are willing to be such
there are not many senators or representatives who sell their votes for money, and it is pretty well known who those few are
but there are many demagogues.''
senate republican leader bob dole, who recounted the incident on the senate floor recently, said the article probably would have been ignored had it been written by a journalist
but for the senate's sergeant at arms it was an entirely different matter,'' dole said. ``so the senate voted him out of office, less than a month before his term would have ended.''
it doesn't take much time. and it doesn't cost much money. and it makes somebody somewhere happy
so congress over the decades has busily subdivided the calendar into days, weeks, months and even years in honor of some historic figure, event, cause, profession or industry or thing
it was in that spirit early last month that rep. robert w. kastenmeier, d-wis., offered a resolution designating the week of oct. 30 through nov. 5 as national jukebox week
as a rich chronicler of music, culture and technology, the jukebox is without peer,'' kastenmeier informed the house. ``it has brought great joy and memories to generations of americans. its popularity is unequaled in the eyes of young and old alike.''
besides, he said, the juke box is on the advent of its centennial
the very first juke box, a wax cylinder edison phonograph fitted with a coin slot, was installed in san francisco's palais royale saloon in 1889
just the thing, the kastenmeier resolution said, to be observed ``with appropriate programs, ceremonies and activities.''
but if juke boxes bore, perhaps doll houses are the ticket
rep. robert c. smith, r-n.h., wants to designate the week of october 9 as national dollhouse week
after all, smith contended, ``about 10 percent of our population has some involvement with dollhouse and miniature collecting.''
the source of that statistic, he disclosed, is the miniatures industry association of america
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,435.90 points, up 193.09 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on tuesday
senate majority leader robert c. byrd is hinting he may delay senate consideration of the new u.s.-soviet nuclear arms reduction treaty if the white house ends u.s. military aid to insurgents in afghanistan before a complete and final soviet troop withdrawal
byrd, d-w.va., commented shortly before the senate voted 77-0 on monday to adopt a resolution urging the white house not to cut off, suspend or reduce military aid to the afghan resistance ``until it is absolutely clear that the soviets have terminated their military occupation.''
the non-binding resolution also urged formation of an interim government in kabul acceptable to the afghan resistance
byrd said the resolution is intended to ``send a clear message'' to the administration that the senate wants no part of any u.s.-soviet agreement in which u.s. aid to the afghan resistance is ended merely on moscow's promise to withdraw its troops, not on their actual removal
byrd and sens. gordon humphrey, r-n.h., and steven symms, r-idaho, took strong exception to congressional testimony last week in which robert a. peck, an assistant deputy secretary of state, said the united states would be prepared, ``if completely satisfied with the overall agreement, to prohibit u.s. military assistance to the afghan resistance.''
peck also testified last week: ``we will continue our assistance ... until that support is no longer needed. but the question of when to cut off aid is one that should be left to the president.''
symms said peck's testimony leads many to fear a ``superpower deal ... that will allow the soviets to gain politically what they could not gain on the battlefield.''
byrd said, ``i'd like to know what's in these agreements before i call up the inf (intermediate-range nuclear forces) treaty,'' byrd said
i don't want the senate kept in the dark,'' he added
the inf treaty, which calls for the elimination of medium-range nuclear missiles from europe, is under examination by the senate foreign relations committee and two other senate panels
it could reach the senate floor for action by the end of march or early april
byrd supports senate ratification of the treaty without reservations that would force its renegotiation. he said last week that includes a reservation linking implementation of the pact to complete soviet withdrawal from afghanistan
students in most other countries are far better educated in science than are american students, according to an international study that one u.s. official said emphasizes ``the troubled state of science education in the united states.''
in a report released monday by the national science foundation, u.s. students at three different grade levels all scored well behind those from most other nations, with some american 14-year-olds scoring at the level of the ``scientifically illiterate.''
for a technologically advanced country, it would appear that (in the united states) a re-examination of how science is presented and studied is required,'' said the study, which was conducted by the international association for evaluation of educational achievement, an association of research centers
erich bloch, director of the national science foundation, said of the study: ``these findings emphasize again the troubled state of science education in the united states. ... america's future as a world technological and economic leader and the quality of life we enjoy depend on confronting the real problems in science education with vigor, determination and a sense of urgency.''
the study was conducted by the international association for evaluation of educational achievement, an association of research centers. early findings, which compared the united states only with japan and england, and with partial findings from israel and sweden, were reported by the associated press in september
the comparative study was based on tests administered to 204,308 students at 7,581 schools in 24 countries between 1983 and 1986. the tests were given at three academic levels: near the end of primary grades, at about age 10; at grades eight and nine, about age 14; and in the final year of high school
among 10-year-olds, students in japan, korea and finland scored around 15.4 out of 24 possible correct answers. u.s. students scored just below the middle of the scale at 13.2
among 14-year-olds, hungary, japan and the netherlands scored at the top, while americans ranked third from last with a mean score of 16.5 out of 30 possible correct answers. the lowest-scoring quarter of this age group, the report said, ``were scientifically illiterate'' with their test scores ``at chance level.''
tests for the high school seniors were given only to those specializing in science subjects. hong kong, england and singapore scored highest, with the united states students receiving among the lowest marks
in an analysis of the u.s. results, the report said: ``the achievement of advanced science students in biology, chemistry and physics is low. the biology results are especially low.''
the study said that the united states, along with australia, canada, finland, italy and sweden, has ``many poor scoring schools and it would seem likely that the school authorities would have grounds for concern.''
secretary of education william j. bennett, responding to a report of the study, said it supports an assessment on u.s. education that his department released last week
now comes this international report card showing that compared to students in other countries, american elementary and high school students are not just in a `dead stall,' they're doing even worse,'' bennett said. ``they're in reverse and going downhill.''
the international study also compared the difference in science achievement based on gender. in grades five and nine, boys scored higher than girls in all countries. for grade 12, boys outperformed girls in biology, chemistry and physics, except in australia, hong kong and sweden, where girls had top marks in biology
owens-illinois inc. has acquired virtually all outstanding shares of brockway inc. stock to the tune of about $740 million and is on the verge of creating the nation's largest glass container company, offcials say
monday's move followed a decision by the government against appealing a court decision in favor of the merger
owens-illinois spokesman sam allen said the company bought 12,337,630 shares of common brockway stock, 98.7 percent of the outstanding shares. allen said the actual merger will likely occur in a couple of weeks, at which time the remaining shares will be purchased
robert lanigan, chairman of owens-illinois, said the merger will make the combined operations and the glass container industry ``significantly more competitive with can, plastic and other materials in the worldwide packaging business.''
susan ticknor, spokeswoman for the federal trade commission, declined to specify why the agency decided against appealing a decision by the u.s. court of appeals that, in effect, paving the way for the merger
however, ms. ticknor said the ftc has scheduled administrative hearings on potential anticompetitive effects of the merger. and she said owens-illinois could be ordered to divest itself of brockway holdings if the agency determines that the merger violates antitrust laws
the toledo, ohio, based owens-illinois proposed to buy brockway, of jacksonville, fla., last september for $60 a share
the merger will make the combined company the nation's largest manufacturer of glass containers, which are used in packaging foods and beverages. the largest producer of glass containers has been anchor glass container corp., according to the ftc
owens-illinois officials have said the only weapon the glass container industry has against plastics and metal packaging producers is competitive pricing and the merger with brockway is designed to increase productivity and lower costs
the ftc had attempted in court to block the merger, saying it might violate antitrust laws by substantially reducing competition and creating the conditions for price discrimination
however, last month u.s. district court judge joyce hens green denied the ftc's request for a preliminary injunction on the basis that the agency had failed to prove the deal would harm competition
and last friday, the appeals court sided with judge green, saying that the agency had failed to make its case
jesse jackson's surprise second-place finish in the maine democraatic caucuses was a ``breakthrough,'' proving conclusively that he has broadened his appeal, his backers say
jackson reaped 28 percent of the vote in the maine contest on sunday, on the heels of respectable showings in three other states which, like maine, all have voting age black populations of 1 percent or less
the maine results came after he spent just $13,000 in the state and campaigned there only two days. the well-funded winner, michael dukakis, is well known to maine voters as governor of nearby massachusetts, and he captured 42 percent
it shows that we can get votes in any part of the country,'' jackson said monday in pembroke, n.c. ``it shows we have the broadest base...and our campaign has the strongest appeal.''
the rainbow coalition is coming alive,'' he added, invoking the name he has given to his target constituency of all minority groups and the economically oppressed
political consultant ann lewis, an informal jackson adviser, called maine ``the most significant breakthrough state for him so far.''
bob beckel, a top political strategist for walter mondale's 1984 presidential bid, said jackson's performance is``a sign of a growing movement among non-black supporters of jackson, and for people to try to ignore it, they're making a great mistake.''
in iowa and new hampshire, jackson finished fourth out of seven contenders. in minnesota he was second with 20 percent in last week's caucuses
in maine, jackson's 28 percent contrasted to the 1 percent that he got when he ran in 1984
campaign manager gerald austin said he knew his candidate would do well in maine and the goal was to come in second. but jackson's margin, well above the single-digit results of the other democrats, was better than he had anticipated
he credited it to organizing by students and dedicated volunteers _ the campaign had only two paid staff people in maine
it was basically, totally indigenous and independent,'' he said of the maine organization. ``they did things on their own.''
jackson's core support came out of the university communities in orono and portland, and striking paper workers in jay, he said
he carried portland and another of the state's largest cities, bangor
jackson bought $10,000 worth of tv ads in the days before the caucuses, and $2,000 on radio. the 10-second tv spots showed the winning u.s. goal in the 1980 olypic hockey game against the soviets, with an announcer saying as jackson's picture appeared: ``just like in the olympics, one man can make a difference.''
beckel, who called jackson ``one of the best hidden political stories of the year,'' commented also, ``people don't want to buy the notion that jesse jackson has got a message that people listen to and that has begun to rise above his blackness ... somebody in this party has to to recognize that this is a significant guy in the party.''
political analyst william schneider, however, questioned whether jackson's white votes are really the downtrodden whom he has targeted. he cited exit polls from iowa and new hampshire showing a good portion of his votes came from upscale, well-educated liberals, ``the radical chic.''
but he also noted that jackson has a strong message that appeals to many democrats
there is no other candidate in the race who really stands for the old politics ... what i would call democratic fundamentalism,'' as espoused by the late sen. hubert humphrey, sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., and new york gov. mario cuomo, said schneider
beckel said people ``consistently underestimate'' jackson
he's the most charismatic candidate in the field. he's got a message that's concise, that does not change from place to place.''
maine democratic chairman rick barton said timing was a key for jackson
jackson's successful appearance at the university of maine in orono on feb. 11, just after iowa's caucuses and just before the new hampshire primary, was ``just the right time ... when maine democrats were starting to lock in,'' he said
barton said jackson probably also picked up about 5 percentage points from people who defected from the flagging campaigns of paul simon and hart
public television stations are offering gavel-to-gavel coverage of gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial, and several radio stations are covering portions of the proceedings
public stations kuat-tv in tucson and kaet-tv in phoenix started providing full live coverage when the trial began monday
kfyi, a phoenix news and talk radio station, put together a telephone network to feed continuous live coverage to stations in tucson, flagstaff, yuma, bullhead city, lake havasu city, sierra vista, prescott valley, window rock and payson. some of the stations were carrying only part of the proceedings, however
none of arizona's commercial television stations carried gavel-to-gavel coverage, but many chipped in to set up pool coverage with the public stations, in which all participants are entitled to broadcast parts of the live proceedings or use excerpts on later news programs
the pool costs could exceed $100,000, said jim willi of kpnx-tv in phoenix
president reagan has issued an early st. patrick's day message, saying he wanted to acknowledge ``the world of debt we owe to the irish people.''
although his message came two and a half weeks ahead of time, reagan on monday took note of the march 17 commemoration, saying the irish people ``have created and perpetuated a unique heritage of faith and freedom, of humor and hope, of scholarship and sanctity and sacrifice.''
reagan, who is of irish ancestry, went on to say:
with faith and fearlessness, st. patrick brought christianity to ireland a millennium and a half ago. the annals reveals the irish people's eagerness to embrace the faith and to keep it; that trait remains to this day, a tribute to the apostle of ireland and to his flock in every generation
may america and ireland always cherish each other and the kinship in which we hold st. patrick's day.'' impeachment-watching</head>
it's a far cry from the capitol, but it's got most of the comforts of home
impeached gov. evan mecham still goes to work early and stays late. but his office-in-exile is in a house he once lived in, across an alley from a hay barn in the far reaches of this phoenix suburb
his days are filled with meetings and phone calls, he says, leaving not much time to follow his televised impeachment trial, which opened monday in the state senate
no, i didn't watch,'' mecham said. ``i've been busy. i've got a lot to do.''
mecham met with supporters and attended a meeting downtown. he took time to hold a news conference in what used to be a sunken living room. but he didn't hang on every vote in the senate, which on monday decided the house's impeachment document was sufficient for trial
frankly, i haven't tracked the vote and i haven't tried to interpret anything,'' he said
his paid staff of five worked on one side of the 7,000-square-foot ranch-style house while volunteers worked on the other side to raise money for the governor's legal defense and recall election campaign
plans were being readied for a wednesday night rally. some 300 phone calls come in each day, spokesman tanner brown said
the house was converted into office space before mecham was impeached feb. 5 and replaced by acting gov. rose mofford, the former secretary of state
outside, a simple sign identifies the ``governor evan mecham headquarters,'' and adds, ``office space available. inquire within.'' the building sits between a farm full of sheep, chickens and roosters, and a mormon church
police sometimes guard the front door, and a security system is in place. monday's proceedings made the switchboard light up, a receptionist said, including a series of obscene phone calls
mecham said he won't venture downtown to the senate unless it's necessary
when my attorney tells me i should be there, i'll be there,'' he said
he said he was disappointed the senate chose not to grant requests for a delay in the trial since his new chief counsel has been on the case less than a week, but was confident in his defense
we have no choice. we have a time to get ready by,'' he said
i feel confident we'll be able to get our case out and i think we'll be successful,'' the governor said. ``if the decision is made on the evidence, i expect to get 29 votes.''
one member of the 30-member chamber is absent from the trial because of illness. a two-thirds vote is needed to convict mecham
mecham was impeached on allegations of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from a special fund and attempting to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat involving a state official
he also has been indicted in state district court on six felony counts involving the $350,000 loan, which amounted to about a third of his campaign funds, and faces a criminal trial march 22. mecham also faces a recall election may 17
prime minister margaret thatcher has turned distinctly chilly toward mikhail s. gorbachev ahead of this week's nato summit here, apparently worried the soviet leader may be wooing the west too well
the russian bear was easier to deal with when it looked more like a bear than it does now,'' aides quoted mrs. thatcher as telling a private meeting of nato ambassadors on feb. 17
the nicer the russians get, the more dangerous they are.''
her remarks underlined the dilemma of the right-wing british leader who has developed a warm personal relationship with gorbachev
she now appears in a bind over how to keep encouraging gorbachev's internal reforms without also encouraging sentiment for a further erosion in nuclear weapons and military spending in western europe on grounds the soviet union is no longer much of a threat
thatcher aides deny she has done a u-turn on the soviet leader she once hailed as someone ``i can do business with,'' and who gave her a red carpet welcome on an official visit in moscow last spring
but british officials acknowledge alarm over gorbachev's relatively benign image in the west
lord carrington, nato secretary-general, indicated that gorbachev may succeed in dividing the 16-nation north atlantic treaty organization by generating complacency
it is rather a curious paradox that it's much easier to hold the alliance together when they're frightened than when they're not,'' carrington said in a recent british broadcasting corp. radio interview
but the fact still remains that there is an enormous military potential on the other side of the eastern border.''
polls indicate a more relaxed attitude among west europeans to the neighboring communist giant under the urbane gorbachev
a survey by datagroep of the netherlands among 6,064 people in nine west european countries last spring indicated that nearly two-thirds thought that public views of the soviet union had recently grown warmer
mrs. thatcher, who has been among gorbachev's most outspoken admirers in the west, appears to have helped the shift in public opinion
after her moscow visit last spring a gallup sounding reported that 58 percent of britons thought the soviet union ``really wanted to be friendly with the west.'' just 33 percent thought soviet advances should be treated ``with the greatest suspicion.''
britain's economist weekly commented: ``could that in part be a result of the flattering attentions the prime minister has been happy to receive from mr. gorbachev?''
the debate-a-day democratic presidential field was scattered across the super tuesday landscape today after a forum in which rep. richard gephardt was singled out for attacks on his trade policy, tax vote and the contributions he has taken from special interests
in one of the liveliest debates of the campaign, the democrats spelled out differences on trade, taxes and foreign debt with bare-knuckled zest, sparing not even the moderator who was chided by jesse jackson for asking ``a race-based question.''
after the third democratic debate in as many days, the contenders were campaigning in states that will hold primaries or caucuses on march 8, the most delegate-rich day in the history of presidential politics
shortly after monday's debate ended, gephardt flew south to meet with former president jimmy carter in georgia and receive the endorsement of two former governors of south carolina
sen. albert gore jr. was campaigning in virginia and kentucky; jackson in maryland and north carolina; gov. michael dukakis in maryland, former colorado sen. gary hart in north carolina; and illinois sen. paul simon in the state of washington
gephardt took heat for his acceptance of campaign contributions from political action committees, for his vote for president reagan's 1981 tax cut and for his trade policy
when dukakis criticized gephardt for taking pac contributions, the missouri congressman retorted that to suggest that members of congress would ``take direction on how to vote is an affront.''
then gephardt said he was certain the massachusetts governor accepted contributions from people who did business with his state, which prompted dukakis to reply, ``i am not running around the country beating up on the establishment.''
gephardt said he often got contributions from people even though they opposed his position on individual issues
jackson interjected that ``lobbyists would lose their jobs if they gave money continuously against the interests of who they were working for.''
do you think the reagan-gephardt tax bill of 1981 was fair?'' asked gore
the senator from tennessee kept repeating the question and gephardt kept saying, ``are you finished?''
finally, gephardt said he thought the bill was fair because it cut taxes for middle-income families
when gore asked his question once again, gephardt snapped, ``can you hear, al?''
during an exchange on how to deal with mexico's foreign debt, dukakis said the oil import fee supported by gephardt would ruin the mexican economy
are you running for president of mexico or america?'' asked the congressman
if i'm president of the united states, i'm going to pay attention to that country,'' responded dukakis
twice, hart interjected, ``let the record show, gov. dukakis didn't answer the question.''
simon passed up the debate, which was held on the campus of the college of william and mary and was sponsored by the democratic leadership council, an organization of democratic officials who banded together out of concern over what they saw as the party's leftward drift and the failure of its presidential candidates to appeal to voters in the south and west
one of the most dramatic exchanges took place when moderator judy woodruff, chief washington correspondent of the public broadcasting service macneil-lehrer news hour, asked gore why he hadn't been ``nearly as vocal talking about the differences between yourself and rev. jackson. would that be because you don't want to offend his black supporters?''
gore replied that ``the reason is he doesn't have a record to talk about in public life.''
gore went on to say he had disagreed with jackson on issues such as defense spending
jackson was bristling and he turned to woodruff and said: ``that is a race-based question. ..
i am a bona fide democrat. i have registered more democratic voters than anyone on this stage. i am the reason why some democrats are on this stage, because of that work. ... my race is self-evident and my leadership is obvious.''
the stock market has jumped to its highest level since the october market meltdown
analysts said there was no major economic news to account for the burst of stock-buying on monday that sent the widely watched dow jones industrial average up by 48.41 points to 2,071.62. but they said the market continued to be buoyed by the brisk pace of takeover bids in recent weeks
on the new york stock exchange, seven stocks rose for every two that fell. investors traded 236.05 million shares on the nyse
the previous highest closing since the oct. 19 crash was 2,051.89 on jan. 7. the dow industrials finished february some 333 points above the close on black monday, when the dow plunged a record 508 points
twenty-one people died of food poisoning in the the central java district of banyumas after eating fermented soybean cake, a health ministry official said today
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 40 others remained hospitalized in serious condition
the officials said the dead and hospitalized were among 260 people in the village of dermaji, 300 miles southeast of jakarta, who required medical treatment over the past two weeks after consuming the cake
china today declined comment on vietnamese charges that chinese troops had landed on two tiny contested islands in the south china sea
vietnam's communist party daily, nhan dan, said friday that chinese troops had landed on two coral reefs in the spratly chain that are claimed by vietnam and china as well as malaysia, the philippines and taiwan
vietnam calls the islands truong sa, and china refers to them as the nansha archipelago
china's foreign ministry, asked to comment on vietnam's allegations, said a statement it made on feb. 22 ``has already made clear our consistent position.'' that statement said earlier vietnamese claims that four chinese warships had ``provoked and obstructed'' operations of its cargo vessels on jan. 31 off the spratly group were ``brazen charges.''
the two nations, which have occasional armed clashes along their tense border, also both claim the paracel island group to the north of the spratlys. large oil deposits are said to be located in the vicinity
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev will pay an official visit to yugoslavia this month, according to the official tass news agency
tass, in its announcement monday, gave no details of the communist party chief's schedule, and said only that the visit would take place in ``mid-march.''
leonid brezhnev was the last kremlin leader to go to the non-aligned communist nation. he attended the 1980 funeral of the late yugoslav leader, josip broz tito
the defense ministry claimed 229 contra rebels and 90 soldiers loyal to the leftist sandinista government were killed in 4,801 combat engagements in february
a statement issued monday night said 39 civilians also were killed, 55 injured and 115 kidnapped during the period
the statement said u.s. air force planes violated nicaraguan airspace 13 times. it said other planes, mostly leaving honduras to resupply the contra rebels, were detected 35 times in february
the contra rebels, trained and supplied by the united states, have been fighting to oust the sandinistas since november 1981. deletes extraneous words in 4th graf, ``john a. ...'', corrects agency title in 9th graf, ``despite the...,'' and corrects 12th graf, ``the old..., to show that 9 percent is component of 14 percent figure.</note>
the environmental protection agency says it will continue to focus on asbestos hazards in schools even though an agency study estimates that the problem exists in other buildings to which the public has access
the agency on monday sent to congress a report calling for stepped-up research, training and enforcement on the problems of asbestos in non-school buildings, but no new regulatory requirements
the successful implementation of the school program should remain our first concern, and we all have much to learn from it,'' wrote epa administrator lee m. thomas in his cover letter to congress. ``i fear a major initiative in other buildings could do more harm that good.''
john a. moore, assistant administrator for pesticides and toxic substances, said at a news conference that the agency is hampered by limited resources
the report dealt with so-called ``friable'' asbestos, which will crumble under slight pressure and throw fibers into the air. the fibers can cause lung cancer, cancer of the lining of the chest or abdominal cavity and asbestosis
asbestos-containing material that is damaged, such as insulated pipe wrappings and tiles, can release the fibers
the service employees international union said epa should be writing regulations or seeking legislation to give those workers the right to know what they're dealing with. the union has 150,000 of its 850,000 members in building service jobs
the agency's report contained new information about a still-unreleased survey of 43 federal buildings containing friable asbestos
despite the condition of the asbestos, the average concentration in the air of the buildings was 560 fibers per cubic yard, about 0.4 percent of the workplace concentration permitted by the occupational safety and health administration
that concentration is about 10 times the typical outdoor background level, and epa said such a difference from background could be the result of chance alone _ that the buildings might not be significantly contaminated at all
the report also contained old and new information from a 1984 epa survey of 231 buildings, a survey designed to be representative of some 3.6 million buildings to which the public has access. elementary and secondary schools, state and local government buildings and apartments with fewer than 10 units were excluded
the old information, reported in 1985, was that an estimated 20 percent of buildings contained friable asbestos. the new information further broke down that estimate to show that 14 percent of the buildings contain damaged friable asbestos. that category was further broken down to show that 9 percent of the buildings had seriously damaged asbestos
epa said too few buildings were sampled for the figures to be precise
epa said the 20 percent likely could be anywhere from 14 percent to 27 percent; the 14 percent could be anywhere from 6 percent to 22 percent; and the 9 percent could be zero to 19 percent
rep. james florio, d-n.j., whose pressure has helped win passage of existing asbestos-in-schools programs, said in a statement, ``everything in this report points toward aggressive federal intervention except epa's recommendations, which amount to nothing more than sweeping this alarming problem under the rug.''
the agency has said about 35,000 school buildings, roughly 35 percent of the total, contained friable asbestos in 1984. under new epa regulations required by congress school districts must develop asbestos management plans, with the advice of certified experts, by october 1988 and start carrying them out in july 1989
epa said the school program will cost $3 billion, and a comparable program for buildings to which the public has access would cost $51 billion
a bomb apparently detonated by remote control exploded today near a bus carrying military personnel, damaging the bus and nearby homes but causing no injuries, police said
the blast occurred at 6:10 a.m. in benoni, about 20 miles east of johannesburg. it sent shrapnel against the bus, collapsed the ceilings of two nearby homes and shattered the windows of other houses, police said
an air force spokesman, commandant koos smit, said the bus was en route to pretoria, with 18 army, air force and medical personnel on board
there was no claim of responsibility, and police made no accusations
authorities have blamed the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement for many previous bomb attacks, including a remote-control blast that killed four policemen in johannesburg last year
by law and custom, white-led south africa's apartheid policy establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the penalties for violating government safety laws has not kept up with inflation and has pulled the enforcement teeth from many of the laws by reducing the impact of fines, according to a coalition of consumer groups
penalties for violating various health and safety laws have remained essentially unchanged over the years, while inflation has reduced the value of the amounts involved, the consumer federation of america and the u.s. public interest research group said monday in a report
letting civil penalties be eroded by inflation operates as if there were a built-in depreciation schedule in our key health and safety statutes,'' said michael waldman of the group public citizen's congress watch, in a statement released with the study
as one example the study cited the occupational safety and health act of 1970 retains its original penalties of $1,000 per violation and $10,000 for failure to provide a safe workplace. to keep place with inflation these would have to increase to $2,970 and $29,700, the report said
president reagan says he hopes the summer olympics in seoul, south korea, will be incident-free and that he has confidence in newly inaugurated president roh tae woo
in responses to questions submitted by the south korean newspaper, dong-a ilbo, reagan said a smoothly run olympics competition in september ``is in everyone's interests.''
the prospect of north korea, or anyone else's, attempts to disrupt the games through violence is a danger that we and the soviets can agree to work against.''
we hope that moscow will use its close relations with pyongyang to urge moderation and to encourage the resumption of direct north-south contacts on practical ways to reduce tension,'' the president said. ``it is time for the north to eschew violence and get down to the serious business of resuming dialogue with seoul.''
people in other countries are becoming less willing to lend money to the united states, according to the head of the international monetary fund
i have looked at a very long historical set of figures,'' said michel camdessus, the fund's managing director. ``and i have to tell you that there are no precedents. each time similar imbalances have been... reduced, it was through recession ..
our latest projections suggest that, on present policies and exchange rates, the imbalances would still continue to be very large over the medium term,'' he said monday to a conference sponsored by the overseas development council, a private study group concerned with problems of the third world
for some time, the growth of u.s. debt has not been matched by the willingness of business people in other countries to lend more, he said
the congressional joint economic committee has predicted that u.s. debt would reach about $400 billion at the end of last year. it is growing at about $150 billion annually
a0664 -----
pentagon scientists say they are more confident that they can defeat attempts to fool a missile defense by using decoy warheads following a recent star wars space experiment
lt. gen. james a. abrahamson, the air force general in charge of the strategic defense initiative organization, said monday the so-called delta 181 space experiment conducted three weeks ago had provided a ``tremendous amount of data'' that already was expanding scientific understanding of how objects look as they travel through space
that, in turn, will be crucial to devising infrared, radar, laser radar and other types of sensors that can tell the difference between a real nuclear warhead and a fake one traveling through space, abrahamson said at a pentagon briefing
while months if not years of research are still ahead, ``i think all of our evidence, so far ... is that, yes, we should be able to find effective ways to discriminate'' between decoy and real warheads, he said
the three-star general also acknowledged, however, that budget cuts imposed by congress this year have slowed the star wars program by at least a year and possibly more. the reagan administration had wanted to spend $5.2 billion on research this year, but received $3.5 billion. interviewed declined to give their full names. pickup 9th graf pvs, ``but the...'' ^an ap extra</note>
three months of violence in the occupied west bank and gaza strip have led to a fundamental change in the attitude of palestinians, particularly the young
the new aggressiveness and self-confidence spawned by the uprising could bode ill for israel's future
after two decades of israeli rule viewed by most arabs as harsh, unjust and capricious, residents in the territories have discovered they can to some extent move events. their outrage, their stones and bottles, have drawn an international response
it is a result of 20 years of humiliating measures,'' said sumeye naser, a biology professor at bir zeit university in the west bank. ``now, they all feel they have nothing to lose.''
the effect is most evident among those born after the 1967 war, when israel seized the west bank and gaza. those young people have never known anything but israeli occupation. at the barricades of stone and burning tires throughout the occupied lands the spearhead is the teen-ager
youths throw stones and taunt the soldiers, daring them to retaliate. other boys so young they can't possibly understand the political implications of what they are doing boldy confront tear gas and guns, stone cars, wave v-signs and outlawed palestinian flags
in the west bank, in the village of bir zeit west of ramallah, a teen-ager named ahmed loitered near the post office with a group of friends, waiting for something to happen
i hope they come,'' he said of the israeli army. ``i would like to fight them. i'd be happy to sacrifice my life.'' he and other palestinians interviewed declined to give their full names, saying they feared arrest for rioting or israeli reprisals against their families
but the movement is not exclusively young. talks with scores of palestinians in the territories reveal an almost universal willingness to push the confrontation to the limit
we have to depend on ourselves to liberate our own land,'' said khaled, an elderly man hobbling on his cane at the rear of a demonstration in the village of kfar naami. ``we have reached this conclusion, and i am ready to give my life.''
the killings, the beatings, the tear gas attacks, the broken bones inflicted by the israelis in an effort to stifle the uprising have had the opposite effect, instilling a sense of defiance among palestinians, and in some, a desire for revenge
also evident is a new feeling of self-esteem among a people treated as second-class citizens for so long that they came to believe they were second class. by going to the barricades, by participating in the general strike, by demonstrating, they are asserting a newfound aggressiveness. and they are seeing results
secretary of state george p. shultz's peace mission to the middle east was sparked by the violence. with elections planned in the united states and israel this year, it is unlikely any peacemaking efforts would have been undertaken without the direct pressure of the mounting death toll and israeli crackdown
they have recognized something about themselves,'' said ron verber, education director of the golda meir association, a group that promotes arab-jewish coexistence
they look at themselves differently now,'' verber said. ``they see independence from israel as something solid. they feel they can do something about it
a year ago, this feeling didn't exist. from that point of view, it is the point of no return. we will not be able to put things back they way they were before. they have made a statement.''
for years, inhabitants of the territories have looked for leadership to the palestine liberation organization, which sought to control the struggle from the outside, limiting the locals to a secondary role
the locals saw the situation as out of their hands, beyond their control. the plo remains a potent force in the occupied lands. but the uprising has taught local palestinians that they themselves can strike directly at the israelis. they are no longer awed by the israeli military might that for so long cowed them into submission
the uprising has given us a sense of pride and a lack of fear,'' said hammad, another west bank villager. ``we think we can control our future.''
for years, the israelis kept palestinians under control with a minimal force _ less than 1,000 soldiers in the west bank, for example. now, although authorities refuse to reveal numbers, it is said there are almost as many soldiers in the west bank as were needed to seize it in 1967
when the demonstrations began, they were mostly in the large towns and cities and in the refugee camps. now, they have spread to the smallest villages
nobody knows what the aftermath is going to be,'' said munir naser, a professor at bir zeit university. ``there are darker aspects. the people who have been beaten or buried, people who have had their hands broken, will have psychological problems
i think they are going to wait for the first opportunity to take revenge.''
late-afternoon dollar purchases by speculators pushed the u.s. currency higher in uninspired tokyo trading today, while stock prices rose in unusually heavy trading on the tokyo stock exchange, dealers said
the dollar opened at 128.45 yen, up 0.33 yen from monday's close, following gains on overseas markets. it then edged up in afternoon trading to close the day at 128.63 yen, up 0.51 yen. spot volume totaled a moderate $4.7 billion
despite the large day-to-day rise in the dollar's value, traders said there was little news that was influencing trading in the u.s. currency
the actual range in trading during the day wasn't very great, only about 0.2 yen,'' said a trader at a tokyo commercial bank who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``most of the increase was due to speculators trying to cover dollar-short positions in the late afternoon.''
the 225-share nikkei stock average, which ended 13 consecutive days of gains with a decline of 42.06 points monday, rose 193.09 points, or 0.8 percent, to finish the day at 25,435.90
stocks in many sectors rose, with trading in the market's first section an exceptionally heavy 1.6 billion shares, the highest so far this year
the second-section index also rose, gaining 1.56 points to hit an all-time high of 2,927.31
dealers said stocks were spurred upward by a surge on wall street on monday that pushed the dow jones industrial average up 48.41 points to 2,071.61, its highest level since last year's market crash
but they said the market received additional impetus from bullishness resulting from favorable japanese economic trends
lately, the tokyo market has been acting more independently of wall street,'' said michio katsumata of nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage. ``stocks in tokyo are being buoyed by predictions of higher japanese corporate profits in march. also, the large amount of capital in circulation is boosting the market, resulting in an excess of buy orders over sell orders.''
the announcement today that japan's unemployment rate in january rose 0.1 percent from december had little impact on the market, traders said. january's 2.7 percent rate was down from 3.0 percent for the same month last year
the winter olympics on television and a drop in the number of new movies contributed to a sluggish weekend at the box office. ``good morning, vietnam'' was the no. 1 film for the seventh week
the openings weren't strong and the olympics did very well in the ratings, particularly on sunday. the box office was hurt on sunday,'' said john krier of exhibitor relations co., which compiles the weekly turnstile figures
good morning, vietnam,'' which got robin williams an oscar nomination for his portrayal of a raucous saigon disc jockey, earned $5.2 million for a nine-week total of $78.5 million. in second place was roman polanski's ``frantic'' with $4.35 million in ticket sales
it was another good week for disney studios, with three movies remaining in the top 5
in addition to ``good morning, vietnam,'' disney-touchstone films has the sidney poitier movie ``shoot to kill'' in third with a $3.5 million take and ``three men and a baby,'' fifth in its 13th week of release
the offbeat romantic film ``moonstruck'' was fourth with $3.3 million
the only other new entry in the top 10 was ``night in the life of jimmy reardon,'' a teen movie starring river phoenix. it earned $2.7 million in its first week, to place sixth
action jackson'' was seventh with $2.4 million, ``broadcast news'' was eighth with $1.349 million, ``she's having a baby'' was ninth with $1.340 million and the creepy ``the serpent and the rainbow'' was 10th with $1.32 million
studios use the weekend box office to determine how well a movie is doing
here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by exhibitor relations co., with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater screens, average per screen, total gross, number of weeks in release and estimated production costs. films where costs are not available are maked n-a
1. ``good morning, vietnam,'' disney-touchstone, $5.23 million, 1,598 screens, $3,275 per screen, $78.49 million, nine weeks, $21 million
2. ``frantic,'' warner bros., $4.35 million, 1,101 screens, $3,960 per screen, $4.35 million, one week, n-a
3. ``shoot to kill,'' disney-touchstone, $3.51 million, 1,482 screens, $2,371 per screen, $16.92 million, three weeks, n-a
4. ``moonstruck,'' mgm-ua, $3.37 million, 1,178 screens, $2,867 per screen, $41.2 million, 10 weeks, $17 million
5. ``three men and a baby,'' disney-touchstone, $2.86 million, 1,615 screens, $1,773 per screen, $140.34 million, 13 weeks, $18 million
6. ``night in the life of jimmy reardon,'' 20th century-fox, $2.73 million, 881 screens, $3,107 per screen, $2.73 million, one week, n-a
7. ``action jackson,'' lorimar, $2.43 million, 1,243 screens, $1,956 per screen, $13.51 million, three weeks, n-a
8. ``broadcast news,'' 20th century-fox, $1.35 million, 826 screens, $1,634 per screen, $42.52 million, 10 weeks, $15 million
9. ``she's having a baby,'' paramount, $1.34 million, 1,009 screens, $1,328 per screen, $12.44 million, three weeks, n-a
10. ``the serpent and the rainbow,'' universal, $1.32 million, 874 screens, $1,520 per screen, $16.52 million, three weeks, $8 million
a rapidly growing number of u.s. college students are studying abroad, especially in great britain, according to a new study
in 1985-86, 48,483 students took courses for academic credit in foreign schools, according to latest figures released monday by the institute for international education, the nation's largest higher education exchange agency
in 1982-83, the most recent previous study, 27,145 u.s. students studied abroad, said edrice howard, iie's senior publications editor
the survey was conducted by mail last year to 2,896 accredited u.s. colleges and universities, of which 1,898 reported students earning academic credit for study abroad
the study did not explain the rise in popularity of foreign study. but administrators on u.s. college campuses said that at least som students may be finding that study overseas is economical compared with the more expensive u.s. schools where tuitions have been soaring throughout the 1980s
at beaver college in glenside, pa., a school noted for study-abroad programs that students from some 225 u.s. colleges participate in, president bette landman said she believed the increase stemmed from ``an increasing sensitivity among students to foreign study, not only to help their careers, but especially in the last year or two, to the kinds of understandings we as world citizens must bring to our lives.''
the school is sending over 1,700 students from u.s. campuses to study in the british isles and vienna this year, landman said, compared with about 750 students in 1980-81
at northern illinois university, where the numbers of students in overseas programs have risen at least 10 percent in that period, orville jones, assistant dean of international programs said that as more students have traveled during their high school years, the thought of studying overseas is no longer as strange or frightening
the survey found that 76.8 percent of u.s. students abroad were studying in western european countries
the most popular single country, great britain, attracted 29.3 percent of all students studying abroad, followed by france with 13.7 percent, spain with 8.8 percent, italy 7.8 percent, and west germany 6.1 percent
latin america attracted 7 percent, with smaller percentages studying in asia, the middle east, eastern europe and africa
nearly 90 percent of the students were in programs sponsored by u.s. colleges and universities, the survey found. the most popular field of study was liberal arts, with 18.2 percent, followed by foreign language with 16.7 percent
almost two-thirds, or 63.8 percent, of u.s. students abroad were female, according to the report
park west high school, where book bags have been known to contain machetes and switchblades, is the kind of school that prompted the city's new chancellor to declare that public education is on trial here
richard green, the former minneapolis school superintendent who begins work today as head of the nation's largest school system, soon will have an invitation to see park west for himself
senior class officers want him to speak at graduation, and their letter asks, ``why would a chancellor want to link himself to the so-called `worst school in manhattan'?''
their answer: ``to send a signal to the media and to the public that park west is a school worthy of respect.''
the 10-year-old, fortress-like concrete structure in the section once known as hell's kitchen lost most claims to respectability five weeks ago, when a state education department team suspended a routine inspection
the reviewers said administrators were unable to provide them with basic records for test scores, attendance and promotions. they also cited ``chaotic'' conditions, including the stabbing of a student just outside the building _ the second in as many days
the school was overrun by groups of students, split along racial lines, at battle with each other,'' said charles carpenter, a department spokesman. in a gym class, students ``were just running around with no easily identifiable teacher or sign of organized activity.''
under a new, interim principal, conditions have improved. security has been tightened, enrollment limited, tutoring increased and student activities added
twelve teachers patrol the school's hallways at a time, and students must display their schedule card at the door before they are allowed to leave early. visitors must provide identification, sign in and sign out
even so, almost a third of the 2,500 students are absent each day, and half of those who do come are late. more than half fail at least one subject. so many drop out that seniors account for only 7 percent of the enrollment
some students stay home out of fear of gangs outside the school, and dozens more have transferred, including the nephew of the parents' association vice president
he was failing two classes because he was leaving early to avoid the scene at the end of the school day,'' said barbara lowe-tabman. ``kids say they will not wear nice clothes to school because they'll be stolen.''
some teachers told a reporter for the new york times they believed a majority of students carry weapons. a veteran guidance counselor said some parents encourage children to carry them for protection
although the vast majority of teachers and administrators are white, principal eileen petruzillo says she knows of only one white student. relations have been tense between some groups of black, puerto rican, dominican and haitian students
the school's problems began to surface in december, when a group of hispanic bilingual education students staged a sit-in to protest attacks
asked at that time about violence, principal edward morris said, ``kids have been bringing weapons to school for years. it's almost a habit.'' a month later, after a study by a board of education team, the 66-year-old morris requested reassignment
some students feel park west is not that bad. eric vasquez, a college-bound senior, said the high schools his brothers attended make park west sound tame. ``it's a city high school,'' he shrugged
park west's problems are not unique in a system of 936,000 students, between a third and half of whom drop out before graduation. in the 1986-87 school year, more than 9,700 violent incidents were reported, about 3,500 of them ``serious,'' such as assaults and robberies
the state plans to resume its review of park west. if conditions have not improved, carpenter said, administrators will be told that ``if they don't clean up their act, the school will be closed down.''
after being named chancellor in january, green said he rejected the idea that new york's schools are ``failed institutions,'' but said ``public education is on trial'' here
he faces a system full of emerging or potential park wests. but solutions, says petruzillo, cannot be uniformly imposed from board of education headquarters ``because each school is different. you can't replicate a success in one school at another.''
at least, she said, ``dr. green is coming to a city that is ready for change. he's going to have a very interesting time.''
members of dartmouth college's afro-american society planned more protests this week after a black professor came under renewed attack from a conservative student newspaper
the dispute between the dartmouth review and music professor william cole threatened to reignite tensions that shattered the ivy league campus after a january 1986 sledgehammer attack by review members on anti-apartheid shanties on the college green
the independent weekly's editor, christopher baldwin, who also was involved in the shanty attack, faces college disciplinary charges with three other review members stemming from a confrontation with cole last week after the paper printed a cover story questioning his competence
cole had sued the newspaper for libel for a january 1983 article that said he ``looks like a used brillo pad'' and called his music course ``the most outrageous'' on campus. cole dropped the suit in 1985 and received no damages. he and the newspaper each claimed vindication
a member of the afro-american society, sophomore kimberly robinson, said monday the newspaper's new attacks were ``obviously racially motivated.''
about 250 students held a rally monday in front of the college administration building, and robinson said the afro-american society planned to start a boycott today of hanover businesses that advertise in the review
the group also planned a march down dartmouth's ``fraternity row'' wednesday night and a rally with students from other area colleges thursday
robinson said members of afro-american society also met twice monday with dartmouth president james freedman to detail allegations of other recent racial incidents on campus
in its cover story two weeks ago, the review revived charges that cole is incompetent and printed excerpts from a transcript of one of his classes that week
the story also leveled criticisms at an english professor who is white. baldwin said both stories originated from complaints to the newspaper by students in the classes
baldwin denied the article was racially motivated and said the review is the victim of a ``witch hunt'' as it tries to root out incompetence at dartmouth
he said he and two review colleagues, with a fourth as an observer, approached cole after his class thursday to advise him that he could publish an unedited response in the newspaper, but also to seek his explanation for remarks about the review he allegedly made during a class
baldwin said an ``altercation'' ensued. the next day, the review published on its cover a picture of cole during the incident and a story about it
dartmouth spokesman alex huppe said baldwin and the other three students face college charges of disorderly conduct, harassment and violation of the right to privacy because of the confrontation
to have four students exercise their will over the institution, we're not going to let four students do that,'' said huppe. the four are scheduled to appear before a disciplinary board next tuesday
cole could not be reached for comment. he did not return a message left on his telephone answering machine monday night
baldwin was among a dozen students involved in a pre-dawn sledgehammer attack on symbolic anti-apartheid shanties set up by student protesters in january 1986. after a series of hearings and appeals, he was sentenced to serve 180 hours of community service
the shanty attack sparked sit-ins and protests that continued all semester and led to a one-day moratorium on classes for discussions of racism. failing</head>
the reagan administration's war on drugs has been little more than a skirmish that failed to stem the movement of drugs across u.s. borders, says the head of a task force of prosecutors
the federal government, despite all the talk, has failed to stop the drug trafficking across the borders,'' state's attorney richard daley of chicago told the national district attorney's association's annual conference monday. ``and it's increasing each year. it's not going down.''
daley, head of the association's drug control committee, said drug enforcement administration border patrols capture only 15 percent of the illegal drugs coming into the united states, while marijuana and cocaine worth $130 billion a year is entering from latin american countries
daley also said the federal government is not properly funding local efforts to prosecute criminals as promised when the war on drugs was declared
i don't think it's a war on drugs. i think it's only been skirmishes,'' daley said. ``they don't really have a national policy. that's where it fails.''
when the reagan administration first attacked drug use in america, it set aside $225 million to help local prosecutors, who handle at least 95 percent of the drug cases in the u.s., daley said
but this year funding was cut to $70 million, although the drug problem is getting worse and more violent, he said
the federal government should put its money where its mouth is,'' said daley, the son of the late chicago mayor richard daley. ``we local prosecutors are on the offensive and we need federal help
the drug people are going to corrupt this country more and more. and you're going to see more violence. you're just seeing the beginning.''
the association delegates approved four resolutions dealing with drug enforcement, including one urging federal funding for local anti-drug programs to be reinstated to ``adequate levels.''
they called for combining state and federal efforts to block the importation of illegal drugs into the united states
a third resolution asked the internal revenue service to channel its efforts toward helping ``prevent drug dealers from enjoying the profits of their illegal activity.''
the association also asked for a federal program to help fund the construction of county and state prisons to house the increased number of convicted drug offenders
daley said the idea of educating the public to ``just say no'' has gone far enough and the concentration should be placed on people who have said yes to drugs for years
i'm not a social worker and i'm not a teacher,'' daley said. ``i'm a prosecutor.'' commoners</head>
andrew and sarah, the duke and duchess of york, transformed into andy and fergie, the down-home celebrities, snacking at a supermarket deli, decorating a cake and shaking hands with screaming fans
the royal couple's ``walkabout'' along the edge of a crowd outside a supermarket monday was their closest unplanned contact with everyday americans during a southern california tour that has included much hobnobbing with hollywood celebrities
i love them both. i think fergie and di are just _ american,'' said susie clayton, referring also to diana, the princess of wales
ms. clayton, 27, visiting from arizona, waited for two hours in on-and-off rain that could have been imported from britain for the royal retinue to arrive at the von's pavilions market in suburban arcadia
prince andrew and his pregnant wife, midway through their 10-day tour, plan to meet with british denizens of hollywood today during a new round of stops that includes a trip to a trendy disco
they have already been greeted by famous faces like roger moore of james bond fame; joan collins, the wicked queen of the ``dynasty'' dynasty; and michael york, a movie actor who lately has appeared on ``knots landing.''
york, who greeted the royal pair during their travels monday, said that the duke and duchess have a glamour of their own
they have a youth, glamour and pizazz and they preserve a longstanding tradition,'' he said
today, andrew and sarah were to take a tour of showscan, a movie special effects studio in suburban culver city. later, they planned to meet with british oscar winners at the academy of motion picture arts and sciences in beverly hills
finishing out their round of entertaining the entertainment community, they were to attend a lunch for the british academy of film and television arts
two fashion shows were laid on to finish the royal day, one at the music center, and another at the stock exchange disco downtown
the royal couple is in the united states to promote trade to great britain and act as patrons of the three-month uk-la '88 festival, a celebration of the british arts in los angeles
on monday, apart from the supermarket, the couple visited a technology museum and the wilshire bullocks department store, where they were joined by a hollywood entourage that included lynn redgrave, george peppard and lloyd bridges
at the supermarket, the duchess cruised the aisles and paid particular attention to the deli section, pausing to examine sushi and stuffed chicken breasts but tasting only one item _ a dollop of coffee-toffee chip ice cream
she said she loved the pastry but was afraid to eat it,'' confided assistant bakery manager barbara huereque, who recognized a sister calorie-counter
both the duchess and duke tried their hand at decorating a cake. andrew produced a vague approximation of a red rose and she made a lopsided white rose, symbol of the house of york
the london stock exchange posted gains in early trading today, in line with rises in new york and tokyo
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was up 13.3 points, or 0.75 percent, at 1782.1 by midmorning. the index opened at 1781.1, up 12.2 points from monday's close
brokers said prices increased across the board before the official opening, but profit-takers emerged to erase some gains
in contrast to the general rise, shares for retail stores were largely unchanged because of growing caution about the prospect for major tax cuts in the government's march 15 budget statement
the early trend followed sharp gains in new york on monday, where the dow jones industrial average rose 48.41 to 2,071.41, and a rise overnight in tokyo, where the nikkei index climbed 193.09 to 25,435.90.   
police said two ira guerrillas killed in a huge explosion in a border area may have been installing explosives in a van in preparation for an attack on an army observation post
the blast, which occurred monday in the south armagh border area, destroyed a van and a barn about two miles outside crossmaglen village, badly damaged two cars and left a crater in the ground
in another development, irish and british authorities on monday said libya has sent soviet-made, anti-aircraft missiles to the irish republican army
police said four armed and masked men hijacked the van and a car shortly before the blast, which the ira called an accident
authorities speculated that ira guerrillas were installing explosives in the van when the explosives accidentally detonated. a police officer, speaking anonymously in keeping with british practice, said the ira's intended target probably was an army observation post near the border with irish republic
the mostly roman catholic ira often uses explosives in its violent campaign to drive the british out of the predominantly protestant province and unite it with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic
the ira issued a statement monday saying two of its men died in the blast, which it described as ``an unfortunate accident.'' the group gave no details, and said names and ira ranks of the dead men would be released after families are notified. the british domestic news agency press association said the two dead men had been named locally as brendan burnes and brendan moley
irish and british authorities said in a tv program broadcast from london monday that the ira is equipped with soviet-made sam-7 anti-aircraft missiles
the surface-to-air missiles were contained in more than 100 tons of weaponry sent by libya to ireland for the ira in four shiploads in 1985 and 1986, according to the british broadcasting corp.'s ``panorama'' program
the program said british army helicopters operating along northern ireland's border with the irish republic would be the most likely targets
the irish justice minister, gerry collins, said some of the missiles ``may very well be'' in northern ireland already
john hermon, chief constable of the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, said he had ``no reason to doubt'' the sam-7s are hidden somewhere in ireland
officials said one shipment in october was unloaded one night at an isolated jetty near arklow, 40 miles south of dublin, ireland
police have uncovered some of the weapons recently in both the irish republic and northern ireland, but no sam-7s have been found
the european economic community is prepared to back a central american plan to boost economic development in the troubled region, west germany's foreign minister said
foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher said monday the 12-member european community ``is prepared to take constructive part in seeing this plan through.''
genscher, who was chairing the eec session, did not say by how much the community was prepared to raise its relatively small amount of economic aid to central america, but emphasized the group was interested in helping the region achieve stability. eec aid to the region last year was about $96 million, community officials said
the central american states have worked out a $1.4 billion total aid package they say is needed from foreign doners
earlier, the eec reaffirmed its support for a regional peace plan and warned against outside interference in central america
the peace plan calls for an end to outside support for insurgencies, cease-fires, amnesties and democratic reforms
french foreign minister claude cheysson, who heads the eec commission for latin american relations, also reassured central american countries of the eec's economic support without providing specific figures
the eec ministers were in hamburg for a one-day meeting that centered on central american issues. they met with representatives of costa rica, nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, and honduras _ the countries whose presidents signed the arias peace plan in august
they also met with representatives from mexico, panama, venezuela and columbia, members of the contadora group that is trying to mediate an end to violence in the region
a respected linguist who says he was enticed by yale university to leave the soviet union in the 1970s says he is going broke on a school pension after being forced to retire two years ago
sebastian k. shaumyan, a 72-year-old professor emeritus of linguistics, said monday he never would have emigrated had he known he faced mandatory retirement on a $750-a-month pension 11 years later
i lived quite well (in moscow) and here i don't know what to do. i am without means to live,'' he said. ``i think it's very strange why a university professor must retire at 70. now i do even better work than before.''
shaumyan, who became an american citizen in 1980, said he is happy with his new country, but he is considering a lawsuit against yale. his lawyer wants shaumyan's pension doubled to $1,500 a month
yale is un-american,'' shaumyan said. ``if i knew that i would jeopardize my work, my family, my existence, i wouldn't have left moscow.''
he said yale wooed him from established academic positions in moscow in 1975 without telling him he would be automatically retired at the age of 70, as are all faculty members
they promised me a good position and prominent work,'' he said. ``they deceived me.''
university spokesman walter littell declined to comment because of the possibility of a lawsuit
shaumyan said he was paid $20,000 during 1975, his first year at yale, and was making nearly $55,000 by the time he retired in 1986
now, he said, he has depleted his savings and is going broke, even with the $900 he receives in monthly social security benefits. mortgage, car and student loan payments for his three children eat up $1,100 a month, he said
he's not asking for a large sum and he's not asking to hit the lottery here,'' said his lawyer, mark arons
shaumyan is a specialist in mathematical linguistics. in his 1987 book, ``a semiotic theory of language'' published by indiana university press, he discusses how mathematics can set uniform rules for languages, which in turn have applications for writing new computer languages. his 11 books have been translated into at least seven languages
president daniel arap moi won a third five-year term after no one contested his seat in parliament and his ruling party nominated him as the only presidential candidate
moi in effect won the contest monday after filing unopposed as a member of parliament for baringo central constituency
the filing was a formality since moi was the sole presidential candidate nominated saturday by the ruling kenya africa national union, which he leads. by law, it is kenya's only political party
joseph mwangovya, supervisor of elections, announced moi's election after the president presented his election papers during a ceremony at the kabarnet high school playground
moi, 63, has been president of this east african nation since 1978, when as vice-president he succeeded the late jomo kenyatta, the country's first leader
the constitution requires the president to be a member of parliament and for general elections to be held at least every five years
monday was the deadline for candidates to file papers for the march 21 general election
the party approved 787 parliamentary candidates for the primary election and 360 of them made it through to the general election, which will be held by secret ballot for 188 seats
besides moi, 61 other members of the previous parliament were elected monday because they have no general election opposition
soviet authorities allowed 723 jews to emigrate in february, slightly more than in the previous month, the agency that helps jews resettle said today
a spokeswoman for the intergovernmental committee for migration, regina boucault, said 140 of the february emigres went to israel. the rest chose to travel to other countries. in january, soviet authorities allowed 658 jews to emigrate, and 141 went to israel
soviet jewish emigration reached 8,011 last year, its highest level since 1981
rain fell on parts of the west coast and nevada early today while sections of pennsylvania and michigan received a light snow
about an inch of rain fell in brookings, ore., during the six hours ending at 1 a.m. est. over a quarter of an inch dampened fallon, nev.; eugene, ore.; and el toro, calif
snow was reported across southeast lower michigan including the detroit area. snow amounts were very light, resulting in only a dusting late monday evening and early today
light snow also was scattered across western pennsylvania early today, and a half-inch was reported in sections of northeast ohio late monday evening
earlier monday, 2 to 5 inches of rain fell across the southern california mountains. more than 4} inches fell in ventura county in the 24-hour period ending early today
meanwhile, eureka, calif., reported only 0.11 inches of rainfall in all of february, making it the driest february there in 102 years. the previous record was february 1923, when only a half-inch of rain fell
rain showers continued to be scattered late monday from central oregon coastal areas into northern california. showers and a few thunderstorms also were reported in southern nevada, the great salt lake in northern utah and across south-central utah
a few showers and thunderstorms fell in parts of new mexico and in the central rio grande valley of texas
chilly temperatures were reported early today across the upper great lakes. readings were returning to the subzero range across parts of michigan. much of the region from northern minnesota across northern wiscosin and northern lower michigan reported temperatures in the single digits and teens
much of the nation reported temperatures in the 30s or 40s during the early hours today. temperatures were in the 50s and 60s from the southern half of texas through florida
today's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms to continue over the intermountain west and extend into the central rockies; showers in california and southern oregon; showers and thunderstorms scattered across western and southern texas; and snow near the canadian border from north dakota to michigan and from northeast new york to northern maine
highs were expected to be in the 30s or 40s from the northern rockies across the dakotas, the upper mississippi valley, the upper ohio valley and the mid-atlantic states to southern new england; the 20s near the canadian border from northern new england to northern michigan; the 70s from florida across the gulf coast region and much of texas to southern arizona; the 80s in extreme southern texas; and in the 50s and 60s elsewhere
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 9 below zero at pellston, mich., to 70 at laredo, texas
other reports:
_east: atlanta 42 fair; boston 32 fair; buffalo 17 snow; charleston, s.c. 44 foggy; cincinnati 25 fair; cleveland 26 snow; detroit 24 cloudy; miami 56 fair; new york 34 fair; philadelphia 31 fair; pittsburgh 28 partly cloudy; portland 26 fair; washington 32 partly cloudy
_central: bismarck 36 fair; chicago 31 fair; dallas-fort worth 49 partly cloudy; denver 39 partly cloudy; des moines 33 fair; indianapolis 30 fair; kansas city 33 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 26 fair; nashville 32 fair; new orleans 56 foggy; st. louis 38 fair
_west: albuquerque 47 partly cloudy; anchorage 32 cloudy; las vegas 57 windy; los angeles 55 partly cloudy; phoenix 60 fair; salt lake city 41 fair; san diego 58 cloudy; san francisco 54 cloudy; seattle 47 foggy
_canada: montreal 07 fair; toronto 09 fair. that press photographers hit, sted detained. pickup 6th graf pvs ``roh hinted...''</note>
president roh tae-woo appealed today to communist north korea to take part in the 1988 olympic games and pledged not to impose any conditions on the north's participation
there is no condition. ... we will welcome you, the breathren in the north, more than anyone else as the same countrymen and brothers,'' roh told an audience of 4,000 people at the sejong cultural center in seoul
roh made the strongest appeal in recent months to the north to take part in the games, speaking during celebrations of samil day, a national holiday commemorating a 1919 uprising against japanese rule. he also appealed for national reconciliation in the south
today, we recall our breathren ... who rose up with bare fists against the japanese imperialist colonial rule,'' roh said
less than one mile away, police today kicked and punched dissidents and dragged away dozens of them after breaking up an anti-government protest in pagoda park, where the 1919 uprising took place. prominent dissident leaders were among those detained
roh hinted at his willingness to meet with north korean leaders by saying he was ready to deal with anybody. he repeated that the south would seek to establish relations with north korea's main allies, the soviet union and china
i will meet with anyone, anytime and anywhere and will not hesitate to open that road however rugged it might be,'' he said
the new president, formally sworn in feb. 25, said the olympic games could help speed reunification of the divided korean peninsula
north korea is demanding to co-host the olympic games and says it will boycott the games if its request is denied
south korea and the international olympic committee have rejected the demand, but said the north could stage five events if it takes part in the seoul events
the two nations have existed since 1948 and fought the bloody korean war from 1950 to 1953. the bitter rivals have clashed repeatedly over the years
roh also appealed to the south korean opposition to work with his government in ending decades of authoritarian rule and introducing full democracy. ``the curtain has been raised for the era of national self-esteem in which democracy will blossom,'' he said
roh, a former general, won the first democratic presidential elections in 16 years last december with 36.6 percent of the vote after rival opposition candidates split the opposition vote. roh campaigned on the platform that he alone could ensure democracy and stability
about 150 dissidents staged a demonstration today in seoul's pagoda park to denounce roh and demand the immediate release of all political prisoners
protesters waved placards, shouted slogans and applauded speeches as hundreds of onlookers watched
down with the roh government!'' and ``release all the political prisoners!,'' the protesters shouted
scuffles began when plainclothes police tried to detain some protesters and other dissidents protested
a column of about 100 police suddenly charged into the protest, kicking and punching people to the ground and chasing others. police hauled away about 40 dissidents, some of whom were badly beaten
police also hit a number of press photographers covering the demonstration
the rev. moon ikhwan and several other prominent dissident leaders were taken away by police. some of those detained included radicals released from prison saturday as part of a government amnesty
opposition leaders rejected the amnesty as insufficient and have demanded the release of all political prisoners. the government says only dissidents guilty of violent crime or subversion remain in jail. museum</head>
county commissioners have approved a $2.3 million contract to construct an elevator tower and visitors center in the former texas schoolbook depository as part of an exhibit on the assassination of president john f. kennedy
the commissioners voted 3-2 monday to award the contract to thomas j. hayman construction co., which will begin work on the project as early as this week
the eyes of the world will be on this project,'' said lindalyn adams, president of the dallas county historical foundation, which has worked for 11 years to get the exhibit funded. ``as sad as it is, it is the most important historical site in dallas.''
the foundation plans to raise $1.5 million from private sources for additional renovations on the sixth floor of what is now known as the dallas county administration building
the warren commission determined that lee harvey oswald fired a high-powered rifle at kennedy from the sixth floor of the building where he worked on nov. 22, 1963
the elevator tower is intended to carry up to 500,000 visitors a year to the exhibit without disrupting work at county government offices
architect tony callaway said construction could be completed by november, but foundation officials say they are unlikely to schedule the exhibit's opening on nov. 22, the 25th anniversary of kennedy's assassination
we think it would be inappropriate,'' adams said
pakistan is trying to undermine u.n.-sponsored afghanistan peace talks, afghanistan's ambassador to the soviet union charged today
the ambassador, mohamadulah subhani safi, made the comment on the eve of a new round of negotiations, telling a news conference that pakistan ``doesn't want peace'' for its afghan neighbors
pakistan, which represents the afghan guerrillas in the talks that resume in geneva on wednesday, is trying to ``raise issues that have no relevance to pakistan,'' he charged
safi complained about pakistan's demand that any accord signed in geneva that would facilitate a withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan be linked to the formation of a transitional, coalition government in kabul
without such an interim government, unending civil strife would follow a soviet pullout, pakistani diplomats have argued
but safi said the composition of the afghan government cannot be dictated by pakistan or any outside power
his comments were echoed in an article in pravda, the soviet communist party daily, which said pakistani leaders have ``apparently forgotten their previous statements that the presence of the soviet troops in afghanistan was the sole obstacle in the way toward resolving the afghan problem.''
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has pledged _ if peace talks are successful _ to begin withdrawing an estimated 115,000 troops from its embattled neighbor may 15 and complete the pullout in 10 months
gorbachev has said the kremlin has no intention of trying to determine the composition of the government left behind when it leaves the country it entered in december 1979 in support of a marxist regime
pravda called it ``an open secret'' that the united states and its nato allies have a decisive influence over pakistan and leaders of the afghan resistance
their attitude to the afghan settlement, which is now entering its crucial stage,'' will be a touchstone for the world to judge the real worth of their calls for a political settlement of regional crises of every kind,'' the newspaper said
the united states has been ambivalent in its reaction to the calls for an interim government. a senior american official returning with secretary of state george p. shultz from moscow hinted last week that washington does not back such demands
but the u.s. senate, in a non-binding resolution monday, urged the formation of an interim government in kabul that would be acceptable to the afghan resistance
there also has been a lack of clear signals on when washington would be prepared to cut off its aid to the guerrillas, which was reported to have totaled about $700 million last year
local officials pocketed or misappropriated $48 million in state funds to poverty-stricken areas over two years, using the money to build hotels, apartments and movie houses, an official report said
the state auditing administration said the sum represents 6 percent of the $816 million it audited, but officials said they believe much more was embezzled during 1985 and 1986, the official people's daily reported monday
the state allocated more than $1.62 billion to poverty-stricken areas in the two-year period, the paper said
statistics at the end of 1986 showed that 60 million people in about 200 counties live below china's poverty line of $40 annually plus 440 pounds of grain
auditors also found more than 110 people involved in graft cases totaling more than $91,000, it said
the state council is planning to change distribution of the funds so that the money will go directly to enterprises that can improve the area's financial situation
in yanchi county, ningxia autonomous region, more than $243,000 or 42.9 percent of the county's funds for the poor, were used to build apartments, hotels and cinemas, the paper said
in seven cities and counties in hunan, officials used $132,432 to buy 22 cars and other motor vehicles
in feixian county, shandong province, officials used $4,300, collected illegally as administrative fees for the distribution of the help-the-poor funds, to buy motorcycles, tape recorders and cameras, the paper said
sue hall's fourth-grade science students are saying ``rats'' to junk food after a month of experiments in which they compared school-food and junk-food diets by feeding them to rodents
it seems like children sort of know what they're suppose to be eating but you're wondering if it has any impact,'' ms. hall said. ``with the kids doing this, they notice the difference.''
on monday, a pair of rats named sweetie and boss hog munched on french fries and a candy bar while fellow rodents rascal and casey dined on a kennedy school lunch consisting of salad, asparagus and a hamburger casserole
the children ``all say things about the rats on junk food like, `boy, are they hyper. ... their hair isn't very shiny,''' ms. hall said
the rodents nibbling on school lunches and sipping milk and water gain weight steadily, are calm and have shiny fur and alert eyes, she said
they let the children pet them,'' she said
but the junk food rats gain and lose weight, do not finish meals and race around the cage when the children try to pick them up to be weighed
the kids say, `gosh, look what happens when you eat this,' '' ms. hall said. ``it seems to increase their lesson.''
ms. hall, who has taught the six-week rat lesson on nutrition eight other times, said she watches for signs the rats are becoming too ill and switches their diets if necessary
a wayward japanese macaque monkey that wandered through western pennsylvania and ohio for six months has ``gone hollywood'' and will be the featured attraction in a new monkey exhibit at the pittsburgh zoo
mayor richard caliguiri and zoo officials launched a drive monday to use the monkey, named alphie, to raise $15,000 for a new exhibit called monkey business inc
alphie escaped from the zoo july 23 and made his way through western pennsylvania and into ohio, where he was captured jan. 27 in a backyard
his six-month odyssey created headlines. while he was on the lam, zoo officials spelled his name alfie. now that he has ``gone hollywood,'' as they put it, they spell it alphie
we hurriedly signed him to a long-term contract. one of the terms was that he be given star billing at the children's zoo this summer and that suitable exhibit facilities be provided for a star of his magnitude,'' said zoo director charles wikenhauser
he said alphie would live in the exhibit beginning in mid-may
denouncing what it called south africa's ``escalation of acts of terrorism'' against blacks, the u.n. human rights commission has renewed its call for mandatory sanctions against the white-led nation
the 43-country panel, at its annual meeting monday, urged that south africa be economically isolated
it said children were increasingly being targeted for repression
the united states, britain and west germany dissented in the 36-3 vote. belgium, france, japan and portugal abstained
the resolution accuses south africa of continuing ``gross and cruel violations of human rights'' under apartheid
it calls for the immediate release of nelson mandela, imprisoned leader of the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement and freedom for all political prisoners in south africa
massacres and daily killings of defenseless men, women and children have become the order of the day,'' the resolution says
it says human rights violations have risen under a government-imposed state of emergency that went into effect in june 1986, and urges the u.n. security council to impose mandatory sanctions on south africa
separately, the commission asked all governments to immediately cut trade, manufacturing and financial ties with south africa and namibia, or south-west africa, the territory ruled by south africa in defiance of u.n. resolutions
the vote was 32-7. the united states, britain, belgium, france, west germany, italy and portugal opposed the draft. spain, ireland, japan and norway abstained
on namibia, 34 delegations voted without dissent to accuse south africa of wide-ranging oppression there and to call anew for namibian independence. nine western countries abstained
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the government's new policy of glasnost will suffer if theaters are barred from performing a play criticized for its portrayal of soviet history, eight leading theater figures said
the soviet people have gotten glasnost through suffering and ``that's why any attempts to turn the process backwards ... arouse deepest concern,'' said the three actors, three producers and two playwrights in a letter published monday in the communist party newspaper pravda
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of glasnost, or more openness on some issues, has led to greater artistic freedom. lately, soviet artists have produced plays on subjects they would not have touched before
the eight accused several critics of trying to block the staging of mikhail shatrov's play ``onward _ onward _ onward'' by ``pinning political labels'' on its author
earlier this month, three historians told pravda the play compared soviet founder vladimir i. lenin to josef v. stalin _ denounced after his death as a dictator _ and portrayed soviet history in a negative way
the eight said the timing of the criticism indicated it was aimed at dissuading theaters from booking the play
it is not by chance that in the provinces they manage to hear this voice. we have information at the union of theater workers that this new play, devoted to lenin, already was banned in some towns,'' the eight wrote
shatrov's new work takes the form of a debate among bolsheviks and their opponents as they look back on soviet history since the 1917 revolution that brought the communists to power
the historians accused shatrov of using lenin as a conduit for his own ideas and treating the bolshevik revolution as an accident
in their letter, the eight said shatrov has written about lenin for 30 years and his plays have been well received
shatrov's new play was published in january in the literary magazine znamya and is scheduled to be performed in moscow this spring
in the play, shatrov makes stalin answer for his purges in which millions of people perished, but in one scene lenin accepts blame for not making certain stalin could not gain power after lenin's death in 1924
in the closing scene, stalin and lenin are on stage. the desire is expressed for stalin to leave, but he will not
yes, we do want stalin to leave, not only the stage, but our lives,'' the eight said in the letter. ``we want his methods to vanish, his `morality,' his ways to solve disputes, in particular in art. but unfortunately, the heritage of the past cannot be overcome by pronouncements.''
we are not going to defend the play or attack it,'' they added. ``it hasn't been staged yet and a play without being staged is a soul without a body. we are concerned with other things.''
in a seven-paragraph comment on the letter, pravda said it would not take sides. ``pravda's point of view is well known,'' it said. ``it has always been against anybody's monopoly for truth and against the position `there is my opinion and there is a wrong opinion'.''
an american denied a first-class honors degree from bristol university after he was accused of cheating petitioned queen elizabeth ii, saying he's honest and is not getting a fair appeal hearing
francis foecke, 30, a native of south bend, ind., has spent the last 21 months trying to clear his name after writing his final exams in mathematics and computer science at the school in the western city of bristol in june 1986
the london times said today that he and his english wife, priscilla, have spent $53,100 trying to disprove allegations that he illicitly gained access to examination papers before the examination
i do not think i am ever going to get an objective hearing or an objective decision from the (university's) appeal committee because they are so close to the people who say i am guilty,'' said foecke
i do not think they realize what a devastating effect this has had on my wife and me,'' he said. the couple lives in the bristol suburb of clifton
when foecke went to pick up his results after the final exams, the university registrar told him he was suspected of cheating and would not receive the degree, the highest the university offers
he was told his examination answers too closely mirrored the lecturers' model answers and that he even had repeated their mistakes in working out some of the mathematical equations
foecke has maintained he worked up to 18 hours a day for more than a year preparing for the exams and that he used the methods taught by his lecturers
the times said the university authorities did not prove foecke cheated but stated they believe he may have stolen a key to get into an office where the papers were stored
foecke's lawyer guy dorman said monday: ``we are petitioning (the queen) on the grounds of a breach of natural justice.''
a legal concept enforced by the senior courts, natural justice says any group making an official ruling, such as the university authorities, must give a fair hearing to the person involved before announcing its decision
the queen holds the post of visitor at the university. the visitor is appointed to look after student interests among other matters but petitions to her in this capacity are rare
because she is a constitutional monarch, the queen would not make a ruling in her own right in foecke's case and there was no comment on the case from buckingham palace
the petition was sent through lord belstead, who holds the post of lord president of the privy council and is the cabinet member responsible for supervising the government's legislative program
cartoonist milton caniff, creator of the steve canyon and terry and the pirates comic strips, has begun chemotherapy treatments for lung cancer in new york city
caniff was in the mood to talk monday in a telephone interview from beth israel hospital
first thing this morning i reached for the old drawing board but it wasn't even there,'' caniff told the dayton daily news
caniff, who learned about the cancer friday, thinks it will be at least a month before he is able to draw steve canyon again. he said he doesn't know how long he will be in the hospital
this cancer thing has kind of stopped me in my tracks for a bit, so right now i'm just taking it one day at a time,'' he said
caniff said he has about 30 days worth of the canyon strip finished. if he's unable to work when those are gone, his assistant, richard rockwell, and others will keep the storyline running
caniff, who grew up in dayton, has been producing a daily comic strip for 54 years and had planned to continue drawing in the hospital
but when it came right down to it, i didn't feel like it,'' the 81-year-old artist said
even so, he said, his spirits are high
i'm just naturally ornery, anyway, but when this happened, i had to decide what i was going to do,'' he said. ``i could be an old curmudgeon or i could make life easier for my family, friends and the medical staff here. i decided on the latter approach.''
a gang of bumbling burglars dressed up as japanese ninja warriors has botched most of its heists so far, managing to burn up $7,000 while trying to open safes with a blowtorch
but police say the group of three or four people is getting better with practice, and last weekend their fifth known job resulted in about $500 in unsinged cash for the thieves
the gang members dress in black like the ninja, a feudal japanese society of mercenary assassins, and enter buildings through a roof or by forcing employees working odd hours to let them in
they started out like they've been watching too many movies,'' joked detective rich berendsen of the concord police department. he said in three of the burglaries, the gang's blowtorches burned up most of the cash they were after
the gang's first known burglary was of emil vlla's restaurant in concord on jan. 25. they gave up trying to break into a safe when their drill bit broke off in the lock
rhythm-and-blues musician ike turner, former husband of pop superstar tina turner, surrendered monday on a week-old warrant that sought his arrest because he failed to appear in court to face cocaine charges
turner, 55, was charged with possession of cocaine, conspiracy to sell cocaine and maintaining a residence for the purpose of selling cocaine
he appeared before superior court judge gilbert alston and was released after posting $15,000 bail
pre-trial motions for turner and co-defendant richard lee griffin are set march 18. two other co-defendants return march 18 for sentencing on conspiracy charges
turner was arrested in june 1985, after he allegedly tried to sell $16,000 worth of cocaine to an undercover officer in hollywood
a trial is sheduled on another charge march 14 in santa monica superior court on separate felony drug-trafficking charges that include alleged transport of cocaine and possession of rock cocaine for sale
those charges stem from an august 1987, incident in which los angeles county sheriff's deputies stopped turner after the car he was in allegedly was seen moving erratically
in october 1986, turner admitted he had used cocaine every day for at least 15 years and said he was undergoing rehabilitation
turner formed the ike and tina turner revue with his wife, and they produced hits such as ``proud mary'' before splitting up in 1976
miss turner went on to record the 1985 grammy-award winning record and song of the year, ``what's love got to do with it.'' her ``private dancer'' album garnered two other grammys. camps</head> with document appearing to be identical to document reviewed in austria. picks up 10th graf, `the world ...' edits elsewhere to tighten.</note>
while serving in the german army, kurt waldheim forwarded a request for the mass deportation of greek civilians to labor camps in 1943, according to a nazi document
the authenticity of the document, found in the u.s. national archives and made public monday, was confirmed by u.s. justice department spokesman john russell. he said it was among the crucial documents on which the government based its decision to place waldheim, now austria's president and formerly u.n. secretary-general, on a list barring him from entering the united states
under the nuremberg charter adopted at the end of the war, deportation of civilians is both a war crime and a crime against humanity. when the u.s. justice department barred waldheim from the united states, it said he had ``assisted or otherwise participated'' in ``mass deportation of civilians.''
waldheim has repeatedly declared he is innocent of any war crimes
the document is a message between german army officers in the balkans in world war ii and indicates the information was received by radio by waldheim, who signed its transcription and forwarded it on aug. 15, 1943
waldheim at that time was a lieutenant serving as deputy operations officer of the german general staff attached to the 11th italian army in athens
the communication from a german army field officer was addressed to his headquarters and said there is ``hope of success only if all male civilians are seized and deported'' in the area in northern greece where his division was operating. it also said ``cleansing operations are deemed necessary.''
nazi ``cleansing operations'' often meant the destruction of towns and deportation or execution of their inhabitants
the captured nazi document was made available to the associated press by the world jewish congress in the original german text, with excerpts in english. justice department sources concurred in the translation
gerold christian, waldheim's spokesman, said today he had no comment on the document
the document apparently has been used before, according to manfred messerschmidt, a west german historian who was a member of an international commission that investigated waldheim's world war ii past
the historians' commission and a white book published last year by waldheim's aides both reviewed what seems to be the same document, messerschmidt said
the commission's report, released feb. 9, contradicts the white book, saying waldheim's initials on the aug. 15, 1943 document indicate he must have known about persecutions of civilians in greece
the white book says waldheim's initials signify ``nothing but his certifying the correctness of a copy of the message for inclusion'' in the official war diary of his unit
the world jewish congress said waldheim did not authorize the deportation of the greeks to labor camps in germany but that he was aware of the plan
it also said a deportation order later was countermanded by an italian commander whom the congress did not identify
the historians' commission appointed by the austrian government reported last month that waldheim was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt to prevent them. the report did not support allegations made by various groups, including the world jewish congress, that waldheim was involved in war crimes
waldheim, who has rejected calls for his resignation from the presidency, said the report vindicated him
the austrian government has protested that the united states did not disclose the documents on which it based its decision to bar waldheim from entry. washington responded by saying its investigation was based on documents available to waldheim and he could appeal the decision. he has not done so
the executive director of the world jewish congress, elan steinberg, said the document signed by waldheim was located by congress researchers at the u.s. national archives in 1986 and turned over to the justice department
reporters asked why the document was not made public until monday. steinberg said there is now increasing interest in why waldheim was placed on a list barring him from the united states. he did not elaborate. trial</head>
lt. col. oliver north and two other figures in the iran-contra affair were ordered to testify at a federal trial about an alleged scheme to smuggle marijuana and cocaine into michigan from south america
the defense lawyer who obtained the subpoenas said north might be able to provide information about a pilot who flew supplies to nicaraguan rebels under contract with the cia and also was accused of transporting the drugs
north, the former national security council aide fired in november 1986 as the iran-contra affair transpired, last week was ordered to appear march 15 before u.s. district judge anna diggs taylor in detroit
defense attorney ronald c. dresnick of miami said he wanted to determine north's relationship with michael b. palmer. according to the indictment of dresnick's client and seven other defendants, palmer was aboard a dc-6 aircraft allegedly used to ship drugs into michigan last summer
dresnick represents frank ivan turek correa of colombia, one of eight defendants indicted sept. 24 on charges of conspiring to import tons of cocaine and marijuana into michigan between july and sept. 6, 1987
assistant u.s. attorney robert donaldson, referring to dresnick's claim that palmer was a contract employee of the cia, said the defense was a diversion and ``a red herring.''
palmer was a vice president of southern air transport, a cia-backed operation, dresnick said. according to court documents, palmer contracted with the state department to fly food and clothing to the contra rebels trying to topple the government of nicaragua
palmer never was charged in the detroit case despite his apparent role in the alleged trafficking
dresnick, in his court filing seeking north's testimony, provided a page from north's desk calendar dated aug. 9, 1985, with a hand-written notation reading: ``dc-6, which is being used (for contra supply) runs out of new orleans, is probably being used for drug runs into the u.s.''
the same calendar page also noted a ``meeting with rob,'' who dresnick said he believed was robert owen, north's liaison with the contras. both owen and palmer also have been subpoenaed to testify in detroit, although palmer's whereabouts are unknown
barry simon, a washington attorney representing north, refused to say monday night whether north had received the subpoena or to answer any other questions
witnesses who refuse to answer a subpoena can be subject to a bench warrant for their arrest
the rescuers of jessica mcclure are not forgotten, as evidenced by a public spirit award honoring their work, presented by the american legion auxiliary
midland, texas, fire chief james l. roberts received the plaque at monday's national meeting of the auxiliary, which cited the citizens of midland for ``a courageous act _ a young life saved.''
jessica, who was then 18 months old, was trapped in a well last october, but was rescued in an intense 58-hour effort that involved hundreds of people from the community and riveted attention nationwide
the award for the community was presented by legion auxiliary national president pearl behrend of racine, wis
after a month of preparation, it took only 17 minutes to roll over an upside-down oil barge that had been raised from the bottom of guemes channel and partially unloaded
a floating sheen of oil reached the shore of shannon point before and during the rollover monday in a release estimated at 300 gallons to 500 gallons of a light grade of oil. much of it was sopped up with absorbent materials
i'm relieved, because it eliminates an ecological time bomb,'' said coast guard lt. eldo delong
the 176-foot barge sank jan. 31 in 130 feet of water four miles west of anacortes. it was raised from the bottom sunday by two giant derricks
the site is about 75 miles north of seattle on washington's inner coast in an area of dungeness crabs, salmon farms, bottom fish and other saltwater life
officials had said that 70,000 gallons of oil escaped from the barge when it sank, and another 344,000 gallons was still on the barge when the lifting operation began sunday. roughly 92,610 gallons of oil was pumped out sunday night and monday
more oil was to be pumped out of the barge until it was stable enough to be towed to port
some oil has been detected in kelp beds and in bottom-dwelling sea cucumbers, and at least one bird has died
the barge, operated by olympic tug and barge co. of seattle, was being towed from an oil refinery at anacortes to seattle when it sank
a zimbabwean diplomat who was expelled from the united states for allegedly abusing his 9-year-old son said the boy returned home today from new york accompanied by a zimbabwean social worker
diplomat floyd karamba said his son, terrence, was immediately placed under the care of the foreign affairs ministry, the semi-official zimbabwe inter-african news agency reported
my son arrived this morning accompanied by a zimbabwean social worker and is in normal condition,'' karamba was quoted as saying
u.s. officials said terrence karamba left new york for zimbabwe on sunday accompanied by a zimbabwean social worker. he will not be returned to his father's custody, according to reports today in the new york daily news, the washington post and the washington times
zimbabwe has said it will place the boy in the auspices of the courts and the state ministry of social welfare, said robert j. mcmahon, director of the new york social services agency that cared for the boy for the past two months
mcmahon, head of st. christopher-ottile services for children and families, was also quoted today saying the zimbabwean government said the karamba family will undergo counseling in hopes of eventually reuniting terrence with the family
a new york government agency had charged that floyd karamba had beaten the boy, who in december was removed from his home and placed in foster care
the father, who served for more than a year as a member of zimbabwe's delegation to the united nations, was ordered dec. 21 to leave the united states because of what state department officials called ``clear evidence of child abuse.''
in january, the supreme court refused to block the u.s. government from sending the boy home despite arguments from the legal aid society that the boy was afraid to go home
mcmahon said sen. daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y., interceded and persuaded the state department that the boy should not be returned immediately
the state department had a psychiatric consultant accompany the boy on his trip home and also engaged a law firm in zimbabwe to monitor his case, the post reported
karamba's wife and two other children returned to zimbabwe in january$ `execution-sytle,' picking up at the 3rd graf previous, and adds 2 grafs with texas memorial service</note>
a police officer who was shot to death while he guarded a witness in a drug case was given a farewell by 10,000 police officers amid vows to find his killer and hopes that his death helps the fight against drug dealers
the throng of officers, some from as far away as texas and ohio, lined eight blocks approaching st. james church on monday for the funeral of edward byrne, a 22-year-old rookie officer
if drug trafficking has become so bold that they can engage in the assassination of a police officer, then our whole society is at risk,'' mayor edward i. koch said at the funeral service. ``that is why his death is so important.''
in his homily, the rev. thomas devita said, ``eddie's murderers need to be pitied and also prayed for. they do not know about the sanctity of life. they cannot really know or understand what they have done, even though this is such a terrible sin.''
eight officers served as pallbearers as a bagpiper played ``when the battle is over.''
police have been rounding up suspected crack dealers since the murder early friday in hopes of finding someone who will shed light on the killing. officer peter o'donnell, a police spokesman, said that as of monday night, 108 had been arrested in the south jamaica section of queens, where the killing took place
byrne was guarding the house of a man who had complained to police about crack dealers in that neighborhood. the officer, who had been on the force just eight months, was hit by three shotgun blasts as he sat in a radio car
others attending the funeral included police commissioner benjamin ward, cardinal john j. o'connor and officer steven mcdonald, who was paralyzed below the neck by a gunman's bullet in 1986
koch had taken out a full page in the new york times on monday. it bore byrne's picture, and called upon the federal government to take tough measures with foreign governments that allow drug trafficking
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., echoed koch's sentiments outside the church
our nation's leaders appear to be isolated from our people in the streets who are being killed and from our youngsters who are becoming addicts,'' said d'amato. ``our nation's leaders don't have the guts to cut off aid to countries run by narcotics dealers such as panama.''
in texas, more than 2,000 people attended a memorial service monday for officer gary d. mccarthy, the third dallas policeman killed in six weeks
he was off duty and moonlighting as a part-time security guard at a grocery store when he was gunned down friday during an attempted robbery. three men have been arrested, one of them a parolee who served less than a year of a five-year sentence for aggravated assault on a police officer
a mother spent four hours in detention so her son wouldn't be punished after she failed to call school authorities to confirm he really had come home from class with the flu
stella sablan reported to cupertino high school at 8:30 a.m. monday and was sent to the principal's office
her son, fred, repeatedly warned his mother she was supposed to call school authorities within 48 hours after he came home sick on feb. 18. stella, a 37-year-old corporate manager, said she kept forgetting
it was my fault,'' she said. ``i didn't call. for freddie to servie detention was just wrong
if we want the kids to respect the school rules, we'd better make sure they make sense,'' she added
her punishment was to spend the morning calling other parents who had failed to confirm the reason for their children's absence. statement, comment from victim's wife, more details; picks up 6th graf pvs: the shooting...</note>
two men riding a motorbike shot and killed a greek industrialist today as he drove to work in the capital, police said
a left-wing terrorist group that staged an almost identical slaying of a u.s. navy officer at the same athens intersection in 1983 claimed responsibility for the assassination, authorities said
alexandros athanassiadis, 59, died of chest and stomach wounds from bullets that were fired through his car's open window while it was stopped at a red light on kifissias avenue, a police spokesman said
the spokesman, who requested anonymity, said the gunmen sped away and the motorbike was found abandoned
doctors at the hygeia hospital said athanassiadis died during surgery
he had multiple wounds in the chest and stomach. we tried heart massage for 15-20 minutes, but couldn't revive him,'' dr. vassilis georgoulis said
athanassiadis was chief executive officer of the hellenic chemical products and fertilizers company
the terrorist organization november 17 claimed responsibility for his killing in leaflets found in the street, the police spokesman said
the typewritten leaflet said the organization killed athanassiadis because ``he was a classic capitalist...indifferent to the health of the workers and the environment.''
the leaflet claimed that hellenic chemical products, which has a plant in a western industrial suburb of athens, was a major contributor to pollution. it also criticized the government, saying it had led greece into ``economic, social and cultural crisis.''
a government statement expressed ``deepest sorrow and condolences'' and said the greek ``people as a whole condemn such terrorist actions.''
athanassiadis' wife, katerina, told reporters her husband drove the same route to work every morning from their home in the ekali suburb. ``he hadn't told me of anything suspicious,'' she said
the police spokesman said the assailants pulled up beside athanassiadis' car and tapped on the passenger side window. as it opened, they started firing. the attack took place at 8:15 a.m., he said
the shooting occurred at the same junction where a u.s. navy officer was gunned down by the same terrorist group in november 1983, the spokesman said
the navy officer, capt. george tsantes, was attached to the u.s. embassy in athens. his driver also died in the attack
it was a carbon copy of the tsantes killing _ the same traffic light, the same method with two men on a motorbike,'' the police spokesman said
november 17 has claimed responsibility for a dozen attacks against americans, greek police officers and businessmen since 1975. none of its members has been arrested
the left-wing group is named for the day in 1973 when troops and tanks crushed a student rebellion against the 1967-74 military dictatorship
november 17 says american bases in greece should be closed and that premier andreas papandreou's socialist government has failed to change greek society
before today, the group had staged three attacks over the past year, none of which resulted in deaths. in april and august the group claimed responsibility for remote-control bomb blasts against buses carrying american military personnel, but in each case the bomb exploded prematurely
the group's most recent attempt involved a failed bomb attack in january against a u.s. embassy staff member
a civil war cannonball still capable of exploding has been turned over to bomb squad investigators by a man who believes as many as 25 others may have been taken as souvenirs
thomas l. combs sr., 64, of clements, md., gave a rusted, six-inch, 120-year-old cannonball to the maryland fire marshal's bomb squad monday
he became concerned after hearing news reports 10 days earlier that an identical cannonball that was given to the st. clements island museum had been found to be live, said fire marshal's spokesman bob thomas
the bomb squad determined combs' cannonball also was live and took it to a bomb laboratory in harford county, where investigators are trying to defuse and salvage the museum's cannonball, which a potomac river clammer found in his net
thomas said both cannonballs have a fuse and contain black powder
if it detonates, it would send shrapnel from inside in all directions. (it was) meant to inflict numerous casualties,'' thomas said
combs said his cannonball had been collecting dust in a tool shed behind his home since 1961, when he found it while deer hunting near chantilly, va., thomas said
combs told officials he took the cannonball from a pyramid of about 20 to 25 others in a heavily wooded area, and that the stack appeared to have been left there since the civil war, thomas said
combs noticed the pyramid of cannonballs becoming smaller during his hunting excursions over the next 20 years, until none were left, thomas said
that means that at least 25 citizens might have a (live bomb) in their house or on their property,'' thomas said
investigators suspect it was a cache of confederate munitions, he said
thomas said the bomb squad would pick up any suspect cannonballs for free and return them if they can be defused without damage
maryland officials plan to notify state and county authorities in virginia about the discovery, thomas said
former queen maria jose, widow of the last king of italy, made a brief return to the country without fanfare today after a 42-year exile imposed by the constitution
the belgium-born maria jose, who lives in switzerland, crossed the border by car this morning with her daughter, maria gabriella, to attend a conference on st. anselm in this city near mount blanc
after three hours, they drove back home
the italian news agency ansa said the 81-year-old former queen of the house of savoy initially went unnoticed as she took a seat in the back row of the conference hall. when officials realized who she was, they interrupted the meeting and invited her to sit in the front as the audience applauded, the report said
maria jose was invited to the conference last month by the st. anselm academy, of which she is an honorary member. st. anselm of canterbury was born in aosta in the 11th century
i knew that she had been invited to the conference but i really didn't think she would actually come. she took us all by surprise,'' said gianni bondaz, president of the regional council
the former queen, who walked with a cane, wore a black pants suit, black cap, black gloves and a bright red scarf. she spoke only a few words to journalists, saying ``i didn't feel any special emotions entering italy but i am happy
this morning when we crossed the border i was much more excited than she was,'' ansa quoted her daughter as saying
she quoted maria jose as saying once they emerged from the mount blanc tunnel in italy, ``oh how beautiful. the sun is out. i told you that the aosta valley is beautiful.''
the government last year lifted the constitutional ban on the entry of the former queen, who had made a request a year earlier to return to italy. there have been unconfirmed media reports that she has secretly slipped into the country in the past
her husband, umberto ii, reigned for 26 days before being forced into exile in 1946 after a referendum abolished the monarchy. he died in exile in geneva five years ago at the age of 78
the house of savoy ruled over piedmont for nine centuries and its kings reigned in italy from 1861 to 1946
former boxer rubin ``hurricane'' carter, breaking a 12-year silence after finally winning his long battle for freedom, says he was sentenced to ``a life of living death'' but is not bitter
for 20 years, i was considered a danger to society, a scourge upon humanity. i was locked away in an iron cage for not one, but three lifetimes,'' the former middleweight title contender said monday in a news conference
carter was convicted in the 1966 murder of three white men in a paterson bar and served 19 years in prison before the indictment was finally dismissed last week
but carter, 50, dressed in a tan suede jacket, dark tie and navy blue pants, said during the 90-minute news conference that he harbors no bitterness over the system that jailed him
if i have learned anything in my life, it's that bitterness consumes the vessel that contains it,'' he said
the 1966 verdict against carter and john artis was overturned, but the two black men were again convicted in 1976
carter, who was serving a life term, was freed in 1985 by u.s. district judge h. lee sarokin in newark, n.j., who found the conviction was tainted by racism and the witholding of information by prosecutors
the u.s. supreme court upheld the judge's 1985 decision, and a passaic county judge last friday signed the papers dismissing the indictment, as requested by county prosecutors
carter had remained in seclusion, declining to discuss the case publicly. but on monday he condemned over-zealous prosecutors, the horrors of the state prison system, the jailing of innocent people and racism
they sentenced me to a life of living death,'' he said. ``and there is no other way to describe the nature of a prison. prison destroys everything valuable in the life of a human being.''
artis, paroled in 1981, is serving a six-year prison term on an unrelated drug charge. his lawyer, lewis steel, issued a plea for artis' freedom, saying the judge who sentenced him in the drug case improperly took the voided murder convictions into account in the sentencing. the drug sentence is on appeal
carter's cause was taken up in the 1970s by celebrities, who championed him as a symbol of racial injustice. bob dylan wrote a ballad about the case, which played repeatedly in the background before the news conference
carter refused to blame the trial's prosecutors directly for his fate, but said ``racism is sleazy'' and referred to sarokin's finding that the prosecution made ``an appeal to racism rather than reason.''
since being freed, he said he has worked on his case nearly every day and his third book, ``no holds barred, no bars to hold,'' while living in southern new jersey
carter said he had difficulty understanding how he came to serve nearly two decades in prison
one moment i'm a championship prize fighter, the next moment and 20 years after i'm reviled as a triple murderer,'' he said
the fact that the most productive years of my life, the ages of 29 and 50, have been stolen, the fact that i was deprived of seeing my children grow up, wouldn't you think i would have a right to be bitter?'' he said
but being bitter would give the state another victory, he said.``that would make me an accomplice to their crime.'' murder case</head>
police recently questioned pornographic film star john holmes, hospitalized and gravely ill bed with aids, about a 1981 mass murder for which he was tried and acquitted, a newspaper reported today
the appearance of a new witness and reports holmes may soon die from acquired immune deficiency syndrome prompted the bedside questioning, the los angeles times reported
holmes, 43, a premier male sex film star of the 1970s and early 1980s, made hundreds of sexually explicit films and thousands of peep shows in his career
citing unnamed sources, the newspaper reported a new witness has surfaced with information about the grisly beating deaths of four people in a house in the affluent hillside neighborhood of laurel canyon
mitchell egers, one of two lawyers who successfully defended holmes in 1982, refused to disclose what, if anything, holmes told homicide detectives
egers confirmed that holmes is hospitalized with a serious illness but would not say if he suffers from aids
however, the newspaper quoted unidentified sources as saying holmes' illness has been positively diagnosed as aids, the incurable disease transmitted through sex, shared hypodermic needles and transfers of infected blood products
holmes was cleared of killing four people who were found beaten to death in a laurel canyon home. detective tom lange, supervisor of the investigation, declined to discuss the case monday except to say it remains active
prosecutors said the four were part of a theft ring for which holmes acted as a middleman to los angeles nightclub owner adel nasrallah, also known as eddie nash. holmes allegedly fenced stolen property for the group to nash, who allegedly paid for the loot with drugs
nash's business had been robbed two days before the murder. prosecutors alleged holmes staged the robbery and, when discovered, led killers to the laurel canyon home. prosecutors claimed he committed one of the murders with his own hands
jurors cited a lack of corroborating evidence for their vote for acquittal
nash was sentenced in a separate case to eight years in prison for possession of two pounds of cocaine worth an estimated $1 million. he was released after serving less than two years
lange said nash remains a suspect in the laurel canyon killings, as does his one-time bodyguard, and that police have other suspects
two classmates from stuyvesant high school in new york won the top awards in the 47th annual national science talent search
in results announced monday night, chetan nayak, 16, was awarded the top prize for a mathematical analysis of gravitation and electromagnetic fields. he will receive a $20,000 college scholarship
janet tseng, 17, whose project was a study of a parasitic infection common in aids victims, was awarded a $15,000 scholarship as the second-place winner
both students are seniors at stuyvesant high school in new york city. nayak lives in manhattan and ms. tseng lives in queens
the third-place winner was benjamin s. abella, 17, of chicago. his project studied genes that affect protein production in a certain bacterium. he is a senior at the university of chicago laboratory schools high school and will receive a $15,000 college scholarship
the winners were announced at a banquet that followed judging of the projects from 40 finalists in the annual national competition that had included 1,339 entrants. the finalists, 24 boys and 16 girls from 17 states, came to washington last week for the final judging
under the sponsorship of westinghouse electric corp., the science talent search has been conducted annually since 1942. former contest finalists include five nobel prize laureates and 27 members of the national academy of sciences
winners for fourth-through-10th place and the prizes received were, in order:
vijay satyanand pande, 17, mclean, va., $10,000
brian david conrad, 17, selden, n.y., $10,000
weiva yu sieh, 17, bronx, n.y., $10,000
stacey ellen beaulieu, 16, palm beach gardens, fla., $7,500
kurt marshall cuffey, 18, state college, pa., $7,500
brian casey hooker, 17, atlanta, ga., $7,500
meredith ann albrecht, 17, evanston, ill., $7,500
each of the other 30 finalists will receive cash awards of $1,000
a man who spent almost two years in prison after he confessed to a murder he didn't commit was freed four days after another man confessed to the crime
steven ferndo, 20, of south st. louis, said he confessed to stabbing charles oxenhandler in january 1986 because he was a drug addict and ``sick of life.''
ferndo was freed by st. louis circuit judge robert dowd jr. after douglas weems of jefferson county confessed last thursday to the killing
drugs had ruined my life,'' ferndo said of his decision to confess. ``i was down. i was a drug addict. i gave up on life
now i don't even remember that life. now i just want to go up in the world and put my life together.''
ferndo was sentenced to 20 years in prison in 1986 after he entered an ``alford plea,'' which makes no attempt to counter the evidence while offering no admission of guilt
the case was reopened in october after a young woman who had been punched by weems told authorities that weems had killed oxenhandler
weems, 23, was charged with second-degree murder in the killing of oxenhander, a radio consultant who used the stage name of robert hattrick. weems told police that a fight had broken out after oxenhandler made homosexual advances
ferndo's mother, janie gillian, wept at the hearing monday and said, ``my baby's out ... i knew he was not a killer.''
a convicted mafia boss was shot dead on a busy street in the center of city about 200 feet from police headquarters, officials reported
a policewoman gave chase but the killer disappeared into the crowd and escaped
the italian news agency ansa first reported that the assassin wore a minskirt and high heels, but officials said the killer was a man and that witnesses were confused by the police officer running with her pistol in hand
the victim was identified as domenico cavo, 29, considered the no. 2 man in the mafia clan that controls the rackets in this city in eastern sicily. he was killed instantly by two bullets fired at close range while standing in front of a coffee bar, police said
cavo was sentenced to eight years in prison last april after a mass trial of mafia suspects. he was out on provisional liberty while appealing the conviction
the nation has a new postmaster general today, the fourth in as many years
anthony m. frank, a san francisco banker, took office as head of the u.s. postal service without formal ceremony. he started his service with a meeting of top postal executives
frank takes over the troubled agency with a rate increase pending at the same time cuts in services have been forced by congressionally required spending reductions. the cuts include reduced sorting time, collections and window hours
he brings to the job a reputation as an innovator who encourages initiative in his managers and is willing to try new ideas
a decision by the independent postal rate commission is expected within a week on a rate increase proposed by the agency last year. the complex series of rate changes would include a 25-cent first class rate, if approved, and could take effect by mid-april
the service cuts are not likely to change, even with higher rates, since the new stamp prices were proposed to cope with other cost pressures and are not related to the budget changes imposed by congress
frank succeeds new york businessman preston r. tisch, who had held the post since aug. 6, 1986. tisch followed albert v. casey, who held the job for only seven months. casey replaced paul n. carlin, who served for just a year from january 1985 to 1986
a 16-month-old girl bitten last week by a swarm of ants has died, a hospital spokeswoman said today
tiffany cheatham died monday night, according to kathy musial of sacred heart hospital here. the spokeswoman said she did not yet know the official cause of death
tiffany was rushed to the hospital feb. 23 after a playful dog pushed her into an ant hill near her florida panhandle home of navarre, 20 miles outside pensacola
the girl's mother, lynn cheatham, and a neighbor had desparately tried to remove the ants, taking off tiffany's clothes and putting her in a bathtub, but many of the insects were entangled in her hair
there were ants all around all of us,'' said the neighbor, janet streaker
the girl initially lapsed into unconsciousness, but was revived at the scene, said chief don van derryt of the holley-navarre fire and rescue association
ann papadelias, another hospital spokeswoman, said she suspected the girl was attacked by fire ants, known for painful and sometimes deadly stings
concealing marijuana, playing tag with patrol cars and making love atop a squad car were among misconduct allegations filed against a group of suspended policemen, town officials have disclosed
police chief robert peyer and four policemen were suspended with pay by the police and fire commission last month. on monday, town chairman wayne polzin detailed the accusations against the five
no criminal charges have been filed. the commission has scheduled personnel hearings march 21, and peyer has said he would insist on an open hearing
peyer has been accused of giving information to a nightclub owner who was under investigation by police and the internal revenue service, and of lying about selling uniform patches and other apparel to a nightclub stripper
evidence seized last year under a search warrant included a photograph showing a woman in a town of delavan police uniform
the town had originally refused to release the allegations, but polzin said town officials wanted to avoid a legal challenge by news media under the state's open records law
we are releasing them,'' polzin said, ``after considering the threats by the media about charges against the town and the consideration we may have to pay court costs and fines.''
the suspended patrolmen are william mortlock, ernest hardwick, edward rome and jeffrey lofy. documents quoted by the milwaukee sentinel accuse:
_ hardwick and peyer of providing information to jerry petrone during an investigation of petrone's nightclub
_ peyer and hardwick of playing golf during duty hours
_ peyer of failing to turn in confiscated marijuana, of failing to investigate reports that rome and lofy played chase in squad cars and failing to act on a traffic investigation of a juvenile living at petrone's house
_ rome of having sex with a woman on a police car
_ mortlock and peyer of gaining free admission to petrone's club in violation of department rules that forbid accepting gratuities
delavan is a town of 5,700 residents about 40 miles southwest of milwaukee
waterbeds work wonders for babies born addicted to narcotics used by their mothers, a new study indicates, but researchers say they aren't sure why
such infants have easier withdrawal, are more comfortable and are more likely to thrive if they lie on waterbeds instead of traditional bassinets, the study found
infants going through drug withdrawal suffer many of the same symptoms that afflict adult addicts, including irritability, tremors, vomiting, abnormal sleeping and poor feeding
but a waterbed provides improved care that is ``safe, noninvasive, inexpensive and effective,'' said the researchers, whose findings were published in the february issue of the american journal of diseases of children
one of the researchers, dr. suzanne d. dixon, cautioned that this is essentially an improved nursing technique and not even a partial solution to the problem posed by addicted infants
this study was to evaluate a simple nursing change to see if it could make life just a little better for children who have a lot of things stacked against them,'' said dixon, with the pediatrics department at the univerity of california in san diego
waterbed use makes the early days of newborn addicts more comfortable, helps in some traditional treatments and hopefully gives youngsters a better chance for normal development, she said
she said researchers aren't sure why the waterbeds seem to help
more expensive oscillating waterbeds have been used successfully with premature non-addicted babies to provide movement stimulation. but the researchers found that newborn addicts can benefit from non-oscillating beds that are less expensive than traditional bassinets
over half of the narcotic-exposed neonates required medication to control withdrawal symptoms,'' the researchers said
those on waterbeds required a significantly lower maximum phenobarbital dose and had a lower incidence of hospital discharge with medication, thereby reducing the newborn's exposure to additional drugs.''
when discharged from the hospital, 63 percent of the waterbed babies had been weened from withdrawal medication, as opposed to 38 percent of infants in bassinets
the research was conducted on 30 infants born with an addiction to narcotics, mostly heroin or methadone. half were put on waterbeds, half in bassinets
by the fifth day, researchers said, it was clear the waterbeds were having an impact
withdrawal symptoms such as vomiting, tremors and congestion were less severe among the waterbed babies, the study found. they also went to sleep more easily and had improved weight gain
a woman charged with involuntary manslaughter says it was her husband who locked their two young children in a sun-baked car last summer, leading to the youngsters' deaths, her lawyer says
lisa shields, 19, of white township, relied on her husband, john shields, 24, to take care of their children, kristle, 3, and calvin, 1, on aug. 22, said lawyer thomas johnson
shields will ``testify his wife told him to watch the children while she went inside the house because she was ill,'' thomas said during opening remarks monday in the first day of mrs. shield's trial
prosecutors called 11 witnesses monday and were expected to call several more today before the defense began its case
the couple left a party early on aug. 22 and drove to a relative's farmhouse, according to an affidavit by state police. mrs. shields slept in the car with the children from about 5 a.m. to 9 a.m., and shields went into the house, police said
then mrs. shields went into the house and asked her husband to take care of the children, johnson said. shields moved the car to a sunnier location and rolled up the windows, police said
when mrs. shields checked the children several hours later, she found calvin unconscious and kristle gasping for breath, according to police. calvin was pronounced dead at the scene and his sister died the next day in pittsburgh's mercy hospital. autopsies showed both died of high temperatures
mrs. shields also is charged with endangering the welfare of children. her husband faces identical charges and is scheduled to go on trial later this month in mifflin county
each defendant won a change of venue from indiana county after defense attorneys argued pre-trial publicity made seating an impartial jury impossible there. they have been jailed since their arrests
fifty-two people were arrested and at least $85,000 worth of exotic animals and organs were seized during an undercover investigation, according to a published report
the oakland tribune reported today that officers seized a variety of animal parts including genitalia from tigers and sea lions, rhinoceros horns and dried abalone
several hundred male sex organs from other species were also seized, said chuck monroe, a california department of fish and game patrol chief at the department's yountville headquarters in napa county
the operation began as an investigation into illegal trafficking in bear gall bladders, said monroe
most of the charges involve poaching and commercialization of wildlife, both misdemeanor violations of the state fish and game code, he said
munroe said the animal parts were marketed mostly to the asian community as aphrodisiacs and general health foods. in some cases, he said, gall bladders from cows or pigs were sold as bear organs
a soviet government spokesman said today a curfew was imposed in sumgait, the city in azerbaidzhan where rioting broke out two days ago. he said ``some mistakes'' had been made concerning a disputed territory that is home to tens of thousands of armenians
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said the situation was calm but tense in azerbaidzhan and neighboring soviet armenia, where ethnic hatred triggered demonstrations, violence and at least two deaths in recent days
he suggested the unrest resulted from a ``mistake'' made 65 years ago when a territory composed largely of ethnic armenians was made part of neighboring azerbaidzhan
there were certain injuries'' in sumgait, an industrial city where hooligans were blamed for touching off a riot sunday, gerasimov said
at his regular briefing today, the soviet spokesman was peppered with questions about the unrest in the southern republics of armenia and azerbaidzhan. however, he said he had few details
foreign journalists have been barred from the region, and only sporadic reports from witnesses, activists and the official media have reached moscow
gerasimov was asked about reports that soviet tanks are patrolling sumgait, that ethnic azeris are attacking armenians there and that there have been at least two deaths in the city
he responded that ``there is a curfew'' in sumgait, but that he had not heard anything about tanks being sent into the city. ``the situation is calm there today, but it is tense,'' gerasimov said
asked if troops remained in the city today, he said, ``i don't know, but i guess so. presumably.''
the violence in sumgait, reported monday by the official soviet news agency tass, followed outbreaks 150 miles away in nagorno-karabakh, the contested region in azerbaidzhan, and mass demonstrations in yerevan, the capital of soviet armenia
the demonstrators demanded that nagorno-karabakh, which has been part of azerbaidzhan since 1923, be made part of armenia. three-quarters of the area's 157,000 residents are armenian
gerasimov said he did not have detailed reports from the entire region but that what information he had indicated ``everything is calm'' in yerevan and surrounding areas
the events that took place caused great concern to us,'' he said. ``we think it is not a proper way to settle the problems that have accumulated.''
gerasimov acknowledged, however, that the unrest apparently stemmed from ``some mistakes made in the national relations, and these mistakes should be rectified.''
soviet authorities have pledged to reconsider the issue of nagorno-karabakh's parent republic, and gerasimov's statement seemed to indicate the region might be turned over to armenia. he did not, however, say when that might occur
asked if he meant to say that nagorno-karabakh should be made part of armenia, gerasimov said: ``i meant there were some mistakes in nagorno-karabakh.''
he described the region as ``a kind of enclave'' in azerbaidzhan with 49 nationalities represented among the population that is nonetheless mostly armenian
that is why we should be very tactful in handling this question in order not to cause differences between brothers and nationalities. the previous policy had some mistakes in this area,'' he said
on friday, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed for ``civil maturity and restraint'' and promised the communist party central committee would review relations among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
azerbaidzhan is the largest of three soviet republics in the caucasus. it is bordered on the west by largely christian armenia and georgia and on the north by the russian republic. quotes, picks up 6th pvs: the joint...; edits thereafter to tighten</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz turned today to king hussein of jordan to back the u.s. drive for mideast peace talks
he's a key, in my opinion,'' shultz said. ``he has immense standing and a person who's been here a long time. through all of these issues, up and down, he's a man of experience and judgment.''
talking to reporters on his flight from the middle east, shultz hinted he was inclined to return to the region after a nato summit meeting in brussels wednesday and thursday
nobody has signed up to our proposal, but everybody wants us to keep working, so we will keep working,'' shultz said in a departure statement in israel
we will continue our efforts,'' he said
after arriving at london's heathrow airport, he met hussein at a private residence owned by the king in central london. shultz also was to see prime minister margaret thatcher and foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe before flying to brussels later today
in jerusalem, diplomatic sources, demanding anonymity, said shultz had told israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir he would return after the nato summit if hussein gave at least qualified support to the u.s. proposal
it calls for israel, jordan, and palestinians to open negotiations on about april 1 on self-rule of the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live on the west bank and in gaza. talks on an overall middle east settlement would begin by december
we are still very much in a process of working,'' shultz said as he left israel
while in the middle east, he met with jordanian officials including crown prince hassan. but only the king, who went to london for dental treatment, can give an authoritative response for the arab country that occupied the west bank from 1949 to 1967
king hussein is a very critical factor in it all,'' shultz said aboard his air force jet
he said he would report to president reagan in brussels and go back to the middle east after the summit if ``he wants me to.''
shultz acknowledged he had made little concrete progress during four days of talks with israeli and arab leaders. while he said he could see a narrowing of differences, ``i don't know if i could describe them in a way that would be perceptible to anyone else.''
and yet, shultz said, ``assuming everyone continues the attitude they have to keep working, to keep working, we'll do it.''
a senior israeli official who demanded anonymity said jordanian officials had surprised shultz by hardening their insistence on holding an international conference and by abandoning previous support for a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation
shamir has opposed a u.n.-sponsored conference attended by the five permament members of the u.n. security council: the united states, soviet union, britain, france and china. he has argued such a forum would be biased against the jewish state
the joint delegation was a key element of u.s.-sponsored peacemaking efforts because it got around israeli refusal to talking with yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization
foreign minister shimon peres, speaking to children in the resort city of elat, suggested that king hussein sought a plo role in selecting a negotiating team
hussein says he wants the plo without arafat. let's go along with him on this formula ... plo, yes, arafat, no,'' peres said in remarks aired on israel's army radio
his remarks were initially interpreted as a change in position, but peres aides said there had been a ``misunderstanding.''
peres' spokesman uri savir issued a clarification, stressing peres is against talks with the plo and was referring to hussein's position
shultz, who put his personal prestige on the line during the shuttle, found the middle east deeply divided by distrust and a volatile west bank and gaza strip, where 76 arabs have been killed since rioting began dec. 8
shamir is scheduled to visit washington in two weeks for talks with reagan and shultz
but it could be a third key figure, chairman yasser arafat of the palestine liberation organization, who has been most instrumental in upsetting shultz's mission. one major shultz objective was to meet with a delegation of palestinian arabs in order to get their goals in negotiations
but under plo instructions, all 15 he invited to a session last friday in jerusalem stayed away
in amman, reporters briefed under rules that prevented them from disclosing their sources were told jordan no longer would put pressure on the plo to form a joint negotiating team. now, reporters were told, the palestinians all look to the plo as their sole representative and jordan did not intend to stand in their way
the hardened arab stance was said to be in response to israel's suppression of palestinian protests. however, a u.s. official suggested that jordan was more flexible in the private talks with shultz
i don't see any sign that arab positions are hardening.'' but the official added, ``we are not at the point where anybody is saying yes or no.''
an heiress whose lawsuit pushed a church into bankruptcy was among four bidders for the church's property in a recent auction
elizabeth dovydenas' $2.56 million bid for property of the bible speaks church in lenox was the third highest bid, charles normandin, attorney for the court-appointed trustee managing the church estate, said monday
he said the high bid of $2.81 million came from a group called lenox associates. its lawyer, richard howard, declined to reveal the partners' identities
second was kaslin properties of new york with a bid of $2.61 million, normandin said
mrs. dovydenas had argued in u.s. bankruptcy court last april that she was duped out of a third of her chain-store fortune by the founder and leader of the fundamentalist sect, rev. carl h. stevens jr., while she was a parishioner from 1983 to 1986
the bible speaks campus closed last year after mrs. dovydenas prevailed in her $6.6 million claim. lawyers for the church plan to appeal a federal judge's recent decision upholding the claim
her claim is by far the largest of hundreds of creditors, who claim they are owed more than $7 million by the church
monday was the deadline for bids on the 65-acre estate with its 28 buildings. normandin said the final round of bidding could come at a hearing monday at u.s. bankruptcy court in worcester
mrs. dovydenas had been the high bidder at a november auction of the church headquarters, but the bankruptcy court rejected her $1.8 million bid as too low. the campus has been appraised at $6 million
forty minority students at hampshire college have reached an agreement with the administration to end their week-long takeover of a dormitory, a college spokeswoman said today
the students had complained of racism at the private liberal arts school
by the end of the day we expect the agreement to be fully signed,'' said administration spokeswoman melissa stephen
spokesmen for the protesters holding the dakin house office were out of the building and could not be reached for comment
college president adele simmons met monday with representatives of the blacks, hispanics, indians and other minorities who have held the small brick building since feb. 23
their 16 demands included the creation of the post of dean of multicultural affairs and for a full-time coordinator for the minority student group
simmons last week offered the students $25,000 to spend as they please on their programs, but the negotiators rejected the offer
that's really an absurd amount for what is needed,'' protest spokeswoman anita fearman said monday
college spokeswoman lee wicks said the students evidently did not understand the college's budget
when you see our high tuition, you think there must be lots of extra money on campus,'' she said. ``we're ending this year on a deficit and they're asking us to come up with bucks in march. yes, we want to be supportive, but in fact we don't have the money.''
tuition at the private liberal arts school was nearly $16,000 this year, she said. minorities represent about 10 percent of the school's 1,100 students
more women are working in entertainment and the news media, but they bump into a ``glass ceiling'' that prevents them from rising into top management jobs, experts told a conference on women, men and media
while more women are hired, that doesn't always translate up,'' said university of missouri journalism professor jean gaddy wilson, citing data gathered during a five-year study of women in media
i do see that glass ceiling,'' ms. wilson told the conference monday at the university of southern california. she described the ``glass ceiling'' as ``a transparent barrier'' that allows women to see top echelon jobs but blocks access to them
women account for 66 percent of the nation's journalism graduates, but less than 2 percent of newspaper corporate management, 5 percent of publishers and general managers, and 13 percent of directing editors, she said
the employment of women in news media lags behind employment in the society overall,'' ms. wilson said. ``if current trends continue, women won't attain directing editorships on par with their level of the population until 2055.''
despite gains in front of the television camera, ms. wilson reported similar patterns in broadcast management. she said no networks had a woman heading their news division, and only nine of 51 network news vice presidents are women
local television stations also have few women in management, ms. wilson said. but she said radio stations employ women in proportion to the workforce
linda alvarez, anchor on los angeles television station knbc, said some women in television are treated as ``shadow anchors'' to a male co-anchor, are assigned to ``soft stories'' and are not allowed to age
you don't see very many female charles kuralts on television, or women who look like irving r. levine,'' said ms. alvarez, naming two veteran male newscasters
the three-day conference, which started sunday, was organized by betty friedan, author of the best-selling ``the feminine mystique'' and a visiting journalism professor at usc
an analysis of credits on 1986-87 network entertainment series found women employed more often as writers than as producers or directors, said sally steenland of wider opportunities for women. seventeen of the top 20 shows had women writers. half had women producers and six had directors
futurist alvin toffler said women have a chance to manage new media as communication becomes diversified by cable television and other outlets targeting ``micro markets'' within the mass audience
we're going to see two-tiered media,'' said toffler. mass media will cover major events, but customized media will provide information and entertainment to audiences defined by such characteristics as race, sex, interest or geographic area, he said
the conference was co-sponsored by the gannett foundation, usc's school of journalism, the institute for the study of women and men, women in film, and the times mirror corp
three italian engineers, including one blinded in an eye during his abduction, came home today after they were released by pro-iranian kurds following five months of captivity
former hostages sergio cominetti, roberto diotallevi and giuseppe carrara boarded a commercial plane in iraq on monday and flew to amman, jordan, where they were met by an italian government plane. they landed at the northern italian airport of orio al serio outside bergamo
the italian news agency ansa reported that men were in good condition on their arrival in italy and quoted all three as agreeing that they had been treated well in captivity and had never feared for their lives
you could call the treatment they gave us humane,'' carrara was quoted as saying. ``we were allowed to talk to our captors. between us a climate of mutual respect was established.''
a group calling itself the iraqi kurdish national union claimed responsibility for the kidnappings in iraq last october, demanding a halt to italian aid to the iraqi government and removal of italy's ships from the persian gulf. the kidnappers also made a request for 2,000 gas masks
in announcing the release of the hostages, the italian foreign ministry on saturday said the three were freed because of its ``intense and discreet'' efforts, but did not elaborate
in a telephone interview from baghdad with the italian daily corriere della sera on monday, diotallevi said cominetti did not join the other two hostages until after they were freed
cominetti was taken hostage last september and the other two in october while they were working in iraq on electrical engineering projects for two italian companies
carrara said the most dramatic moment was when they were taken hostage. returning to their headquarters from work, they noticed they were being followed by a taxi. ``we thought of bandits and tried to escape,'' he said
guerrillas fired several times. a splinter from one of the bullets hit diotallevi, injuring his right eye. during the interview, diotallevi added that there were no doctors to treat the injury and that the eye since has gone blind
diotallevi said he and carrara were held ``in different refuges'' in the mountains during their captivity. miles in graf 9th pvs ``iraq's air force... '' </note>
iraq said today it fired 14 surface-to-surface missiles of its own design and production into the iranian capital in a 24-hour blitz lasting late into this afternoon
iran vowed revenge and said one iraqi strike killed 16 people when it struck a tehran hospital. at least one other fatality was reported in the iranian capital
it was the worst escalation of the so-called ``war of the cities'' that has killed thousands of civilians since 1985. iran and iraq have been at war since 1980
iraq said it began firing the missiles into tehran monday afternoon in retaliation for two pre-dawn missile strikes on baghdad, the iraqi capital
iran initially reported its capital of 6 million people was under attack by iraqi warplanes. it later said missiles had struck the city
one person was killed and several wounded this morning by a missile that destroyed or damaged several houses and shops in tehran, iran's official islamic republic news agency reported
irna said at least 16 civilians were killed and dozens wounded, ``including newborn babies,'' when the hospital was hit monday night. an unspecified number of people were buried when part of the hospital building collapsed, the agency said
the iranians did not say whether the missiles were fired from land or air
iraq's air force outnumbers iran's 8-to-1. iraq had never before used surface-to-surface missiles to attack tehran, which is 290 miles from the iraqi border
iran protested to u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar and vowed revenge if the attacks did not stop
iran's moslem combatants will not sit quiet until they take revenge,'' irna quoted a military communique as saying
an iranian military communique called on residents of baghdad to evacuate ``and seek shelter in the four previously identified holy cities in iraq to protect their lives'' from retaliation
iran is determined to demonstrate ``who is stronger when it comes to demonstration of power,'' warned the communique
an iraqi communique, meanwhile, today reported the firing of two more missiles it said scored ``effective hits in tehran and turned their targets into rubble.'' it did not disclose the nature of the targets
another iraqi communique said iranian artillery gunners this morning resumed pounding the iraqi port city of basra. one man was killed and women, children and other civilians were injured, said the communique, quoted by the official iraqi news agency
iraq began firing the missiles into tehran in retaliation for two pre-dawn missile strikes monday that killed or wounded ``many civilians'' in baghdad, reported iraq's news agency
it said five iraqi missiles crashed in the iranian capital before midnight monday, two after midnight, two at dawn, two this morning, and three this afternoon
apparently interrupted by the afternoon missile strikes, tehran television went off the air for few minutes today, but resumed its newscast later from another broadcast room. no explanation was given
the iranian and iraqi agency and television reports were monitored in nicosia
one iraqi communique said iraqi missiles ``poured with an enormous destruction power on tehran, striking with accuracy'' and destroying ``the nests of tyrants and aggression in tehran.''
the iranian news agency said relief workers were rushing casualties to hospitals. tehran radio urged iranians to take refuge in bomb shelters
the iraqi news agency quoted a military spokesman as saying the missiles ``had been designed by iraqi minds and put together by iraqi hands'' and said: ``the iraqi rockets will reduce the iranian capital to rubble.''
the agency said president saddam hussein named the new iraqi missile ``al hussein,'' after the shiite moslem saint. it said the projectile has a range of 400 miles. comment from macy's, picking up at the 11th graf previous, beginning ``the federated.'' a version moved on the business wire</note>
r.h. macy &amp; co. made a surprise bid for federated department stores inc., challenging a competing offer by campeau corp. for the nation's largest department store operator
the bid monday by new york-based macy's is valued at about $6.6 billion, topping the $6.1 billion offer from campeau, a toronto-based department store and real estate company, federated said in a statement
campeau responded today that ``their deal is simply not competitive'' and that it was prepared to structure an offer along the lines of the macy's proposal
campeau has been trying to buy federated for more than a month, but federated's board rejected three successively richer offers. on friday, campeau sweetened its offer again and federated agreed to stop fighting and start merger talks
federated disclosed macy's offer late monday night from its headquarters here after federated's board met in new york to consider the latest, $68-a-share offer from campeau for all of federated's 89.6 million common shares outstanding
macy's declined today to comment publicly today on its offer
under the prposal, privately held macy's would make a cash tender offer for approximately 80 percent of federated's outstanding shares at $73.80 per share, federated said
federated shares not purchased in the tender offer would be exchanged in a merger transaction, for a number of newly issued shares of macy's common stock, equal to approximately 40 percent of the unpurchased shares
no value could immediately be placed on the stock portion of the buyout offer, but the total offer would be worth about $6.6 billion if valued at $73.80 in cash or stock for all of federated's shares
the transaction just depends too heavily on the speculative trading value of the shares of a new highly leveraged combined macy's-federated,'' campeau chairman robert campeau said in statement
if the federated board prefers a two-tiered offer rather than our all- cash $68 offer, we are prepared to structure a transaction along those lines,'' he said
the federated board took no action on the campeau bid but directed its management and advisers to investigate macy's proposals, to negotiate a definitive agreement and submit both negotiated agreements to the board as soon as possible, federated said
federated officials did not know when the board would get the proposals, said spokeswoman carol sanger
the board of directors of the merged company, which would be called macy's-federated inc., would include significant representation from the existing federated board, federated said
the macy's proposal would be subject to execution of a definitive merger agreement, and to approval by the boards of directors and stockholders of both companies. some macy's outside directors already have participated in the deliberations, ms. sanger said
macy's was taken private in a $3.6 billion leveraged buyout by management in 1986. its stockholders and directors include a. alfred taubman, a major shopping mall developer, and laurence a. tisch, the chief executive of cbs inc. and loews corp
the company is one of the nation's biggest and best-known retailers. its approximately 100 stores rang up $5.21 billion in sales during the year ended aug. 1
cincinnati-based federated took in $11 billion last year from its more than 650 department stores, supermarkets and other outlets nationwide, including the bloomingdale's, filene's, burdine's, lazarus, bullock's and gold circle chains
federated stock closed up $2 at $66.50 a share in new york stock exchange trading monday
in addition to the campeau proposal, federated's board had been considering whether to entirely shun purchase offers in favor of a restructuring that would keep present management in control
campeau has been pressing its takeover attempt since jan. 25. in december 1986, the company acquired giant allied stores corp., whose operations include the jordan marsh, stern's, brooks brothers and ann taylor retail chains
some industry analysts have said they expect federated to continue soliciting other buyers to fend off campeau's overtures
four libyan jet fighters landed at an egyptian airfield today, the state-run middle east news agency reported
the brief report, quoting a ``reliable source,'' did not name the airfield
it gave little additional information except that the planes were soviet-made mig-23s and that they landed at 1:09 p.m. the report said nothing about the crews
a libyan military transport plane and two military helicopters landed during a five-month period last year, and crew members requested and were granted political asylum. pick up 5th graf pvs bgng ``dole the...</note>
republican bob dole, playing catch-up in the southern presidential primaries, attacked george bush in public and in new television commercials today as a vice president without record or accomplishment and a supporter of the arms-for-hostages deal with iran
dole's campaign began airing tough ads striking at bush in florida and north carolina, as dole escalated criticism of the vice president at appearances at duke university
that's precisely what he did _ he supported the sale of arms to iran,'' dole said when asked about the new television attack
dole, the senate minority leader, accused bush of offering ``nine different answers'' on the iran-contra affair. ``but it's a fact he did support it,'' dole said
now we're talking about credibility,'' dole said at a news conference. ``when somebody gives you nine different answers on the same question, i think it's an issue.''
trailing bush in the polls in most of the states voting next week, dole began a test-run of strong television ads in miami and other selected florida cities, dole campaign manager bill brock said
the ads, which the dole campaign produced but did not run during the new hampshire campaign, depict bush as walking through snow but leaving no footprints, brock said. he said the message was that bush ``has held all these big jobs'' yet left no mark
in north carolina, dole began airing a different ad that injected the iran-contra affair into the campaign, saying that bush ``supported arms for hostages.''
it also says bush ``waffles on taxes'' and opposes legislation limiting textile imports, a bill that dole supports and that is popular in the textile-producing carolinas. bush said in south carolina last week that he opposes the textile bill as protectionist
dole spoke to students on the campus of duke university, where his wife elizabeth attended college. while there he lashed at bush for saying repeatedly that he wants to be ``the education president.''
well he's certainly been quiet the last seven years when the administration's been whacking billions and billions of dollars out of the education budget,'' dole said. ``haven't heard one word.''
a day earlier in fort lauderdale, dole told a downtown crowd to question bush on his record. ``ask him what's he done in the last seven years,'' dole said. ``what's he done anywhere in america or the world to make a difference?''
dole, the kansas senator and senate minority leader, cited his own record in congress and raised anew his claim that bush had distorted dole's stand on tax increases in television commercials that helped bush win the new hampshire primary
dole said voters want to elect ``someone who is not out trying to distort somebody else's record when they don't have a record of their own.''
bob dole is not going to raise your taxes,'' he said. ``we don't know what george bush is going to do.''
tough'' was a word dole brandished as he flew around the south drawing comparisons with bush in advance of the big round of primaries across the region and elsewhere on super tuesday, a week away
i have a quality that some may be lacking. i am tough,'' dole said in atlanta and echoed in mississippi and florida. and for anyone missing his comparison with the vice president, dole said: ``i'm tougher.''
reacting to the crisis in panama, dole called for a full trade embargo against that country if its military strongman manuel noriega stays in power, and he urged the use of force if necessary to protect u.s. interests there, including the panama canal
dole said the reagan administration has sent mixed signals on noriega, who is accused of drug trafficking. and dole suggested the united states reconsider transferring the panama canal to that country if noriega appears able to retain power
you just ought to say no to drugs, no to noriega, and no, maybe, to giving them the canal,'' dole said
he said some u.s. officials have made conciliatory statements about noriega and ignored old evidence of drug involvement in the panamanian military
it seems to me we have one signal indicating noriega ought to stay or noriega isn't such a bad guy,'' dole said. he singled out daniel murphy, former chief of staff to vice president george bush, who he said described noriega as cooperative, and cited ``other indications they didn't know about noriega and drugs until a few weeks ago.''
strange thing,'' dole said. ``we knew about it when we were debating the panama canal treaty 10 years ago. in fact many of us talked about it on the senate floor.''
dole frequently mentioned his vote against the treaty, tranferring eventual ownership of the panama canal to panama, that was narrowly ratified 10 years ago. he said that if it appears panama's situation will go unchanged, ``we may want to go back and take another look at that canal.''
 we may not want to turn it over to panama, if they're going to be in this state,'' dole said
republican presidential candidate pat robertson said today a transcript of 1967 senate subcommittee testimony supports his belief there are nuclear missiles in cuba
the former religious broadcaster quoted testimony from two people:
_paul bethel, a state department official who said cuban refugees had told him about seeing missiles
_one of the refugees, identified only as mr. apud, who said members of the cuban military had told him about missiles aimed at washington before he left in 1966
in the 1967 judiciary subcommittee transcript, apud said he was told by cuban soldiers he had known for many years that the missiles were nicknamed ``washington left,'' ``washington right'' and ``washington central.''
the transcript also showed that bethel said in response to questioning by sen. strom thurmond, r-s.c., that numerous refugees had told him they had seen missiles left in cuba after the cuban missile crisis and new ones put in in 1964
bethel testified he could not say for sure that intermediate or intercontinental ballistic missiles were in cuba, but that the state department also couldn't be certain they weren't there
this is documented evidence,'' robertson said today at a breakfast attended by about 600 supporters
he first brought the subject up in a debate in new hampshire last month, contending there are missiles in cuba aimed at the united states
the reagan administration immediately denied it
at a news conference on monday, robertson produced a cuban refugee who he said had seen the weapons. the cuban, who spoke through an interpreter and identified himself only as e. rodriguez, said he had seen missile sites, but did not know whether the weapons had nuclear warheads
the first morning of reconstruction on the city's major highway link to the south passed without major traffic jams, police said today
so far, so good,'' state police sgt. dolores enright said of the traffic on the dan ryan expressway, one of the nation's busiest highways
most commuters apparently heeded warnings about potential traffic problems and took other routes or public transportation
the project will widen the dan ryan from four lanes each way to five
during 6{ months of construction on southbound lanes this year, all traffic will share four lanes. the northbound lanes will be out of commission next year during the project's second phase
some motorists had planned novel ways to cope with massive traffic jams they had expected
julie coenen said bought tape-recorded ``talking books,'' such as james michener's ``texas,'' to listen to while she sits in traffic
i think it's going to be like a huge, huge parking lot,'' says ms. coenen, who lives in northwest suburban elk grove village and uses the dan ryan expressway to commute to her job as a health educator at michael reese medical center on the city's south side
i have visions of people taking folding chairs and tables and playing cards.''
i think it's going to be a real bad nightmare,'' says norma hill, 35, a hospital secretary who commutes from her home in south suburban evergreen park to her job in south chicago
the dan ryan expressway, an 11-mile stretch of concrete and asphalt, is the main link between chicago and points south. traffic from at least six other expressways feeds the dan ryan just south of downtown chicago
state officials say the $210 million rebuilding job will be the largest highway project in illinois history
the road is simply wearing out from old age and the pounding it has taken from traffic, particularly trucks,'' says dick adorjan, a spokesman for the illinois department of transportation
the state plans to close all four southbound lanes from march 13 to october 31, rerouting southbound traffic onto two of the four northbound lanes. the process will be reversed in the spring of 1989
the work began today with the closing of several lanes on each side of the freeway for a week to build traffic crossovers and patch the northbound side
as the project began, a psychiatrist recommended deep breaths, exercise or conversation as tension easers for stalled commuters
drivers who are mentally prepared to face these difficulties can reduce the stress,'' says dr. richard glass, associate psychiatry professor and director of adult outpatient services at the university of chicago medical center
he said drivers could also use their stall time to learn a foreign language from taped lessons or dictate letters into a tape recorder
the supreme court, making it easier to deport some aliens, today blocked further hearings for a california man seeking to avoid return to his native ghana
the court ruled 8-0 that immigration officials, having decided an alien should be deported, generally are under no duty to reconsider the case when the alien says he has new evidence to support a bid for asylum
the decision is a defeat for dr. assibi l. abudu, a native and citizen of ghana who graduated from the university of southern california medical school and married a u.s. citizen
immigration officials moved to deport him in 1981 after he was convicted in california of illegally attempting to obtain the narcotic drug demerol by fraud. he was given a one-year suspended prison sentence and was placed on probation for three years
the immigration and naturalization service found him deportable and the board of immigration appeals upheld that decision
abudu sought to reopen his case in 1985 and seek asylum in the united states from the military dictatorship of flight lieutenant jerry rawlings, who regained power in ghana in a dec. 31, 1981, military coup
abudu said he had new evidence that his life might be in danger if he was forced to return to ghana based on a 1984 visit to him by abukari alhassan, secretary of housing and construction in the rawlings regime
abudu said he believed alhassan was trying to lure him back to ghana so officials there could torture him to extract information about opponents of the rawlings regime
abudu said his brother escaped capture by the regime and fled into hiding and also said his lifelong friend, lt. col. joshua hamidu, is regarded as the number one enemy of the rawlings government
the board of immigration appeals refused to reopen abudu's case, noting that abudu did not initially seek asylum when he contested his deportation
but the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals in 1986 ordered the board to reconsider granting abudu asylum
the supreme court today agreed with the reagan administration that the appeals court should have deferred to the decision of the immigration board
justice john paul stevens, writing for the court, said aliens seeking to reopen their deportation cases have the difficult task of proving that immigration officials abused their discretion in refusing to do so
there is a strong public interest in bringing litigation to a close as promptly as is consistent with the interest in giving the adversaries a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective cases,'' stevens said
we have no hesitation in concluding that the board of immigration appeals did not abuse its discretion when it held that abudu had not reasonably explained his failure to apply for asylum prior to the completion of the initial deportation proceeding,'' he said
justice anthony m. kennedy, who only recently joined the court, did not take part in the decision
the case is ins vs. abudu, 86-1128. obstetricians. officials, who released incorrect figure, said 55 percent were sued at least twice, sted at least three times.</note>
a survey released today says that the threat of malpractice suits caused 12 percent of obstetricians to close their practices last year and that two-thirds leave the field before age 55
the survey, conducted in october and november for the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists, showed that the national rate for physicians dropping obstetrics has remained at 12 percent for the last two years, but that the age of those quitting is getting younger
if this trend continues, we are going to see more and more physicians leaving obstetrics at the height of their professional ability,'' said dr. jimmie gleason, chairman of the doctors' committee on professional liability. ``we are looking at a situation where obstetrics is being concentrated more and more in large urban and suburban areas.''
in florida, the number of doctors no longer delivering babies has reached 25 percent, about twice the national average, and 75 percent of those quitting in florida are doing so before the age 55, also far above the national average
malpractice insurance premiums for obstetricians in florida and new york now average about $52,000 a year, the survey shows. the national average has risen from $10,946 in 1982 to $37,015 in 1987, according to the report
gleason said the survey revealed ``several disturbing trends'' in the care of high-risk pregnancies
twenty-seven of the surveyed doctors said they were limiting the number of high-risk cases they will take, compared to 23 percent in 1985, and 18 percent in 1982
the survey showed that seven out of 10 obstetrician-gynecologists nationally have been sued at some point in their career. in new york, 55 percent of the practicioners have been sued two or more times
fifty-two percent of the suits involved obstetric cases, with 31 percent of these cases for claims of neurologically-impaired infants, and 15 percent for claims of stillbirths or infant deaths, the survey showed
of the claims resolved, 36 percent were dropped without payment. of those not dropped, 79 percent were settled with payment
the survey showed that obstetrician-gynecologists had a mean gross income in 1986 of $296,133, with the highest gross in new york, with $387,022, and in florida, with $323,252. the mean gross income increased by $81,122 from 1984 to 1986, the survey showed
the average medical practice overhead reported was $147,029, with the average for florida at $190,882
opinion research corp. of princeton, n.j. conducted the survey for the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists. controls gulf area</head> not participate.</note>
the supreme court today declined to decide yet whether the state or the federal government should control a gulf of mexico area off mississippi's southwestern coastline
rejecting arguments by the state's lawyers, the court ruled 7-0 that more information is needed before such a determination is made
mississippi had sought a ruling that its southwestern coastline extends beyond several barrier islands and into chandeleur sound, south of the mississippi sound
control of an area of about 150 square miles of the gulf, along with control of the natural resources there, remains in dispute
the case acted on today has, in varying forms, been before the high court since 1956, when the justices first invoked their ``original jurisdiction'' to hear the controversy before it had been aired in any lower court
in such cases, the supreme court functions as a trial court and acts on the recommendations of a court-appointed ``special master.'' in this case, retired judge walter p. armstrong jr. is serving as the special master
he recommended that mississippi's pressing for a ruling that gives it control of the disputed gulf area should be ruled premature
writing for the court today, justice harry a. blackmun agreed
he said mississippi's arguments ``are overruled but without prejudice to the advancement of such claims as any party might have with respect to the area south of mississippi sound in the vicinity of chandeleur sound in an appropriate separate chapter of these proceedings.''
the mississippi sound is a body of water between the state's mainland and a line of barrier islands several miles offshore
in 1985, the justices ruled that alabama and mississippi _ and not the federal government _ own their respective portions of the sound's bed and therefore control the natural resources there
blackmun said the high court would retain jurisdiction in the case, raising the likelihood that still another ruling on the issue is in the court's future
justices thurgood marshall and anthony m. kennedy did not participate in the decision
the case is alabama and mississippi boundardy case, 9 original
a ``puff'' of tritium escaped from the department of energy's savannah river plant today, but posed no hazard to the public, officials said
spokesman jim felder said about 20,000 curies of tritium, a radioactive isotope of hydrogen, were released at 6:18 a.m. this morning during routine operations
felder characterized the release as ``a puff'' and said it lasted less than a minute
the weapons production facility at the plant makes material used in the production of nuclear weapons, and felder said details on the process under way when the release occurred are classified
the exposure at the plant boundary, about six miles from the h chemical separations area where the release occurred, was about 0.04 millirems, felder said. by comparison, he said a normal chest x-ray is 20 millirems
two employees in the work area at the time of the release were undergoing tests to see if they suffered any ill effects. they were wearing full protective gear at the time, he said
all plant operations have returned to normal, he said
felder said an initial assessment of the cause of the release indicates equipmment malfunction. however, an investigation will be conducted
the last such release at the plant occurred july 31, 1987, when a dosage of .2 millirems was measured at the plant's boundary
the plant's reactors were reduced to half power last year amid concerns over the cooling system, and department of energy officials told a u.s. senate subcommittee in washington on monday that the reactors could be running at full capacity by 1990
felder said this morning the process in which the tritium was released is separate from that involving the reactors and would not affect the reactor plans. pvs ``at the outset...; delete final 3 grafs to tighten</note>
how does a presidential candidate campaign for 20 far-flung contests held on the same day? the answer is television
the primaries and caucuses of march 8, super tuesday, are being held in states and territories from florida to washington, an unprecedented sweep across more than 150 media markets with more than 500 television stations
television is as critical on the vast super tuesday battleground as grass-roots organizing was in iowa and new hampshire
kansas sen. bob dole fired an opening salvo, starting a test-run of tough television ads in florida and north carolina
the florida ad, which the dole campaign produced but did not run during the new hampshire campaign, depicts vice president george bush walking through snow but leaving no footprints. the message, said dole campaign manager bill brock, was that bush ``has held all these big jobs'' yet left no mark
the other dole ad, running in north carolina, injects the iran-contra affair into the campaign. it says bush ``supported arms for hostages,'' ``waffles on taxes'' and opposes legislation limiting textile imports, a bill dole supports and that is popular in the textile-producing carolinas. bush said in south carolina last week that he opposes the textile bill as protectionist
rep. richard gephardt also was taking the offensive with two critical ads. one featured rep. marvin leath of texas criticizing gephardt rivals michael dukakis and albert gore jr. the other was a retooled version of an ad that was considered a key factor in gephardt's victory over dukakis last week in south dakota
at the outset of his campaign, dukakis mentioned belgian endive, a kind of yuppie lettuce, as an example of how iowa farmers could diversify their crops. the gephardt ad criticizes the massachusetts governor's positions on trade and farm issues, and ends with a voice saying sarcastically: ``belgian endive?''
many observers said dukakis made a major error in not responding with an ad of his own _ a situation that won't be repeated. dukakis aide leslie dach said the dukakis campaign had prepared a negative ad about gephardt and would use it soon, possibly starting today, in super tuesday states
gephardt has also revived an ad that was seen as having a big impact in iowa _ in which he criticizes south korea for stifling u.s. auto sales in that nation with stiff tariffs, and threatens to respond in kind. see how many hyundais the koreans can sell here at $48,000 apiece, he tells viewers
and gephardt has a commercial featuring the popular rep. claude pepper, a democrat who has ample clout with senior citizens. pepper is from florida, the second-biggest super tuesday state
dukakis has ads featuring fellow massachusetts politician tip o'neill, the former house speaker, and has been running a biographical spot in which he stresses his economic accomplishments as governor
dukakis has mounted particularly strong efforts in four states with pockets of ethnic or liberal voters: florida, texas, north carolina and georgia
gephardt and dole have focused on the border states that lie near their respective homes of missouri and kansas
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., who bypassed early contests to stress the super tuesday states, took out a loan monday to pay for a media blitz, a campaign spokesman said
we're going to saturate super tuesday. ... we want to pour it on,'' said press spokesman mike kopp
gore's state campaign treasurer in tennessee, johnny hayes, said gore had taken a $1 million line of credit against which money would be borrowed for a 20-state advertising campaign. kopp said new gore commercials would go on the air today
gore has already made national cable television buys and purchases of time on individual stations in most of the super tuesday states
bush was first on the air in texas, where he once lived. he has been running a biographical ad. republican rival rep. jack kemp has concentrated his advertising money in seven super tuesday states, said his political director, charles black
rarely are the candidates engaging in the small-scale, ``retail'' campaigning of the early contests _ visiting diners, plant gates and firehouses, taking door-to-door strolls down residential streets. when they do, it's mostly for the benefit of television cameras
it's too vast a primary to even bother, other than for media events,'' said larry sabato, a political media expert at the university of virginia. ``it's a wholesale day. the candidates have to rely heavily on their strategic consultants and media consultants.''
a well-heeled candidate could spend upwards of $2 million blanketing the territory with tv commercials, radio spots and satellite feeds. the trick is to spend shrewdly as well as heavily
it's a matter of consultants sitting down with polling data and census data and deciding where you have your best bet,'' said bob lichter, a media analyst and co-director of the center for media and public affairs. ``it's applied science meets gut political instinct.''
the typical super tuesday technique calls for finding targets within states, such as individual congressional districts, and keeping mum about where they are
strong waves off puerto rico's west coast hampered a search today for possible survivors of a small craft carrying illegal aliens from the dominican republic to this u.s. commonwealth, police said
police maj. cesar gracia said two bodies were found monday and a third has been spotted floating at sea. one survivor was hospitalized monday
authorities and a survivor said the majority of the 45 people aboard the craft made it to shore safely
the boat, estimated at 20 to 30 feet long, sank sunday night near the small fishing village of aguada, about 85 miles west of the capital san juan, the landing site for many boats bringing illegal aliens to the united states in recent years. the exact number of illegals making the trip during that period is unknown
according to gracia, the dominican residents boarded the craft on the east coast of dominican republic on saturday night, when the weather was clear. as they neared puero rico, the boat was overturned by large waves about 180 feet from shore. specific churches and groups; picks up 7th graf pvs: another section...</note>
the government intensified its crackdown on apartheid opponents today by introducing a bill that would outlaw foreign funding of political activity
the legislation, expected to be adopted during parliament's current session, could cripple the operations of anti-apartheid organizations and churches spared during last week's crackdown on major black opposition groups
eighteen groups, including the largest anti-apartheid coalition and largest labor federation, were barred from political activity
the new legislation, called ``the promotion of orderly politics bill,'' would prohibit all organizations from receiving money from abroad for political purposes. many anti-apartheid, human rights and religious groups receive the bulk of their funds from overseas
the bill would empower the justice minister to declare certain organizations ``restricted'' and to take control of foreign funds sent to them
money which is deemed to be earmarked for undesirable political activities will ``either be returned to the foreign source or dealt with as determined by the minister,'' the bill says. no court challenge of the restrictions would be allowed
the funding restrictions could be applied to politically related activities of anti-apartheid church organizations, which have vowed to step up protests because of bans on other groups
the south african council of churches, which includes most major protestant denominations and is deeply engaged in civil rights work, has received more than 90 percent of its funds from abroad in recent years
the roman catholic church, which cooperates with the council of churches but receives funds separately, also relies heavily on overseas financing
the rev. smangiliso mkhatshwa, secretary-general of the southern african catholic bishops conference, said the bill might prove difficult to enforce
if the church says supporting the families of detainees and paying legal fees is the work of love, the work of evangelism, it is dificult to see how the government can define for the church what it pastoral and what is political,'' he said
another section of the bill sets a penalty of two years in jail or a $2,000 fine for anyone who ``says or does anything'' to foment hostility or violence between of different racial, cultural or religious groups. the penalties would apply to anyone who displays any banner, emblem or slogan deemed to convey such hostility, and also to anyone who attends a gathering where such items are displayed
helen suzman, veteran parliament member of the anti-apartheid progressive federal party, said she planned to demand a special debate today on the arrests of prominent clergymen who were protesting the government crackdown
about 25 church leaders, including anglican archbishop desmond tutu, and more than 100 other protesters were detained briefly monday after riot policeman blocked them from marching to parliament with a petition protesting the bans on opposition groups
one of the arrested churchmen, roman catholic archbishop stephen naidoo, said in an interview today that he and his colleagues considered it their duty to continue challenging the government
the church has got to take a stand on the morality of the use of political power,'' he said. ``if it being used by a minority for the protection of the minority and the oppression of the majority, then the church has got to point this out.''
in another development, government officials warned the country's largest conglomerate, the anglo american corp., that they would not tolerate its announced plan to defy the group areas act _ the law that establishes racially segregated living areas
apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the nation's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
an executive in anglo's property division, graham lindrop, recently described the act as a sham and said his company was prepared to negotiate leases directly with black tenants renting apartments in the ``white'' johannesburg neighborhood of hillbrow
currently, most of the thousands of blacks living illegally in hillbrow are forced to have their leases signed by a third party and are vulnerable to exploitation and threats from their landlords
the government has indicated it might allow hillbrow and a few other areas to become integrated, but it says violations of the group areas act will not be tolerated in the meantime
the act still stands until changes are approved by parliament, piet badenhorst, a deputy cabinet minister, said monday. ``there will be prosecutions.''
anglo american's stance was praised by foes of the group areas act and denounced as civil disobedience by the extreme-right conservative party
a former philadelphia common pleas judge who presided over what prosecutors called a ``cesspool of corruption'' was sentenced today to 12 years in a federal prison and fined $10,000
the former judge, kenneth harris, was permanently removed from the bench last week by order of the pennsylvania supreme court
harris had been found guilty on jan. 26 of racketeering, extortion and conspiracy for soliciting $5,800 in payoffs from defendants, their relatives or lawyers in 14 criminal cases. he faced a maximum sentence of 120 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine
harris' lawyers pleaded for leniency because he has diabetes and other ailments
i was hoping the sentence would be shorter. but because of the parole guidelines as i understand them, he would be eligible within 24 or 36 months. so, i'm not that unhappy,'' said defense attorney samuel stretton
u.s. attorney edward dennis had indicated harris would have to serve at least a third of his sentence before he could be freed
a federal jury convicted the 67-year-old harris on jan. 26 of running a case-fixing operation out of his city hall courtroom
still to be sentenced are two co-defendants, former federal and local prosecutor romaine g. phillips, and harris associate matthias ``big sonny'' brown, were convicted of conspiring in the case-fixing scheme. the maximum sentence for that crime is 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine
a key part of the government's case against harris was secretly recorded video and audio tapes that recorded case-fixing in harris' robing room in city hall
only one major issue still separates northwest airlines and its flight attendants, who continued working as usual today even though their strike deadline passed last week, company and union officials say
another union official said there was a possibility that northwest could be faced with simultaneous strikes by the flight attendants and ground workers
a federal mediator is scheduled to hold talks between the company and district lodge 143 of the international association of machinists a week from today, said guy cook, president of that union
if those talks break down and the mechanics declare a strike deadline, the flight attendants, represented by the teamsters, could invoke their own walkout, cook said
but cook said he does not know how long the flight attendants can maintain their right to strike or how long it will take for the mechanics to set a strike deadline in accordance with labor laws
i think that's the game that is going on right now,'' said chuck davis, a labor expert at the university of minnesota. ``if the machinists are going to begin negotiations, it may be to (the flight attendants') advantage to work without a new contract until the machinists take a position
the more coordination that goes on, the larger the numbers, the more strength they have in dealing with northwest.''
there are about 6,700 union flight attendants and about 20,000 mechanics, baggage handlers and other ground workers at northwest
talks between northwest and teamsters officials broke off at dawn saturday after an all-night negotiating session. a strike deadline of 11:01 p.m. friday passed without a strike and no job actions have been taken against the company, said company spokesman william wren
wren and teamsters spokesman jeff musto said monday that there is only one major sticking point in the talks: a company proposal to delay the promotion of workers on a lower b-scale pay schedule to the higher-paid a-scale bracket
all new employees hired since a 1982 contract have started as b-scale employees at pay rates lower than the previous system, musto said
the 1982 contract called for b-scale employees to jump to a-scale levels in their sixth year of employment, but the company has proposed extending that wait until the ninth year, musto said
wren said a large number of senior flight attendants make more than $40,000 a year, plus meal payments when they're working. most entry-level flight attendants are making about $15,000 a year, he said
about a third of the company's flight attendants are at the b-scale level, musto said
the posh fontainebleau hilton hotel is not liable for the garrote death of a nevada mortgage banker who was killed there five years ago, a jury has found
john masegian's body was found by a hotel worker in a stairwell with a 32-inch nylon cord with wooden knobs wrapped around his neck
his widow sued, contending the death could have been prevented if hotel security was better. defense lawyers told jurors the death was a contract killing that took place in masegian's room and that the body was dragged to the stairwell
this crime was not foreseeable, nor was it preventable,'' hotel lawyer leland stansell jr. argued
jurors deliberated about 2{ hours monday before deciding the hotel shouldn't be liable for someone murdered in his room, jury foreman nora langford said
the incident would have had to happen outside the room,'' she said
widow carol masegian, 43, had sought more than $1 million for herself and for five of the victim's five children from a previous marriage
police initially treated mrs. masegian as a suspect after uncovering a mysterious telephone message she received at the hotel the day before the killing. however, she was never charged
during the trial, defense attorneys portrayed her as a woman with much to gain from the death of her wealthy husband, who planned to divorce her and leave her with nothing
because of her husband's death, mrs. masegian receives $857 a month from her husband's worker's compensation benefits and $140,000 from his estate. graf pvs, from georgia</note>
a week before southern voters assert themselves in the 1988 presidential campaign, rep. richard gephardt paid a call today on former president carter and said, ``i come here today not to enhance my prospects but to greet an old friend.''
carter made it clear that with fellow georgian sam nunn not in the race he had no plans to endorse any of the democratic presidential candidates before the nominating convention next july
on one of gephardt's major issues, the former president also said that he could accept the congressman's trade legislation ``if the president has the authority to moderate any sort of protectionist trends.''
asked about carter's less than ringing endorsement of a proposal that has been a centerpiece of his presidential campaign, the gephardt said that he and carter ``shared the view we've got to create a better more open world trade.''
standing on the front walk in front of his brick home in this small town that he put on the map, carter said he thought there was a 50-50 chance that no one will have clinched the presidential nomination before the convention
my hope is that out of the primary and caucus season will come a clear winner,'' he said. ``i'm not sure that's a likelihood now.''
the former president said he would attend the convention as a delegate and that if there was a deadlock ``i would not personally favor turning to someone outside the active candidate group for the nomination.''
carter said he has met with all of the active candidates
from georgia, gephardt was flying to columbia, s.c., to pick up the endorsement of former govs. richard riley and robert mcnair
as the campaign entered the final week before super tuesday on march 8, the day 20 states, most of them in the south, hold primaries and caucuses, gephardt started running a new television commercial throughout the region
the ad takes on sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts
in it, rep. marvin leath of texas says gephardt ``stood with us for lower taxes, for an oil import fee to make america strong, for a tough trade bill to stand up for american workers.''
on all these issues, gore and dukakis were opposed to us. gore and dukakis even think the gephardt trade bill is too tough on the japanese, europeans and koreans. we're tired of hearing that you can't fight for america anymore. that's why 35 southern congressman are fighting for dick gephardt for president.''
gephardt won favorable comment from several fellow democrats attending a meeting of the democratic leadership council the past two days in williamsburg, va
gephardt is the only candidate who is running a message campaign,'' said sen. bob graham of florida. ``so he has the benefit of operating almost in a vacuum.''
graham said he thought super tuesday would play a major role in determining whether gephardt or gore survives in the presidential race
bill carrick, gephardt's campaign manager, said,``i don't think it's going to be that definitive.''
carrick said the gephardt campaign would spend $1 million on television advertising during the week before super tuesday, most of it in florida and texas, the two biggest states voting on march 8
carrick described riley, who was governor of south carolina from 1977 to 1985, as a leader of the progressive wing of the democratic party in the state
he said mcnair, who was governor from 1965 to 1971, was a leader of the ore conservative wing of the party
he said their dual backing was ``a nice little bookend endorsement.'' turtles</head>
a federal judge today cleared the way for enforcement of a federal regulation intended to save endangered sea turtles by throwing out a suit filed by shrimpers who say the rule will ruin their business
shrimpers said they would defy the regulation, which goes into effect today
u.s. district judge patrick carr brushed aside vehement arguments from shrimpers battling the requirement that they use bulky traps called turtle excluder devices, commonly called teds, which are intended to eject trapped turtles from nets
i don't care if he upheld it. it's a bad law, and the shrimpers ain't going to live by it,'' said tee john mialjevich of concerned shrimpers of louisiana, which filed suit against the law
critics say the devices don't always work and that they allow shrimp to escape. mialjevich said shrimpers in florida, where the law has been in effect since jan. 1, experienced reductions of 35 percent to 50 percent of their catches
the law was also scheduled to go into effect off the coast of texas today
shrimpers had argued that there was not enough evidence to show that the teds would be effective in protecting the endangered turtles
a review of the administrative record demonstrates that (shrimpers') arguments are unfounded in most aspects,'' carr wrote. ``from the outset, the secretary (of commerce) through the national marine fisheries service collected scientific information from sea turtle experts from states, universities and the private sector.''
carr had said in advance that his ruling would not determine the usefulness or effectiveness of the controversial devices, but would address only whether the government had followed proper procedures when it imposed the legislation
the outcry against the teds spread even to the state legislature, where a law was passed forbidding state officials from enforcing the new regulations
the state attorney general's office had joined the shrimpers' suit, but carr dismissed the state from the case, saying the shrimpers were capable of speaking for themselves
state officials were not sure how they would act
corky perret, assistant secretary of wildlife and fisheries, said his department is caught in a ``catch-22'' situation between state and federal law
until i get some legal, firm position to sit on, i guess i'm up in the air,'' perret said
senators lawton chiles, d-fla., and pete wilson, r-calif., called on president reagan today to strictly penalize latin american countries that fail to cooperate with the united states in its effort to combat drug trafficking
chiles, wilson and rep. charles b. rangel, d-n.y., told the white house conference for a drug free america the reagan administration must decide the national security interest of the united states before being concerned about latin america, particularly panama, mexico and columbia
reagan was to officially announce that panama has failed to cooperate with the united states, but will not impose forceful sanctions in an effort to force the ouster of central american country's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
the president also was to reject calls to decertify mexico and colombia, which have been criticized heavily for failing to cut the flow of drugs to this country
chiles said many members of congress believe the certification process has not been used properly by the reagan administration
under the 1986 law, the u.s. is to decertify and cut off aid to countries ``not fully cooperating'' with the united states to combat drug traffic.
this year, the good news is that panama is on the list,'' said chiles. ``on the other hand, mexico and colombia aren't. we'll have to examine why mexico is certified. colombia is a country under siege and we will have to examine that. we have to ask ourselves what is the national interest. i think we have to continue to apply pressure against these countries.''
he said the law will be changed next year to require a bilateral agreement between the united states and latin american nations ``so that there will be a country-by-country certification, rather than one list including all of them. we will tell them in advance what we expect of them and we will be able to grade them on how they do. that will be more helpful to this country.''
wilson was particularly upset that the administration did not decertify mexico, a country that borders on his state of california
how can we delude ourselves into thinking that mexico should be certified,'' he said. ``they should not. they have not cooperated fully with the united states. if we are going to send young drug agents into mexico, we should demand full cooperation and not wink at it. the 1986 act spelled out what is to be expected, and it has not been done.''
chiles and wilson both said the president relies too heavily on the state department for the basis of his certification of a country. ``state is willing to be too tolerant in this area,'' said wilson
rangel, chairman of the house select committee on narcotics abuse and control, said the u.s. felt for years that colombia was the primary cause of concern for the nation's drug problem but now ``it seems that we have an entire hemisphere to worry about. the so-called spread of communist influence is the least of our worries in this region at this point in time.''
vermont's ``beauty contest'' primary today has been largely overshadowed by preparations for next week's delegate-heavy super tuesday primaries, political observers say
republican george bush and democrat michael dukakis _ who won the maine caucuses over the weekend _ were considered the front-runners here, continuing to play on their ties to the region. bush, a connecticut native, has a summer home in maine; dukakis is the governor of massachusetts
vermont secretary of state james douglas predicted a record turnout of 125,000 voters. several communities reported strong voting today under sunny skies, but turnout in the state's largest city, burlington, was running behind four years ago
some had predicted that the vermont primary _ falling between the new hampshire primary and super tuesday, march 8 _ would take on more importance this year. but the primary has attracted little attention
i think what we're seeing is we're getting jumped by super tuesday,'' said craig fuller, executive director of the vermont democratic party
vermont just got lost in the shuffle,'' said garrison nelson, a political science professor at the university of vermont. ``those timing factors when combined with the fact the vermont primary is a beauty contest ... led to an incredible loss of interest.''
tuesday's voting does not choose delegates; vermonters merely state their preferences in the non-binding primary. delegates to the national conventions will be elected at state conventions, a process that begins in april with local caucuses to elect delegates to the state convention
the candidates sent a lot of surrogates to stump for them, but made few personal appearances
we got to see very little of the candidates. we saw their mothers, their wives, their children, but we didn't see much of them,'' nelson said
spokesmen for the candidates say attention now is on winning delegates in local caucuses
that's our focus, that's where our energy is going even now,'' said chris wood, a campaign coordinator for jesse jackson, who scored a surprisingly strong second in the weekend maine democratic caucuses
i think there's a recognition that the (vermont) primary is the beginning of building for the caucus,'' said marilyn yager of the dukakis campaign
but yager maintains vermont probably gets more attention from candidates than some of the 20 individual super tuesday states
no single state gets a lot of one-on-one attention,'' she said
although non-binding, the vermont primary has served an important purpose in past years
in 1980, former president jimmy carter used a win in vermont to embarrass sen. ted kennedy, d-mass., in his own back yard. the same year, a strong second-place finish in vermont gave republican john anderson's campaign a major boost
in 1984, gary hart's overwhelming defeat of walter mondale in vermont helped him shed his image as a dark horse
apparel manufacturing is mississippi's leader in employment. besides that, furniture building is centered in the tupelo area, and catfish processing employs people in the delta
since the 1960s, manufacturing has employed more people than farming in this state where 70 percent of the people live outside urban areas _ and yet in some recent years the leading source of income in mississippi was neither. it was government ``transfer payments'' _ aid to families with dependent children, social security, food stamps
as the economy becomes more automated, more geared toward people with skills,'' pepper said, ``you're going to see more people left out.''
asked the solution, he quoted mississippi's new governor, ray mabus: ``education, education, education.''
without that, high-technology companies will continue to stay away, agreed jane jackson, a lawyer working for the mississippi house of representatives. ``you've got to get them (students) enough math and english so that the vo-tech can teach them to work for a sony.''
in rural areas nationally, 18 percent of people fall below the poverty level, about $11,200 for a family of four, according to 1986 census bureau figures. that's the same rate as in inner-cities
i don't think the people who are masterminding this economy are paying attention to this,'' said john zippert of the federation of southern cooperatives, a group based in alabama that helps family farmers hold onto their land
it's a little like the underclass question of the urban ghetto _ that there's going to be a permanent class that's going to be left behind.''
left behind is a fitting description
in one year, rural areas across the country lost 632,000 people to metro areas due to migration,'' leahy, d-vt., has said. ``that's like saying that all of north dakota migrated in one year.'' those who leave tend to be the best educated, say officials, lamenting the rural ``brain drain.''
it's not that nothing is being done to address the rural-urban economic restructuring that jesse white of the southern growth policies board has termed ``just as profound as what was happening in the rustbelt.'' but many observers of the rural poor say the efforts of government are piecemeal and inadequate
federal funding for a variety of rural development programs added up to about $1.6 billion last year, according to a study just completed by the center for community change, a research and advocacy group in washington, d.c. those programs included grant and loan programs of the department of housing and urban development _ from which tchula received its grant _ and the agriculture, commerce and other departments
the funding levels have shrunk radically from what they were at the end of the carter administration,'' said norm deweaver, who led the study
the reagan administration's policy has been to decentralize efforts to aid rural development, noted the economic research organization mdc inc., of chapel hill, n.c., in a report last month
the federal government now dictates fewer rules and provides fewer dollars. as a result,'' said mdc, ``... there is a surge of economic and social initiatives in state governments throughout the country.''
besides a new emphasis on improving education in virtually all southern states, initiatives cited by mdc included: a bank in arkansas that focuses mainly on rural economic development; innovative literacy projects in kentucky; and a biracial group in struggling noxubee county, miss., that promotes home-grown businesses
nonetheless, the study cited ``many more dark rural places still lacking the resources, the information, and the encouragement'' to make significant economic progress, and it called for more carefully targeted federal and private-sector help in giving isolated places access to capital and management assistance, education and training
just outside of tchula, the members of the mileston co-op know what a little outside help can mean
sitting in the spare country store that the co-op of black farmers has owned for 40 years, willie lacy, the acting president, talked about the donation they received from farmaid, the charity fund created by country musicians
some of the members, whose cotton farms average about 50 acres, used the money to pay delinquent taxes or overdue rent on land or old fertilizer bills
i can remember one fella,'' lacy said, ``he had everything, but he couldn't get diesel _ so that helped him.''
in the store, the afternoon gathering place now a month before planting time, the co-op members say they could use a different kind of outside help
they'd like to restart their cotton gin, which closed a few years ago because of drought-stricken crops and lack of money _ and they'd like to diversify, maybe open a plant that would process, package and freeze vegetables grown in their fields
a plant like that would employ some of the workers displaced by planting and picking machines. first, though, they'd need the expertise to help ensure profitability, and second, the start-up investment
the idea is not to get rich, the men said, but to employ people and give the next generation a chance to stay here
i realize it wouldn't cure the problem,'' lacy said, ``but that would help some.''
lower prices for lettuce, tomatoes, cotton and milk helped pushed down the agriculture department's index of farm-level commodity prices in february
the price index declined 0.8 percent from january but still averaged 6.6 percent above a year earlier, the department's agricultural statistics board said monday
higher prices for cattle, hogs, corn and soybeans helped soften the declines for the other commodities, however
most commercial vegetable prices dropped sharply from a month earlier as supplies became plentiful,'' the report said. ``warm weather in the southwest pushed vegetable crops to maturity.''
but cattle and calf prices ``were the highest since may 1979'' and hog prices rose for the second month in a row, the report said. corn prices at the farm were the highest since july 1986, while soybeans were the highest in more than three years
department economists say net cash income of farmers set a record in 1987 of about $57 billion. this year's net _ the difference between cash receipts and cash expenses _ may be in the range of $50 billion to $55 billion
consumer food prices are expected to rise 2 percent to 4 percent this year, compared with a 4.2 percent average increase in 1987
according to the preliminary february figures, based mostly on mid-month averages, the index for crop prices was down 4.3 percent from january but averaged 11 percent more than a year ago
commercial vegetable prices dropped 33 percent from january and were down 2.2 percent from february 1987. sweet-corn prices rose from january, while all other vegetables declined. lettuce prices dropped to $11.90 per 100 pounds from $35.60 in january
feed grains and hay, collectively, showed a 3.2 percent price gain from january, averaging 23 percent more than a year earlier. corn, sorghum, oats and hay were up, while barley prices declined from january levels. cotton prices were down 6 percent from january but averaged 22 percent more than a year earlier
the index for livestock and livestock products was up 2 percent from january and 4.2 percent above februrary 1987. prices were higher for beef cattle, calves and hogs, which more than offset declines in milk, poultry and egg prices
prices of beef cattle averaged $67.90 per hundredweight, up $2.50 from january. calf prices, at $93.10, were up $4.90 per hundredweight. market hog prices rose $3.60 from january to $47.50 in february but were still below a year earlier
february farm commodity prices averaged 130 percent of a 1977 base used for comparison, according to the preliminary figures, down from a revised january reading of 131 percent. a year ago, the february index was 122 percent
no new figures for farm production costs were included in the report. those have been confined to quarterly averages because of budget cutbacks
in january, however, farm expenses were up 0.6 percent from last fall but averaged 1.4 percent below a year earlier. the next quarterly figures will be reported in april
the report said:
_ cattle averaged $67.90 per 100 pounds of live weight nationally, up from $65.40 in january and the $58.80 reported for february 1987. those are averages for all types of cattle sold as beef
_ hogs averaged $46.70 per 100 pounds, compared with $43 in january and $48.20 a year earlier
_ corn, at $1.83 a bushel, was up from $1.77 in january and the average of $1.42 per bushel a year earlier
_ wheat prices at the farm, according to preliminary figures, averaged $2.83 per bushel, compared with $2.75 in january and $2.58 a year earlier
_ rice averaged $7.85 per 100 pounds, compared with $7.70 in january and $3.83 a year earlier
_ soybeans were $5.90 per bushel, compared with $5.73 in january and $4.69 a year earlier
_ upland cotton was reported at 57.1 cents per pound, compared with 60.6 in january and 46.4 cents in february 1987
_ milk was $12.30 per 100 pounds, compared with $12.50 in january and $12.90 a year earlier
the agriculture department is making some progress but still lags in expanding jobs and services to black americans, according to a panel's report
in 1986, agriculture secretary richard e. lyng directed all agencies in the department to carry out new guidelines to improve usda compliance with civil rights and equal opportunity standards
as part of the department's february observance of black history month, five study groups looked at how usda has performed since then
black employees continue a modest but upward movement in all occupational categories,'' the report said monday. ``some increases have been realized both in absolute numbers and as a percentage of total usda employment. this is especially important because the increases have occurred at a time when overall employment in usda was declining.''
the usda employs the equivalent of approximately 102,000 full-time employees, according to recent budget documents. the task force report said blacks comprise 8.4 percent of the department's employees, up from 8.1 percent in 1986. but that ``is low compared with other federal agencies,'' it added
to continue to improve its equal opportunity posture, usda must realize larger increases in the number of blacks hired, promoted and trained,'' the report said. ``and such increases must be realized at a faster pace. additionally the department must place emphasis on retention strategies once black employees are recruited and hired.''
the task force report said there are ``encouraging signs'' that usda agencies are beginning to address the complex problems of black farmers and their declining numbers
coordinated efforts between the soil conservation service, farmers home administration and extension service are just beginning to show limited success at eliminating the historical factors militating against small and economically disadvantaged farmers,'' the report said. comment from voa director. picks up 3rd graf pvs ``there have been..''</note>
the foreign ministry has lodged a protest with the u.s. embassy over the ``subversive thrust'' of voice of america broadcasts on nationalist unrest in the baltic republics, tass reported
the official news agency charged monday that voa reports beamed into the soviet union ``have been crudely distorting historical facts, making provocative insinuations about the growth of nationalist sentiment in the baltic republics of the soviet union and expressing u.s. support for forces that do not accept the social system in this country.''
in washington, voa director richard w. carlson said today:
the soviet charges are false. we are covering stories about nationality problems in the baltics and elsewhere in the ussr fairly and honestly. we have tens of millions of listeners in the ussr and the soviet authorities don't want them to hear the message so they attack the messenger. the complaints are unfounded and we'll just keep doing our job.''
there have been a number of nationalist demonstrations in recent months in the once-independent republics of latvia, lithuania and estonia on the baltic sea
tass said the u.s. government-operated radio has taken a ``dramatically increased subversive thrust'' in reporting on the situation in the baltic region
the news agency said the protest was made to the u.s. embassy in moscow
the soviets last may stopped routine jamming of voa russian-language broadcasts, but there have been occasional complaints in the official media about information broadcast by the service. 3-4, and subbing 1 graf for grafs 8-9 pvs, one southern ... democratic caucuses.</note>
gop presidential contender bob dole struck at george bush in new tv ads today, including one declaring bush supported arms deals with iran, as pat robertson sought cuban-americans' support with new talk about missiles in cuba
the biggest delegate day of the primary season is a week from today, and the presidential candidates were swarming across the south, where most of the 20 super tuesday states are located. jesse jackson started his day in new york, but then he, too, headed south, to baltimore for more campaigning
rep. richard gephardt paid a call today on former president carter, who made it clear that with fellow georgian sam nunn not in the race he had no plans to endorse anyone before the democratic convention next july
carter also said he thought there was a 50-50 chance that no one will have clinched the party's nomination before the convention
dole, in durham, n.c., trails vice president bush in southern polls, and he began the final week before super tuesday with public and televised attacks
the senate minority leader accused bush of offering ``nine different answers'' on the iran-contra affair. ``but it's a fact he did support it,'' dole said
in fort lauderdale, meanwhile, robertson said today a transcript of 1967 senate subcommittee testimony supports his belief there are nuclear missiles in cuba
the former television evangelist quoted testimony from a state department official who said cuban refugees had told him about seeing missiles
this is documented evidence,'' robertson said today at a breakfast attended by about 600 supporters. the reagan administration has denied his contention about missiles in cuba, which he first made in a debate in new hampshire last month
vermont began its non-binding ``beauty contest'' primary today under sunny skies with a record turnout predicted and michael dukakis, the governor of neighboring massachusetts, the demcratic favorite
on the gop side, bush, who won maine's gop caucuses, has a strong organization in vermont, but dole has won endorsements from some top republicans
bush was campaigning in another pre-super tuesday state _ south carolina, which holds its primary saturday. as he did in new hampshire, the vice president brought in former arizona sen. barry goldwater, a hero to conservatives, to stump for him
polls have given bush a comfortable lead in south carolina, but he said he was taking nothing for granted
two days before new hampshire, some of the most respected pollsters showed me down and almost out,'' he said monday in charleston. bush won the feb. 16 new hampshire primary by a solid margin, after polls suggested rival bob dole was breathing down his neck
dole, on a southern swing that took him to mississippi, georgia and florida, heaped scorn on the vice president, characterizing him as a passive figure
ask him what's he done in the last seven years,'' dole said at a fort lauderdale rally. ``what's he done anywhere in america or the world to make a difference?''
continuing that theme, dole unleashed a television ad which depicts the vice president walking through the snow without leaving any footprints. dole's campaign said the commercial was having a test run in miami and other selected cities
robertson, in miami on monday, produced a cuban refugee who he said had seen missiles in cuba. the cuban, who spoke through an interpreter and identified himself only as e. rodriguez, said he had seen missile sites, but did not know whether the weapons had nuclear warheads
robertson also told cuban-american senior citizens he would work with them for an independent and democratic cuba. ``viva cuba libre!'' he said. at a mostly hispanic high school, he called castro a ``butcher and a tyrant.''
meanwhile, democratic rivals dukakis and gephardt, who have been trading victories in the early caucuses and primaries, traded jabs at a democratic debate in williamsburg, va
dukakis ridiculed the missouri congressman for ``running around the country beating up on the establishment'' while accepting political contributions from special interest groups. gary hart was also critical of the practice
gephardt called it ``an affront'' to suggest that such contributions would influence the way he votes in congress
during the debate, jackson said he has sometimes been singled out for different treatment during the campaign because of his race. he cited an exit poll in which voters were asked if they would support a black candidate for president
i said, did you ask how many would vote for a greek?'' said jackson, referring to dukakis, who is of greek descent. ``my race is self-evident and my leadership is obvious.''
earlier in the day, jackson visited racially troubled robeson county in north carolina and drew a comparison with white-ruled south africa
in south africa people have been abandoned by the law. no law protects them,'' he said. ``what is happening right here ... is a whole body of people has been abandoned by the law.''
he made the same comparison in houston, where he walked through a trash-strewn neighborhood. jackson suggested city officials want to force poor residents out and redevelop the property, likening it to the south african government relocating blacks
he told college students at pembroke state university that his strong second-place showing in the maine caucuses proves he has broadened his appeal. ``talk about mainstream; try the state of maine!'' he said
at monday night's democratic debate, at jackson's suggestion, the candidates wore yellow ribbons on their jackets in protest of the arrest of anglican archbishop desmond tutu in south africa
the government tuesday defended a treasure hunt at a historic spanish fort and extended the u.s. contractor's digging permit for another month
on monday, the senate approved a resolution calling for a halt to the search for japanese treasure believed buried at fort santiago, which was active during the spanish occupation that ended in 1898 and later was used by the japanese as a garrison during world war ii
the senate action followed a speech by opposition sen. juan ponce enrile, who said the search was being conducted ``by foreigners whose only reason for being here is perhaps their greed for gold.'' enrile charged it was an insult to national honor
international precious metals inc., a u.s. concern, began excavating this month at a chamber in fort santiago for gold believed buried there by japanese soldiers at the end of world war ii. the company has agreed to give the government 75 percent of whatever is recovered
national security adviser emmanuel soriano, who is monitoring the project for the government, told reporters tuesday the government approved the company's request to extend the dig for 30 days. the contract would have expired this week
nothing is going on right there in fort santiago that would desecrate the national shrine,'' soriano said in response to enrile's speech. he said enrile had known of digging at the same site when he was defense minister under president ferdinand marcos in 1975 but had not moved to block it
soriano said the dig was an ``authorized and legitimate project of which the beneficiary would be the filipino people,'' and that the contractors would restore the excavated portions of the fort
soriano said charles macdougald, an official of the u.s. company, had reported they expect to recover gold bullion believed hidden in the fort within 10 to 15 days
the treasure hunt was widely publicized after two filipino workers were killed last week when a tunnel they were digging collapsed
soriano said his company would give the equivalent of $5,000 to each to the families of the two workers. work has since resumed, with troops now guarding the site around the clock
manila mayor gemiliano lopez, who inspected the site tuesday, said the dig was about 17 feet deep
authorities in southwestern poland detained 20 people for a march in which demonstrators wore hats, black raincoats and dark glasses to mock secret security police, an opposition activist said
the event in downtown wroclaw was staged by the opposition group orange alternative, which often uses satire to poke fun at poland's communist government
spokesman jozef pinior said young men dressed in traditional spy garb and sporting arm bands with the letters ``sb,'' the polish initials for security service, evoked laughter from onlookers
after about a half-hour, they were intercepted by real police and 20 were taken into custody, he said. authorities began releasing them shortly afterward, he said
in the past, orange alternative demonstrators have donned santa claus outfits and costumes of lenten penitents to mock the government's economic policies
investigators say a marriage in trouble may have prompted a man to kill his wife and their three children before setting the family's home on fire and fatally shooting himself
firefighters discovered the bodies of lawrence delabarto, 32, his wife and their children, all in bed, late sunday night after responding to the fire
i am told by family and friends that there were some marital difficulties,'' livingston county sheriff richard kane said monday. ``his (delabarto's) wounds are consistent with suicide, plus we found that all the doors were locked and the phone was off the hook which would indicate that this was planned.''
delabarto's body was found in bed next to his wife, 32-year-old linda, and a .16-gauge shotgun, kane said
a preliminary examination indicated that mrs. delabarto had been strangled, and that delabarto and the children _ 12-year-old anthony, 10-year-old danielle, and 6-year-old dominic _ had been shot, kane aid
investigators said the fire was started with fuel oil that had been poured in several rooms
kane said the family had gone to church on sunday and had breakfast with delabarto's parents, who live in geneseo
the father had no indication of any problems,'' kane said
there also didn't seem to be anything unusual at riverside wine and liquor co. in mount morris where delabarto had worked as a truckdriver for 2{ years
richard radesi, the company's owner, said delabarto was dependable, well-liked, proud of his family and ``just as congenial as he could be.''
ed rebrook, a candidate for the state house and the democratic national convention, has won a ``capital case.''
rebrook has been trying to persuade secretary of state ken hechler to list his name as rebrook, not rebrook, on the may 10 primary election ballot
hechler argued the candidate has always signed his name rebrook and the bid for the capital letter was just a play for publicity and an effort to make his name stand out on a crowded ballot
kanawha county circuit judge patrick casey on monday sided with rebrook, ruling that state election rules don't cover name spelling, so hechler ``is without constitutional or statutory authority to determine the proper spelling or capitalization of (a candidate's) name.''
hechler had no immediate comment
convicted ``onion field'' murderer jimmie lee smith was ordered jailed for 180 days after he pleaded guilty to misdemeanor possession of a hypodermic needle
municipal court commissioner alan s. kalkin sentenced smith on monday
smith, 57, was arrested in november for allegedly driving under the influence of an opiate after he was stopped for a traffic violation
smith has been on parole since march 1987 after serving three years for a 1984 conviction on possession of heroin for sale. if probation authorities deem he violated parole, smith could go immediately to state prison to serve the term
convicted with gregory ulas powell for shooting an officer in an onion field in 1963, smith served 19 years and was released on parole in 1982. powell is serving a life term
the case was made famous by joseph wambaugh's 1973 novel ``the onion field,'' which later was made into a movie. proposal</head>
education secretary william j. bennett visited capitol hill on tuesday to promote his education spending proposal for 1989 and found a friendlier reception than in past years, when he was seeking cuts
the reagan administration is asking for $21.2 billion in education spending authority _ about $850 million or 4 percent above the current level
this is a bill that should go through the house in one hour,'' rep. william natcher, d-ky., chairman of the appropriations subcommittee on labor, health and education, told bennett
i would imagine the seat that you're sitting in is quite a bit cooler than it has been in the last few years,'' added rep. silvio conte, r-mass
bennett laughed and denied conte's assertion that he had undergone a conversion and become a ``born-again education spender.''
i'm the same old mad catholic i always was,'' bennett said
bennett said the education request was as high as possible under the outlines of the deficit reduction agreement reached last year between congress and the administration
that agreement limited overall domestic spending increases to 2 percent. the proposed 4 percent education hike is ``way above average,'' bennett said. ``this is pretty much to the limit of what we could in good conscience ask for.''
natcher questioned bennett closely on proposed cuts in certain types of student loans, a public libraries program and grants meant to offset tax losses in areas with federal installations
he hinted the house might not go along with those cuts but promised bennett, ``we're going to bring you out a good bill. we're going to bring out a bill that both you and i will like.''
the administration has proposed expansions in a number of programs, including pell grants to needy college students, aid to disadvantaged children, magnet schools and a college loan program under which repayments are pegged to future income
congress has consistently appropriated more for education than the reagan administration has sought. the fiscal 1989 education increase is only the second one requested by the reagan administration. the first came in 1984, another election year
rep. david obey, d-wis., pointed that out in a statement and noted that ``our kids go to school every year, not just election years. ... local school boards need help that isn't turned on and off with election cycles.''
janet cunningham, leap year baby of 1960, gave birth to a daughter exactly 28 years later
erin michelle cunningham was born monday, two days ahead of doctors' expectations
i never expected it,'' said mrs. cunningham, who lives in severna park. ``it's not something you plan.''
erin is the second child for gregory and janet cunningham. their son is 2
mrs. cunningham was baltimore's first leap year baby in 1960
sodium cyanide pellets were spilled on a snowy section of interstate 80 because of a truck wreck, and nearly 100 miles of the highway was shut down as a small amount of deadly cyanide gas formed
a nearby rail line crossing the unpopulated area was also closed for a time
state motor vehicles director wayne teglia said a tractor-trailer rig overturned seven miles east of battle mountain, injuring the driver and spilling about 100 pounds of pellets
some gas formed when the pellets, used in mining operations, reacted with the wet snow, teglia said
if it had been raining it would have been worse,'' said teglia
he said clean-up crews from the trucking company, wells cargo, and a mining company were dispatched to clean up the spill
two police officers have been reprimanded for persuading a deputy u.s. marshal to shoot out a light fixture in a crowded bar, the police chief said tuesday
the bullet richocheted behind the bar after striking the light, but no one was injured
officers david sanders and robert kind were told they ``acted in a way that brought unfavorable criticism upon the department,'' chief doug franks said tuesday
sanders and kind were sitting at a table with deputy u.s. marshal garry carroll at a feb. 18 party attended by as many as 20 off-duty lawmen when they challenged carroll to shoot out the light, franks said
carroll was charged with reckless endangerment and is to appear at a preliminary hearing march 7
sanders and kind will be suspended for a minimum of three days if they are involved in a similar incident within the next 18 months, franks said. letters of reprimand will remain in their personnel files, he said
no action has been taken against any other officers
it would be counterproductive to create a new, independent agency to oversee safety at federal nuclear weapons materials facilities, a top department of energy official to congress on tuesday
but rep. norm dicks, d-wash., urged the subcommittee to approve legislation creating such a watchdog agency, calling the department's plan to establish an advisory committee ``an inadequate response.''
doe operates 40 major facilities in 34 states, including reactors that produce plutonium and tritium and plants that refine it for use in nuclear weapons
joseph salgado, a doe undersecretary, told the house armed services procurement and military nuclear systems subcommittee it would be ``premature'' to create an outside agency
the advisory committee needs time to work, to prove its credibility,'' salgado said
the doe official said a new agency would be ``regulatory, counterproductive and adversarial'' and could ``severely hamper the department's ability to perform its national security and energy research missions
dicks has introduced legislation that would create a defense nuclear facilities safety agency. it would have the authority to shut down any reactor or plant that was found unsafe
a new agency would cost between $6 million and $10 million a year to operate and funds could be taken from current doe safety oversight programs to pay for it, dicks said
the administrator of the agency would be appointed by the president and confirmed by the senate
dicks said that doe was caught between the department of defense's demands for nuclear materials and the need to operate the facilities safely
studies conducted in recent years have revealed disturbing evidence that doe's defense facilities are not only operating with deteriorating and unpredictable equipment, but receive oversight through a poorly managed and ineffcient safety assurance process,'' dicks said
the supreme court on tuesday made it easier for immigration officials to deport aliens who seek reconsideration of their claims to remain in the united states
by a vote of 8-0, the justices barred further hearings for a california physician, dr. assibi l. abudu, who said he might be tortured or killed if forced to return to his native ghana
abudu asked the board of immigration appeals for asylum in this country after it denied his initial bid to avoid deportation
justice john paul stevens, writing for the court, said immigration officials, having decided an alien should be deported, generally are under no duty to reconsider the case when the alien says he has new evidence to support a bid for asylum
stevens said aliens seeking to reopen their deportation cases have the difficult task of proving that immigration officials abused their discretion in refusing reconsideration
there is a strong public interest in bringing litigation to a close as promptly as is consistent with the interest in giving the adversaries a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective cases,'' stevens said
he continued, ``we have no hesitation in concluding that the board of immigration appeals did not abuse its discretion when it held that abudu had not reasonably explained his failure to apply for asylum prior to the completion of the initial deportation proceeding.''
abudu is a native and citizen of ghana who graduated from the university of southern california medical school and married a u.s. citizen
immigration officials moved to deport him in 1981 after he was convicted in california of illegally attempting to obtain the drug demerol by fraud. he was given a one-year suspended prison sentence and was placed on probation for three years
the immigration and naturalization service found him deportable, and the board of immigration appeals upheld that decision
he faces deportation to england, according to court papers. but abudu said he might be barred by that country and forced to return to ghana
abudu asked immigration officials to reopen his case in 1985 and grant him asylum in the united states from the military dictatorship of flight lt. jerry rawlings, who regained power in ghana in a dec. 31, 1981, military coup
abudu said he had new evidence that his life might be in danger if he was forced to return to ghana
the board of immigration appeals refused to reopen abudu's case, noting that abudu did not initially seek asylum when he contested his deportation
but the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals in 1986 ordered the board to reconsider granting abudu asylum
the supreme court agreed with the reagan administration that the appeals court should have deferred to the immigration board
justice anthony m. kennedy, who only recently joined the court, did not take part in the decision
in other developments, the court:
_declined to decide yet whether the state or the federal government should control a gulf of mexico area off mississippi's southwestern coastline. rejecting arguments by the state's lawyers, the court ruled 7-0 that more information is needed before such a determination is made
_heard arguments over the constitutionality of texas' death penalty law. a ruling is expected by july
john roger, the alligator who was flushed into the hobbs sewer system as a baby and lived a pampered life in his own solar home at the city water treatment plant, was buried tuesday
the alligator was buried 16 years after sewer workers named john and roger found the 24-inch reptile swimming in an effluent pond
john roger was 7 feet, 9 inches long at the time of his death monday. he lived in a fenced compound that included a solar-heated home, diving pond and grass knoll for sunbathing
the alligator's body was found at the compound at the bottom of his pool. he apparently had gone for a post-hibernation swim. no necropsy was scheduled but officials suspected the alligator died of pneumonia
state sen. joe harvey, who was city manager at the time john roger was adopted, recalled the alligator was fond of frogs
there were months where there wasn't a live frog in this town,'' harvey said. ``kids found out that john roger liked frogs _ live frogs _ and they'd go out and find them, then throw them over the fence of his compound.''
a small passenger plane exploded in flight tuesday and crashed in an industrial area east of johannesburg, killing all 17 people on board, the south african broadcasting corp. reported
the radio said the plane was operated by comair, a private commercial airline that flies between johannesburg and towns in north and central south africa
the twin-engine plane, a brazilian-made bandeirante turboprop, was en route to johannesburg from the northern border town of phalaborwa when it crashed, state-run south african broadcasting reported. it said all 15 passengers and two crew members aboard were killed
there was no immediate indication what caused the crash. witnesses told reporters they heard an explosion and saw what appeared to be two pieces of the plane plunge to the ground
the plane went down in an area called wadeville, about six miles east of downtown johannesburg
the identities of the victims were not immediately known
the bandeirante can accommodate up to 18 passengers
ridership on new york subways increased for the third straight year in 1987 to its highest level in 13 years, the transit authority reported tuesday
ta president david gunn attributed much of the increase to new and overhauled cars on some lines and a boost in the number of clean cars
officials also said subway crime was down 8.1 percent for serious felonies from 1986. ta spokesman albert o'leary said there were 12,888 felonies on the subways last year compared with 14,030 in the previous 12 months
gunn said 3,626,000 people rode the subways on an average weekday last year, up by 216,000 from 1984 and 103,000 from 1986. in all, 1.059 billion passengers rode the subways last year, up 29 million from 1986 and 62 million from 1984
gunn said that 94 percent of the subway fleet should be graffiti-free by the end of this year
singer michael jackson presented a $600,000 check to the united negro college fund on tuesday and told a jam-packed news conference, ``i love you all.''
there aren't many days like this,'' uncf president christopher edley said after accepting the check from jackson
the singer, wearing a striped shirt and bright red blazer, waved as more then two dozen camera crews and twice as many still photographers took hundreds of pictures of the usually reclusive superstar
thank you. i'm very honored and very thankful,'' jackson said during his 15 seconds at the microphone. ``i love you all. thank you.''
the check represented the proceeds from jackson's scheduled thursday night show at madison square garden, his first solo performance in new york
jackson earlier created a ``michael jackson scholarship'' for the uncf. in the past three years, 97 students have received financial aid through the program
the judge presided in the banquet room at the quality inn. tourists by the pool did a double-take when a prisoner went by in handcuffs, while lawyers consulted under beach umbrellas
the court reporter said she wasn't sure she got a good transcript because of the noise from the kitchen,'' said circuit judge gil goshorn
such incongruous scenes have been taking place in titusville this week as judges, prosecutors, clerical workers and other county employees moved out of the brevard county courthouse, which was closed because of asbestos contamination
county officials quarantined the courthouse saturday when air tests showed asbestos levels far above federal standards in several rooms. some levels were considered dangerously high, and most employees were urged to get medical tests
asbestos was widely used for insulation and fireproofing until the federal government banned its use in 1979
the county clerk's office set up shop in modular buildings in the courthouse parking lot. workers wearing breathing masks hurried to build a plywood and plastic ``cocoon'' to provide safe access to the clerk's computers inside the courthouse
all documents were locked inside when the courthouse was evacuated. experts said all paperwork and even many computer terminals were contaminated and would have to be carefully dusted and cleaned as they are removed piece-by-piece from the building
the closing of the court house also affects real estate transactions, court-ordered child support payments and other operations. with testimony from first witness; deletes grafs 23-24, ``this man xxx, and grafs 28-9, ``the first xxx, to tighten</note>
gov. evan mecham should be removed from office for obstructing an investigation of an alleged death threat, senators were told today during opening arguments of the first-term republican's impeachment trial
but a defense attonrey for mecham told senators in an impassioned statement that mecham was the victim of a ``mutiny'' by the state attorney general and director of the state department of public safety
prosecutor william french said the man accused of making the alleged threat, former state official lee watkins, had claimed that jobs in the mecham administration ``relate to the amount of money that you were able to bring into the campaign.''
french said the evidence was ``overwhelming'' that mecham violated criminal laws and his oath of office and committed malfeasance in office, ``any one of which call for impeachment.''
however, defense attorney fred craft told senators in his opening statement that mecham broke no laws and was acting within his authority
what has this man done?'' craft said. ``there's something wrong in this state when you can depose the constitutionally elected officer of the state and throw the book at him ... based upon evidence that's being presented by people who have a stake in the outcome to have him ousted.''
craft said the accusations resulted from a ``mutiny'' by attorney general bob corbin and dps director ralph milstead. the dps includes the highway patrol and investigative personnel
craft also said he would present testimony that would cast dubt on milstead's integrity
mecham, who also faces a march 22 criminal trial and a may 17 recall election, did not appear at the senate on the second day of his impeachment trial
the impeachment counts against mecham include an allegation that he ordered milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's probe of an alleged death threat by watkins, then the state prison construction chief
there was an obstruction with regard to an ongoing investigation that was being conducted by the attorney general's office,'' french said
watkins has denied making a threat against donna carlson, a former top mecham aide who testified before the state grand jury on mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan
dps officer frank martinez, a former member of mecham's security detail who was called as the trial's first witness, testified this morning that mecham administration official peggy griffith told him about a conversation she had with watkins
ms. griffith said watkins had told her that if ms. carlson ``did not keep her mouth shut, she could wind up taking a long boat ride ... and i know the right people who can help me,'' martinez testified
martinez said that he met with milstead, other dps officers, corbin and several assistant attorneys general several days later and that milstead told of a conversation he had with mecham
martinez said milstead told the group that mecham ``stated he didn't want him helping the attorney general.''
the overall mood was just amazement,'' martinez testified
craft said milstead and other officials did not fully advise mecham about the alleged threat, adding that milstead ``was a feckless employee of this state and he did not serve that governor well.''
french said watkins complained about the job he was given by mecham and told corrections director sam lewis, ``if they don't treat me right i can bring mecham's administration down.''
french warned the senate to ``keep your eye on the ball'' and not be distracted by any attacks on witnesses in the case. ``know that this is being done because there is no defense,'' french said
the opening arguments today dealt only with the alleged threat. arguments will precede discussion of the other allegations against mecham as they are reached during the trial
on the trial's opening day monday, the senate strongly rejected efforts to dismiss impeachment charges against mecham
also, the arizona supreme court was expected to rule today on a defense claim that the impeachment trial, the first of a u.s. governor in 59 years, should be delayed until after mecham's march 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
the high court last week refused to grant a temporary delay, and mecham said he planned to take the issue to federal court if necessary
senate president carl kunasek, a republican, said ``it was the first-day jitters for everyone'' in the impeachment trial's opening day monday
it crosses everybody's mind _ the importance to do justice to the governor and the state,'' said senate majority leader bob usdane, also a republican. ``it's a large burden and we take it seriously.''
senators refused to dismiss the 23 articles of impeachment against mecham, whose attorney, jerris leonard, entered an innocent plea on his behalf
on 11 separate motions, the largest number of the 29 senators voting for dismissal was seven. several senators said the vote should not be considered an indication that mecham is likely to be convicted, saying they want to hear the evidence first
however, sen. jeff hill, a republican who has strongly backed mecham, said the governor's conviction was virtually a foregone conclusion. ``i think that it's not likely that he's going to prevail,'' he said
if convicted by the senate, mecham would be removed from office and could be permanently barred from holding elective office in arizona
mecham, 63, won election in a three-way race after five tries
he has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and insisted he will survive both trials and a may 17 recall election and return to the office he gave up to acting gov. rose mofford, a democrat, when he was impeached by the house on feb. 5
a federal judge ordered the u.s. parole commission on tuesday to free an anti-castro activist who has been in a venezuelan prison for 11 years on bond, but he stayed his order to allow the agency to appeal
even if orlando bosch won his freedom, u.s. immigration and naturalization service officials were waiting in the wings to take custody of him, they said tuesday
bosch, a hero in miami's cuban community, has been in jail since he arrived last month from venezuela, where he spent 11 years in prison despite being acquitted three times of bombing a cuban airliner
u.s. authorities said bosch had violated parole by fleeing this country in 1974 while on probation for planning a bazooka attack on a polish ship in the port of miami in 1968, and conspiring to plant bombs on other ships
bosch's daughter, lourdes, said outside court that she was pleased with u.s. district judge kenneth l. ryskamp's order. but, she added, ``i am just confused and upset that now this is going to be appealed and they can stall another week or more. to me, it's just a farce, a political farce.''
ryskamp called bosch's imprisonment until a scheduled march 21 parole hearing ``totally arbitrary and capricious.''
ryskamp said parole commissioner g. mackenzie rast used ``tunnel vision in picking out those facts he wants to rely upon'' when he ordered bosch to remain jailed
assistant u.s. attorney chuck senatore said he would appeal ryskamp's decision to the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals in atlanta, and the judge granted a temporary stay of his release order
even if the appeals court upholds ryskamp, bosch also cannot be released until his lawyers convince the ins
we of course have a detainer on him and would be holding him on an immigration violation,'' said ins district director perry rivkind
the ins has targeted bosch for exclusion hearings and possible deportation because he entered the united states without legal immigration documents last month after his release from a venezuelan prison
ins officials have said they will not permit bosch's release and have labeled him a terrorist because of his conviction for conspiring to bomb the polish ship. parole officials also accused him of consorting with known criminals
on the probation commission order, ryskamp said rast went beyond the facts on record to conclude that bosch should be held. the judge said rast apparently considered bosch's acquittals in venezuela as a strike against him and wrongly considered ``reported'' past associations of bosch with known criminals
if that's going to be the basis of denying somebody their liberty rights, then it's a sad day for the constitution,'' said ryskamp. the judge also noted that rast evidently reviewed information in bosch's parole file which was never disclosed to bosch
the judge also noted that rast ignored the recommendation of a probation officer who interviewed bosch and concluded there was no risk that he would flee
ryskamp set bond at $250,000 and said that if bosch is freed he cannot make public appearances or statements or identify himself with any militant groups opposing the cuban government of fidel castro. he also could not receive more than five visitors in his home at any one time and would be required to report in three times a day by telephone
pick a political persuasion and there is no doubt a party for it in bangladesh, a nation so philosophically fragmented that even groups committed to political unity are split into factions
the nation's major opposition parties _ all 21 of them _ are boycotting thursday's elections to parliament, but there certainly is no lack of election interest. as many as 102 political groups are vying for the 330 seats
many, obviously, are quite small
one has to use a microscope or a telescope to see if they are really political parties,'' says shamsul huda haryn, a political science professor at dhaka university
sorting out the groups in the parliamentary fray is difficult because one group on the ballot is known as ``the 23-party alliance'' and another is listed as the ``combined opposition party,'' which is made up of 73 separate factions
whatever the number, the parliamentary contest illustrates just how fractured the political system is in this nation of 105 million people
a government booklet on the country's ``multi-party political system '' notes that the ``polycentric political system in bangladesh has marked a phenomenal fragmentation of existing organizations and growth of new ones.''
the booklet gives the history of 130 separate political parties. some experts, however, believe there many be more than 200 separate political groups
included in the political patchwork are 11 different islamic parties, reflecting the predominant moslem population, along with six communist parties, a social democratic party, a socialist party, and two republican parties
there are even two separate united people's parties
harun, who studied in both england and the united states, said bangladesh's political groups are not really parties as defined in the west
call them pressure groups, or lobbies, or even sections,'' he said
harun said that many have no cohesive philosophy and were formed around a single issue, tending to split or fall apart once the issue waned
that politics is a passion here is evident in the grim toll it often takes. at least eight people have died in the past two weeks of parliamentary campaigns. in local elections feb. 10, more than 100 were killed, according to government figures
the election thursday was prompted by a campaign by the 21 opposition parties to topple president hussain muhammad ershad
after more than 20 general strikes called by the opposition since nov. 10, which included 25 deaths in police clashes with mobs, ershad dissolved parliament in december and ordered a new election. the opposition groups, however, have vowed to boycott it
those groups are the self-proclaimed ``eight-party alliance'' led by sheik hasina of the awami league, the ``seven-party alliance'' headed by khaleda zia, a group known as the ``five-party alliance,'' and the jamaat-e-islami, the largest moslem fundamentalist party
diplomats and political observers say the awami league is the best organized. it was founded by hasina's father, sheik mujibur rahman, the country's first president who was assassinated in a 1975 coup
ershad, 58, is a former general who took power in a coup and became president in 1986 in an election his opponents say was rigged. they say thursday's balloting also will be rife with fraud
the bengalis were noted for their passion for politics even in the days when britain was ruling the subcontinent. bangladesh was east bengal during british reign, then east pakistan after the partition of the subcontinent in 1947. it gained independence as bangladesh in 1971
while theories abound on why politics here is so splintered, some say the bengali people are by nature a divisive people
as one oft-repeated saying goes: `two bengalis equal a political party, three equal a party plus one faction.''
president reagan, pretty fast with an ad-lib or quip, has many of his daily lines finitely scripted, ranging from the ``welcome to the house'' greeting to the ``god bless you'' sendoff
one of the president's recent meetings _ a brief session known as a ``drop by'' in the cabinet room with several corporation executives _ was scheduled to last 20 minutes. for that get-together, reagan was provided with the following ``sequence of events:''
_`11:30 a.m. _ you enter cabinet room, are introduced by senator baker and deliver remarks. at the conclusion of your remarks you open the meeting to discussion
_`11:47 a.m. _ rebecca range will signal the end of the official portion of the meeting
_`you move to the end of the cabinet room (under president coolidge's picture) for handshake photos with the participants
_`11:50 a.m. _ you depart.''
in the briefing paper provided for reagan's 30-minute meeting with leaders of congress who had recently met with north atlantic treaty organization allies about the arms control treaty signed in december, the president was reminded, among other things, to say: ``bob (byrd), i appreciate you and your colleagues coming down today.''
a 20-page package of these briefing papers, obtained by abc white house correspondent sam donaldson, was made available to the associated press
the unintended disclosure of reagan's talking points left white house aides red-faced, with communications director thomas c. griscom maintaining that reagan often ignores these scripts anyhow
at least part of the reason for this embarrassment is that reagan long has been considered by political observers to be too heavily scripted by his aides. the president, a former actor, generally is relatively quick with responses to questions raised by reporters during picture-taking sessions and during chance encounters
though he often is seen cupping his ear because of difficulty in hearing the questions, reagan is fairly adept at answering them when he chooses to do so
the package of talking points included remarks prepared for outside visitors to the white house, ranging from singer wayne newton to an interview with washington post reporter lou cannon
absent from the package were any comments prepared for the president's daily top-level staff meeting or national security briefing
some white house staff members dismiss the disclosures with a laugh, contending the paperwork is similar to that provided other high administration officials or corporate officers and is nothing more than the product of an overzealous staff
i think the insinuation that president reagan needs to be told to say `goodbye' or `god bless you' is a cheap shot,'' said reagan's domestic policy adviser, gary bauer
anyone who's around the president frequently knows that the best stuff he says at meetings are the things he comes up with on his own. it's unfair and silly to insinuate that he can't function without those papers,'' said bauer
it's little worker bees who have little jobs to do,'' said elaine crispen, press secretary to first lady nancy reagan
white house communications director thomas griscom said reagan ignored the scripted dialogue during the meeting. he said such texts are given to reagan only to ``refresh his memory,'' if necessary
he knew what points he wanted to make, so he didn't use the talking points at all,'' griscom said
is it so unnatural for a staff person to tell his boss about a meeting he's arranged, that these people are coming, this is what we're doing?'' griscom asked. ``he hasn't got the time to sit there making notes about what each little meeting's supposed to be about _ he has more important things to do.''
mrs. crispen argued that some white house staffers are so eager to do their jobs correctly that they include items and remarks that are actually taken for granted by the official involved, including the first lady
both she and the president know to say, `hello, how do you do,''' mrs. crispen said
besides, she said, ``show me a (television) correspondent who doesn't use a script.''
surgeon general c. everett koop told a white house panel tuesday he is concerned about the spread of the aids virus among teen-agers and expressed outrage at suggestions the disease cannot be spread through heterosexual intercourse
reiterating his call for sex education programs beginning at the elementary grade levels, koop said, ``i think it is quite possible to raise a generation of adolescents down the road that would be far less sexually active than the present one.''
he emphasized that such programs should involve parents and incorporate moral and social values along with anatomical studies
but in the best of future worlds, he said, ``that leaves the teen-agers of today.''
many people are discouraged about teen-agers because some of them are so sexually active,'' he said
while it is important to recommend abstinence, koop said, ``i think it is also realistic to understand that sexually active teen-agers are unlikely to reverse their pattern and go backward, and therefore prevention for them has to be our third line of defense. ..
we have to teach them about the protection of themselves and others through the use of condoms and spermicides
i know that goes against the grain of many people in this country,'' he continued, ``but we cannot abandon more than half of our teen-agers because they are sexually active. and we have to reach them where they are and tell them about those things they have to do.''
although only a relative handful of the more than 50,000 aids cases reported so far involve teen-agers, koop said little information is available on the extent to which the virus may be lying dormant among that group
because of the long incubation period of the disease _ five years or more _ koop said he is reluctant to rule out an outbreak of aids cases in young heterosexual adults who contracted the virus as teen-agers
largely because of that concern, koop criticized some press accounts that have suggested there is virtually no danger of aids being spread through vaginal intercourse
we know from the infected spouses of persons with hemophilia that (this virus) can be spread through normal vaginal intercourse. what concerns me is the potential for a more rapid spread ... into the general population,'' he said
i am outraged at recent newspaper and magazine articles stating that there is no danger of heterosexual transmission from normal vaginal intercourse,'' said koop. ``although homosexual sex and iv drug abuse are the principal modes by which most cases are transmitted, it is just not true that there is no danger from normal vaginal intercourse
what is unknown is the level of danger. there is always a danger whenever people engage in casual sex.''
he did not mention any specific articles, but other public health service officials _ responding to specific queries _ have criticized a recent article in a magazine aimed at young single women which downplayed the risk of acquiring aids through intercourse
koop was the main witness tuesday as the 13-member commission began three days of hearings into some of the most controversial aspects of aids, including education and prevention
education secretary william bennett, who has differed publicly with koop about the emphasis to put on advising sexually active people to use condoms, is scheduled to testify thursday
retired navy adm. james d. watkins said monday he is confident that the commission can reach consensus recommendations on such controversial topics by the time it submits its final report to president reagan june 24
responding to questions at the national press club a day before koop's testimony, watkins also called attention to the concern of health authorities that little is known about the rate of dormant aids infection among teen-agers
we don't know what it is in adolescents,'' he said. ``there may be lurking on the horizon a real problem that has yet to unfold.''
here is a transcript of president reagan's remarks as he left tuesday for the nato summit meeting in belgium
thank you all very much, and good morning
i'm going to europe to meet with a group of friends and colleagues, the leaders of the north atlantic alliance
we and our foreign affairs and defense ministers see a good deal of each other, just as friends should
but the meeting that begins in brussels tomorrow will be special
it will be the first time in almost six years that leaders of all the nato countries have met together for a summit
much has happened in those six years that we can be very proud of, including the inf treaty with the soviet union that removes an entire class of u.s. and soviet nuclear weapons, weapons that on the soviet side have held the european continent at risk
that historic agreement was possible because the alliance's steadfast political and military resolve backed up our negotiations with the soviets
but the purpose of this summit is not self-congratulations
our responsibility is to the future, and it will be to the future that we turn our attention tomorrow
our first priority is to maintain a strong and healthy partnership between north america and europe, for this is the foundation on which the cause of freedom so crucially depends
we will never sacrifice the interests of this partnership in any agreement with the soviet union
nato's agenda for peace and freedom has always been ambitious, and it must remain so
in the arms control area, we will continue to press for soviet agreement to 50 percent reductions in the strategic nuclear forces on both sides, and for a truly global and verifiable ban on chemical weapons
my colleagues and i will be working to give negotiations on conventional forces a new start as well
we will also discuss soviet behavior toward its own citizens and toward other countries, since problems of human rights and external aggression remain key obstacles to long-term improvement of east-west relations
if our common approach to the east over the years has given coherence to our message of peace and world freedom, it has been our unwavering commitment to defend ourselves that has given it credibility
arms reduction can only succeed if it is backed up by a strong defense
my atlantic colleagues and i will rededicate ourselves to maintaining the deterrent that has protected our freedom and prosperity for almost 40 years
i will repeat to my colleagues my strong conviction that american troops will remain in europe, under any administration, so long as europeans want them to stay
we can be rightfully proud of these 40 years of peace that our common commitment has brought
but the job is not finished
we in the alliance will not be satisfied merely with a record period without war
we seek nothing less than permanent peace with freedom in the north atlantic
this bold objective can be obtained, but we must have the courage to follow the course that we have set for ourselves
for four decades, a combination of a strong common defense and pursuit of dialogue with the east has been a winning formula for nato
it is a combination that can lead us to a future of peace, freedom and prosperity for generations to come
thank you. god bless you. and thank you all for coming out here to see us off
authorities have clamped a curfew on a southern city where weekend rioting broke out and tensions are still running high because of a territorial dispute between ethnic groups, a soviet official said tuesday
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov suggested that the sunday unrest in sumgait, as well as demonstrations and other violence elsewhere in the caucasus region in which at least two people died, were due to ``mistakes'' made 65 years ago when a territory composed largely of armenians was made part of neighboring azerbaidzhan
he told a government news briefing that ``there were certain injuries'' in sumgait, an industrial city of more than 160,000 people in azerbaidzhan where hooligans were blamed for touching off the sunday riot
the situation is calm there today, but it is tense,'' gerasimov said
the official was peppered with questions about the civil unrest in the southern soviet republics of armenia and azerbaidzhan at his regular tuesday news briefing, but he said he had few details about events there
moscow-based foreign journalists have been barred from the region, and only sporadic reports from witnesses, activists and the official media have reached the soviet capital
when passions calm down and life starts to normalize, the appearance of some journalists in this region can lead to intensification of nationalistic feelings,'' gerasimov said, explaining why restrictions have been imposed to keep correspondents from visiting the area
asked about reports that soviet tanks are patrolling the streets of sumgait, that ethnic azeris are attacking armenians in the streets, and that there have been at least two deaths in the city, gerasimov said,``there is a curfew.''
he said he had not heard anything about tanks being sent to the city
asked if troops remained in the city tuesday, gerasimov said, ``i don't know, but i guess so. presumably.''
the violence in sumgait, reported monday by the official news agency tass, followed earlier outbreaks 150 miles away in nagorno-karabakh, the contested region in azerbaidzhan, and massive but apparently peaceful demonstrations in yerevan, the capital of armenia
the demonstrators demanded that nagorno-karabakh, which has been part of azerbaidzhan since 1923, be made part of armenia. about three-quarters of the region's population of 157,000 are ethnic armenians
gerasimov said he did not have detailed reports from the entire region but that what information he had indicated ``everything is calm'' in yerevan and surrounding areas
the events that took place caused great concern to us,'' the spokesman said. ``we think it is not a proper way to settle the problems that have accumulated.''
gerasimov acknowledged, however, that the unrest apparently stemmed from ``some mistakes made in national relations, and these mistakes should be rectified.''
soviet authorities have pledged to reconsider the issue of whether nagorno-karabakh should remain part of azerbaidzhan. gerasimov's remarks seemed to indicate the region would be turned over to armenia. he did not, however, say when that might occur
asked if he was indeed saying nagorno-karabakh should be made part of armenia, the spokesman said, ``i meant there were some mistakes in nagorno-karabakh.''
gerasimov described the region as ``a kind of enclave'' in azerbaidzhan with 49 nationalities represented among the population that is nonetheless mostly armenian
that is why we should be very tactful in handling this question in order not to cause differences between brothers and nationalities. the previous policy had some mistakes in this area,'' he said
on saturday, a soviet prosecutor reported that two people living in a region of azerbaidzhan that borders on nagorno-karabakh had been slain in unrest caused by the territorial dispute
on friday, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed for ``civic maturity and restraint'' in azerbaidzhan and armenia, and promised that the communist party central committee would review relations among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
that same day gorbachev also met with two prominent armenian writers to help work out a solution to the problem over nagorno-karabakh
azerbaidzhan is the largest of three soviet republics in the caucasus. it is bordered on the west by largely christian armenia and georgia and on the north by the russian republic. the caspian sea runs for nearly 800 miles along its eastern edge
the republic is mainly shiite moslem, except for armenian christians living in the nagorno-karbakh region
state medical authorities want to revoke the license of a psychologist who has been beach boy brian wilson's therapist, alleging the man financially exploited the eccentric songwriter
in documents released monday, the board of medical quality assurance accused psychologist eugene landy of drug violations, patient sexual abuse and ``grossly negligent'' conduct
seven causes of action were filed against landy, wilson's near-constant companion for the last five years
the accusations largely concern landy's relationship with wilson, saying multiple business relationships with wilson caused the singer ``severe emotional damage, psychological dependence and financial exploitation.''
a request for comment was left at the office of a spokesman for wilson and landy on tuesday but there was no immediate response
attorney john mason, representing wilson, said the accusations were false
brian wilson has made a miraculous recovery with the help of dr. landy, psychologically, physically and financially. he's in the best shape he's ever been in his life,'' mason said
landy has said he became a virtual 24-hour guardian of wilson to save him from obesity and a dependence on drugs and alcohol that left him cloistered in a sand box in his house for a year
in a 1983 interview in people magazine, landy said his staff controlled wilson's every moment, monitored everything he ate and drank and recorded everything he said
the medical board said landy abused his privileges as a psychologist by serving as wilson's business manager, business adviser, executive producer and co-songwriter while also as a therapist
last year, the beach boys formed a management advisory committee to make business decisions. the state board said landy used his influence over wilson to be picked as the singer's representative, and was paid $140,000 for serving on the committee for 11 months
also questioned was landy's control of wilson's prescription drugs for a five-year period. psychologists are not permitted to prescribe drugs
the board said landy would have wilson examined by a physician who would prescribe medications that were kept in wilson's home in a locked cabinet. wilson didn't have a key, but landy's unlicensed assistants did
landy was also accused by the board of using cocaine and amyl nitrate with an unidentified female patient to induce her to have sex with him
linda mccready, a spokeswoman for the board's sacramento office, said the next step in landy's case is for the state attorney general to schedule a hearing before an administrative law judge, which usually takes six months
the judge would make a recommendation to the board's psychology examining committee, which will determine what action to take. ms. mccready said if landy disagrees with the committee's decision he can appeal to superior court. ballot</head>
pro-choice groups filed 229,128 signatures tuesday in support of a statewide vote on whether michigan should continue to pay for poor women's abortions
that gave the people's campaign for choice coalition more than 100,000 names above the minimum needed to put the issue on the nov. 8 ballot and suspend a new law that will halt welfare abortion funding beginning march 29
however, the petitions may have been filed too late to avoid a temporary funding cutoff
we have every reason to believe that 29 days is enough time'' to confirm the required 119,829 valid signatures and put the law on hold, said judith frey, speaking for the coalition
i would find that very unlikely,'' responded elections director christopher thomas. he said election-year petition certification normally takes 45 days to 60 days
both frey and right to life of michigan president barbara listing said they were confident the signatures will be certified
it's a large pad. it's certainly enough to, i think, place it on the ballot,'' listing said
both sides have estimated the statewide campaign to sway referendum votes will cost $2 million to $3 million
the petition drive that ended tuesday was the second in as many years dealing with welfare abortion funding
since 1978, gov. james blanchard, a democrat, and his republican predecessor, william milliken, have used their veto power 17 times to preserve state-paid abortions for the poor
right to life initiated the no-funding law last year with a petition drive intended to avoid the veto
in michigan, anyone who can gather 191,726 valid signatures can place before the legislature a measure that, if approved by both houses, becomes law without the governor's signature
after gathering about 400,000 signatures, the right to life-written proposal breezed through the legislature and became law
michigan is one of 14 states that uses taxpayer money to finance abortions for the poor. in 1986, the most recent year for which a final tally is available, michigan paid about $5.8 million for 18,600 abortions
the states took disciplinary action against 1,277 of the nation's half-million physicians in 1986, but a consumer group that compiled the figures said tuesday that too many doctors are still getting away with shoddy work
the actions taken in 1986 represented a 17 percent increase over the previous year and contrasted with a 46 percent jump in disciplinary actions from 1984 to 1985
even though the 1986 total ... is better than in any previous year, it falls very short of catching most of the incompetent doctors in this country,'' said a report by the public citizen health research group founded by ralph nader and director dr. sidney m. wolfe
in most states, the majority of disciplinary actions are for drug and alcohol problems, only a fraction being for incompetence,'' it said
the absence ... of the maximum effort to discipline doctors is one of the most serious threats to the health of american patients.''
although the federal government can suspend doctors from participating in federal health programs such as medicare and medicaid, the underlying permission to practice medicine is determined solely by the individual states
surveying data from the federation of state medical boards, public citizen ranked all 50 states and the district of columbia according to the number of 1986 ``serious actions'' per 1,000 doctors. a serious action was defined as a revocation or suspension of the license to practice medicine, or a probation
the national average was 2.37 actions per 1,000 doctors
georgia led with 6.94 actions per 1,000, followed by indiana, iowa, west virginia, utah, oregon, oklahoma, missouri, kentucky and colorado
wyoming was in 51st place with none. new hampshire ranked 50th, preceded by vermont, maryland, michigan, connecticut, pennsylvania, south dakota, tennessee, washington, rhode island and alabama in 40th place
nationwide, the group found there were 745 serious actions in 1984, 1,089 in 1985 and 1,277 in 1986, the last year for which figures from all localities were available
since there is no evidence that doctors settle in certain states depending on how competent they are, differences in the rate of doctor discipline reflect differences in how serious states are about disciplining doctors,'' the report said
we continue to believe that until the rate of doctor discipline in this country significantly increases, there is no realistic possibility of a major decrease in the amount of medical malpractice.''
a county supervisor who prides himself on doing right by his district and recently offered $1 to any constituent who spotted a pothole, has issued a $5 bounty on flooded intersections
whether i pay off one or two, it'll be the best survey the flood control district ever had,'' said kenneth hahn, who is running for an unprecedented 10th term
it'll keep the flood control engineers out of their offices in downtown and down in the streets where they belong,'' he said
the offer, intended to pull the plug on storm-caused flooding, is good from tuesday through march 10
hahn paid $3 on his pothole offer _ $2 of it to a los angeles herald examiner reporter who cruised the byways of the 2nd district in a near-fruitless search for poor pavement
i pride myself on taking care of my district,'' hahn said. ``if you do your homework and take care of the little things in your district, the big things will take care of themselves.'' death</head>
prime minister charles haughey on tuesday challenged the british army's contention that one of its soldiers accidentally shot and killed an unarmed civilian from an observation post just inside northern ireland
a suggestion that death was due to a freak accident of an extraordinary kind must give rise to disbelief,'' haughey told the irish parliament
haughey's administration launched its own investigation into the feb. 21 shooting of 23-year-old aidan mcanespie, which strained already tense relations between britain and ireland. an irish police officer said he witnessed the shooting from across the border
police in the british-ruled province charged an 18-year-old soldier with unlawful killing. he is being held in military custody
the army said the bullet that hit mcanespie ricocheted after being fired accidentally from an observation post at a checkpoint near auchnacloy, less than half a mile from the irish republic's border
relatives said mcanespie, a campaign worker for sinn fein, the legal political arm of the irish republican army, had been harassed by the british army. his sister, eilish mccabe, claimed her brother had received a number of death threats from the army
haughey's inquiry angered the british government and protestant political leaders in northern ireland, who see it as interference in their affairs
haughey said the irish investigation was obligatory because of the ``considerable concern'' over the incident among the province's roman catholic minority
he said mcanespie's death, along with the british government's refusal to prosecute northern ireland police officers who killed six unarmed roman catholics in 1982 and the release from prison of a british soldier who served just three years of a life sentence for killing a catholic ``have combined to create the impression that the security forces are above the law.''
any such impression among the public in northern ireland must have disastrous consequences on the community and impinge on every aspect of british policy for the administration of justice in northern ireland,'' haughey said
mcanespie's body was exhumed sunday after his family requested an autopsy by an irishman in addition to that held by the british in the north. the family said they wanted to determine the course of the fatal bullet. he was later reburied in the irish republic
president reagan announced today that panama and three other countries long hostile to the united states _ afghanistan, iran and syria _ have not cooperated with u.s. efforts to stop the smuggling of drugs to american markets
but reagan plans no steps to penalize panama economically beyond measures already taken, said ann wrobleski, a state department official responsible for narcotics matters
reagan will ``wait and see'' if panama's military-dominated government improves its cooperation before deciding on additional sanctions, she said
the decisions concerning afghanistan, iran and syria will have no economic impact on them, partly because none is a u.s. aid recipient
under law, reagan is required to suspend all economic and military aid to countries found not to be cooperating in u.s. drug enforcement efforts. ms. wrobleski noted that all such aid to panama was suspended in 1987
such a finding also requires the united states to vote against loan requests by the offending country in international lending institutions. ms. wrobleski said the united states has been abstaining on panama's requests for some time and that, in any case, panama has no loan applications pending
ms. wrobleski raised the possibility that the administration may increase tariffs on panamanian products if that country's attitude on drug-smuggling does not improve
she said a contributing factor in the decision on panama was the drug-smuggling indictments handed down a month ago against military strongman manuel antonio noriega. the indictment said panama has become a major transit point for u.s.-bound cocaine from colombia
reagan certified that mexico and colombia are cooperating with u.s. drug enforcement efforts, but ms. wrobleski said the president indicated that ``these countries should do more.''
under a 1986 law, reagan is required to take punitive measures against countries found not to cooperate in curbing drug-smuggling to the united states. countries which are ``decertified'' are subject to the penalties
today was the deadline for the announcement of reagan's findings
the announcement on panama's lack of cooperation in drug enforcement carried heavy political overtones, given the dramatic developments over the past few days
the administration has refused to extend recognition to the new panamanian government which took office following the ouster last friday of president eric arturo delvalle
delvalle was deposed by noriega's allies in the national assembly after the president tried to fire the defense chief. the reagan administration continues to look on delvalle as panama's constitutional president
the new government has named a u.n.-based envoy to replace delvalle's ambassador, juan b. sosa, but sosa refused to relinquish the embassy. the appointed successor, leonardo kam, showed up at the embassy on monday and left after what he said was a ``frank'' exchange with sosa
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., introduced a senate resolution urging additional economic sanctions against panama, including a trade embargo. an administration official, however, said the government is not contemplating any such action
kennedy's resolution also asks that the united states cut off all contacts with noriega because he is ``no longer the lawful commander'' of the defense forces
in a brief speech on the senate floor, kennedy said noriega ``is a threat to peace and security in the region.''
when a drug trafficker gets control over the governmental powers of a nation, it's a threat to other nations,'' kennedy said
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said the administration should go much further than it has in pressuring noriega to step down
this business of let's go slow, let's exercise restraint and caution, that is what has produced the situation. we've been going cautiously with this gangster for 20 years,'' d'amato said
a fire spread through a mobile home sales lot tuesday, destroying 45 homes, authorities said
high wind and a lack of water hindered firefighters at connor mobile homes. there were no injuries reported in the tuesday morning fire
the mobile homes were valued about about $10,000 each. about half the homes in the lot were destroyed
with the way the wind was blowing and just the three of us out here, there was nothing we could do. it got up under the houses and that was it,'' said tony cantrell, a connor salesman
fire department captain richard newman said the department received a report of a grass fire and that the trailers were burning when firefighters arrived
presidential candidates scrambled to discredit their rivals with increasingly rough-and-tumble television commercials a week before the nation's biggest primary day ever
sen. bob dole scored vice president george bush for his role in the iran-contra affair in one new ad. in another, rep. marvin leath of texas criticizes two democrats competing against his colleague, rep. richard gephardt
the candidates under attack _ bush, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee _ all have produced hard-hitting tv ads of their own and were expected to respond promptly
television is shaping up as the candidates' most important tool in the far-flung super tuesday contests on march 8. there are 712 republican delegates and 1,307 democratic delegates up for grabs that day in caucuses and primaries in 20 states and american samoa
super tuesday stretches across more than 150 media markets and more than 500 television stations, with a multi-million dollar price tag for any candidate who wanted to clog the air with commercials
most of the contenders were targeting their media spending to carefully selected areas where they thoguht they had the best chances of winning delegates. both dukakis and gore predicted they would in the end have spent the most for super tuesday; bush had the most money in the bank as the contest approached
dole and gephardt were first out of the box with negative ads
one dole spot depicts someone walking through snow but leaving no footprints. dole campaign manager bill brock said the message is that bush ``has held all these big jobs'' yet left no mark
another ad, the first to inject the iran-contra affair into the campaign, says dole was ``opposed selling arms to iran. bush supported the arms-for-hostages deal.'' the ad also accuses bush of waffling on taxes, taking a soft line on the u.s.-soviet arms control treaty, and opposing a textile bill popular in several southern states
in his ad on behalf of gephardt, leath said the missouri congressman ``stood with us for lower taxes, for an oil import fee to make america strong, for a tough trade bill to stand up for american workers.''
on all these issues, gore and dukakis were opposed to us. gore and dukakis even think the gephardt trade bill is too tough on the japanese, europeans and koreans. we're tired of hearing that you can't fight for america anymore. that's why 35 southern congressman are fighting for dick gephardt for president,'' leath says in the ad
gephardt also is using a slightly retooled version of a commercial that gave him the edge he needed to beat dukakis last week in south dakota. the ad called dukakis ``one of the biggest tax raisers in massachusetts history'' and mocked the governor's suggestion that struggling iowa farmers switch to growing belgian endive
the dukakis campaign has prepared several tough responses, including an ad that shows a weathervane swinging back and forth as a narrator accuses gephardt of flip-flops on issues
leslie dach, the campaign's communications director, declined to provide any scripts because he said final decisions on what would be used, when and where had not been made
but he said the general content would be along the following lines: ``he says he is leading the little guy's fight but his campaign is financed and supported by the big guys. his biggest contributors are america's biggest corporations. he has failed to show a set of principles or a set of values that give a rudder to his policies.''
in a footnote to the fierce super tuesday tv campaign, rep. jack kemp, r-n.y., began attacking pat robertson in ads running on radio stations in south carolina. the state holds a gop primary on saturday
the kemp ad asks if the former television evangelist has ``the qualifications and the judgment to be our next president'' and cites some of his more unusual positions such as a 1979 suggestion that public schools be eliminated. robertson later changed his mind
in addition to negative ads, the candidates are using more subdued biographical spots and traditional political testimonials. among them: former sen. barry goldwater endorses bush, former house speaker thomas p. o'neill of massachusetts praises dukakis, and rep. claude pepper _ an elderly florida legislator with enormous clout among senior citizens _ speaks kindly of gephardt
gephardt is also using the hyundai ad credited with putting his campaign message into sharp focus and helping him win last month's iowa caucuses. in the spot he criticizes south korea for putting stiff tariffs on u.s. autos and asks how many hyundais the koreans could sell here at $48,000 apiece
texas' capital punishment law, under which some 260 convicted murderers are awaiting death by lethal injection, was challenged tuesday in the supreme court
mark stevens of san antonio, a lawyer representing death row inmate donald gene franklin, argued that the law, as applied, stacks the deck in favor of death over life in prison
stevens said the jurors who sentenced franklin for the 1975 murder of a san antonio nurse were prevented from giving full consideration to ``mitigating circumstances,'' those factors suggesting life in prison as the appropriate punishment
consideration of particularized mitigating circumstances was not allowed,'' stevens contended
but william c. zapalac, an assistant state attorney general, urged the justices to uphold a federal appeals court ruling that said franklin was sentenced properly
noting that franklin was allowed to present any mitigating evidence he desired, zapalac added, ``franklin cannot reasonably claim that the jury could not see the relevance of the evidence he wanted to present.''
under texas law, capital case sentencing juries are asked two questions: whether the murder was committed deliberately and whether the killer poses a continuing, violent threat to society
if the jurors unanimously find beyond a reasonable doubt that the answer to both questions is ``yes'' a death sentence is imposed
but stevens told the justices that the judge's instructions to jurors at franklin's trial, similar to those typically used in texas, directs the jury to consider all mitigating evidence in light of the two questions
for example, stevens said the fact that franklin had been a well-behaved prison inmate for seven years could only be used to consider whether he was a continuing threat to society and not for some other reason
justice john paul stevens, no relation to the lawyer, asked zapalac why such evidence could not be used by jurors to decide that franklin was a man of good character ``who should not die.''
zapalac said franklin failed to show that any other kind of jury instruction would have helped him
franklin was convicted of abducting and killing 27-year-old mary margaret moran
his lawyer repeatedly said tuesday he was not attacking the supreme court's 1976 decision, in a case called jurek vs. texas, that upheld the state's death penalty law. but the justices seemed skeptical that overturning franklin's sentence could leave the 1976 ruling intact
chief justice william h. rehnquist suggested that stevens' arguments appeared to be ``cutting into jurek.''
justice antonin scalia said it seemed to him that the argument came down to whether ``the language of the statute'' did not allow full and independent consideration of mitigating circumstances
if the court were to rule that way, its decision could affect all texas death row inmates. out of about 2,000 death row inmates nationwide, 260 are in texas. that total is second only to florida, which has about 280 inmates on death row
a number of executions have been postponed in texas pending the court's decision in the case, which is expected by july
the case is franklin vs. lynaugh, 87-5546. museum</head>
after a struggle to fund an exhibit on the assassination of president john f. kennedy, the dallas county commission approved a $2.3 million contract to build an elevator to what was believed to have been the killer's perch
the eyes of the world will be on this project,'' said lindalyn adams, president of dallas county historical foundation. ``as sad as it is, it is the most important historical site in dallas.''
the foundation has worked 11 years to get the exhibit funded, and plans to raise $1.5 million more from private sources for additional renovations on the sixth floor of the former texas schoolbook depository
the warren commission determined that lee harvey oswald fired at kennedy from the sixth floor of what is now the dallas county administration building on nov. 22, 1963
the contract award was approved by a 3-2 vote monday to thomas j. hayman construction co., which could begin work as early as this week
the exhibit, ``the sixth floor,'' will be reached via an outside elevator that will carry an estimated 300,000 to 500,000 visitors annually to the exhibit without disrupting work inside
tony callaway, a partner in the architectural firm of hendrick callaway, said construction could be completed by november. foundation officials say they are unlikely to schedule the exhibit's opening nov. 22, the 25th anniversary of kennedy's assassination
we think it would be inappropriate,'' adams said
peace talks on afghanistan open their most crucial and fragile phase on wednesday, one that is widely hoped to produce a settlement to end a conflict that has claimed more than a million lives
but complex and potentially disruptive issues remain to be resolved during the united nations-sponsored talks before a package of agreements, drawn up during almost six years of bargaining, finally can be completed
u.n. mediator diego cordovez has said the new round of talks will focus on closing the gap between the varying timetables for withdrawing an estimated 115,000 soviet troops
but likely to dominate the talks is a question that is formally outside their scope: who will be in charge in kabul until all soviet troops have moved out?
delegates from afghanistan and from pakistan both said tuesday that they have come to geneva to finalize a settlement to end the 9-year-old conflict
but pakistan foreign minister zain noorani said his country would decide next week whether it was prepared to sign the peace package with the present marxist government of president najib, which it does not recognize
noorani said pakistan is continuing to press for the formation of a transitional government to coincide with the withdrawal of soviet troops. without it, he said, there can be no peace
but he said ``we have come to geneva with a constructive attitude to finalize the text'' of the four-agreement package
meanwhile, the head of the afghan delegation, foreign minister abdul wakil, told a news conference that he was looking forward to the new round with a ``sense of full optimism.''
the present leadership, he said, were ``not ambitious'' about retaining power. he said the timetable for the withdrawal was ``within negotiable range.''
the negotiations have come under mounting pressure since soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev announced feb. 8 that moscow will withdraw its troops beginning on may 15 if a final deal is sealed in geneva by march 15
he said the withdrawal could be completed in 10 months. pakistan originally demanded that the troops quit in three months but has gradually widened that span to eight months
pakistan wants the settlement to include the transitional government because it could oversee the safe return of more than 5 million anti-soviet afghan refugees, one-third of afghanistan's pre-war population
moscow has accused pakistan of creating last-minute obstacles to an accord and said the makeup of the government should be left to the afghans
the alliance of pakistan-based afghan resistance groups, claiming to represent 200,000 moslem guerrillas, responded last week by revealing its own plan for a government
it has ruled out any power-sharing with najib but offered a minor role to ``moslems presently living in kabul,'' a formula that could refer to moderates in the present government
yunis khalis, chairman of the seven-group alliance, vowed the guerrillas won't lay down their arms until the ``islamic government'' is set up
predictably, that concept has been rejected by najib and wakil, who heads the afghan delegation in geneva. wakil says he represents the ``only legal government in afghanistan which has been recognized by 80 countries.''
pakistan so far has not given its formal support to the guerrilla proposal and has hinted it prefers a more broad-based approach
the united states, which along with the soviet union is to guarantee implementation of the peace package, has been ambivalent in its reaction to the calls for an interim government
but the u.s. senate, in a non-binding resolution monday, urged formation of an interim government in kabul that is acceptable to the afghan resistance
u.s. undersecretary of state michael armacost, visiting pakistan last week, said the guerrilla plan was a ``very welcome step towards the resolution of the afghan problem.''
there has also been a lack of clear signals on when washington would be prepared to cut off its aid to the guerrillas, reported to have been about $700 million last year
the afghan monarchy was overthrown in 1978 and a communist government was installed. the soviets intervened at the request of the embattled new marxist government. picks up 2nd graf pvs, bgng, reagan, as ... etc.</note>
president reagan was greeted by officials of belgium, and reunited with secretary of state george shultz, as he arrived today for a summit with america's nato allies
about seven hours after pledging that the united states will keep its troops in europe ``as long as europeans want them to stay,'' reagan's air force boeing 707 jetliner touched down on a windy, moonlit tarmac at brussels zaventem airport
he smiled and chatted amiably as he was greeted by shultz, who had just arrived from a meeting in london with jordan's king hussein. also on hand was belgium's prime minister, wilfried martens and foreign minister leo tindemans
following a five-minute courtesy get-together with tindemans in an airport salon, reagan was ferried by motorcade for an overnight stay at chateau stuyvenberg, a 1840 brick and stone palace one used as the favored residence of the belgium royal family
reagan, as he left the white house for a two-day nato summit in belgium, said the session comes at a historic moment for both east and west
for four decades, the combination of a strong common defense and pursuit of dialogue with the east has been a winning formula for nato,'' reagan said. ``it is a combination that can lead us to a future of peace, freedom and prosperity for generations to come.''
a throng of teen-age participants in the white house conference on a drug-free america, brought to the diplomatic entrance to give reagan a sendoff, sang ``god bless america'' as the president emerged
reagan attempted to calm allied fears that the u.s.-soviet treaty banning medium-range nuclear missiles portends an american abandonment of its long-time commitment to the european democracies
that historic agreement was possible because the alliance's steadfast political and military resolve backed up our negotiations with the soviets,'' reagan said
the nato allies are also concerned that the force of 326,000 u.s. troops stationed in europe might be cut due to the u.s. economic budget crunch
my atlantic colleagues and i will rededicate ourselves to maintaining the deterrent that has protected our freedom and prosperity for almost 40 years,'' reagan said. ``i will repeat to my colleagues my strong conviction that american troops will remain in europe, under any administration, so long as europeans want them to stay.''
as the first full-scale north atlantic treaty organization summit since 1982, the meeting has been touted as a chance for the 16-nation alliance to evaluate its goals and accentuate its solidarity
but the summit, reagan said, will not be held for ``self-congratulations.'' instead, he said, it will be a time for a rededication to the democratic goals that forged the alliance in 1949 in the face of the spread of soviet influence in eastern europe
if our common approach to the east over the years has given coherence to our message of peace and world freedom, it has been our unwavering commitment to defend ourselves that has given it credibility,'' reagan said. ``arms reduction can only succeed if it is backed up by a strong defense.''
his first priority, reagan said, ``is to maintain a strong and healthy partnership between north america and europe.''
reagan pledged anew to forge ahead with attempts to achieve a 50 percent cut in strategic nuclear arms, as well as a global ban on chemical weapons
he asserted that he also intends to press the soviets on human rights violations and its ``external aggression, '' apparently a reference to its involvement in nations such as afghanistan and nicaragua
the summit meeting comes as reagan prepares for an expected round of spring summitry with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, and as the allies must cope with the soviet public relations campaign that paints gorbachev as a champion of peace and arms control
for the most part, reagan will appear only in brief photo opportunities at the nato session. the meetings among the heads of state or government wednesday and thursday will be private
reagan is slated to deliver closing remarks on thursday
on monday, reagan previewed his slant on the summit in an address to the annual convention of the american legion
he promised to forge ahead with attempts to cut superpower strategic arsenals in half and to seek a ban on chemical weapons. but he also pledged that negotiations to reduce warsaw pact conventional forces will receive equal weight
the serious imbalance of conventional forces in europe must be addressed as an equally high priority,'' reagan said. ``warsaw pact tanks and artillery far outnumber our own. ours are positioned for defense, theirs for an offensive attack.''
reagan attempted to sweep aside european doubts about america's willingness to help its friends, but he advised that the alliance cannot stand still
the warsaw pact's numerical superiority and the soviet strategy which emphasizes surprise attack means that our remaining nuclear forces are fully capable of supporting nato's flexible response strategy,'' reagan said
at the same time we must modernize our chemical weapons to deter soviet first-use and we must provide for conventional forces that are capable of protecting free europe,'' reagan said
the reagan administration has failed to stop the heavy influx of illicit drugs into the united states, a group of congressmen told a white house conference on drugs tuesday
sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., said the administration has earned nothing more than a ``c'' grade for its efforts in the so-called war on drugs. rep. charles rangel, d-n.y., chided administration officials, including president reagan, for claiming the battle against drugs was being won
if we are winning the war on drugs, i wish the commanders would go out and tell it to the troops in the field,'' rangel said, drawing a standing ovation from a cheering crowd of about 2,000 at the white house conference on a drug-free america
it's tragic to believe we are winning this battle against drugs when we haven't even fired the first shot,'' said rangel, who is chairman of the house narcotics committee
he and six other members of congress criticized the administration, as well as their own colleagues, for not taking such actions as sanctions toward latin america countries who do not cooperate with the u.s. in trying to combat drug trafficking
they urged the creation of a drug czar to oversee the u.s. anti-drug efforts, the use of military forces for the interdiction of drugs from latin america countries and the mandatory, random testing of railroad employees
rangel and chiles were joined at the congressional forum of the five-day white house drug conference by sens. pete wilson, r-calif., and john c. danforth, r-mo., and reps. glenn english, d-okla., benjamin a. gilman, r-n.y., and e. clay shaw, r-fla
the conference, which was required by a 1986 anti-drug law, is bringing together drug abuse experts who will submit a final report and recommend solutions to the president and congress this summer
shaw told the enthusiastic crowd: ``we need to get away from a policy of containment. we want you to come up with a plan for victory. let's fight it like we fought world war ii, not like vietnam. let's fight to win.''
rangel and several others praised the role first lady nancy reagan has played during the past seven years in her anti-drug campaign, ``say no to drugs.''
thank god, we have nancy reagan,'' rangel said. ``she is the only voice we have in this administration. we have no domestic or foreign policy on drugs. if you want to fight this war, you have to put up the resources for the boys in the front lines.''
chiles and wilson also said there has been a lack of resources assigned to the the battle against drugs
nothing is a bigger threat internally or externally than the use of drugs,'' wilson said. ``we have to focus on the problem and set priorities before it engulfs us completely.''
chiles, wilson and rangel also urged reagan to impose severe sanctions against latin american countries, particularly panama, mexico and colombia, if they refuse to cooperate with the united states in combatting drug trafficking
under the 1986 law, the united states is to decertify and cut off aid to countries ``not fully cooperating'' with the united states to combat drug traffic
reagan decided tuesday that panama, afghanistan, iran and syria have not cooperated with u.s. efforts to stop the drug smuggling to american markets. but ann wrobleski, a state department official responsible for narcotics matters, said reagan planned no steps to penalize panama economically beyond measures already taken
reagan certified that mexico and colombia are cooperating with u.s. drug enforcement efforts, but ms. wrobleski said the president indicated that ``these countries should do more.''
reagan will ``wait and see'' if panama's military-dominated government improves its cooperation before deciding on additional sanctions, she said
the decisions concerning afghanistan, iran and syria will have no economic impact on them, partly because none is a u.s. aid recipient
chiles said many members of congress believe the administration has not used the certification process properly
this year, the good news is that panama is on the list,'' chiles said. ``on the other hand, mexico and colombia aren't. ... i think we have to continue to apply pressure against these countries.''
construction spending fell 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months, reflecting widespread weakness in all sectors of the building industry, the government reported tuesday
the commerce department said construction spending fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $395.2 billion in january following a revised 0.4 percent advance in december
economists said the decline was bigger than expected and will likely mean that construction will be a drag on overall economic growth in the first quarter of 1988
what was surprising about the figures was how widespread and pervasive the weakness was. virtually every category from housing to industrial to hotels and motels did poorly in january,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co
michael sumichrast, an economist and publisher of a construction industry newsletter, said he expects housing starts to fall by about 15 percent this year and non-residential construction to drop by 10 percent
i haven't found any area in the united states with strong housing activity. the only strong area is public construction, which i think will rise by about 4 percent,'' sumichrast said
the january decline was the largest since a 3.3 percent drop in march 1987, but some analysts said unusually severe weather in january may have contributed to the decline
residential contruction fell 2.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $191.3 billion as construction of single-family homes fell 2.2 percent and multi-family construction dropped 6.4 percent
analysts said single-family construction will strengthen in coming months because of recent mortgage-rate declines, but they forecast further declines in apartment building because of continued high vacancy rates
non-residential construction fell 2.2 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $90.9 billion, reflecting declines in office construction, hotels, factories and shopping centers
government construction spending was off 4.9 percent in january to a rate of $74.3 billion. the weakness in the public sector was led by a 3.9 percent fall in the largest government construction area, highway building, which declined to $24.8 billion
interest rates charged for price support crop loans made to farmers in march will be 6} percent, down from 7[ percent previously, the agriculture department said tuesday
milton hertz, executive vice president of the department's commodity credit corp., said the decline ``reflects the interest rate charged ccc by the u.s. treasury'' this month
america's preoccupation with the vietnam war and with the pow-mia issue is hurting u.s. interests in southeast asia, three american china specialists said tuesday after returning from two weeks in vietnam
they described a vietnam that is changing from a closed society dependent on the soviet union to a country more open to the west
the specialists said that if the united states does not take advantage of vietnam's new openness, it could cede influence in the region to the soviet union, china and japan
the united states must reassert itself in southeast asia,'' said helen chauncey, a professor of history at georgetown university. ``if it doesn't we will be left behind in what will be a realignment of political and economic forces.''
we have to stop letting the past determine our actions in the region,'' said brantly womack, professor of political science at northern illinois university. ``emotional topics like pow-mia issue are just red herrings.''
chauncey and womack were joined by frederic wakeman jr., a professor of history from the university of california, berkeley, in their call for a more open policy toward vietnam
wakeman urged increasing educational and business contacts with vietnam
in the long run our stakes in asia are enlarged by our training of the technocracy,'' he said, noting that china now has 20,000 students studying in the united states
the three specialists along with a fourth ``china hand,'' jonathan pollack, of the rand corporation, spoke at a briefing sponsored by the henry luce foundation, which supported their trip from dec. 29 to jan. 11
seven american china specialists took part in the voyage, which included stays in hanoi and ho chi minh city, once known as saigon, and talks with high-ranking vietnamese officials
for the first time, womack said, vietnamese officials, including foreign minister and vice premier nguyen co thach, are talking about vietnam's foreign policy in a ``post-cambodian future.''
vietnam invaded cambodia in december 1978, kicked out the chinese-backed khmer rouge and installed a puppet government in phnom penh
a stalemate ensued in indochina, with the soviet union and vietnam on one side and a resistance coalition, lead by prince norodom sihanouk, china, the united states and the free-market countries of southeast asia on the other
last year sihanouk split with the coalition and began direct negotiations with hun sen, prime minister of the vietnamese-backed government
nguyen van linh, vietnamese communist party chief, is pushing for economic change in vietnam, where the average annual income hovers around $125. he has recognized the need for foreign exchange and investment from the west
wakeman said south korean officials told him that both they and japan want to invest in vietnam because of its disciplined, inexpensive labor force
ever since the u.s. withdrawal from vietnam, american policy in indochina has been ``reactive,'' following the lead of china or the capitalist countries of southeast asia, such as thailand or indonesia, chauncey said
american officials who i've talked to express a deep-seated bitterness against the vietnamese,'' chauncey said. ``it's like, `they beat us so we'll let them stew in their own juice.'''
other american officials, womack said, think too much of the issue of american prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action
this issue is important to americans at home,'' he said. ``but it's hurting american interests abroad.''
a proposed electronic encoding system designed to prevent music from being copied by new digital audio tape recorders is flawed, the government said tuesday in a report that boosted efforts to introduce the new machines in the united states
there is no reason at this point why manufacturers should not be selling'' digital recorders in this country, said gary shapiro of the home recording rights coalition
but recording industry officials promised to sue any manufacturer that tries to sell the machines in the united states before the copying issue is resolved, either legislatively or through industry negotiations
digital audio tape, or dat, recorders can make copies of compact disc recordings without discernible loss of quality. the recording industry fears that such high-quality copying would cut into their compact disc profits
dat recorders costing about $2,000 were introduced last year in japan, west germany and france. but manufacturers have held off bringing them to the united states, where pending legislation in congress would require dat recorders to contain an anti-taping chip that would prevent home recordings
a spokesman for sony corp. of america, a dat manufacturer, said the study's results would not effect the company's decisions on when to introduce the recorders in united states
we're not rushing to market,'' sony spokesman stephen burke said. he said sony would have to evaluate the availability of software and other factors before deciding when to sell the recorders in this country
congress asked the national bureau of standards to study an encoding system proposed by cbs records in which a narrow band in the upper mid-range frequencies is removed from a recording. a dat recorder equipped with the anti-taping chip detects the ``notch'' and disables the machine's recording circuitry for a short period
the study found that the system is flawed because it doesn't always work, the ``notch'' can sometimes be heard by listeners, and the system can be bypassed ``for about $100 by a competent electronics technician.''
it's like selling you a camera that won't take certain pictures,'' said john lyons, director of the bureau's national engineering laboratory, describing the encoding system
lyons said the effect of the notch on the recordings ``is subtle. sometimes you can hear it and sometimes you can't.'' when the notch is discerned, it is often recognized as a missing note, he said
the bureau's testing team didn't study other anti-taping methods, he said. he added that while ``there are any number of ways'' of altering a recording to prevent copying, ``none of them is going to be fool proof.''
the home recording rights coalition said the results of the study were a victory for the consumer and signals the end of the legislation before congress
the coalition has been fighting all anti-taping efforts as infringment on the rights of consumers to make recordings at home, for their private use, of records, tapes and compact discs
jay berman, president of the recording industry association of america, questioned aspects of the study but said it virtually kills the cbs copy-code system ``as a viable political solution.''
but he said the recording industry remains committed to finding a solution through ``negotiation, legislation or litigation.''
berman said his is a $5 billion a year industry that is losing $1.5 billion a year to home copying. support...; add 2 final grafs of bush color bgng ``later in...</note>
vice president george bush said tuesday he wouldn't ``get into the gutter'' and respond to attacks by his republican presidential opponents
as the super tuesday collection of 20 primaries and caucuses draws near, bush toured the south and acted the part of front-runner
i have tried to wage an honorable campaign and i'm not going to get into this gutter answering every single attack,'' bush told supporters outside his broward county campaign headquarters downtown here. ``i want this nomination to be worth something after i win it and, believe me, i'm going to win it.''
i support the president. i have nothing to say about dole's charges, nothing at all,'' bush said later when asked by reporters to respond to dole criticism that bush has changed his version of the iran-contra affair repeatedly
bush began his day-long swing through south florida, scheduled to end in tampa with a foreign-policy lecture to political science students at florida international university in miami. he also briefly addressed a rally at the state university
things are going well but i am taking absolutely nothing for granted. i am convinced that whoever wins super tuesday will be the next president,'' bush said at the campus, where one of the introductory speakers was ``miami vice'' co-star michael talbott
bush also was joined for his trip by former arizona sen. barry goldwater, the 1964 republican presidential nominee, and florida gov. bob martinez
sen. bob dole stepped up criticism of bush in commercials and speeches that say bush has accomplished nothing of significance and questioning bush's role in the iran-contra affair
bush told the students that he was in charge of two meetings in which the 1983 grenada invasion was planned and he said he had helped form and head the south florida task force on drugs that began seven years ago
he expressed pride in the grenada invasion, saying: ``kicking castro out of grenada was a very good thing.''
bush said although there have been some slight improvements in relations with cuba and fidel castro's regime, he said there was no reason to expect a change in policy toward castro because he continues to ``support and export revolution.''
at the campus rally, bush took note of placards denouncing the new u.s.-cuban immigration accord that calls for normalized immigration of cubans in return for the return of mariel boatlift cubans. many in miami's large cuban exile community, which numbers more than 600,000, have said they strongly oppose sending any cubans back to cuba
bush pledged that cubans would not be treated in the same way as immigrants from other countries because they are fleeing oppression
later in the afternoon, bush drove a paving machine at the construction site of a development called mystic pointe, which will have 1,600 units for sale at an average $100,000 price
the project is adjacent to the prestigious turnberry isle development, which was mentioned in the national news last year when miami model donna rice disclosed she took a chartered trip to bimini with democratic candidate gary hart from the marina there in a yacht called the ``monkey business.''
a proposed free-trade agreement between the united states and canada will leave the u.s. auto industry at a competitive disadvantage, the united auto workers union told a house subcommittee tuesday
thousands of american auto workers' jobs would be at risk under the agrement's terms,'' said steve beckman, international economist for the uaw, in testimony before the trade subcommittee of the house ways and means committee
witnesses at the hearing, including a representative of auto parts makers and the state of michigan, center of the u.s. auto manufacturing, gave a mostly negative evaluation of the treaty's effect on the auto industry
the only witness who gave unqualified praise to the treaty was thomas hanna, president of the motor vehicle manufacturers association
the agreement takes on and resolves most of the trouble spots which were developing in the bilateral auto trade,'' he said
criticism of the pact, which seeks to eliminate nearly all tariff barriers between the u.s. and canada, centered on the failure of the treaty to eliminate present areas of discontent on the u.s. side
our current bilateral auto trade is skewed, to canada's benefit, by a number of trade-distorting practices,'' said rep. sander levin, d-mich., resulting in part from canada's domestic-content requirements and duty rebates on some auto parts
beckman said that by retaining canadian production incentives for honda, toyota and hyundai, the treaty provides ``a subsidy of canadian production, much of which will be sold in the u.s.''
hanna, however, downplayed the union's worry, saying the north american auto industry already has excess manufacturing capacity
canada's duty remissions programs ... are eliminated or phased out (in the agreement),'' he said. ``it makes no sense for the canadian government to lure more foreign auto investment, especially when much of the production would be headed for the u.s. market.''
lee kadrich, director of governmental affairs and international trade with the automotive parts and accessories association, said the treaty was ``a lopsided agreement that sanctions long-standing canadian protectionism.''
marc santucci, trade adviser to michigan gov. james blanchard, told the subcommittee the free-trade agreement would benefit the state in some areas, such as access to canadian electrical power and services resulting from increased trade
while important, these benefits cannot compare to the magnitude of trade in automotive products,'' santucci said
it is my view that the reagan administration sacrificed a critical opportunity to make significant changes in the terms of automotive trade to its imperative of getting an agreement,'' he said
for example, he said, canada's duty remissions program on auto parts, designed to foster canadian production, have been declared illegal under international trade agreements, yet the incentives will continue through 1997 for exports to third countries, allowing inroads by japanese and korean manufacturers
a sting operation caught 52 suspects who allegedly operated a $100 million poaching ring which dealt in tiger, bear, sea lion and rhinoceros parts, state officials announced tuesday
surrounded by bear gall bladders, bear-claw jewelry, skin parts, whole stuffed bears, skulls, dried abalone and the genitalia of seals and asian tigers, regional game warden chief chuck monroe said the investigation helped to ``wipe out the poaching of california's precious wildlife.''
an additional 23 people in southern california are expected to be charged as a result of ``operation ursus,'' the code name given the 23-month probe by the state department of fish and game
many of the animal parts were sold to asians who regard them as aphrodisiacs and tonics, he said
at one point, an undercover warden taking part in an illegal ``safari'' in the sierra was forced to kill a treed bear, monroe said as he described the complexity and danger of the probe
monroe said 74 misdemeanor complaints were filed against 52 defendants. the charges range from illegally killing bears to selling bear-claw jewelry at swap meets
so far, monroe said, agents have made 14 arrests and obtained three search warrants. those convicted of poaching can draw stiff fines and prison sentences, according to monroe
the display in the council chamber at colma city hall, just south of san francisco, represented $85,000 worth of exotic animals and organs seized in the sting, he said
the probe extended from the black bear range of northern california to san francisco and los angeles, with the arrests made over two months, said monroe
he singled out the yau hing apothecary ship in san francisco, object of a search that yielded ``bear galls, mounted bears, seal and tiger penises, abalone, rhino horn and powder.''
the probe recovered parts of animals taken outside the country and illegally shipped here, he said
russian bear gall bladders were sold in two cases, but one turned out to be from a cow, he said. the bear parts are purchased mainly by asians who believe eating the organs will transfer the bear's strength, health and courage
northern california arrests included a weaverville man for felony sale of 25 wet bear galls and five skulls; a fresno art dealer for felony sale of bear-claw rings and pendants; a san bruno exotic meat dealer for sale of bear hams, galls, skin and other bear and tiger parts, and a san bruno taxidermist for sale of a bear rug and skull,'' said monroe
in describing the illegal safari, monroe said the undercover warden was included in the party after passing himself off as a game hunter
he had been with them on several hunts,'' monroe said. ``when the bear was treed, the agent was with three outlaws, all of whom were armed. the time was 1 a.m. in a remote and steep forest. if he had refused to kill the bear, they surely would have suspected who he really was and his life would have been in danger.''
prior approval had been given for the killing ``if it became necessary,'' said monroe
although we regret the loss of the bear, we hope its sacrifice will prevent the loss of many other bears in the future,'' he said
while the increasingly widespread use of automobile lap-shoulder belts is saving hundreds of lives, the belts often are misused in ways that reduce their effectiveness, a federal study concluded tuesday
the national transportation safety board said the most common abuse of the car safety belts is that they are worn too loosely or _ often in the case of children _ are tucked under the arm or back because of concern about the high angle of the harness
the lap-shoulder belts are very effective and achieve about all that can be expected of them if they are properly used,'' said ntsb chairman jim burnett. ``but we have a lot of misuse and that problem has to be tackled.''
the safety board report is based on previous studies of seat belt use by other government agencies and the insurance industry as well as a detailed examination of 167 accidents in which at least one occupant wore a belt
lynne smith, one of the ntsb staff investigators involved in the study, said the findings were not meant to be a random statistical sample, but that the data is ``consistent with the finding of widespread (belt) misuse.''
an examination of the accidents showed that 21 percent of the motorists were wearing belts too loosely, reducing their protection, the safety board said. it also cited an insurance industry study of maryland motorists that put the estimate at about 25 percent
ms. smith said belts should be worn with no more than the width of a person's fist separating the belt from the body
the safety board urged the national highway traffic safety administration to require that safety belts meet standards as to the maximum amount of slack allowed or require that the belt systems be equipped with a ``pre-tension'' device that automatically pulls a belt tight a split second before a crash
in addition, the examination of accident cases by the ntsb showed that 7 percent of the belt users had the shoulder harness portion of their belt routed improperly under an arm or behind their backs
misuse of the belts was most prevelent among children, where one-third had belts not properly used. in some cases, children had belts routed under an arm or behind the back, two children were wearing a single belt or children wore belts with the seat in a reclining position, the report said
such misuse ... seriously degrades the protective capabilities of the lap-shoulder belt, reducing it to a lap-only belt with inferior crash protection,'' the safety board said
ironically, a number of auto safety pamphlets, including two distributed by the nhtsa and one by the american automobile association, have advised parents to place the shoulder belt behind a child if the harness crosses the neck or face
the safety board does not agree,'' the ntsb report said. ``... there is little evidence that small children or short adults are likely to be harmed by the shoulder portion of a ... belt.''
it said that in the accidents investigated it found no evidence ``that the shoulder ... belt induced more serious injuries to children than it prevented.''
the board called for the highway safety agency to revise its brochures
we have not had a chance to read (the ntsb report) and have no comment at this time,'' nhtsa spokeswoman betsy tyson said
among the accidents, according to the ntsb, in which belt misuse had tragic results, were:
_a head-on crash in which a woman passenger, who had loosened her shoulder harness extensively, was killed. her husband, the driver, had worn his belt snugly and ``walked away from the crash with moderate injuries,'' said suzanne stack, an ntsb staff researcher
_a crash in which a car struck a tree. the driver, who had worn his belt properly, escaped with minor injuries while the passenger, whose shoulder belt was routed under her arm, was killed
having an official flower and an official bird just isn't enough when for a state that depends on farming, so lawmakers dug up the idea of designating ``official iowa soil.''
proponents of a resolution declaring ``tama soil'' as the official soil of the state of iowa gained ground tuesday in the senate, winning agriculture committee approval of their measure
the lawmakers want to place tama, a thick, black topsoil found in at least 17 counties in east-central and eastern iowa, alongside the official wild rose, eastern goldfinch, oak tree and geode
tama soil represents the richest of soils found in the state,'' the senate resolution states
said sen. emil husak, ``it's the best we've got.''
a manners expert says a self-help video she plans to produce will be just the thing for young executives hoping to avoid ``power failures at power lunches.''
it's going to show young businessmen and women how to eat their way to the top with style and grace,'' marjabelle young stewart said tuesday
mrs. stewart, who has written 15 books on etiquette, said there was a growing need for well-groomed manners in the business world
instructions on how to hold silverware would be similar to a golf lesson, she said
i'll show them the proper grip and motion, everything,'' she said
mrs. stewart said more and more executives were scrutinizing the manners of prospective employees, taking applicants to lunch to ``see how they get along with the other members of the club.''
the video, ``the code of etiquette,'' will retail for $89.98 and is due for release in the spring, mrs. stewart said
it also may be useful for busy parents and could replace traditional manners lessons dispensed daily around dinner tables, she said
young working parents don't have time anymore to serve big meals every night and teach their children manners,'' she said. ``today, we're eating at the stove; eating out of the refrigerator; eating in front of the television.'' for deaf</head>
deaf president now'' was the cry, made by voice or by fluttering fingers, as about 1,500 people rallied at gallaudet university on tuesday to urge selection of the first deaf president in the school's 124-year history
today we are marching and speaking for our civil rights,'' allen sussman, former dean of student affairs, said in sweeping sign language to the cheering crowd of students, alumni, faculty members and administrators
i think it's high time that we are in control of our own lives and our own institution,'' sussman, who is a professor of counseling and psychology, told the associated press. communicating through an interpreter, sussman, who is deaf, said, ``i think we can do it much better and with more sensitivity than people who are not deaf
gallaudet, established by congress in 1864, is the only liberal arts college for the deaf in the united states
we need a deaf president now!'' student body president greg hlibok signed enthusiastically, leading the crowd in a signed and shouted chant of ``now! now! now!''
a presidential search committee gave the board of trustees a list of three finalists on monday to fill the post vacated by jerry c. lee, who resigned jan. 1 to go into private industry. two of the candidates are deaf and one can hear
the trustees were expected to name a new president this sunday after interviewing the finalists later this week, according to gallaudet officials. four of the 19 board members are deaf
the deaf candidates are harvey j. corson, 44, superintendent of the louisiana school for the deaf in baton rouge, and i. king jordan, 45, dean of gallaudet's college of arts and sciences. the third finalist is elisabeth a. zinser, vice chancellor at the university of north carolina at greensboro, who can hear
katherine ingold, a member of the search committee, said deaf applicants would not be given special preference
the committee's role is to find the best possible president for gallaudet university,'' she explained. ``but if there were two equally qualified candidates, one deaf and one hearing, of course the preference would be a deaf candidate.''
gallaudet has an enrollment of 2,200 university students, 400 high school students and 200 elementary school students. with senate hearing</note>
america's allies in nato should spend more money for defense, but congressional denunciations aren't the best way to get that done, defense secretary frank carlucci said tuesday
i quite agree with the thesis that our allies need to do more,'' carlucci told the house budget committee
but he added that ``i don't think it is very useful to simply berate the europeans on this.''
carlucci's comments came as president reagan was heading for europe to attend a two-day summit meeting of leaders of the 16-nation north atlantic treaty organization
rep. william gray, d-pa., the budget committee chairman, criticized nato nations for what he said was ``unequal sharing.'' he told carlucci ``our allies in nato are not doing, in my estimation, enough for their own defense.''
criticism of nato has long been popular on capitol hill, where legislators have complained time and again that american taxpayers are footing a disproportionate share of the alliance's defense bill
gray said the united states is devoting about 6 percent of its gross national product to defense while no other nato countries spend a little more than 3 percent
carlucci agreed that ``we need to make every effort to get our allies to do more,'' but he said they now do more than is ``generally recognized.'' for example, carlucci said, nato supplies 90 percent of the ground troops which would be used to halt a soviet attack
america's defense budget is 5.7 percent of the nation's gnp, not 6 percent, carlucci said. he also noted that american defense budgets have generally stayed even or declined in recent years
that wasn't good enough for gray, who noted that the recent reductions came atop large increases in reagan's first term
nato has long set a target for each member to increase spending by 3 percent a year after inflation, and most nations don't meet that target, carluicci said. the united states hasn't met the 3 percent target for at least four years, he added
both carlucci and adm. william crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, told the committee that nato needs to improve its conventional defenses in the wake of the treaty banning medium-range atomic missiles from europe
that is similar to the message reagan is carrying to nato allies and echoes a theme which the administration has been pushing since the treaty was signed dec. 8 by reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
crowe detailed nato's shortcomings in non-nuclear weapons, but added, ``surely the prospect of having to fight 16 nations at once remains a sobering one for the kremlin.''
but, put candidly, both the level of (nuclear) deterrence and the nuclear threshold remain too low,'' crowe said. ``the chiefs have for a number of years consistently testified to that effect.''
it is essential for the nato members to correct'' the problems in non-nuclear weapons, he said
at the senate budget committee, yale historian paul kennedy said that u.s. allies ``ought to bear a larger share of the defense burden'' now that they have been rebuilt with u.s. help after world war ii
kennedy, author of the best-selling ``the rise and fall of great nations,'' said the united states should spurn protectionism and increase spending for basic technologies and for commercial research and development
jeane kirkpatrick, former u.s. ambassador to the united nations, agreed with kennedy that u.s. allies should bear more of the burden. but she criticized his view that there is a direct correlation between military spending and economic growth
sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., chairman of the panel, noted that ``the help we gave and the protection we've given have helped europe and asia grow back into power. now, they are friendly competitors. but while they've taken us to the woodshed in international trade, we're the ones paying for the guards at the woodshed door.''
it seems to me we are draining our power trying to do too much,'' said chiles. ``our adversaries are happy to see us try. our allies haven't done as much as they can to help.''
a 16-month-old girl pushed onto a fire ant mound by the family's dog has died of hundreds of insect bites, officials said tuesday
the bites probably would not have killed tiffany cheatham if she had not had a severe allergic reaction, said her physician, rex northup. she had been ``essentially comatose'' since she was hospitalized, northup said
tiffany was declared brain dead monday night, said kathy musial, spokeswoman for sacred heart hospital
the cause of death was anaphylactic shock in combination with toxic poisoning, northup said
tiffany was rushed to the hospital feb. 23 after the dog pushed her into an ant hill near her home in navarre, 20 miles east of pensacola, said chief don van derryt of the holley-navarre fire and rescue association
the girl's mother, lynn cheatham, and a neighbor had tried to remove the ants, taking off tiffany's clothes and putting her in a bathtub, but many of the insects were entangled in her hair
soldiers enforced calm in dakar tuesday following a day of rioting prompted by the announcement that the president was winning national elections. the president defended his decision to impose a state of emergency
streets were littered with stones and children played with spent tear gas cannisters on tuesday, a day after soldiers and riot police battled demonstrators. crews removed the shells of burned-out cars from the roads
riot police and soldiers were visible in much of the city, especially in the most densely populated neighborhoods. president abdou diouf met with members of his cabinet on tuesday to assess the situation
opponents had charged that the vote that gave diouf his second 5-year term was rigged. the president, in a communique read over national radio, said the voting was fair
the communique said diouf imposed a state of emergency to ``guarantee the legitimate aims of the people: peace, security, and economic and social progress.''
in an interview with french television, diouf also defended the decision to arrest the leading opposition presidential candidate, abdoulaye wade of the senegalese democratic party
i have the impression that our adversaries, as i had feared, are very bad losers and they had used many children in a maneuver to try to sow disorder and violence,'' diouf said
he said his actions were necessary to ``protect democracy.''
the preliminary tally showed diouf with 688,476 votes to wade's 299,998. two other candidates got less than 10,000 votes. the supreme court in this west african nation will announce the official results friday
radio broadcasts announcing that diouf was receiving about 77 percent of the vote sparked widespread demonstrations monday in the capital
the headquarters of wade's party, which was scene of considerable violence on monday, was quiet. the government said wade and other opposition leaders were being questioned about the riots
more than 260 people were believed to have been arrested during the violence monday
dakar's cheikh anta diop university also remained closed and riot police stood guard at several of the entrances
a week before the election, wade had said his party would become a liberation movement if the voting was rigged. on election day sunday and again on monday, wade and other opposition leaders accused diouf's socialist party of providing its supporters with cards to allow them to vote several times
diouf was widely expected to win re-election. opposition supporters view his government as a continuation of the leadership in senegal since it achieved independence from france in 1960. diouf succeeded president leopold senghor when senghor retired in january 1981
in another development, director of communications tidiane ndiongue apologized to a photographer who works for the associated press and was arrested for seven hours during monday's riots
the photographer, axel schulz-ebbers of west germany, said he was picked up outside opposition party headquarters and beaten. ndiongue said the ministry of information had informed police that accredited journalists were allowed to report on the disturbances
diouf's government has been praised by the united states and other western nations for maintaining a multiparty system, a rarity in africa. diouf also has been pro-western in international forums
a record-low number of rare right whales was spotted during an annual survey off the coasts of georgia and florida, the new england aquarium said tuesday
an aquarium team that spent february surveying the right whale population in their popular wintering grounds detected only one mother-calf pair and five whales traveling separately
the total was three below the previous low of 10 in 1984, said aquarium researcher scott kraus. the highest number spotted during the five years the survey has been conducted off the florida and georgia coasts was 26 in 1986, kraus said
he said it was premature to speculate on reasons for the apparent decline in the right whale population in the georgia and florida waters, which are considered popular calving grounds
we don't know whether the numbers are low because of a local problem that kept the whales away from that area,'' said kraus. ``or they may be somewhere down there and we are missing them.''
kraus said there were reports the water temperature had been abnormally high this winter. but he said it was not clear if that caused the whales to winter elsewhere
the aquarium will match the winter survey numbers with those recorded next spring when the whales return to waters from maine to nova scotia. that should help determine whether the right whale population has declined or if the whales chose a new location to spend the winter, kraus said
the surveys have been conducted in north atlantic waters for nine years and this was the fifth year of the survey off florida and georgia
the four prior surveys there have found right whales prefer to winter in waters five to 20 miles off the georgia coast and within two miles of the beaches of northeast florida
right whales are considered the rarest of the large whale species. the worldwide right whale population is estimated at 2,500. it it is believed that 240 to 350 live in the north atlantic
there are three types of right whales, which are known for their unusually large heads. the type found in the north atlantic are black right whales, which have black bodies and sometimes with white areas on the belly. black right whales grow up to 60 feet long
morning rush-hour was quiet tuesday as a massive rebuilding job began on one of the nation's busiest freeways, a project that had state highway officials ready for the worst
the $210 million overhaul will widen the dan ryan expressway from eight to 10 lanes, and while work is under way _ for six-month periods both this year and next year _ traffic will be squeezed into half the normal number of lanes
on tuesday several lanes were closed on each side of the freeway for building crossovers and making surface repairs
commuters and traffic experts have feared that the project could create massive traffic jams because the highway is one of the nation's busiest, carrying 225,000 cars daily, but things went smoothly early monday
the congestion was apparently zilch,'' said ed nash, a spokesman for the illinois department of transportation. ``the ryan was clear the whole morning and there was no buildup of traffic.''
the state had conducted a months-long publicity campaign, urging commuters to use alternate routes, car pool or take public transportation. the chicago area transportation study distributed 37,000 ride-sharing applications and doubled its list of car-pool applicants to 6,000
state officials say the overhaul of the three-mile stretch will greatly improve the commute on the 11-mile freeway
the work will cost more than the $179.7 million it took to build road 25 years ago
a defense attorney attacked the credibility of a pilot testifying tuesday in the smuggling trial of carlos lehder rivas, winning an admission that the man continued trafficking drugs while cooperating with the government
leverett francis, 66, testified monday that he made six cocaine flights in 1979. those flights, made with admitted smuggler ed ward, are those listed in the indictment of lehder, 38, and co-defendant jack carlton reed
lehder, reputed to be one of the leaders of colombia's violent medellin cartel of cocaine smugglers, is on trial on charges that he and others conspired to smuggle 3.3 tons of cocaine into the united states from colombia via norman's cay in the bahamas from 1978 to 1980
under cross-examination tuesday by defense attorney jose quinon, francis admitted he conducted other smuggling activity while we was cooperating with the government and testifying before a grand jury in 1980. francis is testifying under immunity from prosecution
he said he made flights to jamaica for other people in 1980, bringing in either hashish or marijuana
francis, a former navy pilot, bristled when quinon used the word `lie' when discussing inconsistent statements in his testimony and his grand jury appearances eight years ago
i don't like the word, `lie.' i looked it up in the dictionary last night and i suggest you do the same,'' he told quinon
quinon laboriously questioned francis about his grand jury testimony in 1980 and many times tuesday francis said he couldn't remember what he said in 1980
i'm sure the grand jury testimony as a whole is correct,'' francis said
lehder is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
reed, of san pedro, calif., is charged only with being a part of the smuggling conspiracy
defense attorneys and prosecutors got into several exchanges tuesday out of the jury's presence
after one of a number of bench conferences with the judge, defense attorney ed shohat accused u.s. attorney robert w. merkle of saying to him: ``you're going to sleaze yourself right into a hole, mister.''
shohat called merkle's remarks ``patently offensive.''
merkle, however, argued that he made the comment to assistant u.s. attorney ernst mueller and said: ``they're (defense attorneys) going to sleaze themselves into a hole.''
u.s. district judge howell w. melton said he didn't plan to take any action and told the attorneys to present the exchange to a grievance committee if they desired to do so
a middle-aged gunman riding on a motorbike fatally wounded the chief executive officer of a greek chemical company as he was driving to work tuesday. a left-wing group claimed responsibility
a police spokesman said alexandros athanassiadis, 59, was hit four times in the chest and stomach as he reached for a pistol that he kept in his car
the shooting took place at 8:15 a.m. in rush-hour traffic on kifissias avenue, a main highway leading north from the city center, according to the spokesman, who was not identified in line with police regulations
he said the attack was ``a carbon copy'' of the 1983 killing of capt. george tsantes, a u.s. navy officer attached to the american embassy who was shot by two men on a motorbike at the same kifissias avenue intersection
and the same terrorist group, the november 17 organization, asserted responsibility for both slayings
the spokesman gave this account of tuesday's attack
athanassiadis had the passenger window down and was chatting to someone in another car at a red light when two men on a motorbike came up on his right-hand side
a white-haired man in his 50s'' riding behind the younger, dark-haired driver fired at least six bullets at athanassiadis from a 45-caliber pistol
the two men turned down down a side road into the psychico suburb where the motorbike was found abandoned
athanassiadis died at the hygeia hospital during emergency surgery, dr. vassilis georgoulis said
a typewritten note found in the street near the intersection and signed ``november 17'' said athanassiadis was ``a classic capitalist ... indifferent to the health of the workers and the environment.''
athanassiadis was chief executive officer of hellenic chemical products and fertilizers and also was a director of greece's largest holding group, the non-profit bodossakis foundation
he had headed pyrkal, an ammunition and explosives manufacturing firm, until it was taken over by premier andreas papandreou's socialist government in 1982
the note claimed that a hellenic chemical products plant in western athens that athanassiadis planned to expand ``holds one of the largest responsibilities'' for air pollution in the capital
november 17 terrorists have asserted responsibility for 10 other killings since 1975. none of the slayings has been solved
it also boasted of carrying out the remote-control bombings of two buses carrying u.s. military personnel in april and august 1987 that wounded 26 americans and three greeks
other business executives said athanassiadis maintained a low profile, refused to hire bodyguards and always drove his own car
he kept a pistol beside him in the car ever since learning that he was probably on the november 17 hit list,'' said one businessmen, who asked not to be identified for fear of reprisal
it was the first fatal attack by november 17 terrorists since february 1986 when steel magnate dimitris angelopoulos was shot while walking to work in central athens
november 17 is named for the day in 1973 that troops crushed a student rebellion against the military dictatorship that ruled greece from 1967-74
in its previous declarations the group demanded the closure of u.s. military bases in greece and said the government had failed to reform greek society
government spokesman sotiris kostopoulos issued a statement expressing ``very deep sorrow'' at athanassiades' killing and saying ``the greek people as a whole condemn such terrorist actions.''
the cars of the white pass &amp; yukon railroad will roll along the gold rush trail of '98 this spring for the first time in more than five years, officials said tuesday
the railroad plans to reopen may 12 as a seasonal tourist line out of skagway, said marvin taylor, vice president and chief executive officer for the white pass &amp; yukon corp. ltd
everything is a go,'' taylor said in a conference call from skagway. ``we anticipate 50,000 passengers this first year.''
for a $65 ticket, tourists will get a 3{-hour, 40.8-mile round trip to the peak of the white pass. most of the route shadows the deadhorse trail, which miners followed into the klondike gold fields in 1898
the railroad took the place of the trail in 1900 and ran until october 1982, carrying passengers and freight the 110 miles between skagway and whitehorse, capital of the yukon territory
the line closed after losing its freight business during a worldwide mining slump. the 800 people of skagway lost 150 railroad jobs; whitehorse lost 50
white pass is trying to sell its freight equipment, and taylor said unless there's an unforeseen development boom in whitehorse, it's unlikely the full line will reopen
but tourism may prompt further expansion in 1989 and after, taylor said
the line will stop short of the canadian border this year because the railroad did not have time to negotiate the crossing
the reopening was assured when the alaska teamsters and united transportation unions agreed monday to contract concessions, taylor said. the primary concession allows the train to run with three-person crews instead of the traditional five-person crew used on freight lines, he said
the may-through-september business will employ more than 20 people during the season and four to six people year-around, taylor said
it will cost about $1 million to get the line running by may 12, he said
the line itself is in fairly good condition, but the passenger cars need substantial renovation, he said. the railroad plans to run up to four round trips a day, carrying an average of 250 passengers each. color on airport arrival; inserts 8th graf, bgng, his motorcade ... with material on trip to palace; subs 19th graf, bgng, besides the ... to restore dropped reference to the netherlands among list of nato member countries.</note>
president reagan, urging western solidarity in arms talks with the soviets, arrived tuesday for the first nato summit in six years after pledging that u.s. troops will remain in europe ``so long as europeans want them to stay.''
after air force one touched down on the tarmac at brussels zavantem airport in windy conditions, reagan was reunited with secretary of state george shultz, who had arrived from london, and met briefly with belgian officials
in a gesture of reassurance given in a departure statement tuesday morning at the white house, reagan pledged that american troops will remain in europe ``so long as europeans want them to stay.''
he also promised to protect nato's interests in any arms deals with the soviet union. ``we will never sacrifice the interests of this partnership in any agreement with the soviet union,'' he said
after stepping down the ramp from his boeing 707 jetliner, reagan smiled and chatted amiably as he was greeted by shultz, who had just arrived from a talks jordan's king hussein. also on hand were belgium's prime minister, wilfried martens, and foreign minister leo tindemans
posing for pictures at the airport, reagan said he was still troubled by congestion and cold-like symptons that had bothered him in washington. ``the allergies are still bothering me,'' reagan said, adding in an aside to shultz that his ears were stopped up after the long flight. reagan coughed loudly as reporters were ushered from the room
following a five-minute courtesy get-together with tindemans in an airport salon, reagan was ferried by motorcade for an overnight stay at chateau stuyvenberg, a 1840 brick and stone palace one used as the favored residence of the belgian royal family
his motorcade _ extending nearly 20 cars _ included the now standard anti-sniper team and reagan's armored limousine and a backup flown in from washington, complete with district of columbia license plates
the two-day meeting at nato headquarters in brussels, beginning wednesday, brings together the heads of state or government of the 16-member north atlantic treaty organization. the conference sets the stage for reagan's expected summit in moscow with soviet leader mikhail gorbachev in late may or early june
with the nato headquarters site under unusually tight security, canadian prime minister brian mulroney was the first to arrive. the representatives of 14 other countries were scheduled to arrive wednesday
in his departure statement, reagan hailed the newly signed treaty to abolish u.s. and soviet intermediate-range nuclear missiles (inf), but said, ``the purpose of this summit is not self-congratulations.''
our first priority is to maintain a strong and healthy partnership between north america and europe, for this is the foundation on which the cause of freedom so crucially depends,'' he said
reagan said the united states will continue to press for a 50 percent reduction in strategic nuclear weapons and a global ban on chemical weapons
beyond that, he said the nato leaders will try ``to give negotiations on conventional forces a new start, as well.''
if our common approach to the east over the years has given coherence to our message of peace and world freedom, it has been our unwavering commitment to defend ourselves that has given it credibility,'' reagan said
arms reduction can only succeed if it is backed up by a strong defense,'' he added. ``my atlantic colleagues and i will rededicate ourselves to maintaining the deterrent that has protected our freedom and prosperity for almost 40 years.''
the nato session opens wednesday with remarks by britain's lord carrington, the nato secretary general, followed by two restricted working sessions, a luncheon and dinner
another restricted working session is planned thursday, followed by closing remarks by carrington and reagan, and a news conference by shultz, who broke off his shuttle diplomacy in the middle east to join the president in brussels
besides the united states, the members of the alliance are canada, britain, west germany, france, italy, belgium, denmark, greece, norway, iceland, luxembourg, portugal, spain and turkey and the netherlands
alton g. keel, the u.s. nato ambassador, said on the eve of the summit that he thought the leaders would likely declare that nato places a high priority on negotiating conventional arms stability in europe
alliance sources, declining to be identified publicly, have said that such a declaration may be in addition to an overall statement which will boil down to a renewed pledge of confidence in nato policies and goals
it is hoped the new conventional talks can begin in earnest in the fall in vienna
there's a general consensus now'' on key elements of nato's negotiating position, namely, that cuts should be ``assymetric'' in view of the warsaw pact's large numerical advantage in conventional firepower, according to keel
the summit is designed to be a public display of alliance solidarity despite peace and disarmament gestures from the soviet union
it also is intended to reassure europeans that the inf agreement will not leave them vulnerable to superior numbers of warsaw pact tanks and artillery
the budget crunch in the united states has triggered some fears in nato about a possible reduction in the 326,000 american troops stationed in western europe
planners on both sides of the atlantic said the leaders planned to play down disagreements, such as the updating of nato's short-range nuclear arms, most of which are deployed by the united states in west germany, and disputes over basing u.s. forces in europe
despite the u.s. role as the leader and paymaster of nato, reagan will play a low-key role in public at the two-day meeting, delivering only a brief summary statement at the close on thursday
in all, the schedule called for reagan to be away from washington only 57 and one-half hours, including 15 hours and 15 minutes on air force one flying to and from brussels
he will return thursday evening, in plenty of time to celebrate his 36th wedding annivesary friday with his wife, nancy
reagan's themes for the meeting were carefully sketched out in advance in a series of public remarks, including an address broadcast to europe last week and a speech on monday to an american legion convention
he warned that the west must remain vigilant about the soviet union and be skeptical about its intentions. reagan also said nato must keep nuclear forces in place and up to date
the president said the warsaw pact's numerical superiority in non-nuclear forces _ the so-called conventional forces _ must be addressed with the same urgency as the problem of strategic nuclear weapons
and he suggested that nato members should pay a greater share of the alliance's defense burden
testifying to the house budget committee tuesday, defense secretary frank carlucci said america's nato allies should spend more money for defense. but he also said that congressional denunciation of alliance partners is not the best way to get that done
i quite agree with the thesis that our allies need to do more,'' carlucci said. but he added that ``i don't think it is very useful to simply berate the europeans on this.''
an air force plan to spend $6.1 million on world war ii-style leather jackets to boost flight crews' esprit de corps is drawing flak from civilians and retirees affected by budget cuts
i'm upset with this leather-jacket bit,'' hugh enyart, a retired air force major who now lives in nearby fairview heights, said tuesday. ``if we have to measure our patriotism by whether or not we have leather jackets, god help us, we're in trouble.''
about 280 of the 53,000 ``bomber'' jackets will go to flight crews with the military airlift command at scott air force base
to me it doesn't reflect the professionalism of the air force,'' said enyart, a former official of the air force association, a national organization that works to promote a strong national defense
it reflects a bunch of people wanting leather jackets,'' he said
the nation's armed services were ordered in november to slash 10 percent from their budgets for fiscal 1989, which begins oct. 1. the air force share of the reductions for the year amount to about $10.5 billion. smaller custs were ordered for the current fiscal year
critics say the jackets, which cost $115 each, are a prime example of waste
enyart said he had received calls from about 20 people _ civilians as well as active and retired air force personnel _ supporting his stance after local reports about his criticism of the jacket purchases during a time of budget austerity
wide-ranging spending reductions throughout the air force include curtailment of equipment purchases and personnel cuts. even retirees' medical benefits have been reduced, enyart said
a hiring freeze has been in effect at scott's military airlift command since dec. 8, and last month, an undetermined number of temporary part-time civilian jobs were eliminated at scott
on tuesday, the base's command began offering voluntary early retirement to eligible civilian workers
the jacket purchases should be cut before jobs, said carl denton, an official of the national association of government employees' local r7-23, which represents about 3,000 civilian workers at scott
it would seem to me that people putting hamburger on their table should come before they (air force officials) put a new jacket on a pilot's back,'' he said
the air force sees it differently
the air force plans to issue these flying jackets to primary crew members in order to enhance esprit de corps and to recognize the air force's front-line pilots, navigators, weapons officers and enlisted crew members for their important contributions to the nation's defense,'' said a statement tuesday from military airlift command officials at scott
the air force plans to distribute the jackets to active and reserve forces
the jackets are to be purchased during the 1988 and 1989 fiscal years, officials say. delivering them to flight crews is expected to take about a year, beginning in june
walden pond, the retreat idealized by henry david thoreau in 1845, is at the center of a debate over whether it should be preserved or whether it should, as thoreau wrote, ``belong to the public.''
the legislature's natural resources committee declined tuesday to adopt a bill that would ban swimming at walden in concord, 15 miles west of boston
the bill would eliminate a manmade sand beach, restrict fishing and boating and require construction of sound barriers beside nearby roadways. instead, committee members said they would consider expanding membership on the pond's citizen advisory panel
fencing off walden pond and banning swimming would be contrary to both the philosophy of thoreau and the wishes of the owners who gave the property to the state,'' department of environmental management commissioner james gutensohn told the committee
i'm sure the indians swam at walden pond, i'm sure henry david thoreau swam at walden pond and i'm sure the people of boston should,'' gutensohn said
the chief opponent of continued recreation at walden, mary sherwood of connecticut, did not attend the hearing though the legislation was sponsored by her group, walden forever wild inc
sherwood, a former concord resident, said in a telephone interview that 50 years of public recreation at the pond have endangered its fragile banks and spoiled a pristine site
they've turned it into another coney island,'' sherwood said. she charged dem officials with spending their spare time scouring thoreau's writings looking for a quotation that would support public recreation at the pond
gutensohn did slip a thoreau quotation into his remarks. the 19th-century naturalist philosopher said, ``as in many countries precious metals belong to the crown, so here more precious natural objects of rare beauty should belong to the public.''
a state pamphlet on the pond quotes thoreau as writing in his ``journal'' in 1850, ``when the frogs dream and the grass waves, and the buttercups toss their heads, and the heat disposes to bathe in the ponds and streams, then is summer begun.''
gutensohn said that the deed from the forbes, heywood and emerson families bequeathing walden to the state in 1922 specified that it be preserved ``for the public who wish to enjoy the pond, the woods and nature, including bathing, boating, fishing and picnicking.''
today the 62-acre pond in a 333-acre reservation receives 350,000 visitors a year. on summer weekends crowds frequently exceed its rated capacity of 1,000 visitors, according to don faron, supervisor of the reservation
state officials acknowledge that walden took a beating when little was done to prevent visitors from causing erosion and much done to render the pond unrecognizable to its 19th-century admirers
anytime you have a first-class resource you have a threat of overuse,'' said stuart weinreb, the state's project manager for the pond
in the 13 years that the dem has controlled walden, the state has spent $2 million on projects to upgrade and preserve the site. another $500,000 has been set aside for restoring the banks of the pond. gutensohn said the money will cover about half of the restoration job
in addition, the state plans to limit parking around the pond to keep down summertime attendance. say</head>
the cuban military has some surface-to-surface missiles in its inventory, but none has a nuclear warhead and none could reach the united states even if they did, u.s. officials said tuesday
the defense and administration officials commented under questioning prompted by republican presidential candidate pat robertson's continued insistence, in the face of denials, that cuba may have soviet-made nuclear missiles aimed at the united states
the officials said cuba has about five dozen frog-4 and frog-7 battlefield missiles, date to the 1960s
the frog-7, when originally introduced by the soviets, could carry either a conventional or nuclear warhead, ``but we're confident no nuclear warheads ever went to cuba for that missile and it doesn't have any range anyway,'' said one source who requested anonymity
according to the reference book ``jane's weapon systems,'' the frog-7 has a range of only about 43 miles _ or half the distance between cuba and florida. moreover, the rocket has no guidance system to direct it to a specific target
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater dismissed robertson's missile claim when the candidate first advanced it last month. he said cuba had been under extensive surveillance since the 1962 missile crisis and there was ``no evidence'' any other nuclear weaponry had ever been deployed there by the soviet union
the officials contacted tuesday endorsed that assessment, but most insisted they not be identified on grounds they wished to avoid entanglement in the presidential race
the sources said cuban president fidel castro long ago assembled the strongest military in the caribbean, but they said his forces posed little offensive threat to the united states
on the other hand, they said, cuba does serve as a major outpost for soviet forces, particularly surveillance units, and it supports communist movements around the world from nicaragua to angola and ethiopia
cuba is a horrible force for instability, but it is not a military threat to us directly,'' said one pentagon official
and it is certainly not a nuclear threat. they do not have any missiles that could reach the united states _ nuclear or conventional _ and they do not have any nuclear bombs to hang on the jets that could reach us.''
cuba's military power has not appreciably increased in recent years,'' said one administration official. ``rather, their forces have been modernized to keep pace.''
in overall terms, they really are not any more of a direct military threat to us than they were 10 years ago,'' said another source. ``it's serving as the host to the russians that bothers us.''
navy cmdr. robert prucha, a pentagon spokesman, said the defense department endorsed the most recent assessment of cuban military power published by the international institute for strategic studies in london. according to that assessment, the cubans have an active-duty military force of approximately 175,000, of which 145,000 are in the army, 12,000 in the navy and 18,500 in the air force
within the army, the pentagon believes the cubans have about 65 of the frog missiles, prucha said. also in the cuban inventory:
_a wide variety of soviet-made surface-to-air missiles that could be used against attacking aircraft, as well as short-range artillery rockets like the bm-21 and bm-24
_about 950 tanks, including 300 of the more capable t-62 tanks, and at least 50 bmp infantry combat vehicles
_two koni-class navy frigates made by the soviet union, along with three diesel submarines, 77 fast-attack patrol boats and 15 mine sweepers
_more than 250 soviet-supplied combat aircraft, including at least 50 modern mig-23 flogger ground-attack jets and more than 100 mig-21 jet interceptors
three years ago, adm. wesley mcdonald, then the head of the u.s. atlantic command, described cuba's forces as well equipped ``to defend cuba against anything short of a massive invasion.''
he said the cuban air force _ with aircraft like the mig-25s _ had ``the range to reach portions of the southeastern u.s.a. and most of the caribbean sea area.''
but that doesn't mean they have anything nuclear to hang on those planes,'' said one pentagon source. ``we maintain constant surveillance on cuba, including sr-71 (spy plane) reconnaissance
everything that goes in to cuba is monitored, and nuclear weapons haven't gone in.''
cia director william h. webster spoke out tuesday against efforts to place an independent watchdog at his agency like those already in place at 19 other federal departments
webster said a proposal by sen. arlen specter, r-pa., to place an independent inspector general at the spy agency ``will actually prove to be counterproductive to an effective inspection and investigation process.''
he told the senate intelligence committee that the presence of an investigator with access to personnel and secret records could deter foreign intelligence services and other sensitive sources from sharing information with cia, fearing its possible disclosure
the proposal for an independent inspector general at the cia grew out of last summer's iran-contra investigation, which found the agency's current inspector general ``lacked the manpower, resources and tenacity'' to uncover many of the abuses turned up during that probe
the current inspector general is chosen by the agency's director and lacks the institutional independence of the ig post at most other federal departments. the post is now held by william donnelly, a 33-year cia veteran appointed by webster
specter, a member of the intelligence committee, said the panel is unable to oversee the agency as thoroughly as an in-house watchdog would be able to do. he noted that other departments with sensitive intelligence operations, like the pentagon and the state department, have independent investigators inside their bureaucracies
specter's bill would permit the cia director to deny investigators access to documents or personnel if needed to protect sensitive secrets or an active covert operation. but the director would have to defend such an action to the congressional intelligence committees
both june gibbs brown, the pentagon's inspector general, and sherman m. funk, inspector general at the state department, testified they have had no problems with disclosure of classified information
charles bowsher, director of the general accounting office, congress' investigative arm, said a review of inspector general operations government-wide had found they substantially strengthen accountability and improve operations
we believe that a statutory ig would be as appropriate and effective for the cia as it has been for the other agencies,'' bowsher said
and he said he was concerned that making a tour of duty in the inspector general's office a part of routine career development for cia employees, as webster proposed, would further rob the office of independence
specter said that while he did not doubt webster's good intentions, ``the problem is that you're not going to always be director of the cia. our memories are fresh about a director of the cia who did not always forward information to this committee'' _ an apparent reference to william j. casey, webster's predecessor
democratic presidential candidate richard gephardt, described as ``middle america at its very best,'' received the endorsement tuesday of two former governors of south carolina
standing in the sun-bathed steps of the state capitol, the missouri congressman told supporters the nation's future depended on ``our ability to gain control of our economic destiny.''
former governors robert mcnair and richard riley defended the candidate against charges that his trade program was protectionist
mcnair said gephardt ``has faced up to putting america first with a fair, sound and sensible trade bill. one who believes if we're going to open our markets up, you open your markets up.''
mcnair said the gephardt bill was ``not a protectionist piece of legislation, as some have tried to portray it, but it is what's best for this country.''
he's not a protectionist at all,'' said riley. ``he's a pragmatist.''
riley, who served as governor from 1977 to 1985, said of gephardt, ``he's middle america at its very best.''
gephardt said he supported legislation that would limit the growth of textile imports to 1 percent a year
an estimated 45 percent of the jobs in south carolina are in the textile industry
the import restriction legislation is an issue in the republican as well as democratic race
republicans bob dole and pat robertson, campaigning for support in the south carolina gop primary this saturday support the bill. gop rivals george bush and jack kemp oppose it
for people here to have the kind of opportunity we all want, we have to have a new trade policy,'' said gephardt
this is a state that had a great textile industry, a great fabric industry,'' he went on. ``that industry is in trouble, has been in trouble in part because we have not had leadership and policies at the federal level that will guarantee fair treatment for the textile workers and the textile companies here in south carolina.''
the missouri congressman said that as president he would press for policies that ``will give the textile workers of south carolina an equal right to sell their products in markets all over the country and give them the right to not be impacted by unfair trade practices by countries all over the world.''
gephardt's campaign manager bill carrick described riley, who was governor of south carolina from 1977 to 1985, as a leader of the progressive wing of the democratic party in the state
he said mcnair, who was governor from 1965 to 1971, was a leader of the ore conservative wing of the party
he said their dual backing was ``a nice little bookend endorsement.''
earlier tuesday, gephardt visited former president carter in plains, ga. carter made it clear that with fellow georgian sam nunn not in the race he had no plans to endorse any of the democratic presidential candidates before the nominating convention next july
heavy snow fell in california's sierra nevada, shasta and siskiyou mountains tuesday on a generally gray day in the west, while thunderstorms dumped hail in oklahoma
snowfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 6 inches at blue canyon, calif., and 1 inch at austin, nev. crescent city, calif., received .87 inch of rain
a severe thunderstorm watch was posted tuesday afternoon for portions of southwestern oklahoma and northwestern texas
showers and thunderstorms developed across south-central oklahoma and the texas panhandle during the morning, and dime-sized hail fell near vanoss, okla
scattered snow was also reported in eastern and southern wyoming, east-central nevada, southwestern utah and western upper michigan
rain reached from central california across west-central nevada and into parts of oregon, idaho and utah
temperatures at 2 p.m. est ranged from 10 degrees at massena, n.y., to 86 degrees at mcallen, texas. the nation's cold spot tuesday morning was pellston, mich., with a low of 16 degrees below zero
for wednesday, the national weather service forecast calls for rain in the lower great lakes, michigan, the lower ohio valley and southern illinois. showers and occasional thunderstorms will reach from missouri across northern louisiana and northern mississippi, and northeast texas across eastern kansas
snow in the higher rockies will turn to rain at lower elevations, and scattered rain is expected in the pacific northwest
high temperatures will be in the 20s in minnesota, northern wisconsin, upper michigan and northern maine; in the 30s and 40s from southern maine across new jersey, the remainder of the great lakes, in iowa and northern missouri, the northern plains, and from colorado to montana; in the 70s from georgia and florida across the lower mississippi valley; in the 80s on the lower texas gulf coast; and in the 50s and 60s across most of the rest of the nation
the reagan administration on tuesday called attacks on iranian and iraqi cities a dangerous development in the persian gulf war and adds ``a new urgency'' to united nations work on an arms embargo designed to force a truce
phyllis oakley, a state department spokeswoman, condemned the missile raids and said they represent ``a serious escalation of the iran-iraq war.''
attacks on civilians achieve no military end,'' she said. ``they fuel the psychology of hatred which is responsible for continuing this destructive conflict.''
iraq said tuesday it fired 16 missiles into tehran. it was the first long-range rocket attack on the iranian capital since the war began in september 1980. iran said 27 civilians were killed
the official iraqi news agency said iran hit baghdad with two missiles late tuesday night, killing or wounding an unspecified number of civilians
last july, the u.n. security council adopted resolution 598 calling for a truce in the war and pledging to impose an arms embargo against either party that refused to heed the call. iraq has said it would accept a cease-fire but iran has declined to go along and the united states has been pressing the world body to impose the weapons ban on iran
we believe adoption of an arms embargo resolution to enforce 598 has taken a new urgency with the renewal of the war of the cities,'' mrs. oakley said
we urge all members of the security council to act on this now, without further delay, particularly permament members who have special responsibilities to provide leadership,'' she said
she was referring to the soviet union, said another state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity
the united states offered a compromise last week in an effort to satisfy u.s. demands for quick passage of a u.n. resolution against iran and meet a soviet desire for more diplomacy by u.n. secretary general javier perez de cuellar, the official said
it would permit immediate passage of an embargo followed by a 30-day delay in implementation and another peace effort by perez de cuellar
the official said that in response to u.s. pressure to accept the compromise, the soviet envoy to the security council, alexander m. belonogov has said he is awaiting a decision from moscow
on march 1, the rotating chairmanship of the security council will pass from the united states to yugoslavia
mrs. oakley said an arms embargo ``will make it more difficult for iran to pursue the war,'' but will not mean an end to the conflict if iran desires to continue the fight
negotiations between iran and iraq will also be necessary, she said
the family of a comatose man who was used as a human guinea pig filed suit tuesday against the doctor who carried out the experiment
pascal louette, 24, who went into a deep coma following an auto accident, died sunday after dr. alain milhaud placed him on a sabotaged medical device to see if the effects matched those of a similar case, currently the subject of a trial in poitiers
louette was considered clinically dead at the time of the experiment, which was performed at the regional hospital center of amiens
news of the experiment was made public a week ago and touched off a furor in france
health minister michele barzach suspended milhaud on feb. 24 from his duties as chief anesthesiologist at the hospital center
the louette family's lawyer, alain lhote, said his clients filed suit against milhaud for ``willful injury of a person unable to defend himself because of his mental or physical state.''
one can't treat a human being in the way pascal was treated,'' said lhote
he said louette's parents were not properly informed about the medical care their son was receiving and suffered ``a double traumatism: the loss of a loved one and also the theft of a soul which was stolen from them.''
the exact date of the experiment hasn't been made public. it was announced feb. 23 in court testimony at the poitiers trial. louette was injured late last year and transferred to the regional hospital center on jan. 19. he fell into a deep coma shortly thereafter and was kept alive on a respirator
milhaud's experiment was prompted by a trial of three physicians in poitiers, accused in connection with the 1984 death of a woman following an operation to remove a tumor
the woman, nicole berneron, received nitrogen oxide instead of oxygen during resuscitation after the operation. a report later showed the tubes supplying the two gases had been switched
the state prosecutor on tuesday asked for 15-year prison terms each for drs. bakari diallo and denis archambeau, both anesthesiologists. he did not ask for a specific sentence for dr. pierre desforges-meriel, charged with involuntary homicide
singer-actress bette midler and her husband have bought a 38-acre property on kauai island that the federal government confiscated in a drug case
u.s. marshal faith evans said midler and her husband, martin von haselberg, paid $1.5 million cash for the parcel, which includes a partly completed tri-level home and a panoramic view of the pacific ocean and a river
the property, situated near kilauea, was among 141 acres seized by the justice department in 1986 after authorities charged that the owners bought it with money from illegal drug sales, evans said
midler grew up in hawaii and attended the university of hawaii before moving to new york to pursue her career
pornographic film star john holmes was questioned again by police in the unsolved 1981 bludgeoning murders of four people as he lay gravely ill in a hospital bed, officials said wednesday
holmes, who starred as johnny wadd in a series of sex films in the 1970s and early 1980s, is suffering from aids, the los angeles times reported tuesday, quoting anonymous sources
holmes' attorney, mitchell egers, said wednesday that his client did not answer the questions
egers confirmed that holmes was hospitalized with a serious illness but refused to say if he suffered from aids. rumors that holmes was suffering from aids have been circulating in the pornographic film industry for about a year
the incurable ailment usually is transmitted through sex, shared hypodermic needles, tainted blood products and from pregnant women to their babies
holmes was acquitted in 1982 of the 1981 bludgeon murders of four people in the exclusive hillside community of laurel canyon. the crime remains unsolved
however, the times said a new witness had surfaced and was in custody out of state. that, combined with holmes' illness, prompted police to re-question him in his hospital bed, the newspaper said
detective tom lange, supervisor of the murder investigation, would say only that the case remained active
holmes, 43, the premier male sex film star of the 1970s and early 1980s, made hundreds of sexually explicit films and thousands of peep shows
he was featured as the detective johnny wadd in films such as ``tell them johnny wadd is here,'' ``liquid lips'' and ``blonde fire.''
holmes was cleared in 1982 of killing ronald launius, 37; william deverell, 44; barbara richardson, 22; and joy miller, 46, all of whom were beaten to death
prosecutors said the four were part of a theft ring for which holmes acted as a middleman to los angeles nightclub owner adel nasrallah, also known as eddie nash. holmes allegedly fenced stolen property for the group to nash, who allegedly paid for the loot with drugs
nash was sentenced later to eight years in prison for possession of two pounds of cocaine worth an estimated $1 million. he was released after serving less than two years
president reagan brought more to europe tuesday than just a message of western military solidarity. air force one ferried in three pizzas for nato ambassador alton keel
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater, who accompanied reagan to brussels on air force one, told reporters the pizzas were purchased in a suburb of washington, d.c, by deputy white house chief of staff kennethy duberstein
fitzwater described keel, a former acting national security adviser, as a ``junk-food freak.'' closure</head>
major american jewish groups said tuesday they have distanced themselves from the u.s. government's hotly contested move to close the plo observer mission to the united nations
they (u.s. officials) are not doing this at the request of the american jewish community,'' said phil baum, associate executive director of the american jewish congress
anti-terrorism legislation ordering the palestine liberation organization's mission closed by march 21 has put the united states in an isolated position at the united nations. an emergency general assembly session is under way on the mission's future
scores of speakers, including close u.s. allies, called the move a threat to the independence of the united nations and asked the united states to submit the dispute to binding arbitration
the state department and the united nations both say closing the mission would violate the 1947 treaty under which the u.n. headquarters is based in the united states. but attorney general edwin meese iii reportedly is going to enforce the legislation
the state department tried to head off the legislation, but major jewish groups supported it. they saw it as a way to get at their main target, the plo's washington office, according to baum, elan steinberg, executive director of the world jewish congress, and others
our hope was to induce the state department to use the powers it had to close the washington office,'' baum said. ``we wanted it to send a symbolic message that the plo is a terrorist organization and it was not welcome in the united states.''
in a meeting last year with deputy secretary of state john whitehead, the groups offered not to press for closure of the u.n. mission if the washington office was shuttered, the jewish leaders said
in september, the department ordered the plo office in the capital closed
baum said his group told meese in a feb. 12 letter it would not press for the u.n. mission's closure. he said meese has not replied
baum said major jewish groups sent a similar letter to congress on dec. 3
we recognized that the headquarters agreement was a complicating factor,'' he said
but by then the legislation had won the support of such presidential aspirants as sens. bob dole (r-kan.), jack kemp (r-n.y.) and paul simon (d-ill
it took on the life of its own,'' baum said
several speakers in the general assembly accused the united states of sacrificing international commitments to the pressure of domestic politics. they said closing the mission will further damage u.s. prestige at the united nations and cripple the u.s. middle east peace initiative
arab league spokesman clovis maksoud on tuesday laid much of the blame for what he called a ``corrosive legislative tantrum'' on the american israel public affairs committee, a powerful lobby
he said the reagan administration ``fell into the trap. it underestimated the hold of aipac on a majority of the congress.''
the committee and the zionist organization of america were the only jewish groups who kept lobbying against the plo u.n. mission once the government closed the plo washington office, baum and others said in interviews
the 159-nation general assembly is expected to approve a resolution wednesday calling for arbitration and saying closure of the mission would violate the treaty. another resolution asks the world court to rule on whether the united states must submit to arbitration
the resolutions are sponsored by the soviet union, several soviet allies and by members of the movement of nations professing non-alliance with either superpower
israel was initially scheduled to address the general assembly tuesday, but the address was later moved to wednesday because of the length of other speeches
here is the text of a statement released tuesday, purporting to be from the kidnappers of kidnapped lt. col. william r. higgins, as translated from the arabic by the associated press:
in the name of god, supporter of the oppressed, to the sons of our struggling people in lebanon and palestine, to the free men of the oppressed world
in addition to our previous statements on the detention of american cia agent col. higgins, we are keen to explain the following:
1. the propaganda that is being waged nowadays is aimed at minimizing the espionage role of col. higgins and diverting the issue of his detention into other incorrect objectives. it is also aimed at circumventing his political activity with certain suspicious currents and elements in the south
2. the attempts undertaken by the american administration and the criminal reagan (who) is moving inside and outside lebanon to ensure a quick release of higgins so that he will not reveal secrets and make confessions are aimed at stopping the investigation of this criminal at a stage that will not allow us to find out all about the american-israeli conspiracies against our people and nation. this is a failed attempt to wriggle out of the impasse the reagan administration is currently trapped in
3. but we declare today that we have uncovered solid facts about an american-israeli deal being hatched for south lebanon. once the investigation of higgins is over, we will place the details at the disposal of our ulema (moslem clergy) to make of them whatever they deem fit
4. we reiterate that we shall continue the investigation of this spy to complete his record, which is full of crimes. we shall put forward all the facts to our people at the proper time
5. israel's persistence in daily attacks to suppress the islamic uprising of the struggling palestinian people and the steadfast villages of jebel amel (shiite name for south lebanon), and the shuttles of american criminal shultz to abort the achievements of this uprising will make us more determined to put this criminal higgins on trial. this will be done after the completion of the investigation to make the world understand that any hand that reaches out to hurt (our) pride, islam and the dignity of our people will be chopped off
the organization of the oppressed on earth
prince andrew and his wife, sarah, took in a hollywood glamour tour tuesday that brought them face-to-face with a gregarious movie robot, bashful celebrities and curious everyday folk bearing flowers
the duke and duchess, midway through a 10-day southern california tour to promote britain, greeted such actors as vincent price, roger moore, jack nicholson, robin leach, roddy mcdowall, pierce brosnan and joseph cotten
i think they were modern and literate and good-mannered and were handsome people. i loved being here,'' cotten said after pausing with the royal couple at the academy of motion picture arts and sciences
jack lemmon and brosnan were visibly nervous, and humbled, by the meeting
it gives one butterflies,'' brosnan said afterward. ``i wasn't sure about bowing correctly. i didn't know what to say.''
lemmon said later that he realized that ``for them it was like doing a scene over and over about 100 times. ... it is such a grueling schedule for them. they couldn't have been more charming.''
the couple had started the day earlier at the showscan film co. a special effects studio in culver city
greetings, salutations, hello,'' said ``number 5,'' the impish robot from the movie ``short circuit.'' attended by a half dozen technicians, the robot presented sarah with a bouquet, then spun on its triangular tank treads and introduced sarah to company officials
as sarah entered the building, ``number 5'' commented: ``nice hat.''
thank you,'' replied the duchess, who also accepted a bouquet and a rose from fans in the small crowd outside the studio
the wildest scene in the studio visit consisted of two hair-raising rides for andrew in something called the ``dynamic animation theater.''
the prince and seven other people took seats on a hydraulically operated platform in front of a curved movie screen as a film shot from the perspective of the front seat in a roller coaster roared by
for the next several minutes, they were jolted up and down, backward and forward, and finally brought to a lurching halt. the duchess, who is three months pregnant, watched from a director's chair, telling her husband later, ``you looked very funny.''
the royal couple also saw a breakaway bottle smashed harmlessly over the head of their private secretary, lt. col. sean o'dwyer
the rain that has been dampening crowds for much of the visit eased for the day's events, which also included a luncheon at the bel age hotel in west hollywood that was held by the british academy of film and television arts
the royals heard actress anjelica huston salute british contributions to film, particularly in comedy. britons have an ability ``to puff themselves up to their most british, then burst the balloon,'' she said
dudley moore then gently mocked miss huston's serious speech, beginning his remarks: ``your royal highnesses, extinguished guests ...''
i was reminded of our legacy,'' the british entertainer said. ``the heritage of shakespeare and milton that courses through the veins of every red-blooded english film star who is living now, very nicely, thank you, in marina del rey.''
the yorks, both 28, are touring to promote trade and as patrons of uk@la '88, a festival of british arts. they are staying aboard the 416-foot royal yacht britannia in long beach. norwegian-swedish comments and changes throughout. no pickup.</note>
moslem kidnappers freed two scandinavian relief workers tuesday, nearly a month after they had been kidnapped in southern lebanon, and left a note saying the hostages were ``proved innocent.''
swede jan stening, 44, and norwegian william jorgensen, 58, employees of the u.n. relief and works agency, were released in sidon, 25 miles south of beirut
norwegian charge d'affaires peter raeder told the associated press, ``i saw them. they looked a little bit pale but in fairly good condition.''
reporters in sidon said the u.n. workers were freed at 8 p.m. and turned over to salah salah, a representative of the palestine liberation organization
they said salah took the two to sunni moslem leader mustafa saad, whose militia controls sidon. militiamen then drove the former captives to moslem west beirut and delivered them to unrwa security chief john carolan
unrwa's acting director, john fennessy, said the two were taken to a hotel in christian east beirut to rest
he expressed ``the relief and satisfaction of my colleagues and myself'' that the scandinavians ``have at last been released and are unharmed.''
stening and jorgensen were abducted near sidon on feb. 5. their release reduced the number of foreign hostages held by extremists in lebanon to 23
also on tuesday, a statement purporting to be from the kidnappers of lt. col. william r. higgins said the u.s. marine will be put on ``trial'' for espionage when his captors finish questioning him. there was no way of authenticating the statement
members of a group called the revolutionary cells kidnapped the scandinavians. in a handwritten arabic statement delivered to a western news agency in beirut late tuesday the group announced the two men had been released. a photograph of the scandinavians accompanied the statement
it did not say what they had been accused of, but in earlier statements the group claimed the men were involved with the intelligence service of an unidentified foreign power
u.n. officials blamed the abductions on palestinians acting individually without a political motive
government officials in norway and stockholm expressed gratitude to those who had helped secure freedom for the two
the one-paragraph statement from the kidnappers said:
after the two employees were proved innocent, they were released. we ask unrwa to reverse its decision to freeze its activities, and we remind them that we will not allow suspicious elements to use international agencies for cover.''
the u.n. agency, which cares for an estimated 280,000 palestinian refugees in lebanon, suspended most of its medical, social and educational services after the abductions
the statement on higgins was delivered to a western news agency in beirut without a picture of the u.s. marine, who was abducted feb. 17 near tyre
it was typewritten in arabic and signed organization of the oppressed on earth, the name of the group that claimed responsibility for abducting higgins, 43
the statement said israel's tough response to 12 weeks of palestinian riots in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, and the middle east peace shuttle of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz ``make us more determined to try this criminal, higgins.''
it repeated the claim that higgins was a cia agent
it was the third statement issued since the marine from danville, ky., was seized by gunmen who stopped his u.n. car on the coastal highway
the organization of the oppressed on earth is believed made up of pro-iranian shiite moslems. it has claimed responsibility for kidnapping 12 lebanese jews in moslem west beirut since 1984 and says it killed eight of them
higgins is one of nine american hostages in lebanon. held longest is terry a. anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, kidnapped march 16, 1985
the marine colonel was the commander of 76 u.n. observers from 16 nations who monitor truce violations on the lebanon-israel border under a 1949 armistice agreement
his observers are attached to the 5,800-member u.n. interim force in lebanon that was sent into southern lebanon in 1978 as a buffer between israel and palestinian guerrillas
the statement about higgins said in part: ``the criminal reagan is moving inside and outside lebanon to ensure a quick release of higgins so that he will not reveal secrets and make confessions. but we declare today that we have uncovered solid facts about an american-israeli deal being hatched for south lebanon.''
in washington, the state department said it had no comment except to repeat the u.s. position ``that all the hostages should be released immediately and unconditionally.''
in stockholm, foreign minister sten andersson said of the release of the unrwa workers, ``i would like to express the government's great gratitude to all who have helped achieve this result.''
prime minister gro harlem brundtland of norway issued a statement in oslo saying: ``on behalf of the government and myself i'm extremely relieved and happy with the release of william jorgensen of norway and his swedish collegue jan stening.''
in vienna, unrwa spokesman ron wilkinson said stening and jorgensen probably would travel to vienna where the agency has its headquarters
he also said the agency will ``still have to think about our operations'' in lebanon, adding: ``we have to have certain guarantees of safety.''
eight bodies have been recovered so far since a small craft carrying about 45 illegal aliens from the dominican republic capsized near puerto rico, authorities said tuesday
authorities and a survivor say most of the 45 made it to shore safely after the boat sank sunday night near this small fishing village, about 85 miles west of the capital city of san juan
police lt. jose vega said two bodies were found monday and six more were pulled from the ocean near the beach tuesday
strong waves hampered the search, which was expected to resume wednesday
police maj. cesar gracia said the dominican residents boarded the craft on the east coast of dominican republic saturday night, when the weather was clear for the 90-mile trip across mona passage. as they neared puerto rico, large waves overturned the boat about 180 feet from shore
the boat was estimated to be 20 to 30 feet long
one survivor was hospitalized and another was taken into custody monday by the immigration and naturalization service in this u.s. caribbean commonwealth
aguada has been the landing site for many boats bringing illegal aliens to puerto rico in search of a better life. immigration authorities estimate the number of illegal dominicans living in puerto rico to be between 40,000 and 160,000
soldiers with tear gas fought protesters hurling stones in the poor, densely populated capotillo neighborhood of the capital tuesday. ten people were hurt and about 50 were arrested
the disturbances began with a strike to protest increases in the cost of living. schools and stores in the neighborhood closed, but traffic and activity were normal in the rest of santo domingo
elsewhere in this caribbean nation of 6 million, residents of azua and barahona provinces south of the capital burned tires, blocked roads and stoned businesses and cars
in similar protests last week, five people were killed and 20 injured in eight of the 26 provinces of the dominican republic, which shares the island of hispaniola with haiti. the unrest is the worst faced by president joaquin balaguer since he took office in august 1986
the inflation rate is running at about 30 percent a year. the foreign exchange value of the peso meanwhile has skidded. it takes 5.3 pesos to buy one u.s. dollar, about 72 percent more than the 3.85-1 ratio several months ago
many people are furious that a 5-gallon container of cooking oil has doubled to 84 pesos. taxi drivers resent paying 3.6 pesos for a gallon of gas that a few months ago cost 3 pesos
a one-pound steap business writer=
new york (ap) _ aluminum maker kaisertech ltd. sued its chairman for millions of dollars tuesday, alleging he violated securities law by improperly engaging in profitable short-term buying and selling of company stock
the suit against alan e. clore came a day after the reclusive british investor agreed to sell his 27 percent stake in kaisertech to texas oilman charles hurwitz, a move that appeared to irritate kaisertech officials and signaled management turbulence at the oakland, calif.-based company
neither clore nor hurwitz are considered familiar with the aluminum business. clore acquired his position at kaisertech after a lengthy takeover struggle last year. hurwitz's intentions toward kaisertech remain unclear
asked if it was considered unusual that a company would sue its own chairman, kaisertech spokesman robert w. irelan said: ``it's the first time we've done it.''
in a statement, kaisertech said its suit filed in a manhattan federal court resulted from clore's disclosures in a securities and exchange commission filing monday about his sale of stock to a hurwitz-controlled company, los angeles-based maxxam group inc
kaisertech contended the sec disclosures showed clore and his affiliates made about $4 million in undisclosed profits via so-called ``short-swing trading'' _ trading done within a six-month period _ of kaisertech stock
under federal securities law, a company or its stockholders are entitled to recover such profits from a director or officer who engages in short-swing trading
clore, who usually resides in switzerland, could not be reached for comment on the lawsuit, part of a rapid series of events concerning the stock of the aluminum producer
in los angeles, the investment firm jefferies &amp; co. said it was selling 1.39 million shares of kaisertech stock to maxxam for $16.68 million or $12 a share
combined with the 6.2 million shares acquired from clore, plus an option to buy his 8.2 million convertible preferred kaisertech shares, the shares purchased from jefferies would give maxxam about one-third of kaisertech's approximately 45 million shares outstanding
wall street's reaction reflected skepticism about a possible takeover move. in composite new york stock exchange trading tuesday, kaisertech fell 12{ cents a share to $11.75, after rising $1.12{ in the previous session
kaisertech said in a statement monday it would have preferred that clore had sold his stock to a broader range of investors, reflecting concern about what maxxam intends to do with its stake. maxxam officials said it was premature to speculate on whether it would attempt to acquire more
clore's maneuvering to sell his kaisertech shares came against a background of heavy pressure on him to cut losses that stemmed from the october stock market crash
if clore hadn't found a buyer by a monday deadline, he could have faced default on loans he had obtained by using kaiser stock as collateral. after the stock plunged in october, lenders wanted repayment
his sale of stock came as the company was rebounding from six straight years of losses. kaiser has sold its chemical, oil and gas businesses, slashed debt and concentrated on its core aluminum business. secrets</head>
authorities told a group of activists tuesday that 170 soviet jewish families cannot be allowed to emigrate because members have been exposed to state secrets, a member of the group said
vladimir kislik, who has been trying to leave for 15 years, said 10 jews from moscow and leningrad met with officials of the communist party central committee and justice ministry
on jan. 20 the group had given vitaly siderov, a central committee official, a list of more than 300 families denied permission to emigrate and requested a review
siderov promised an answer within a month. the activists returned feb. 21, were told the review was not ready and were asked to come back tuesday, kislik said in a telephone interview
they met with siderov, alexander gorkovluk of the central committee's propaganda department and officials of the office of visas and registrations and the justice ministry, he said
from the list of 300 families, kislik reported, the officials said 25 people had been authorized to emigrate. he said 20 had received notification since the list was drawn up jan. 1
about 80 other people were refused exit visas because parents or spouses have not certified that they have no financial claims, kislik said. soviet regulations require an applicant for emigration to furnish such a guarantee
kislik said some families were refused for emigration because they do not have close enough relatives in israel, which ``fully contradicted'' what secretary of state george p. shultz said foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze told him last month in moscow
shultz told reporters feb. 22, after meeting with shevardnadze, that the soviet minister promised ``flexibility'' in applying rules that require applicants to have close relatives abroad
he said shevardnadze also told him ``categorically'' that the only barrier to emigration is past work involving state secrets
many people whom the government alleges were exposed to state secrets say they saw the information years or decades ago and that it does not compromise the soviet union
i last worked in atomic science 22 years ago and they are refusing me because of that reason even today,'' kislik said
he added that the officials indicated they would meet with the jews again to discuss the cases of 20 soviet jews who have heart conditions, cancer or other ailments and who want to leave. ``we also gave them a list of people from 60 to 82 years old who want to emigrate,'' he said
in february, soviet authorities allowed 723 jews to emigrate, according to the geneva-based agency that helps the emigrants resettle. that was a slight increase from the january total of 658
according to the intergovernmental committee for migration, jewish emigration from the soviet union last year reached 8,011, its highest level since 1981. first add should stand for ams as background.</note>
bob dole was locked in a tight race with george bush tuesday night in fractional returns from vermont's republican presidential primary, a low-key, low-stakes tuneup for super tuesday. michael dukakis had an early advantage over jesse jackson in the democratic race
sen. dole was flush with endorsements in his effort to challenge the vice president in his new england backyard. jackson, in the state with the fewest blacks in the nation, hoped to finish a strong second to massachusetts gov. dukakis as he did last weekend in maine
gary hart, the big winner here in 1984, was far, far back in the pack where he has been stuck all year
the elections were ``beauty-contest'' primaries. vermont's national convention delegates won't be apportioned until next month in party caucuses, and the candidates have practically ignored the state to concentrate on the south. the primary took place on town meeting day when vermont's 328,466 voters decided town budgets, road repairs and a host of other local issues
with just a handful of vermont's 262 precincts reporting, bush had 288 and dole 287. pat robertson, whose supporters said they were focusing on the april caucuses, had 61 votes. jack kemp was not active in vermont and had just 38 votes
among the democrats, dukakis had 336 votes and jackson 198. sen. paul simon, who made no real effort here, had 29 votes and rep. richard gephardt _
who campaigned several times in the state _ had 28. hart had 16 votes and sen. albert gore jr. was not on the ballot
dukakis, governor of neighboring massachusetts, boasted 15 paid staffers and up to 60 volunteers in vermont, while most organizations felt fortunate to have two or three paid staffers. but jackson's rainbow coalition has been active in vermont since his 1984 presidential campaign and prompted an uneasy mixture of concern and admiration from the dukakis organization
jackson hoped to do well in vermont to follow up a strong showing last weekend in maine and demonstrate he can win broad support from people of all races. ``the issue of another person's skin, ought not to be an issue,'' said chris wood of the jackson campaign
among the republicans, bush had the strongest organization, but dole was helped by heavyweight endorsements from sen. robert stafford, rep. james jeffords and former gov. richard snelling
vermont's primary was overshadowed by next tuesday's elections in which 20 states will apportion hundreds of delegates. the only thing at stake in vermont was news media attention, bragging rights and the bush-dukakis regional winning streak. they both already have won the new hampshire primary and the maine caucuses and have high hopes next week in massachusetts and rhode island

more sight</head>
minority students drew up a contract tuesday to end the eight-day takeover of a hampshire college building that was held to protest racism at the private liberal arts school
we all want it over,'' said anita fearman, a spokesman for the 40 black, hispanic, indian and other minority students who have occupied a dormitory office since feb. 23
a tentative agreement was hammered out late monday in meetings with the school's president, adele simmons, and two other administrators
students drew up the formal contract tuesday and college officials were expected to sign it wednesday. specifics of the contract were not released tuesday
protesters said they expected to continue holding the dakin house office until wednesday despite the apparent agreement
among the demands dean of faculty penina glazer said the administration agreed to was the hiring of a full-time adviser for the campus group that occupied the building, students of underrepresented cultures
the school also agreed to allow a professor to serve part-time as dean of multicultural affairs and to try to win grants to increase the number of third world books in the library, she said
the college was founded in 1965 as an alternative to the traditional education offered at nearby smith, mount holyoke and amherst colleges and university of massachusetts. students design their own courses of study and advance through three divisional examinations requiring them to complete individual research projects
about 100 of hampshire's 1,100 students are minorities
two weeks earlier, an occupation sparked by campus racial violence ended at at umass when chancellor joseph duffey agreed to demands including increase funding of minority student programs
meanwhile, in springfield, the massachusetts commission against discrimination has found probable cause in a complaint by roland a. wiggins, 54, a black professor at hampshire college, alleging he was denied a 10-year teaching contract in 1986 because of race
the panel will attempt to resolve dispute or, failing that, conduct public hearings, hurst said
wiggins, a music professor, said he had worked under short contracts since he was hired in 1979 and in 1985 had won backing of faculty, students and the college appointments committee for a 10-year appointment
the college cited complaints that wiggins often was unavailable to students, submitted evaluations late and had ``offered little leadership in the music program, although he was the senior member,'' according to hurst's report
no blacks have been granted 10-year contracts, the longest the college provides, hurst said in his report. the school does not offer tenure. six of the 86 professors at the college are black, he said. humanist protest, u.s. outlook, edits to tighten. picks up 17th graf pvs, slennet, 41 ...</note>
the post office on tuesday began postmarking nearly all letters mailed in britain with the words ``jesus is alive!'' as part of a private arrangement financed by an evangelist
jewish leaders criticized the christian cancellation as potentially offensive
the special postmark, which also contains a small cross, will last six weeks and was paid for by paul slennet, who sells religious literature at two bookstores in southend-on-sea, east of london. he said god told him to buy the postmark
the state-owned post office said slennet paid the equivalent of $88,500 for the privilege of having every letter mailed through 68 of britain's 69 sorting offices stamped ``jesus is alive!''
the post office has adopted various methods of boosting revenue under prime minister margaret thatcher's conservative government, which believes that state-owned services should pay for themselves
receiving the postmark will be all mail _ including that sent abroad _ excluding parcels, periodicals and those letters stamped by businesses that have their own franking facilities. nearly 52 million letters are mailed daily in britain
the printing of this slogan in no way confirms post office approval of its contents,'' said post office spokesman duncan marshall. ``the slogan is not considered to be contentious.''
shimon cohen, spokesman for lord jakobovits, the chief rabbi of britain, said his office was ``flooded with phone calls'' after news of the slogan appeared in newspapers tuesday
we recognize that this is a christian country and we have the utmost respect for the primacy for the church,'' cohen said in an interview
however, ``we do fear that the slogan that will be carried is by implication addressed to non-christians and could well cause offense and resentment. we've made our feelings known to the post office,'' he said
rabbi charles emmanuel, chairman of the assembly of rabbis of the reform movement of great britain, said: ``this country allows me freedom of religion, and an official organization should not have accepted such a commission that will infringe not only upon my rights but the rights of other non-christians.'' marshall said his office was aware of ``a number of complaints.'' asked if these had caused any change of heart, he said: ``i've had no indication of that.''
he said no complaints had been received from other non-christian groups
however, the british humanist association, a national association for the non-religious, said the decision showed ``insensitive disregard'' for other beliefs
imagine the furor if we had asked to have `jesus is dead' printed on hundreds of millions of letters,'' said association spokesman martin horwood
he said he is writing the post office asking that the postmark be withdrawn
in washington, a u.s. postal service official said the chance of something similar in the united states was unlikely. dick rustin, manager of the stamp information branch, said limits are strict on special cancellations and religious messages are excluded
britain's post office regulations require paid messages to be ``non-controversial, non-political and likely to be generally acceptable to the public,'' marshall said
slennet, 41, said he got the idea five years ago listening to a sermon in which the preacher talked about collecting stamps and postmarks
the lord has since confirmed to me in various ways that this is the right thing to do,'' he said in an interview. ``in 1986 that small quiet voice we hear when god speaks said `postmark'.''
he said that he has informed christian groups around the country of his idea and received contributions toward paying for it
slennet belongs to intercessors for britain, an evangelical organization. he said the slogan was chosen in the spirit of easter
the plymouth post office isn't printing the slogan because it already had been booked for one commemorating england's defeat of the spanish armada in 1588. right-wing groups probably not affected. picks up 6th graf pvs, another section ...</note>
the government tuesday proposed a bill to outlaw foreign funding of political activity, a move that could cripple anti-apartheid groups and churches thus far spared from the new crackdown on opposition
no court challenge of the restrictions would be allowed
last week, the government banned 18 predominantly black organizations from political activity, including the largest anti-apartheid coalition and largest labor federation
leading anti-apartheid clergymen vowed tuesday _ before the new bill was introduced _ that the churches would take over some of the programs of the banned groups and more aggressively confront the government
the new legislation, called ``the promotion of orderly politics bill,'' would prohibit all organizations from receiving money from abroad for political purposes and would empower the justice minister to seize foreign funds received by certain groups. his powers would be indefinitely retroactive
the foreign funds provision was not expected to hurt right-wing organizations, which receive most of their money from donations from within south africa
however, another section of the bill could apply to right-wing white supremacist groups that oppose the government's limited apartheid reforms. it sets a penalty of two years in jail or a fine of about $2,000 for anyone who ``says or does anything'' to foment hostility or violence between different racial, cultural or religious groups. the penalties would apply to anyone who displays a banner, emblem or slogan deemed to convey such hostility, and also to anyone who attends a gathering where such items are displayed
the south african council of churches, which includes most major protestant denominations and is engaged in civil rights work, has received more than 90 percent of its funds from abroad in recent years
the roman catholic church cooperates with the council of churches but receives substantial overseas funds separately
the rev. smangiliso mkhatshwa, secretary-general of the southern african catholic bishops conference, said the bill might be difficult to enforce
if the church says supporting the families of detainees and paying legal fees is the work of love, the work of evangelism, it is difficult to see how the government can define for the church what is pastoral and what is political,'' he said
in parliament, helen suzman, veteran member of the anti-apartheid progressive federal party, condemned the arrests monday of prominent clergymen who were protesting the government crackdown
about 25 church leaders, including anglican archbishop desmond tutu, and 125 other protesters were detained briefly after riot policeman blocked them from marching to parliament with a petition protesting the bans on opposition groups. after the most prominent clergymen were placed in police vehicles, a water cannon was sprayed on the other protesters, who were kneeling and singing hymns
mrs. suzman said tuesday police should have allowed the march to proceed, ``thus avoiding all that sensational publicity that has resulted in adverse headlines across the world and has added further fuel to the campaign for sanctions. this government has a death wish.''
law and order minister adriaan vlok said the clergymen had defied a request to disperse and ``scandalously provoked'' police. ``we have to once again take the blame for the misconduct of people who hide behind the cloth of sanctimony,'' he said
one of the arrested churchmen, roman catholic archibishop stephen naidoo of cape town, said in an interview tuesday that he and his colleagues considered it their duty to intensify the churches' challenge of the government
there is going to be in this country a continuing moral confrontation,'' he said
he predicted the authorities would deal cautiously with defiant clergymen because ``they are intelligent enough to realize they are dealing here with a great moral force ... and the moral sensibilities of people all over the world.''
the government has backed off before in the face of concerted church resistance, the last time in 1986 when many of the same ministers arrested monday had gathered at cape town's st. george's anglican cathderal to defy a ban on calling for the release of detainees. the prohibition was not enforced and was dropped from the next issue of emergency regulations
the rev. edward king, dean of st. george's, said it was significant that no one in monday's march had been charged and all were freed without bail. ``i think they're embarrassed by this; they don't want to put archbishops in jail. but they make their own nooses for their own necks.''
one of two ira men accidentally killed by their own bomb has been linked to at least 25 killings since 1979 and headed the police most-wanted list, the british news agency press association said tuesday
the agency quoted security sources it did not identify as saying brendan burns, 33, was believed to have directed ira bombing campaigns along the british province's border with the irish republic
burns and brendan morley, 30, were killed monday by the detonation of explosives they apparently were installing in a van about two miles outside crossmaglen in south armagh
the irish republican army, which is fighting to oust britain from northern ireland and unite it with the irish republic, said the men belonged to the organization
press association said burns was involved in an ira ambush that cost the lives of 18 british soldiers in warrenpoint, county down, in august 1969, when sectarian violence began in the protestant-dominated province
burns also was sought in connection with a land mine explosion that killed five soldiers at camlough, county armagh, in 1981, the agency said
it said he was linked with the killings of lord justice sir maurice gibson, the province's second-highest judge, and his wife. a land mine destroyed their car as they drove into northern ireland from across the border last summer
northern ireland's police force, the royal ulster constabulary, refused comment on the report tuesday night. robertson's assertion, with us officials commenting on robertson claim</note>
republican presidential candidate pat robertson on tuesday cited second-hand testimony from a senate subcommittee hearing 21 years ago as documentation that soviet intermediate-range missiles are based in cuba
however, several u.s. officials said tuesday the cuban military has some surface-to-surface missiles in its inventory, but none has a nuclear warhead and none could reach the united states even if they did
the former religious broadcaster said the information indicates a ``loophole'' in the u.s.-soviet arms control treaty awaiting ratification in the senate
robertson quoted 1967 testimony by paul bethel, a state department official from miami who said cuban refugees had told him of seeing missiles, and one of the refugees, identified only as mr. apud, who swore cuban soldiers let him know about missiles aimed at washington before he left in 1966
neither man testified he had personally seen the missiles, the transcript indicates
the testimony was given to the judiciary subcommittee to investigate the administration of the internal security act and other internal security laws. robertson read portions of it to supporters at a breakfast here and during a rally the night before in miami
i've been accused of bringing funny facts,'' robertson told the fort lauderdale gathering. ``ladies and gentlemen, the clear eyewitness, sworn testimony of witnesses before a senate judiciary committee is not funny facts. ... this is documented evidence.''
robertson's assertion that there are missiles based in cuba has been denied by the white house, congressional defense experts and cuban president fidel castro
several defense and administration officials were asked tuesday about robertson's claim. the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because they did not want to become involved in the presidential race, said cuba has about five dozen frog-4 and frog-7 battlefield missiles, date to the 1960s
the frog-7, when originally introduced by the soviets, could carry either a conventional or nuclear warhead, ``but we're confident no nuclear warheads ever went to cuba for that missile and it doesn't have any range anyway,'' said one source who requested anonymity
according to the reference book ``jane's weapon systems,'' the frog-7 has a range of only about 43 miles _ or half the distance between cuba and florida. moreover, the rocket has no guidance system to direct it to a specific target
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said last month that cuba has been under extensive surveillance since the 1962 missile crisis and there was ``no evidence'' any other nuclear weaponry had ever been deployed there by the soviet union
robertson concentrated heavily on the cuban-american vote for the march 8 super tuesday primary during a two-day swing through south florida
the miami rally drew little more than half of the 1,500 people that campaign organizers had predicted in a show of the candidate's strength among hispanics
at a news conference following the breakfast, robertson refused to say how he obtained the missile testimony transcript
how i got it is my business, but the thing that's important is that it's available in the records of the united state government,'' he said. ``and, frankly, i think it shows that the staff work by the state department was not adequate on the inf treaty because there's clearly a cuban loophole.''
a cuban refugee who claims he saw a variety of missiles, including long-range surface-to-surface missiles, there as late as 1985 said he met thursday in miami with robertson
copies of a spanish-language newspaper, diario libre, with a headline proclaiming ``yes, pat! you're right!'' and maps drawn by the refugee to pinpoint the missile sites were distributed to campaign supporters throughout his south florida visit
the man identified himself only as e. rodriguez, saying he feared revealing his full name would result in retribution against family members still in cuba. he said he was an agricultural planner and had access to aerial photographs and to areas of cuba where the missiles were based
robertson said he couldn't vouch for the authenticity of the newspaper's account of the refugee's story
i'm not saying i have other than this proof,'' he said, referring to the subcommittee transcript. ``it's coming to me from many, many people now, people who are aware of it
but the issue is not can we prove or can we not prove. the issue is verification we have a treaty. there's a loophole in the treaty. we must put in verification of the cuban missile sites.''
he told reporters the only way to verify his claim was to personally go to cuba and look for the missiles. but, responding to a question, he said he would decline an invitation to do so should it be extended by castro, who he has described as ``a butcher and a tyrant.''
in the subcommittee transcript, apud said he was told by cuban soldiers he had known for many years that the missiles were nicknamed ``washington left,'' ``washington right,'' and ``washington central.''
robertson quoted bethel's acknowledgement, in response to questioning by sen. strom thurmond, r-s.c., that numerous refugees had told him they had seen missiles left in cuba after the cuban missile crisis and new ones constructed in 1964
bethel testified he could not state with certainty that intermediate or intercontinental ballistic missiles were in cuba, but that the state department also couldn't be certain they weren't there
the son of late president gamal abdel nasser of egypt was quoted tuesday as saying the united states and israel are defaming him and his brothers to ``settle old accounts'' with his father
the kuwaiti newspaper al-anbaa said the interview conducted in belgrade, yugoslavia, was the first with khaled abdel nasser since criminal charges were filed against him in cairo. it quoted him as saying he would return to egypt for trial even though he faced possible execution
khaled nasser is among 20 men charged in connection with four shooting attacks on u.s. and israeli diplomats and embassy workers between 1984 and 1987. two israelis were killed and six israelis and two americans were wounded
he and the other defendants are accused of membership in a clandestine group called egypt's revolution. the indictment demands the death penalty for nasser, 38, and 10 other defendants, and prison terms of up to life for the others
egypt has said it is trying to extradite khaled nasser for trial as one of three founders of egypt's revolution and its main financial backer. the group is committed to ending the israeli presence in egypt and egyptian commitment to the 1979 peace treaty with the jewish state
al-anbaa said algeria had offered political refugee status to nasser but he refused, saying: ``my father never imagined being such in any country and preferred to die while fighting his enemies rather than accept that. therefore i am determined to return to cairo because death in cairo is much better than living elsewhere.''
gamal abdel nasser led a bloodless military coup that ousted king farouk in 1952, and ruled as a fierce nationalist until his death in 1970
while he was in office, egypt faced the 1956 invasion by britain, france and israel and israel captured the sinai peninsula and gaza strip in the 1967 middle east war
nasser's successor, the late anwar sadat, led the country through the 1973 war with israel and signed the peace treaty with israel in 1979
in referring to ``a defamation campaign'' in the egyptian press against him and his two younger brothers, according to al-anbaa, nasser said it was ``not separate from the hostile american and israeli blueprint which has been employed over the past 36 years with the aim of obliterating nasser's legendary place in the hearts of the arab masses.''
the defamation campaign being launched against me and my brothers is but an american and israeli attempt to settle old accounts,'' he said
those who failed to face president nasser for 18 years of his rule and to eradicate his name from the conscience of the egyptian masses for 18 years after his death now return to launch their campaigns.''
michael dukakis won the vermont democratic presidential primary on tuesday, with jesse jackson running second. it was the massachusetts governor's third new england victory, following new hampshire and maine
a united nations report released tuesday said human rights violations including torture and abductions continue in chile but the overall situation is improving
the report presented to the 43-nation u.n. human rights commission said that since february 1985 ``there have been important changes which have improved the human rights situation . .. but much still remains to be done.''
it said specific problems are the increasing scope of military courts and ``violent and criminal activities of private gangs and terrorists.''
gen. augusto pinochet has headed chile's military government since the coup that ousted the elected government of marxist president salvador allende in september 1973
the report was prepared by costa rican jurist fernando volio jimenez under a mandate from the commission. volio jiminez visited chile in december and met with government officials and human rights activists
he wrote that ``a state of violence affecting fundamental rights continues to exist in chile, despite the government's general attitude condemning such violations.''
the report said many citizens are victims of intimidation by ``supposedly private individuals'' seeking to ``inspire terror in circles opposed to the political status quo.''
such intimidation is ``generally the work of private gangs ... having the secret support of some public authority,'' it said
harassment, mainly of people who recently returned from exile, has become more ``articulate, blatant and general,'' the report said
it also said the government has taken measures to try to prevent the torture of detainees, but ``torture is still practiced although, according to non-governmental sources, this revolting practice may have declined in terms of numbers.''
the report noted an increase in the number of civilians tried in military courts and the ``irregular conduct'' of those courts
it listed five cases of ``involuntary disappearances'' in 1987, following a year when no cases were reported, and said the recurrence is ``an especially serious situation.''
on the positive side, volio reported the government since february 1985 had permitted the return of about 4,000 chileans who were in forced exile. it said that according to the government, 350 chileans are still living in forced exile but non-governmental sources put the figure at 583
the report cited the cases of nine people killed in 1985-86 that have not been solved and said one investigating magistrate complained about lack of police cooperation and said he had received death threats
this situation makes things look gloomy for the cause of human rights,'' it added. tuesday</head> word `feet,' add quote from networks' attorney. picks up 8th graf pvs, `frances duncan...'.</note>
a federal judge tuesday gave the three major television networks the go-ahead to take exit polls at georgia voting places during the super tuesday presidential preference primaries next week
cbs, nbc and abc had sued state and fulton county election officials to stop enforcement of a 1985 law prohibiting exit polls or public opinion surveys within 250 feet of a polling place
u.s. district judge robert hall tuesday issued a preliminary injunction stopping the state from enforcing the new law beyond 25 feet of buildings in which polling places are located
the ruling, which came after a hearing on the lawsuit monday, allows the networks to conduct the exit polls during the march 8 primaries, as long as their poll takers are stationed no closer than 25 feet from the door
hall indicated he would rule later on the networks' contention that the law violates the constitution's first amendment guarantee of freedom of speech and of the press
while the state ``has a legitimate interest in protecting the `sanctity of the polling place,''' hall wrote in tueday's ruling, it appears the 250 foot prohibition on exit polls ``is not `narrowly tailored' to accomplish that goal in the `least restrictive means available,''' as required by previous court rulings on free speech issues
a more limited ban, keeping exit pollers out of polling places and 25 feet away from their doors, ``would likely satisfy even the most rigorous constitutional scrutiny,'' he wrote
we're delighted by the results,'' said floyd abrams, an attorney representing the networks. ``it will make it possible for more people to have more information more quickly about the election results and their meaning on super tuesday.''
frances duncan, the assistant secretary of state in charge of elections, said tuesday that copies of the judge's order will be sent to county election officials for relay to their precinct managers before the primaries next week
in exit polling, survey takers ask a random sample of voters leaving the polling place to fill out a written list of questions about whom they voted for and what issues are important to them, as well as such information as their age, sex and economic status
during testimony in monday's hearing, warren mitofsky, director of cbs news' election and survey unit, testified that exit polls are by far the most accurate and the quickest way to gauge what groups of people are voting for which candidate
but, he said, the 250-foot distance limitation effectively banned public opinion surveys of people leaving polling places because the surveyor is too far away from the exit to be able to intercept the voters randomly
the law had been enacted because elections officials, mostly in metropolitan atlanta, had complained that exit poll takers intimidated voters, according to testimony from former state rep. claude bray, who chaired the house state governmental affairs committee when it considered the measure
jesse jackson met with the south african ambassador tuesday and said he conveyed the ``outrage felt by freedom-loving peoples everywhere'' at the recent clampdown of anti-apartheid factions in that country
the democratic presidential candidate said he objected to pretoria's restriction of the activities of anti-apartheid organizations and monday's arrest of anglican archbishop desmond tutu and other top religious leaders
jackson told a news conference later that the ambassador, piet g.j. koornhof, asked for a follow-up meeting with rep. ronald dellums, d-calif., who attended the meeting and who is sponsoring legislation on sanctions against south africa because of its apartheid policy of racial separation
the democrat also called on the reagan administration to take several steps against the pretoria regime
he said he informed the south african ambassador of his proposals, which include:
_ ``comprehensive international economic and financial sanctions on apartheid.'' jackson said u.s. corporations and banks should be ordered to leave south africa
_ invocation by the administration of a special session of the u.n. security council to seek international support for such sanctions
_ broadcasting of news from south africa via ``a new radio free south africa.''
_ support for the so-called frontline states around south africa and aid to build rail corridor railways so that zimbabwe and zambia would not be dependent on south african trade routes
jackson said he attempted to telephone president reagan on the eve of reagan's tuesday departure for a north atlantic treaty organization meeting in brussels. jackson said he spoke with national security adviser colin powell and urged that reagan seek support from the nato allies for jackson's south africa proposals
jackson's press secretary, elizabeth coulton, said powell agreed the south africa situation would be raised at the nato meeting
campaigning earlier in maryland, one of the super tuesday states that holds its primary next week, jackson spoke to a downtown baltimore rally and blasted reagan for using ``government power to take from the poor and give to the rich.''
of his recent second-place finish in the maine caucuses, jackson told the crowd of a few hundred, ``there are signs we are growing every day.''
he also walked through baltimore's trendy lexington market food bazaar shaking hands with the lunchtime crowds. he stood on a large plant pot and shouted over the din, urging the crowd to vote for him
later, jackson flew to his hometown of greenville, s.c., and proclaimed to a church full of people, ``it's good to be home.''
i'm a son of the south...i know the south and its ways,'' he said
the british broadcasting corp. said tuesday the government has withdrawn its objections to a radio program that included interviews with intelligence officials
prime minister margaret thatcher's government won a court order in december preventing the broadcasting of the first program in the planned three-part series, ``my country: right or wrong.''
the government argued that the series, dealing with the tug of war between state secrecy and freedom of information, could harm national security
publicly funded bbc said the series portrays the work of britain's intelligence agencies and did not reveal anything an enemy could not already know
the government withdrew its objections to the program after its lawyers received a transcript of it from the bbc, the company said
the second and third programs have yet to be recorded
i am glad that we will be able to transmit this program,'' said john birt, bbc's deputy director general. ``i am only sorry it has been long delayed.''
he did not say when the program will be broadcast
the high court judge who approved the gag order had said the government was properly concerned that nine former and serving intelligence officials interviewed for the series may have broken their oaths of secrecy
bbc spokeswoman helen cleary said tuesday night: ``the bbc initially refused to turn over the transcripts to the government, arguing that would amount to pre-censorship. but the bbc later, during the legal process, had to provide the transcripts as part of its defense evidence.''
mrs. thatcher's conservative government had used the argument of lifetime confidentiality by security agents to prevent the publication in britain of ``spycatcher,'' a book by former agent peter wright, who now lives in australia. the book has been published in the united states. with comment from chinn's attorney. picks up 22nd graf pvs bgng: chinn was ...</note>
attorney general edwin meese iii's investment manager allocated stock-trading profits to meese's brokerage accounts under a procedure that a senator said tuesday raises questions of ``possible financial favors or gifts'' to the cabinet member
in a report by its democratic majority staff, the senate subcommittee on oversight of government management said stock trader w. franklyn chinn pooled meese's money with that of several other customers in 1985 and 1986 and, after completing stock trades, assigned profits or losses to the attorney general's account
the report said it appears that in seven instances, chinn allocated stock trades to meese's account in amounts exceeding the balance available in the account to pay for those trades
in the seven instances, the amount of the stock trades exceeded the balances in meese's account by $5,000 to $140,000
chinn turned a profit of nearly $40,000 for meese on a $50,000 investment in just 23 stock trades over a 19-month span
e. robert wallach, meese's longtime friend who is under indictment in the wedtech corp. scandal, in five of the trades was one of the customers whose money was pooled with that of the attorney general. wallach introduced meese to chinn, who became the attorney general's financial adviser in may 1985
chinn ``wasn't investing mr. meese's money, as much as he was assigning profits and losses to the accounts of mr. meese and his other clients at his own discretion,'' sen. carl levin, d-mich., the subcommittee's chairman, said in a letter to the office of government ethics
chinn's ``assignment of stock transactions retroactively to those accounts appears to have no relationship to the amount of money in those accounts,'' levin continued
because he did not allocate winners and losers to his clients' accounts until after the fact, he was effectively able to assign greater benefits to some _ including apparently mr. meese on numerous occasions.''
the procedure ``raises questions about possible financial favors or gifts, about possible conflict of interest, (and) about the judgment of the attorney general in being involved in a partnership with a director of a company (wedtech corp.) with mr. meese had directly assisted when he was working in the white house as counselor to the president,'' said levin
levin asked the ethics office for a formal finding as to whether meese has complied with federal regulations governing gifts and loans to public officials and whether he has violated an executive order prohibiting the appearance of a conflict of interest
justice department spokesman patrick korten said the issues raised by levin were matters that had been fully examined in congressional hearings last july and that now are before the independent counsel studying meese's dealings with wedtech. he said it would be inappropriate for the ethics office to get involved at this point
what senator levin is trying to do is wrap an 8-month old fish in today's paper,'' korten said. ``all we have here is a highly partisan effort to grab another headline on this thing and keep the meese pot boiling.''
meese has acknowledged interceding on behalf of wedtech when the bronx, n.y., defense contractor was seeking a $32 million, no-bid contract to build small engines for the army. within months of meese's intercession, wedtech was awarded the work
the report said that in one instance, chinn bought and sold 5,000 shares of a new stock issue in oliver stores inc. worth $30,000 on feb. 11, 1986
it wasn't until the next day, however, that chinn instructed imperial trust co. where one of meese's accounts was established, that 2,000 of the shares were to be recorded for meese's account. the transaction gave meese a profit of more than $1,700
in another instance, on sept. 12, 1985, chinn allocated a purchase of $80,000 worth of stock in rockefeller center properties to meese's account at the brokerage house of bear, stearns at a time when the account had a balance of only $51,000. the trade resulted in a profit of nearly $900
in a third instance, chinn bought and sold firemans fund corp. stock on oct. 23, 1985. it wasn't until mid-afternoon of the day he bought and sold it that chinn directed that 2,000 of the shares be assigned to meese's account. that transaction earned meese more than $900
levin said chinn assigned purchases to meese's and his other customers' accounts ``after it was known whether the purchase would yield a profit or loss
it appears that mr. chinn was able to decide just which of his clients would get profits and which would get losses,'' the senator said in his letter to the ethics office
one of chinn's lawyers, cristina arguedas, said that her client's stock trading has been examined at length by independent counsel james mckay, who is conducting a criminal investigation of meese. she said the independent counsel has found no wrongdoing in connection with the stock trading
one of meese's attorneys, nathan lewin, said the attorney general had set up a limited blind partnership with chinn's company under which meese was kept unaware of any of the details of chinn's stock trading. lewin noted that meese lost money on five of the 23 stock transactions
chinn was indicted dec. 22 with longtime meese friend e. robert wallach and a business associate, r. kent london, on racketeering, fraud and conspiracy charges in an alleged scheme to extract payments from wedtech in order to influence meese and other federal officials. all three have pleaded innocent
meese's involvement with wedtech has been under criminal investigation by independent counsel james mckay since last may 11. the attorney general has denied wrongdoing
a federal judge on tuesday overturned the texas ban on florida citrus fruit, and state officials began planning their next legal move against regulations allowing the shipments
the ban was imposed last month ban after the u.s. department of agriculture lifted a 3{-year-old federal quarantine on florida citrus that was prompted by outbreaks of citrus canker in florida
texas agriculture officials said the ban was necessary to protect texas' $65 million-a-year citrus industry from canker
the state now plans to seek an injunction against new federal rules that allow shipment of florida citrus meeting certain standards to other citrus-producing states, said max woodfin, spokesman for the texas department of agriculture
u.s. district judge james nowlin said tuesday that he lifted the state ban, imposed last month after the new federal rule took effect, because the federal regulation took precedence over the state rule
the ban was due to end march 12, when texas officials planned to have gathered information on the federal rule and take some permanent action
we feel we need to do whatever we can to protect the texas citrus industry,'' woodfin said
the injunction request will charge that the federal rule was issued abruptly and did not allow sufficient time to study its possible effects, he said
florida citrus mutual, a growers association, and tuxedo fruit co., a florida shipper and grower, sued texas last month to stop the emergency state quarantine
florida gov. bob martinez and agriculture commissioner doyle conner joined the court action
the lawsuit called the ban unconstitutional and invalid. it said the action would mean a loss of millions of dollars to the florida citrus industry
we expected this decision,'' conner said. ``federal rules and regulations supersede state rules and regulations as it pertains to plant matters. the law's a little different between plant and animal.''
canker, which can seriously damage citrus plants and fruit, was found in florida in 1984. florida officials said florida producers must meet strict standards under the new federal regulation in order to ship fruit to citrus-producing states, including texas
robert griffith, chief of the bureau of pest eradication for the florida department of agriculture and consumer service, said he had never heard of canker being found on mature citrus fruit that was ready to be shipped
it would be difficult to transmit canker from fruit to citrus groves, he said
the coalition government of socialists and conservatives, already under strain because of the kurt waldheim affair, could collapse over tax reform, according to comments by chancellor franz vranitzky on tuesday
the coalition has been strained for months over president waldheim's world war ii activities, and vranitzky said again tuesday he would consider resigning if that issue continued to affect his government's work
but socialist vranitzky, speaking with reporters after a cabinet session, dealt mainly with tax legislation
he said it was possible he would meet again this week with vice chancellor alois mock in a last-ditch effort to reach agreement on tax reform
mock is chairman of the conservative austrian people's party. waldheim, running as the conservative candidate, won the presidential election in june 1986. the term for the mainly titular presidency is for six years, and waldheim has rejected critics' demands that he resign
vranitzky said the question of new elections ``would lie close at hand'' if the tax dispute is not resolved
the last parliamentary elections were held on nov. 23, 1986, for four-year terms
vranitzky was asked about early elections and he said, ``i do not seek them but i do not shy away from them either.''
mock and vranitzky have had several inconclusive meetings on the proposed tax reform
the socialists insist that a major gap in the budget cannot be filled without imposing a tax on savings deposit interest. the conservatives strongly oppose such a tax
some political observers have said the combined tax dispute and controversy over waldheim may be too much for the coalition to survive
vranitzky, criticizing waldheim, said it was not enough for the president to keep restating his position
he said waldheim would have to contribute to resolving the crisis over his presidency ``in word and deed,'' but added he did not want to elaborate
waldheim served as a lieutenant in the german army in the balkans during world war ii. the world jewish congress and other groups say he was involved with army units that deported thousands of jews and other people from the area to nazi labor or death camps
an international commission of six historians, appointed by the austrian government to investigate waldheim's past, said he was ``in close proximity'' to some nazi atrocities in the balkans and knew they were going on but made no attempt to prevent them
the report, released last month, did not support allegations that waldheim was involved in atrocities. but it left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime
waldheim, a former u.n. secretary-general, has repeatedly denied any wrongdoings during the war
the derbyshire county council suggested a compromise tuesday in its campaign to have 16th century chesterfield school replace a latin motto on its stationery with an anti-nuclear slogan
the left-dominated council, which runs the boys' preparatory school in north-central england, had told the school to stop using stationery bearing a coat of arms and the motto ``non quo sed quomodo'' _ ``not whither but in what manner.''
the school was told to use standard-issue council letter paper bearing the slogan ``derbyshire council council supports nuclear-free zones,'' according to headmaster geoffrey price
price opposed the idea, and conservative member of parliament peter rost said tuesday he would ask education secretary kenneth baker to intervene
later tuesday, the council's labor party leader, david bookbinder, said the council would have no objection to the school keeping its motto on the stationery as long as it used the slogan as well
price said he welcomed the compromise but was puzzled by it
i have been suggesting this for a year or more but was told it was unacceptable,'' he said. ``however, so let it be.''
chesterfield school was founded in 1594. new graf 14, at another, with more robertson comment at news conference</note>
republican presidential candidate pat robertson said tuesday he will drop his libel suit against former rep. pete mccloskey rather than go to trial on super tuesday, the biggest day of the primary season
robertson, who was accused of avoiding combat duty in the korean war through his father's influence, said he wants to take the case to voluntary arbitration in an effort to clear his and his father's names. but he said if mccloskey refuses to do that he will drop the suit anyway
mccloskey's lawyer, george lehner, said a proposal to use arbitration was rejected by robertson's lawyers nine months ago, and he said to propose it on the eve of trial ``is a little disingenuous'' and ``a red herring.''
lehner has said repeatedly that mccloskey will not agree to settlement in the case unless robertson pays legal fees _ estimated at $400,000 _ piled up by the former congressmen
we are prepared to go to trial,'' lehner said after learning of robertson's announcement. ``if he wants to drop the suit,'' the lawyer said, robertson must ``pay the legal fees'' amassed by mccloskey to defend the case
mccloskey said it's ``not for him (robertson) to decide'' to drop the suit, saying he would oppose any motion by robertson to dismiss the case
i would rather go to trial. he's called me a liar all over the united states,'' mccloskey said in a telephone interview. ``i would much prefer there be a verdict as to which of us has told the truth.''
robertson's $35 million suit accuses mccloskey of defaming him in a widely publicized letter contending the former television evangelist had used the influence of his father, the late sen. a. willis robertson, to avoid combat duty in the korean war as a marine corps officer
the case had been scheduled for next tuesday, the same date as republican primaries and caucuses in 17 states, including florida where robertson was campaigning
in order to compete in that trial i would have to break off my campaign today and run the risk of losing florida, texas, south carolina and other parts of the south,'' robertson said at an airport news conference. ``that was an impossible decision for me to make and an unfair one.''
he has proposed that the issue be resolved by the iowa libel dispute program run jointly by the university of iowa college of law and the american arbitration association
robertson said if mccloskey refuses arbitration he would take pre-trial evidence and testimony already collected to an unspecified panel of experts and have them give a public opinion on mccloskey's contentions
if he doesn't (go to arbitration), we will prove to the american people that he truly doesn't want the truth to come out,'' robertson said
at another news conference later in orlando, robertson complained about the judge's actions, saying: ``she has done everything she can to get us to drop the case. i have done everything i could to make a settlement based on the truth.''
in his letter, mccloskey wrote that he and robertson had been on the same korea-bound troop ship in 1951 but that robertson was taken off the vessel in japan where he was given a non-combat post after telling other marines his father would arrange a transfer
mccloskey also wrote that when robertson later was sent to korea he was known as the ``division liquor officer'' because he made frequent trips to japan
robertson has denied that his father used any influence to get him off the troop ship
while campaigning in miami on monday, robertson called mccloskey a ``pathological liar'' and charged that he circulated the korea story in an effort to hurt robertson's political campaign
he also contended mccloskey is a supporter of vice president george bush, one of robertson's opponents in the campaign for the gop presidential nomination
more than 500 military police troopers fought about 2,500 striking coal miners in southern brazil on tuesday and dozens of people were injured, according to a union lawyer and a state senator
the melee took place in criciuma, a town in southern santa catarina state, 800 miles southwest of rio
the union lawyer, alfredo gava, told the associated press by telephone from the region, ``many miners from other companies and townspeople joined in the protest, which turned the city center into a war zone. by the end, there were more than 5,000 people throwing rocks and objects.''
gava said at least 30 police and miners were injured and one miner was arrested. the chief of local police, luis gonzaga schmidt, reported that five people were held for a few hours, then were let go
the chief put the number of injured _ police, miners and others caught up in the turmoil _ at 20
however, state sen. itamar da silva, who was at the site of the brawl, said that 33 military police and 33 miners were hurt
authorities said the troopers were under orders not to attack the strikers, but retaliated when they themselves came under attack
gava said the trouble began when police tried to remove striking mine workers who were demonstrating peacefully in front of a branch of the government-run bank, banco do brasil
the downtown square was almost completely destroyed,'' gava reported. ``miners pulled down walls to break up the bricks for ammunition against police and stoned houses and office buildings in the immediate area.''
tv globo, brazil's largest private network, showed a burning motorbike in the square and military police with truncheons and behind big shields rushing at miners. troopers threw tear gas and exploded concussion bombs to disperse the mob
gava said the miners had been striking for 21 days to force carbonifera prospera mining co. to adhere to a jan. 1 agreement for a 145 percent pay raise to make up for losses to 17 percent monthly inflation. pay scales were not immediately available
the company, along with five others in criciuma, signed the accord, but while the others paid up, prospera went back on the deal after the company was sold to the government-run national steel co., gava said
company representatives said over tv globo that prospera's responsibility to adhere to the agreement ended with the sale of the company
tv globo said the company had agreed to meet with union representatives wednesday
da silva, a social democrat, called the attack on the strikers ``unmotivated'' and said the state senate would investigate the fray. sted of 1955 to 1959 and that besser replaced shemp sted of curly; ams separate moved as a0867 on besser.</note>
joe besser, one of the later members of the three stooges and who played the whining brat ``stinky'' in ``the abbott and costello show,'' died tuesday. he was 80
besser was one of the stooges from 1956 to 1958, replacing shemp howard. he played the character joe, who would often whine, ``oooh, you crazy,'' as he was slapped around by moe howard
in the 1940s, his portrayal of an exasperated, whining child earned him a spot in olsen and johnson's long-running broadway show, ``sons of fun.'' in the 1950s and 60s, besser became a regular on several shows, including ``the ken murray show,'' ``the joey bishop show'' and ``the abbott and costello show.''
timothy scott, 32, a dancer and creator of mr. mistoffolees in the broadway hit musical ``cats,'' died feb. 24 of complications from aids
scott appeared in broadway companies of ``king of hearts'' and ``dancin.'' on television he performed in ``baryshnikov in hollywood'' and during the 1980 academy awards broadcast
scott also had a small part in the film version of ``a chorus line.'' in 1982, he auditioned for the role of mr. mistoffelees and stayed with ``cats'' for about 18 months
victor p. hass, who was book editor of the omaha world-herald for 35 years and wrote hundreds of essays for the newspaper, died tuesday at age 78
hass joined the world-herald in 1937. he wrote more than 1,800 essays for the world-herald under the heading ``leaves from a bookman's notebook.''
hass retired in 1971 as a regular member of the newspaper's staff, where he was a copy editor. hass continued as book reviewer and essayist until 1975. couple, how many children, what they did for a living. picks up 5th graf, `judge paul...'. adds one graf on end to explain first-, second-degree murder charges.</note>
a 77-year-old man who told authorities he shot and killed his ailing wife in a nursing home so she wouldn't have to ``go through any more pain'' was charged tuesday with first- and second-degree murder
oscar carlson of evansville is accused of killing agnes carlson, 71, who suffered from advanced alzheimer's disease
mrs. carlson, who was a cleaning woman in a doctor's office before being stricken with alzheimer's, was shot four times with a .22-caliber pistol monday at crestview manor nursing home in evansville, said douglas county sheriff terry eilers
carlson, a former farmer and bus driver, was arrested without incident at the nursing home and was being held in the county jail in alexandria, the sheriff said. the couple had three children
judge paul ballard set bond at $100,000 tuesday and scheduled a second hearing monday to determine when carlson could be released, eilers said
we're planning on convening a grand jury relatively soon,'' douglas county attorney ann carrott said tuesday
mrs. carlson had been a patient at the home periodically and was to undergo surgery monday for a broken hip she suffered sunday in a fall, eilers said
carlson told nursing home administrators he wanted to visit his wife before she was taken to the hospital and he went to her room, eilers said
police were called when shots were heard, and authorities found carlson slumped over the victim's body, eilers said
he said he realized what he was doing and he would have to come with us,'' eilers said. ``he stated to us he planned this because he did not want her to suffer any more. he said he didn't want her to go through any more pain.''
asked if carlson had indicated whether he had discussed the action with his wife, eilers said: ``his wife was unable to discuss anything with anybody.'' he said she was in very advanced stages of alzheimer's, a degenerative disease of the central nervous system characterized especially by premature senility
the first-degree murder charge alleges that the killing was premeditated, while state law defines second-degree murder as a spontaneous killing
vice president george bush, extending his new england winning streak, defeated sen. bob dole tuesday in the vermont republican presidential primary. the election was a ``beauty contest,'' with no national delegates at stake
pat robertson and rep. jack kemp put up little effort and lagged far behind the gop front-runners
four libyan warplanes landed tuesday at an airfield beside a sahara oasis and their crew members asked for political asylum in egypt, the government's middle east news agency reported
a source at cairo international airport, speaking on condition of anonymity under security regulations, said the two-seater, soviet-made mig-23s landed at the military base in siwa oasis, 385 miles west of cairo and 30 miles east of the libyan border
the source said all the crewmembers requested political asylum, but he did not specify how many there were
egyptian authorities are considering the asylum requests, the source said
the middle east news agency _ mena _ reported the landings in a brief report that was carried by television
mena said the planes were mig-23 jet fighters and they landed at 1:09 p.m
the london-based international institute for strategic studies said in its book ``the military balance 1987-1988'' that libya's 10,000-man air force has 198 mig-23s
last year, the crews of three libyan aircraft defected to egypt
in march, the five-member crew of a u.s.-built c-130 hercules cargo plane landed at abu simbel in southern egypt
the four-engine transport reportedly was on its way from libya to chad. the libyan media reported the pilot lost his way in a sandstorm and the crewmen were taken prisoner along with their plane by the egyptians when they strayed hundreds of miles and landed at abu simbel
later that month, a chinook helicopter's pilot asked for permission to enter egyptian airspace, then landed at marsa matrouh, a port on the northwestern coast near the libyan frontier
and in july 1987, an mi-8 helicopter landed at a western egypt airfield after a pursuing libyan fighter broke off the chase as egyptian interceptors met it at the border
president hosni mubarak's government has returned one of the aircraft, but it has not said which one or given information about the others
egypt and libya have been enemies since the early 1970s, when the late president anwar sadat spurned a move by libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi to merge the two north african countries
after a series of terrorist bombings in egypt that sadat blamed on libya, the two fought a brief border war in 1977. up 12th graf, `the governor...'.</note>
gov. evan mecham was told that one of his aides might have committed a felony, tampering with a grand jury witness, the governor's former chief of security testified at mecham's impeachment trial tuesday
as the opening day of testimony closed in the first impeachment trial of a u.s. governor in six decades, lawyers were questioning charles ``beau'' johnson, who once supervised security for the governor's every move
mecham has said under oath that he was not told about an alleged death threat by one of his aides against a grand jury witness and wasn't aware it might have been a crime
johnson's testimony came at the end of a day that featured opening statements by both sides, a state supreme court refusal to stop the impeachment trial, and confusion over whether mecham had tried from his suburban ``government in exile'' to contact the trial's first witness during a lunch break. there also was a lower court ruling refusing a move by mecham supporters to block a recall election scheduled for may
johnson said he went to the governor as soon as he knew about the situation and researched the law to determine that if the allegation was true it was a felony
the governor has claimed that johnson ``mumbled'' when they talked and said nothing about the possibly criminal nature of the situation. mecham is accused of obstructing justice by thwarting the official investigation of the alleged threat
johnson insisted he personally told the governor a felony might have occurred
lieutenant, is there any question in your mind that the governor understood the problem?''asked prosecutor william french
he never asked me to repeat anything,'' said johnson
however, he said he never mentioned the words, ``death threat.''
frank martinez, a state department of public safety officer who testified both tuesday morning and afternoon, told the senate he hung up the phone before the governor could talk to him
mecham, absent from the impeachment trial for a second day, issued a statement denying the story. his spokesman said the governor made a mistake and asked for the wrong officer, asking for ``frank'' when he meant ``dave.''
on tuesday night, department of public safety sgt. allan schmidt said the incident had been difficult to sort out, but ``we accept that the scenario they (the governor's office) are putting out is accurate.''
he said a mistake may have been made in trying to put martinez in touch with mecham
in his ruling, the state supreme court denied the request by mecham's lawyers in a 4-0 ruling. the governor's lawyers had contended that his constitutional right to a fair trial in criminal court would be jeopardized by allowing the impeachment to proceed now
however, the supreme court said the senate's impeachment trial is not a criminal proceeding. rather, the court said, the impeachment trial is a legislative proceeding solely intended to decide whether to remove a state officer
friday, the court had denied a request from mecham's lawyers that it delay monday's start of the impeachment trial. the court had said it would consider during its tuesday conference a request from mecham's lawyers for an injunction against the trial
the governor was the subject of both praise and denunications as attorneys delivered opening statements
there's something wrong in this state when you can take an elected official and throw the book at him ... on the basis of witnesses who have a stake in his being outsted,'' defense attorney fred craft said in a loud, feverish statement to state senators who are sitting as judge and jury
what the facts are going to demonstrate is you had a mutiny,'' said craft, mecham's former lobbyist in washington. several of the officials involved in allegations against mecham, he noted, were in office before mecham was inaugurated in january 1987
the attorney, warning of personal attacks to come on mecham associates, said he might be forced to ``take our dirty laundry out and lay it before the world.''
it has been reported that craft will attack the credibility of director of public safety ralph milstead, one of the key witnesses against mecham, by alleging milstead had sexual affairs with members of his staff
milstead issued a short statement tuesday afternoon saying the sexual allegations are ``a ridiculous bunch of lies and intolerable.''
craft's emotional opening followed a quieter presentation by prosecutor william french, who said he would prove the governor broke the law when he allegedly ordered milstead to resist cooperating with an investigation of an alleged death threat by a mecham aide
the governor's conduct surrounding this threat was positively wrong, without lawful authority. he violated his oath of office and obstructed justice,'' said french
french, who is serving as a prosecutor for the state house, warned senators that the defense would try to divert their attention from the governor and to ``prosecute'' others. he implored them: ``don't be distracted. keep your eye on the ball.''
with mecham again absent from the proceedings which could end his political career, testimony began on the first of three charges against him _ the obstruction of justice allegation
mecham, a republican, also is accused of improperly concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his car dealership
the opening statements tuesday only dealt with the alleged threat because the senate agreed to consider one section of the articles of impeachment at a time
in his testinomy, martinez offered a rough outline of the events behind the obstruction of justice claim
the 28 senators present tuesday in the contemporary, reddih wood-paneled senate chamber listened intently as martinez spoke from the witness stand elevated at the front of the semi-circular room. seated next to the witness stand was frank x. gordon, chief justice of the arizona supreme court, who is serving as referee in the proceeding. four clerks sat below gordon
several senators, seated at individual desks, took notes on yellow legal pads
the gallery was only partly filled with spectators and reporters, including former nixon white house aide john ehrlichman, who went to prison in the watergate scandal and is covering the impeachment proceeding for rolling stone magazine
martinez, who was assigned to mecham's security detail, said he was on duty last nov. 13 when mecham administration official peggy griffith came to the detail's office appearing ``nervous, excited and in need to speak to someone.''
martinez said mrs. griffith spilled out details of a parking lot confrontation with lee watkins, a senior aide of the governor, in which watkins allegedly threatened the life of another mecham assistant, donna carlson, who was believed to be testifying before a grand jury investigating the loan
he said mrs. griffith told of being confronted by watkins who said: ``your friend's been a naughty girl.''
mr. watkins then went on to say if she (ms. carlson) kept acting as she did she could take a long boat ride,'' martinez said, quoting mrs. griffith
the officer said he reported the matter to his superior, lt. beau johnson, who consulted others. eventually, it was reported to the attorney general's office, he said
the end result, martinez said, was a meeting with milstead two days later in which johnson was removed from command of the governor's security detail
what did mr. milstead say?'' asked prosecutor paul eckstein
that he had advised the governor what took place,'' said martinez. ``... the governor was very upset and angry. he asked for lt. johnson to be transferred. he said he didn't want to have him cooperating with the attorney general and it would cost lt. johnson his job.''
asked why he reported mrs. griffith's comments in the first place, martinez said: ``in my opinion, the commission of a crime had taken place.''
mecham also faces a may 17 recall election and a march 22 trial on felony charges accusing him of concealing the loan
the recall passed another hurdle tuesday when maricopa county superior court judge frederick martone ruled that a pro-mecham group, concerned arizona voters, hadn't produced evidence of widespread fraud in the petition signatures that put the recall on the ballot
plaintiffs have failed to show ... that the consequence of fraud would be to invalidate enough signatures as to fall below the constitutional threshold'' for signatures necessary to force a recall, martone said. the recall backers had turned in about 80,000 more petition signatures than the minimum needed for a recall vote
concerned arizona voters had contended in its suit that the election should be stopped and a ``special master'' be appointed to investigate possible fraud. decision now up to national organization; no immediate comment from national church headquarters, picking up 3rd graf `the louisiana...'.</note>
louisiana assemblies of god church leaders have rejected a request by national church officials that they reconsider their sanction against television evangelist jimmy swaggart, a church official confirmed tuesday
the official, who asked to remain anonymous, said the 19-member state presbytery decided to send back its original censure barring swaggart from preaching for three months. that decision came monday during a nine-hour meeting at louisiana district headquarters in alexandria, la
the ball's in their court,'' the source said, indicating that it would now be up to national assemblies of god officials to decide whether to abide by the state panel's recommendation
there was no immediate comment from the national headquarters in springfield, mo
the rev. raymond hudson, general treasurer, said he had no comment and other officials were not at home tuesday night. calls to the home of spokeswoman juleen turnage were met by busy signals
the louisiana presbytery's original sanction was a two-year rehabilitation program that also included counseling for swaggart, who heads a ministry which reportedly has an annual income of $150 million
swaggart stepped down from the pulpit feb. 21, telling the congregation at his baton rouge worship center in a tearful confession that he had sinned against his family and god. swaggart reportedly paid a prostitute to pose naked for him and then tried to make a deal with a minister who confronted him about it
the latest development in the scandal surfaced in a story by katc-tv in lafayette, la. the station said it had also learned that the national presbytery had recommended barring swaggart from the pulpit and television for a year, with an additional year of regulation of his ministry afterwards
a louisiana assemblies of god official contacted by the associated press tuesday night confirmed that the state panel had sent its previous sanction back to the national council. the official talked only under conditions he not be identified
when asked if louisiana officials had sent back their original censure to the church's national leaders, the source said, ``it would be correct to say that.''
cecil janway, the assemblies of god district superintendent for louisiana, said when the state panel met monday that there would be no announcement of its decision
decisions made by the louisiana district presbytery today will be returned to the executive presbytery. there will be no further announcement or comment from the louisiana district council,'' janway said
there was no indication whether swaggart attended that meeting, which lasted from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. the rev. jim rentz, who is substituting for swaggart at the family worship center in baton rouge, attended the meeting
forrest hall, secretary-treasurer of the louisiana district council, acknowledged monday that national assemblies of god representatives were at the alexandria meeting
a federal judge ruled tuesday that two companies who used young people in a church job-training program had violated child-labor laws and ordered stiff penalties for seven people who ran the program
u.s. district judge robert potter threatened to fine the seven $21,000 a day if they continued to use the children, as young as 9 years old. he wrote that the children were ``manifestly being exploited.''
shiloh true light church members acknowledged during the january trial that their children worked at construction sites and in shops where they carried bricks, laid foundations and more recently, operated forklifts and power saws
they said they had been doing so for at least 100 years
potter ordered mcgee brothers co. of union county to pay $98,225 in back wages plus nearly $36,000 in interest. mcgee brothers and co-defendant wendell's woodworking inc. of mint hill also were ordered to pay nearly $70,000 in court costs
spokesmen for the companies were not immediately available for comment. there was no answer at the company offices, and their lawyers were not in their offices
u.s. department of labor officials in atlanta said they had not received a copy of the decision and could not comment on whether the $21,000-per-day fine was retroactive to oct. 5, when potter issued an order to stop using the children
the minors are clearly dependent on the defendants' business for their employment and are the class of person whom the act is designed to protect,'' potter wrote in a 58-page opinion
they are manifestly being exploited by defendants in this case, whether or not they proclaim their purpose to be in furtherance of their religious beliefs,'' potter wrote
when the owners of the companies, both church members, continued the program for the church after potter's october order, the labor department asked they be found in contempt of the injunction and be fined $20,000 a day
on tuesday, potter said wendell's would be fined $5,000 per day and its two owners, wendell long and herbert long, be fined $500 each per day thay they remained in contempt of his order
the judge ordered mcgee brothers to pay $10,000 per day and order five brothers who owned the company to pay $1,000 each per day that they remained in contempt of the order. reagan</head> mubarak comment. pick up 13th graf pvs, instead, it ...</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz appeared ready on tuesday night to resume his diplomatic shuttle in the middle east after reporting to president reagan
a u.s. official said jordan's king hussein told shultz at a three-hour meeting in london earlier tuesday that he was interested in shultz's effort to set up arab-israeli negotiations
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said hussein did not directly endorse the u.s. initiative, but told shultz he appreciated the effort being made to open talks
it was a serious discussion, covering the whole waterfront,'' the official said. ``nobody is saying yes or no.''
a statement issued by the jordanian embassy in london said hussein reiterated jordan's position that an international peace conference should be attended by the five permanent members of the u.n. security council _ the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france _ and ``all parties to the conflict, including the palestine liberation organization.''
shultz arranged to confer with reagan briefly tuesday night and more fully on wednesday before reagan begins his talks in the belgian capital with 15 other allied leaders attending a north atlantic treaty organization summit
shultz would return to the middle east at the conclusion of the summit thursday night and try over the next two days to get acceptance of the u.s. formula for negotiations to deal with both palestinian unrest in areas under israeli control and an overall arab-israeli settlement
he's a key, in my opinion,'' shultz said of hussein before their meeting at the king's residence in london's kensington district
he has immense standing and is a person who has been here a long time.'' talking to reporters on the way to london from the middle east, shultz acknowledged he made little progress in four days of shuttle diplomacy
he said he could detect a narrowing of differences, but ``i don't know if i could describe them in any way that would be perceptible to anyone else.''
yet, shultz said, ``assuming everyone continues the attitude they have to keep working, to keep working, we'll do it.''
president hosni mubarak of egypt, however, in his first comment on his talks with shultz, said tuesday he had reservations about the u.s. plan and he would disclose them only after a final formula was reached
mubarak and shultz conferred in egypt sunday. mubarak spoke to reporters while visiting neighboring sudan. egypt's middle east news agency carried his statements from khartoum
in amman monday, reporters were told that jordan was not putting pressure on the plo to form a mixed negotiating delegation for peace talks with israel
instead, it was reported, jordan had taken the position the plo was the sole representative of the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live on the israel-held west bank and in gaza, where clashes have killed more than 70 arabs
the u.s. proposal calls for israel, jordan and palestinians to open negotiations about april 1 on self-rule for the palestinians in israeli-held territory. talks on an overall mideast settlement would begin by december
shultz met twice with jordanian officials, but he had to seek an authoritative answer from hussein, who was in london for dental treatment
diplomatic sources in jerusalem, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said shultz told prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel he would return to the middle east after the nato summit if hussein gave at least qualified support to the u.s. proposal
on his flight to london, shultz stressed a need for the united states to step up contacts with palestinians
shultz confirmed the united states had persuaded israel to relax restrictions in permitting two palestinians, hanna siniora, a jerusalem editor, and fayez abu rahme, a gaza lawyer, to go to washington to meet with him five weeks ago
we have communicated with them in some important, substantive ways,'' shultz said of u.s. approaches to the palestinians
he said he had got the palestinians' reaction indirectly while in the middle east from egypt and jordan
it isn't as though there's no feedback, '' shultz said. ``there is feedback. it's not a substitute for directly sitting down with people, and that in a sense is what we've been calling for all along. in the end we've got to sit down together, so we have made a major effort to communicate with them.''
a group of 15 palestinians invited to meet with shultz in jerusalem friday did not show up under plo orders. he was similarly snubbed in october on a trip to the middle east. news digest: jerusalem _ pm-shultz, a0490; jerusalem _ pm-israel-palestinians, a0483; washington _ pm-reagan-nato, a0424; glendale, ariz. _ pm-mecham's day, a0466; undated _ pm-political rdp., a0441; new york _ pm-troubled school, a0488; tchula, miss. _ pm-rural poor; washington _ pm-capitol mice, a0450; washington _ pm-soviet-arms, a0436; washington _ pm-reagan's scripts, a0418.</note>
jewish settlers distributed leaflets warning arabs that rioting in the occupied lands will ``bring destruction upon you'' and held a protest in tel aviv calling for harsh treatment of the rioters
earlier monday, two palestinians died of gunshot wounds inflicted in clashes with israeli troops in the occupied west bank, and two arabs were wounded by israeli gunfire in the occupied gaza strip
in another development, prime minister yitzhak shamir on monday said he did not reject the recommendation of some cabinet members that the occupied lands be closed to media coverage. ``if it becomes clear that indeed it may limit the damage, i would be willing to consider it,'' he said
arms control and disarmament may dominate this week's nato summit discussions, but the leaders also will talk about human rights and budget problems, alliance officials say
leaders of the 16 nato countries meet wednesday and thursday. in their closing declaration, they are expected to stress support for strengthening the 1975 helsinki accords on respecting basic human rights such as freedom to emigrate and to dissent
what is at the core of underlying tensions in east-west relations is the human dimension,'' alton g. keel jr., the u.s. ambassador to the north atlantic treaty organization, said in an interview
the government's chief economic forecasting gauge is flashing warning signs of an economic slowdown this year, but most economists believe the country will be able to escape without a recession
these analysts believe that economic activity will slow dramatically in the current january-march quarter as businesses cut production plans in order to work off high backlogs of unsold goods
this weak growth will be followed by an improving economic performance for the rest of 1988 as strength in u.s. exports offsets lackluster consumer spending, many economists believe
a general strike protesting the regime of gen. manuel antonio noriega failed to halt transportation and most commerce in the capital, but organizers predicted it would gather momentum
an apparent lack of faith in the effectiveness of mass action conspired against the strike's success on monday, which was payday for many workers
the strike appeared to be somewhat more effective in industry
president reagan's imposition of economic sanctions on panama for alleged drug running is merely symbolic because the penalties prescribed under u.s. law already have been applied against the country, according to u.s. officials
the formal application of the drug trafficking sanctions law, expected today, will have little effect on panama, a senior u.s. official said monday
under a 1986 law, reagan is required to take punitive measures against countries found not to cooperate in curbing drug smuggling to the united states. countries which are ``decertified'' are subject to the penalties
despite ``first-day jitters,'' the senate strongly rejected efforts to dismiss impeachment charges against evan mecham, and one long-time supporter of the governor said conviction was almost certain
during the second day of mecham's impeachment trial today, prosecution and defense attorneys planned to make opening statements on the first allegation against the republican governor _ that he tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
also, the arizona supreme court was expected to rule today on a defense claim that the impeachment trial, the first of a u.s. governor in 59 years, should be delayed until after mecham's march 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
the debate-a-day democratic presidential field was scattered across the super tuesday landscape today after a forum in which rep. richard gephardt was singled out for attacks on his trade policy, tax vote and the contributions he has taken from special interests
in one of the liveliest debates of the campaign, the democrats spelled out differences on trade, taxes and foreign debt with bare-knuckled zest, sparing not even the moderator who was chided by jesse jackson for asking ``a race-based question.''
after the third democratic debate in as many days, the contenders were campaigning in states that will hold primaries or caucuses on march 8, the most delegate-rich day in the history of presidential politics
while serving in the german army, kurt waldheim forwarded a request for the mass deportation of greek civilians to labor camps in 1943, according to a key nazi document
the authenticity of the document, found in the u.s. national archives and made public monday, was confirmed by u.s. justice department spokesman john russell. he said it was among the crucial documents on which the government based its decision to place waldheim, now austria's president and formerly u.n. secretary-general, on a list barring him from entering the united states
under the nuremberg charter adopted at the end of the war, deportation of civilians is both a war crime and a crime against humanity. when the u.s. justice department barred waldheim from the united states, it said he had ``assisted or otherwise participated'' in ``mass deportation of civilians.'' news digest: brussels, belgium _ shultz; beirut, lebanon _ lebanon-kidnap; brussels, belgium _ reagan-nato; wash _ drug wars; panama city, panama _ panama; wash _ meese-stock; undated _ political rdp; wash _ democratic delegates; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham impeachment; colma, calif. _ poaching sting; lhasa, tibet _ tibet-monks.</note>
israeli soldiers broke into a ramallah hospital tuesday, fired tear gas and rubber bullets, beat doctors and took away two palestinian boys suspected of throwing stones at troops, the hospital director said
soldiers shot an arab protester in the shoulder at sebastiya, a west bank town near nablus, hospital officials in nablus reported
foreign minister shimon peres said israel was willing to exchange for peace those parts of the occupied territories not crucial to its security, but prime minister yitzhak shamir has opposed trading land for peace. the two men are partners and rivals in israel's tenuous coalition government
presidential candidates scrambled to discredit their rivals with increasingly rough-and-tumble television commercials a week before the nation's biggest primary day ever
sen. bob dole scored vice president george bush for his role in the iran-contra affair in one new ad. in another, rep. marvin leath of texas criticized two democrats competing against his colleague, rep. richard gephardt
the candidates under attack _ bush, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee _ all have produced hard-hitting tv ads of their own and were expected to respond
the cuban military has some surface-to-surface missiles in its inventory, but none has a nuclear warhead and none could reach the united states even if they did, u.s. officials said tuesday
the defense and administration officials commented under questioning prompted by republican presidential candidate pat robertson's continued insistence, in the face of denials, that cuba may have soviet-made nuclear missiles aimed at the united states
the officials said cuba has about five dozen frog-4 and frog-7 battlefield missiles, date to the 1960s
the pollutants that cause acid rain may be indirectly responsible for elevated rates of colon cancer in parts of the united states, researchers said tuesday
the theory, which has not yet been tested, is an attempt to explain why colon cancer and other cancers are more common in the north central and northeastern united states than in other parts of the country, said cedric garland of the university of california, san diego and his brother frank of the naval health research center in san diego
according to their theory, sulfur dioxide, one of the principal contributors to acid rain, absorbs certain ultraviolet rays in sunlight that trigger the skin to produce vitamin d. studies by cedric garland and others have suggested that vitamin d may help protect against colon cancer
surgeon general c. everett koop told a white house panel tuesday he is concerned about the spread of the aids virus among teen-agers and expressed outrage at suggestions the disease cannot be spread through heterosexual intercourse
reiterating his call for sex education programs beginning at the elementary grade levels, koop said, ``i think it is quite possible to raise a generation of adolescents down the road that would be far less sexually active than the present one.''
he emphasized that such programs should involve parents and incorporate moral and social values along with anatomical studies
while the increasingly widespread use of automobile lap-shoulder belts is saving hundreds of lives, the belts often are misused in ways that reduce their effectiveness, a federal study concluded tuesday
the national transportation safety board said the most common abuse of the car safety belts is that they are worn too loosely or _ often in the case of children _ are tucked under the arm or back because of concern about the high angle of the harness
the lap-shoulder belts are very effective and achieve about all that can be expected of them if they are properly used,'' said ntsb chairman jim burnett. ``but we have a lot of misuse and that problem has to be tackled.''
authorities have clamped a curfew on a southern city where weekend rioting broke out and tensions are still running high because of a territorial dispute between ethnic groups, a soviet official said tuesday
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov suggested that the sunday unrest in sumgait, as well as demonstrations and other violence elsewhere in the caucasus region in which at least two people died, were due to ``mistakes'' made 65 years ago when a territory composed largely of armenians was made part of neighboring azerbaidzhan
he told a government news briefing that ``there were certain injuries'' in sumgait, an industrial city of more than 160,000 people in azerbaidzhan where hooligans were blamed for touching off the sunday riot
peace talks on afghanistan open their most crucial and fragile phase on wednesday, one that is widely hoped to produce a settlement to end a conflict that has claimed more than a million lives
but complex and potentially disruptive issues remain to be resolved during the united nations-sponsored talks before a package of agreements, drawn up during almost six years of bargaining, finally can be completed
u.n. mediator diego cordovez has said the new round of talks will focus on closing the gap between the varying timetables for withdrawing an estimated 115,000 soviet troops
the government said tuesday that its chief barometer of future economic activity fell again in january, but an upward revision in december eased fears that the nation was headed for a recession
the commerce department's index of leading economic indicators dropped 0.6 percent in january. analysts discounted the sharp decline and instead focused on a revision that changed the index's showing in december from a 0.2 percent decline to a 0.3 percent increase
the upward revision for december broke a string of three consecutive monthly declines, which has often in the past been the signal of an impending recession. the index had fallen 0.1 percent in october and 1.1 percent in november
eddie ``the eagle'' edwards, the british ski-jumper who became the winter olympics' favorite loser, flew home to a hero's welcome tuesday. he was the last man off the plane
edwards, who won the hearts of this nation of underdog-lovers by finishing last in ski-jumping events at the olympic games in calgary, arrived at heathrow airport with the 100-member british team, some wearing ``eddie the eagle'' t-shirts
last in line, edwards trooped into the airport to be greeted by flower-throwing fans and an army of photographers, reporters and tv crews
peter konzak of devils lake rummaged through the clutter of his briefcase and found a letter as proof that his invention, a ``pop-up scarecrow,'' has already earned him some attention, if not wealth
i am still invited to the johnny carson show. it is a standing invitation,'' the 66-year-old retired farmer said, answering questions about his scarecrow at the second annual north dakota inventors congress
forty inventors and manufacturers, most of them from north dakota, showed off gizmos, gadgets and thingamajigs at the show that ended tuesday
actress karen austin says she hasn't quite found the words to describe what it was like to work with screen legend katharine hepburn in the nbc movie ``laura lansing slept here,'' but she gives it a shot
i was intimidated, i was exhilarated, i was overwhelmed, i was inspired, all those things. i don't know, it's like a kid getting to play baseball with babe ruth,'' said austin. the made-for-tv movie airs monday
she has a great sense of humor about herself. she has no reverence about herself as an icon. the fact that other people regard her so highly is, i think, a source of benign amusement for her.''
austin, who starred in the first season of ``night court'' and later had a recurring role on ``st. elsewhere,'' plays melody gomphers, a suburban housewife whose life is turned upside-down when a publisher bets a fabulously wealthy novelist that she can't stand to live with a typical american family for a week
it's a gentle comedy,'' austin says. ``you can imagine her descending on suburbia in full sail, with chauffeur and luggage. it's a great part for her, and she's costumed wonderfully, hats and tibetan jewelry and exotic clothes. i kept my hair in a braid, little housedress. it was kind of fun finding a character that was realistic, but also would contrast well with her. that was my aim, really, was to be a backdrop as much as anything for her, a springboard.''
hepburn plays laura lansing, a famous, relentlessly spunky author whose publisher (lee richardson) says she should give up writing because she's lost touch with the common people
he bets her she can't stand to stay for a week with the gompherses and their three children in their little tract house in hicksville on long island
it's a cute movie. lansing expects to find a little gingham world, not a soap-opera plot with a philandering husband, crabby kids and a rebellious teen-ager on the road to juvenile delinquency
for their part, the gompherses are awe-struck when their famous guest arrives, cowing them to the point that they sit silently in the living room, terrified to turn on the television or make any noise that would disturb her
is this what you do in the evening,'' lansing asks innocently when she emerges to find them all lined up on the sofa, ``sit in silent meditation?''
joel higgins plays walter gomphers. schuyler grant, who is hepburn's grand-niece in real life, plays the gomphers' teen-age daughter. sean harmon plays their prepubescent son, and twins ryan and kyle comber play 17-month-old malcolm
katharine's grand-niece (grant) and i used to sit around,'' said austin, ``and i would try to explain to her, because to her it's just aunt katie, but i would try and explain to her what it was like for me to work with her aunt.''
in real life, hepburn did descend on suburbia in vancouver where the movie was shot last year
the neighbors actually would go away when we asked them to,'' austin says with wonder. ``they'd be crowding over the fence taking pictures, and she'd say, `go away, now. go away, don't do that.' and they would actually leave. they were so polite and respectful. you can imagine what they would do in new york city?''
hepburn, austin said, ``knows what quality is, and it's great to be around someone whose standards will not be compromised, and who has the clout to just say, `well, we can't do it this way,' and everybody says, `well, we can't, i guess we can't.' and then it gets done right. it's great.''
elsewhere in television:
`late night' in london, `today' on orient express _ ``late night with david letterman'' has settled on dates for its london run, may 3-6, at the victoria palace theatre. though britons have been able to see ``late night'' once a week since last year, they won't see the four london shows until sometime in the future. says producer robert morton, ``we plan to do basically the same program we do here in new york, except that we'll have new audiences that hopefully speak the same language we do.'' the following week, nbc's ``today'' show will do five shows from aboard the famed train, the orient express, starting in paris with stops in zurich, munich, vienna and venice. ..
lemmon salute _ ``the american film institute salute to jack lemmon'' is being taped march 10 for airing later this spring on cbs. julie andrews, who starred with lemmon in blake edwards' ``that's life,'' will be the host. the producer is george stevens jr., who produced lemmon's recent miniseries on nbc, ``the murder of mary phagan.''
this is a deal you might want to consider, and one that you might want to reconsider after learning the facts
this is the deal:
under section 7623, the internal revenue service can pay tipsters who provide information that leads to detection and punishment of tax violators
you know your neighbor is cheating; you consider turning him in
why not?'' you ask yourself. ``i have to pay, and most of the people i know have to pay. and what my neighbor doesn't pay means higher payments for honest taxpayers.''
besides, you might add, the extra money can help in paying what you owe
on investigating further, you learn that 7,853 claims for rewards were filed in 1986, and that uncle sam recovered $258,372,880 in taxes as a result of the program. that's big money; you'd like a share of it
spurred by the possibility, you continue your research
you learn that if you provide specific and responsible information that prompts an investigation and aids the irs in determining the amount of taxes due, you are entitled to 10 percent of the first $75,000 recovered
you may be entitled to 5 percent of the first $75,000 if your information leads to the recovery of taxes but is considered of value only in determining the amount due, rather than being the cause of the investigation
and you learn, finally, that if your tip brings about an investigation but is of no value in determining the tax due, you may be eligible for 1 percent of the first $75,000
the rewards don't end with the first $75,000, but the percentages change. however, your information must be, as the irs states, ``specific and responsible.'' and the dollar basis for the reward is computed only on the amount of tax collected that wouldn't otherwise be collected. fair enough
but as you dig into the details you may begin to have doubts. you learn that of the 7,853 claims filed in 1986, only 820 resulted in payoffs to tipsters. and on average they didn't get very much
the total of all rewards was $1,307,000, meaning an average payout of $1,600. in other words and numbers, the percentage of reward to taxes collected came to less than one-half of 1 percent, a decidedly small finder's fee
the irs is the real winner in the tipster program,'' says bob doyle, speaking for associates ed graves and jim ivers, who researched this data for clients of their newsletter, ``on the money.''
the three men aren't just editors. all are authorities on financial matters _ doyle on investments and tax shelters, graves on insurance, ivers on taxes and financial planning _ and all are professors at american college in bryn mawr, pa
it might be added that american college is where many of the nation's financial advisers, such as chartered life underwriters and chartered financial consultants, are trained
it is from that vantage point that they declare the irs rather than the taxpayer to be the real winner
they observe that while the total collected in 1986 was more than 20 times the amount obtained in 1982, the percentage of reward to taxes collected was the lowest
one more item: the irs classifies the rewards as taxable income. the presidential candidates' stands on major issues in campaign '88</note>
pat robertson, a reformed pack-and-a-half-a-day smoker, is taking the toughest stand against tobacco among the 10 presidential candidates. most of his rivals, campaigning in the tobacco belt in advance of super tuesday, support the government's tobacco price support program
in response to a survey by the associated press, nearly all the candidates said they would maintain or intensify efforts to discourage people from smoking. seven of 10 said they back the government's price support program
but robertson wants to snuff out the tobacco industry entirely over 10 years and stiffen taxes on cigarettes to help pay for long-term health care for the elderly
the ap surveyed the candidates about tobacco and smoking as they gird for the march 8 round of primaries across the south, where tobacco may no longer be king but remains the top cash crop
tobacco provides wages and benefits of more than $14 billion a year for 710,000 people across the region
with the exception of robertson and democrats gary hart and paul simon, the candidates favor continuing the price support program for tobacco, which guarantees growers a minimum price and regulates how much they can produce
vice president george bush said, ``i support the law requiring the tobacco program to be run at no net cost to the federal government.''
bush did not reply to a separate question about whether he would expand government anti-smoking efforts
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee raised eyebrows at a democrats' debate in iowa in january when he brought up the death toll caused by smoking and said that despite the 100,000 tobacco farmers in tennessee, ``i don't think there should be any public subsidy of tobacco at all.''
but in subsequent campaign appearances in the south and again in response to the ap survey, gore made clear that he is no critic of the tobacco price support program, which he said ``does not rely at all on taxpayers' dollars ... (and) helps many small tobacco farmers stay in business.''
gore added, ``i believe the government should do everything in its power to educate the public about the hazards associated with smoking.'' he said he supports stronger warning labels on cigarette packages
gore, himself, quit growing tobacco on a family farm after his sister nancy died of lung cancer in 1984
democrat jesse jackson strongly defended the price support program, although he favors shifting more of its benefits to small, family farms
but jackson added: ``we have to recognize that 350,000 deaths per year are related to smoking. the government must beef-up educational efforts to inform the public of this hazard.'' he said the government should consider using revenues from the 16-cent excise tax on cigarettes to assist tobacco farmers who want to switch to other crops
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said he supports tobacco price supports, as well as ``a vigorous public health campaign to encourage smokers to quit and to discourage young people from taking up the habit.''
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., said he supports the current federal tobacco program, as well as a ban on smoking on short commercial flights and ``an active public education campaign'' against smoking
sen. paul simon, d-ill., who is not campaigning in the super tuesday states, favors doubling the excise tax on cigarettes
of price supports, simon said: ``the tobacco industry is very clear about getting the message across that the current tobacco program does not cost the taxpayers. while that may be true ... the fact is that smoking costs all of us greatly. i believe we must expand government efforts to discourage people from smoking.''
senate republican leader bob dole of kansas said it is unlikely that the united states would ever outlaw smoking. if it eliminated domestic tobacco production, american smokers would just be forced to use ``lower quality, imported'' tobacco with ``no real gains in public health,'' he said
robertson said smoking-related deaths cost the nation at least $65 billion a year. he called for earmarking revenues from a users' fee on tobacco ``exclusively for meeting the long-term health care needs of our older citizens.''
robertson has called for a government buyout of farmers' tobacco allotments over 10 years and tax breaks to allow tobacco companies to phase out their investments
the associated press asked all the presidential candidates on feb. 11:
do you support the current federal price support program for tobacco? would you expand government efforts to discourage people from smoking?''
all replied in writing except hart, whose positions were outlined by a campaign aide
here are the republicans' replies:
i support the law requiring the tobacco program to be run at no net cost to the federal government.''
one of the most misunderstood aspects of tobacco is the government price support program, sometimes called `the tobacco subsidy.' ... the commodity credit corporation, which administers commodity stabilization programs for usda, has in the past incurred minor expenses in the tobacco program _ only $58 million over a period of 50 years prior to 1984. meanwhile, federal, state, and local excise taxes collected from the sale of tobacco products have exceeded $150 billion
i have supported efforts to increase public awareness of the potential dangers of smoking. it seems unlikely that smoking will be outlawed in the u.s. and tobacco imports will undoubtedly continue, regardless of u.s. production. in other words, if the u.s. eliminated tobacco production, those u.s. citizens choosing to smoke would do so using lower quality, imported foreign tobacco instead of u.s. produced tobacco.''
i have not proposed any major reforms in the federal `no net cost' tobacco program; i do support government (and private) efforts to discourage smoking.''
smoking-related deaths are costing the nation at least $65 billion each year ... one-third on direct health care costs, while the remaining two-thirds _ a whopping $43 billion _ is attributable to lost job productivity. ultimately, these staggering costs are borne by the average citizen _ and nearly 75 percent of americans don't even smoke
it makes no sense that while the surgeon general's office is waging a campaign against smoking, the federal government is involved in price supports for tobacco. and it's illogical for politicians to bemoan the grave health consequences of tobacco while, at the same time, supporting its production
i believe the federal government should get out of tobacco production, and continue its campaign to educate the public on the dangers of smoking ... a user fee on tobacco products would serve as an added incentive to stop smoking. revenues from such a fee should be earmarked exclusively for meeting the long-term health care needs of our older citizens.''
here are the democrats' replies:
in massachusetts, i have supported policies to protect the rights of non-smokers. and as president, i would support a vigorous public health campaign to encourage smokers to quit and to incourage young people from taking up the habit
i do not favor direct taxpayer subsidies to farmers who grow tobacco. however, i do not oppose the tobacco industry's own effort to provide economic assistance through the existing commodity credit corporation loan program, which operates at no net cost to the taxpayer. and i strongly support efforts to encourage tobacco farmers to diversify so that they can deal with the economic impact of what i hope will be continuing progress towards a smoke-free society.''
i do support the current federal program. there are a lot of small- and medium-sized farmers who depend on that program to give them a fair price. when properly run, this program does not cost the government any money: it's paid for by the people who smoke cigarettes
i support measures to ban smoking on commercial airlines on short flights and to restrict smoking to certain areas on longer flights. also, although i do not favor a total ban on advertising and promotion of tobacco products, i do support an active public education campaign to inform people of the potential adverse effects that tobacco products can have on our health.''
i support the current federal program for tobacco which is funded entirely by the contributions of growers and processors and does not rely at all on taxpayers' dollars. the current program helps many small tobacco farmers stay in business
i believe the government should do everything in its power to educate the public about the hazards associated with smoking. i have been a strong supporter of stronger warning labels on cigarette packages and other mechanisms to inform the public of smoking-related health risks. i believe public education will result in a gradually decreasing demand for tobacco products
campaign aide jay angoff said hart does not support price supports because ``it makes no sense on the one hand to pay people to grow tobacco and then for us as a society to incur the tremendous costs that tobacco imposes.''
on anti-smoking efforts, angoff said hart ``certainly wouldn't spend a lot of money on it, but he would use the powers of the presidency to make people aware of the harm smoking causes.''
in general i support the federal tobacco program although .. . i would like to see the tobacco program reformed so that small family farms benefit more than they currently do. at the present time production quotas are distributed in a way that favors corporate farmers and neglects the family farmer who is the backbone of the rural south. ..
as long as there is a demand for tobacco and people who make their livelihood from meeting that demand, the federal government should offer its assistance
but we have to recognize that 350,000 deaths per year are related to smoking. the government must beef-up educational efforts to inform the public of this hazard. just as importantly, we must make every effort possible to assist farmers to diversify out of tobacco production if they so desire. we should consider using some portion of the 16 cent tobacco excise tax to fund such an effort.''
the tobacco industry is very clear about getting the message across that the current tobacco program does not cost the taxpayers. while that may be true of the program that assists tobacco farmers, the fact is that smoking costs all of us greatly
i believe we must expand government efforts to discourage people from smoking. ... i believe we must begin to take steps to protect non-smokers from the adverse effects of smoking. i generally support legislative efforts to discourage smoking. i am co-sponsor of legislation that would double the federal excise tax on tobacco products. ..
this would have the effect of pricing tobacco products out of the reach of those most susceptible to developing a long-term smoking habit: teen-agers.''
end adv pm thur march 3 ^by george w. cornell</byline>
in the month before tv evangelist jimmy swaggart was silenced by scandal, his preaching turned from outward attacks to self-criticism in what ``may have been the outgrowth of his own sin,'' a researcher says
he lately started putting himself down,'' says stephen m. winzenburg, a communications professor at florida southern college. ``it makes you wonder how much of it was guilt seeping through
he usually had put others down and pumped himself up as being greater than anyone else, with an inside, direct line to god. but then all of a sudden, he started saying these negative, deprecating things about himself. he seemed to be pointing a finger at himself, and preaching it to others.''
leaders of the assemblies of god in swaggart's louisiana district initially recommended that he be suspended from preaching for at least three months because of his reported involvement with a prostitute. national leaders of the church have asked the district to review that recommendation, and perhaps make the penalty more severe
winzenburg, a catholic whose monitoring project mainly aimed at timing and comparing fund-raising pitches of tv evangelists, said he was puzzled when swaggart began switching his preaching targets
it was something that hadn't been there before, but now it makes more sense,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``it may have been the outgrowth of his own sin
he also started picking on fellow pentecostals. before, he had focused more on attacking catholics and mainline protestants. but now he was denouncing his own kind.''
from swaggart's preaching since mid-1987, some of it taped and broadcast after his feb. 21 confession to his congregation of ``grievous sin,'' winzenburg cites these samples of swaggart's self-deprecation:
july l2 _ ``i'm scared to death of money and scared to death of women. those two things have caused more creatures' downfall than any other.''
dec. 14 _ ``i'm a poor, pitiful, flawed creature.''
dec. 20 _ taking an odd subject for a christmas sermon, he identified himself with judas, who betrayed christ
feb. 21 _ comparing himself to the biblical harlot, rahab, he said he was a ``poor, pitiful, scarred, flawed piece of humanity.''
samples given of his put-down of other pentecostals:
feb. 24 _ attacking higher education, he said, ``even pentecostal schools are straying.''
feb. 25 _ ``holy ghost preachers are falling for seducing spirits at an alarming rate. this is the paramount danger of the church.... in supposedly holy ghost (pentecostal) churches, the pastors never preach on the holy spirit.''
july 24 _ he said that after criticizing the catholic church, ``all hell broke loose,'' but he had ``a right to criticize others because the book (bible) gives us the right
if catholics go wrong, somebody's got to let them know. if baptists go wrong, somebody's got to let them know. even if pentecostals go wrong, somebody's got to let them know. that's what we'll continue to do.''
swaggart lodged complaints of sexual misconduct that led to the ouster of former tv evangelist jim bakker and that also bumped a new orleans evangelist, marvin gorman. both were ministers of the assemblies of god. gorman reportedly provided evidence that unseated swaggart _ pictures of him at a motel with a prostitute
swaggart also has harshly assailed other denominations, declaring dec. 13 that ``in most churches in america, you couldn't get saved if you wanted to.''
some of his sharpest assaults on roman catholicism seem to have been toned down lately, winzenburg said. some tv stations had threatened to drop his program if the attacks continued
the louisiana interchurch conference, including most major protestant and catholic bodies in the state of swaggart's headquarters, in 1983 formally protested his attacks on catholicism
the rev. james l. stovall, the conference executive director, says ``we took it pretty lightly'' when swaggart denounced baptists, methodists and other protestants, but when he began stirring up anti-catholic venom, ``we had to condemn it.''
swaggart has called catholicism a ``false cult,'' a ``monstrosity of heresy'' and a ``complete contradiction of the word of god.''
roman catholic bishop stanley j. ott of baton rouge, la., met with swaggart in 1984 to urge him to stop the attacks, but said afterward swaggart continued to ``harbor judgments and make statements'' about the church that were neither true nor fair
the rev. robert furlow, a catholic permanent deacon and communications officer for the baton rouge diocese, observed somewhat prophetically before swaggart's downfall:
when you start attacking others, it can turn in on oneself. when you're firing rockets around, you're liable to hit yourself in the foot.''
two french-cooking schools _ one the oldest, the other the newest _ are giving the world's gastronomic capital yet another culinary lift
cordon bleu, the oldest and most prestigious, has taken on a high-tech image at a new location in a five-story building that once was an infirmary
the luxurious ritz hotel, the newest, is opening its kitchens april 5 to students of haute cuisine
the cachet of the elegant right bank hotel is maintained in the decor of its new basement cooking school, where gleaming white-tiled spaces and hand-painted murals set the tone
the cordon bleu, long situated in cramped quarters in the classy champ de mars district under the eiffel tower, moved in january to the building on an anonymous corner of the 15th arrondissement in southern paris
the school where servants from affluent families long ago watched cooking demonstrations in an amphitheater now offers every high-tech amenity, including video screens
both schools offer all levels of instruction up to professional
despite the new home, tradition at the venerable cordon bleu remains intact. the top diploma at the cordon bleu is awarded to students who pass a nine-month session. the ritz school's top diploma follows a 12-week course
hardly a newcomer to fine food, the ritz has been known for its cuisine since auguste escoffier attracted international gastronomes early in the century. it decided to spread its know-how as part of an overall renovation plan started by mohammed al-fayed, the egyptian entrepreneur who bought the hotel nine years ago
we feel we're offering unique and superior instruction for a private cooking school,'' said gregory usher, an american who left the cordon bleu to take over the ritz school's administration. ``our chefs are tops.''
the courses are to be supervised by three of the ritz's own chefs, all winners of the top professional award, meilleur ouvrier de france. most daily courses will be handled by two chefs with credentials from prestigious french restaurants. one, andre guillut, perfected his english while working at restaurants like l'orangerie and ma cuisine in los angeles
the up-to-date equipment includes permanently cooled pastry marbles, the latest in ovens, freezers and mixers. the hotel's meat smoker will be used for ``charcuterie'' courses, and video outlets are available for taping recipes
pupils can browse in a reference library, taste wine with the ritz's sommelier, and the change and shower after the course in a special area
across the seine at cordon bleu, in the business since 1896, it's a whole new world
spanking clean in light greys and blues, today's big-scale school includes two demonstration rooms, four huge cooking and pastry rooms, and a beautiful winter garden
equipment includes convection ovens, pastry-rising ovens and huge dough-kneaders, plus special machines for a new course on vacuum-packing and cooking _ to be taught by patrick martin, the 1987 winner of the french national cuisine and pastry trophy
we're still emphasizing traditional french cuisine,'' said robin cahill, a cordon bleu graduate and its spokeswoman. ``but in our expanded facilities just about everything is new.''
the basics are still the main point,'' said chef martin, one of seven chefs. ``the students will still learn how to chop, knead, whip and do everything else by hand as well.''
the overwhelming majority of cordon bleu students are from abroad _ about 30 percent american and 20 percent japanese, said ms. cahill
while the ritz plans english translations in all courses, the cordon bleu still teaches its advanced courses in french
financing for the modernization comes from the pages group, headed by andre cointreau, which bought the school in 1981
intermediate students at the ritz may choose a one-to-six week course of practical sessions and demonstrations at cost in french francs of about $800 a week. the ritz's highest-level auguste escoffier course, a 12-week session, costs about $10,000
cordon bleu's main three 12-week courses comprise a cycle of ``basic'' through ``superior'' at a cost of about $4,200 each
to get the coveted cordon bleu grand diplome, pupils now spend nine months, reduced from 12, in intensive cooking and pastry courses preparing for the big exam, at a cost of $19,000
we're also offering new intensive four-day practical and demonstration sessions,'' ranging from charcuterie to regional cuisine and costing about $500, said ms. cahill
both schools conduct wine tasting courses
a visitor to paris who wants to compare the big-school ambience of the cordon bleu with the tonier ritz can attend demonstrations at either one for less than $35 each. up</head>
as other upper-echelon administration officials plot a return to private life, retired ohio steel executive c. william verity is relishing his role as ``the new boy on the block.''
just four months into his job, the new commerce secretary appears determined to leave an activist's stamp on his agency, although he allows ``i have a lot of catching up to do.''
there's so much going on, it's hard to get your arms around it,'' he said in an interview. but verity, soft-spoken and gracious like predecessor malcolm baldrige, says he considers himself a ``late bloomer'' at 71
his first months in office have been anything but placid
there have been trade tangles with the japanese, attacks from conservatives over his views on soviet trade, a run-in with nasa, a staff upheaval
and whales
i never had any idea i would be in charge of whales some day. and i had no idea it would take so much of my time,'' verity said, referring to his recent recommendation for sanctions on japan for their killing of minke whales in violation of international whaling agreements
that action, while mostly symbolic, won plaudits from conservationists
as the commerce department celebrates the 75th anniversary of its creation on friday, verity has been pressing ahead with his own schemes to more fully automate the activities of the once staid but now sprawling agency
the department administers u.s. trade policy, probably its most vital role in a day of $170 billion trade deficits. but it also collects and analyzes economic data and serves as home for the census bureau, the national weather service, the bureau of standards and a host of other agencies
one of verity's first moves was getting behind a program for encouraging the commercialization of space _ a project, he said, which brought him into immediate conflict with the national aeronautics and space administration. ``nasa doesn't want anybody else out there,'' he said
and verity set up a program to help smaller companies ``get into the export game'' by capitalizing on exchange-rate changes that are making u.s. goods more competitive abroad, a project he says is now his top priority
it may be that a new boy on the block can help move things along,'' the white-haired former industrialist said in an interview in his sparsely furnished office in the commerce department
the office is a huge room built to the specifications of herbert hoover, the commerce secretary from 1921 to 1928, but more recently festooned with the cowboy and rodeo memorabilia that were the pride of baldrige, an immensely popular cabinet secretary among agency employes
baldrige's death last summer in a freak rodeo accident brought verity, a longtime republican fundraiser and reagan suporter, out of a comfortable retirement in south carolina. he had been chairman of armco steel
but he was not able to win over all former baldrige loyalists
some of the highest-ranking agency officials have quit since verity took the helm, the most recent departure coming last week with the resignation of bruce smart, an under commerce secretary well respected on capital hill for his expertise on trade issues
verity and smart had a number of personality clashes, according to other department employes who spoke on the condition of anonymity
the friction culminated in verity's withdrawal of his earlier recommendation that smart be elevated to the no. 2 commerce department to succeed former deputy sectretary clarence j. brown
brown, a rival to verity in early speculation on whom reagan would pick to succeed baldrige, also resigned his post soon after verity's confirmation
still, verity's no-nonsense approach, particularly his tough stance toward japan, has won him a lot of fans in the business community
it has endeared him to a lot of people around here. other secretaries and other u.s. spokesmen have not been urging the government to start speaking in plain language to these guys,'' said richard muller, a washington representative for chrysler corp
soon after taking office, verity went on the offensive, telling a tokyo audience that japan faced near-certain retaliation if it continued to restrict its markets while underpricing its own products in u.s. markets
i understand their culture, i understand that they are a closed society,'' verity said in the interview. ``they're not the least bit interested in opening their society.''
when he was nominated, congressional conservatives balked at verity's long support of closer ties with the soviet union as past chairman of a u.s.-soviet trade advocacy council
and some jewish groups considered troublesome his public skepticism toward the jackson-vanik law, which denies preferential trade treatment to the soviets because of their refusal to allow free soviet jewish emigration
japanese-americans rued his use of the term ``japs'' in a pre-confirmation speech. and environmentalists were unhappy about his industrialist's record on clean air and clean water
however, since he was sworn in last oct. 19 _ the day the stock market crashed _ verity has weathered most of these criticisms
but he says that's he's learned one thing: the difference between running a steel company and running a federal agency
i think you find out you're not really in charge,'' verity said
the big difference is the mission of private business is to get something done. in government, this is not so. in government, it's to move toward solving a problem, but to get everybody on board with you as you try to solve it.''
and that just requires a lot of time and a lot of massaging of people's feelings.''
when the vatican's doctrinal umpire was asked at a recent new york news conference whether current controversy among american bishops might weaken their collective voice, he wouldn't say
however, the question is regarded a potentially more underlying threat to the bishops' joint influence than the surface cause of their present public quarrel _ a statement on aids
cardinal joseph ratzinger, a powerful dispenser of church discipline, said only that he wouldn't talk about the matter until he speaks with u.s. bishops about it this spring
he has been critical of organizations of bishops such as the national conference of catholic bishops, and he left hanging the potential of vatican intervention of some kind
the bishops' unusual out-in-the-open dispute _ over an aids statement issued by the bishops' 50-member administrative board in mid-december _ has focused on some content of the statement itself
but several knowledgeable churchmen saw in the conflict a potential erosion of the bishops' collective teaching function via their conference, which has become increasingly vigorous on issues from economics to nuclear weaponry
the loser will be the bishops' conference itself,'' writes monsignor howard basler in the brooklyn tablet
catholic sociologist eugene kennedy of loyola university says the controversy ``plays into the hands of people who question the purpose and effectiveness of the national conference's collegiality.''
collegiality, the mutually shared responsibility of bishops and others, was stressed by the reforming second vatican council of 1962-65, and has been manifested increasingly in the u.s. bishops' joint teaching documents
kennedy, author of numerous books on church developments, including his study of the growing scope of the conference, ``re-imagining american catholicism,'' said in an interview:
if personalities begin to speak outside the conference and indicate that the conference wishes do not match their own, then the harm to the conference could be irreparable.''
asked if that was happening, he said, ``exactly.''
he said it ``would please certain people in rome who have long been suspicious and wary of the bishops' conference in the united states. there are several curial officials who wish to diminish its influence on a practical level.''
ratzinger, head of the vatican's watchful congregation for the doctrine of the faith, has said there is ``no theological basis'' for national bishops' conferences
he says such organizations risk smothering rome's direct line of authority with individual bishops. that authority plainly can be more readily exercised with lone bishops than with national blocs of them
in any case, those objecting to the aids statement have been largely those regarded as among the bishops' conservative wing, tending to be more closely aligned with the conservative ratzinger
kennedy said he presumed ``good motives'' of those challenging the aids statement, but ``the effect is to damage the process of collegiality itself.''
collegiality is the process used to avoid seeming personality conflicts,'' he said. ``collegiality means everybody is heard, with a focus on the issue, rather than on two or three personalities.''
individual bishops always are free to dissent from conference conclusions, but a highly inclusive consensus usually is achieved, and any bishops disagreeing simply disregard the recommendations in their dioceses, rather than challenging the process
in the present conflict, several bishops, notably new york's cardinal john o'connor and boston's cardinal bernard law, have publicly assailed the aids document. several others, including chicago's cardinal joseph bernardin and cincinnati's archbishop daniel e. pilarczyk, have defended it
the document repeatedly insists on the church's teaching of abstinence from sex before marriage and fidelity within marriage as the only sure safeguards against aids, saying that without them, there is no such thing as ``safe sex.''
but one paragraph caused the fuss. it says public educational programs, directed at people who may reject church standards, could include information about condoms, which some medical experts say may help prevent aids
critics charged this implied approving condoms, condemned by the church as birth-control devices. defenders insist the document does not approve condoms, but saw them as a ``lesser evil'' compared to the ``greater evil'' of spreading a deadly disease
the bishops' administrative board meets march 21 to consider the furor, and may put it before the entire conference of bishops in june. meanwhile, ratzinger said he would discuss it with bishops in their ad limina (periodic) visits to rome beginning in march
the bishops' conference first was formed in 1917 to coordinate church efforts in world war i. the vatican threatened to supress it in 1922 on grounds it infringed on jurisdiction of individual bishops
the bishops managed to preserve it, insisting it was a voluntary organization, depending on each bishop's free choice to participate, and by their consensus, exercised collective responsibilities and moral suasion
the u.s. conference has inspired 42 similar national catholic bishops' conferences around the world, acting to carry out mutual responsibilities
roman catholic, protestant and eastern orthodox representatives have urged the u.s. senate to ratify, without amendments or delay, the u.s.-soviet treaty for reducing intermediate-range nuclear forces
the rev. arie brouwer of the national council of churches, including most major protestant and eastern orthodox bodies, called the treaty a ``first step toward developing real security for us and the world's people.''
roman catholic archbishop roger mahony of los angles, head of the u.s. bishops' international policy committee, said the treaty should become part of a continuing process of disarmament, making for more stable soviet-u.s. relationships
the religious leaders testified before the senate foreign relations committee
a site-selection task force this week recommended that the board of pensions of the presbyterian church (usa) be based in philadelphia
the choice, subject to ratification by the church's general assembly in june, was among these three potential sites:
louisville, where the newly merged denomination has established its headquarters; atlanta, where the former southern branch had its headquarters, or philadelphia where the northern branch had its pension board.  
despite the anguish of american jews over the current violence in israel, their commitment to the jewish state has not been weakened, says a veteran observer of the middle east scene
hyman bookbinder, american jewish committee special representative, told a conference sponsored by the miami herald and the university of miami that u.s. jews have felt ``agony, anguish, frustration _ even anger at times.''
but he added: ``it would be a serious mistake to interpret these reactions as rejection of israel or even a dilution of commitment.''
a leader of the fundamentalist wing of southern baptists predicts that that its candidate for president will be the rev. jerry vines of jacksonville, fla., opposing the rev. richard jackson of phoenix, ariz
both take a conservative view of scripture, the rev. paige patterson, a fundamentalist leader, said in predicting their candidacies, but he said jackson has been co-opted by the moderates
to maintain the nine-year resurgence of conservative-fundamentalists at the denomination's convention in june, he said, they must back ``an inerrantist for president who will do their bidding.''
inerrantists'' maintain scripture is without factual error
the lithuanian information center says several persons associated with celebrations last month of the 70th anniversary of lithuanian independence are being held under house arrest by soviet police
the u.s. supreme court has declined to reconsider a lower court decision that parents don't have a right to substitute home teaching for school-required textbooks that offend parental religious sensitibilites
the high court let stand a federal court of appeals ruling that the hawkins county, tenn., school board was not obligated to provide alternative reading arrangements for pupils whose parents objected to various textbooks
a district court had ordered school officials to excuse students for home instruction from the controversial reading assignments, but the appeals court said the state is not obliged to shelter children ``from exposure to some ideas they find offensive.''
roman catholic worshipers in this diocese _ and others across the country _ last weekend took home a little cardboard piece that folds into a small ``bowl.''
during the lenten season between now and easter, they're asked to place in the ``bowl'' each week the cost of a small meal _ the accumulated proceeds of which go to feed the hungry
called ``operation rice bowl,'' the program is sponsored by catholic relief services, with 75 percent of the total collected going to world-wide relief, and 25 percent of it retained to help the local poor
youngstown bishop james malone said the project is an excellent means of observing the lenten practice of almsgiving and ``adds an element of awareness of the hunger that others suffer.''
we few, we happy few, we band of brothers ...''
_ william shakespeare, henry v
there is so little left
a red cardboard valentine with torn paper lace, which proclaims, ``i love you mom.'' a carefully penned thanksgiving essay in which the writer says he's grateful for his family ``to have someone to love me.'' a child's ``life story'' book with extra pages left blank for future adventures
chad eugene gragg, 12, aaron wayne gragg, 11, and stephen douglas gragg, 8, died together at dusk on the cold afternoon of feb. 4
it was aaron's 11th birthday. despite admonishments from a teacher and a chum who rode home with him on the bus, he chose to celebrate it by sliding on the frozen surface of a farmer's pond
the ice broke. aaron fell into the frigid water. his big brother chad, doing what his parents had always taught him to do, attempted to save him. he, too, fell in. stevie, strong for his age, also tried to be his brothers' keeper. his body plunged through the thin crust
a horrified neighbor boy ran for help. frantic firemen pulled the brothers from the pond within 30 minutes. they weren't breathing and had no pulse. two helicopters and an ambulance rushed them to three separate hospitals
thus began the agonizing pilgrimage of charles and mary gragg, two ordinary people who now stagger in the footsteps of job
meanwhile, word of the tragedy spread like woodsmoke over this western missouri town of 2,800. the event would change forever buckner's image of itself
as doctors at st. mary's hospital in nearby blue springs told the parents their son chad was dead, teachers and friends arrived to surround the stunned couple in a protective cocoon
hoping against hope, the graggs next went to st. luke's hospital in kansas city, only to be told aaron, too, was gone
by the time they reached children's mercy hospital the graggs were at the heart of a caravan of grief. they found stephen on a life support system. at 10 p.m., he passed away
in the space and time it took for the sun to set and the moon to rise, three healthy, happy, handsome little boys vanished from the lives of all who knew them
they left behind bits of homework and smiling celluloid images, a puppy named scooter who looks for them everywhere, empty school desks, classmates who struggle to remember their last words, teachers who wish they'd known them better
they left behind the townspeople of buckner, who were galvanized by the loss to dig deep within their hearts and pockets to bury the children with dignity, and continue to mourn them with honest tears
they left behind their mother and their father, but mary and charles gragg, both 41, are no longer parents. the sounds of laughter, of life, are gone from their empty house. the only noise comes from the television set. the door to the boys' bedroom is closed
the unbearable must now be borne
in our age, children aren't eligible to die because our expectations have been set up that children can survive anything,'' said kathryn howard, a grief counselor with comprehensive mental health services in nearby independence, mo
all the time we read about children who fall into freezing water and survive. why not aaron, or chad, or at least stevie? they couldn't be saved because the water wasn't deep enough nor cold enough. but because of modern medical miracles, we are conditioned to believe it is outrageous that they died.''
ms. howard, whose nonprofit agency has contracts with both the local school district and fire department, has headed grief and death counseling in buckner since the drownings. she also helped the graggs plan their children's funeral
the human spirit is resilient beyond belief, and that is the hope here,'' said ms. howard. ``at a time like this you can get swamped by the grinding pain of it. but out of that pain comes some of the most substantial character and human elegance to be found on earth. you learn how people can rise up and care for one another
this is now a community that speaks with one voice. that phenomena is rare _ too often we are too big and fragmented a society for this to happen. but if you listen to buckner today, what you hear is, `we care. this matters to us. they were our children, too.'''
the graggs had no close relatives living nearby. acting out of instinct and compassion, buckner elementary school principal richard thompson stepped into the abyss
the school in a sense became their family,'' said thompson. ``working with me, kathryn howard, and jerry brown, the funeral director, charlie and mary decided to have the funeral in the junior high gymnasium. the parents wanted the teachers to speak, and to be pallbearers
this became a chance for the community to fulfill what a community is all about. before the accident happened you could have counted on one hand the number of people who knew charlie and mary gragg. now everyone knows them and wants to help them.''
the parent-teacher association mobilized to take food to the gragg home for the next two weeks. secretly thanking god it wasn't their own kids, mothers reached into closets and brought forth suits and ties for the boys to wear to their graves
funds were established to accept donations to offset medical and funeral expenses. the local bank, the savings and loan and a florist donated flower sprays for the coffins
it is so hard to take it in,'' said james b. jones, president of the first state bank of missouri, where nearly $20,000 was sent in the first two weeks after the accident
pondering the event's anguishing mathematics, jones wondered, ``if people had only one child and lost it, isn't that just as terrible as having three and losing them all? i don't know, i simply don't know, it's just so hard to make yourself think about it.''
mortician brown tried not to think about his own boys, aged 7 and 8, as he plotted the funeral like a general planning a battle
we went into this with no idea there'd be any money to pay for it. i was estimating a minimum of $2,500 each. i went to my vault manufacturer and coffin supplier and explained the situation. they were willing to share the burden, no matter what happened,'' said brown, whose family has served as buckner's only morticians for three generations
brown decided on three identical coffins, three identical hearses. he reserved three side-by-side plots on a gently sloping hillside in the town cemetery
from the graves you can look out over the walnut and oak trees, past dormant farm pastures, and down toward the creek where an angry crawdad once bit aaron's big toe, where chad caught a two-pound lunker of a catfish, where stevie loved to hunt for frogs
those are the same hills and hollars brown scampered over as a child. he, too, remembers sliding across frozen ponds with his buddies
brown steeled himself not to think about any of those memories, or the event that brought him into the graggs' circle, ``because it is so overwhelming, so awesome, that it stops you in your tracks.'' he'd think later. first, he had a big job to do
when he'd finished embalming and dressing the dead children in their new clothes, he tucked each boy's favorite toy into the silk-lined caskets
as brown ministered to the dead, thompson and ms. howard, along with every clergyman in town, local teachers, and reinforcements from other schools, consoled the living
the day after it happened we conducted emotional triage in the halls, the library, the cafeteria, and the classrooms,'' said ms. howard. ``we had kids crying with counselors in corners everywhere you looked. part of being young is learning how to deal with your pain. the kids were shown they could support one another and that they wouldn't be alone.''
teachers read ``the taste of blackberries'' to all fourth and fifth graders. the book relates the tale of a boy who loses his best friend. younger children heard ``the 10th good thing about barney,'' a story of a little boy whose cat dies
thompson sent letters home with every student, detailing the day's upheavel and warning parents their children ``might have tears or depression but that is expected and is normal in the grief process ...'' attached were four pages of guidelines for dealing with the situation
that day we just put a band-aid on it, we flew by the seat of our pants,'' recalled thompson. ``we decided to leave the gragg boys' desks empty to stress the finality of death, to show some physical remains. we talked about the details. we tried to cope with the onslaught of the media but refused to let reporters talk to teachers or students. and we braced for the funeral.''
thompson is described by faculty, city fathers, and the graggs as the glue that held everything together through that long weekend
besides organizing the school's response to the tragedy, thompson set up the junior high gymnasium for the funeral, helped teachers prepare their farewell remarks, acceded to any family wishes, and comforted students who attended the open coffin visitation and closed casket funeral
it was tough trying to make an appropriate setting for a funeral out of a basketball court, but we did it,'' said thompson
he had a carpenter build a wooden schoolhouse which was then covered with flowers and presented by the students of buckner. thompson also gave the parents a brass school bell engraved with the boys' names. the gift usually is reserved for retiring teachers
we consider that your boys have retired to a heavenly school,'' thompson told the graggs
more than 600 mourners heard fourth-grade teacher jeanne young describe the gragg children as ``three adventuresome, energetic little boys ... each of us has a special place in our heart, locked and guarded _ it's the place just for chad and stephen and aaron.''
symbols of each boy's interests rested atop the blue-gray caskets: art materials for aaron, a soccer ball for stephen, a basketball for chad
finally, the three brothers were laid to rest in winter's hard ground
mortician brown left town for a convention in florida, allowing himself to cry most of the way
mental health counselor kathryn howard began planning a series of forums on death and dying for the buckner community
principal thompson fielded calls from people magazine and tried to get his school back to some semblance of normalcy
the tragedy will long be remembered in this community,'' said thompson, pausing to wipe tears from his eyes and catch his breath over the big lump in his throat. ``they were rambunctious country boys who were one for all and all for one
two of the boys willingly gave up their lives for the other. that is the only thing that makes it comprehensible.''
mary and charlie gragg's relatives have gone home and neighbors visit less now. gragg has resumed the commute to his job at a metal treating company in kansas city. his wife has returned to shift work for a janitorial contractor at the nearby lake city army ammunition plant
the graggs believe they'll stay in the neighborhood where dogs run free and kids' boundaries are defined by a stop sign on a country road
they speak of their sons in the present tense
looking at a small pile of photographs, mary gragg remembers each of her sons as a sturdy blue-eyed, blonde-haired baby
they were so good. they slept through the night every night
aaron is my artist, my loner, he loves his dinosaurs. chad is his daddy made over, my helper, everybody's helper, such a good student. he loves school, he never misses, and he loves riding his bicycle. stevie's a little slow, a shy kid. stevie loves alf ...''
charlie gragg takes up the sentence
you'll never see kids that alike, that close. if one goes out the front door the other two are right behind. ... i wasn't surprised they all died trying to pull each other out of that pond
i always told them, `no matter what happens, you help your brothers.' i told them that more than once. i told chad he was responsible. he was in charge. he went to help aaron, and stevie followed.''
is there anything anyone can do for the graggs? they say there is nothing. they are baffled that there might be an answer to such a question
soon it will be spring, time to go fishin' again, and frog huntin', and crawdad catchin'. that's when the children of buckner elementary school will plant three new trees in memory of aaron, chad, and stevie
by then, the ice will be gone from the ponds
tad bartimus is the ap mountain states regional reporter, based in denver
dorian harewood predicts that the abc theater presentation of ``god bless the child'' is going to shatter some myths about the homeless
the two-hour movie tells the story of a desperate young mother trapped in poverty and an outreach worker who tries to help her and her young daughter
it's a myth that the majority of the poor and homeless are lazy and don't want to work and want to take advantage of the welfare system,'' he said. ``the fact is that most of them do want to work, and those who are working are being paid at a sub-poverty level
it's a myth that the majority of the homeless are minorities. the fact is most are white. that should shake up people into solving this problem.''
harewood stars as calvin reid, the outreach worker. mare winningham is the young appalachian mother, theresa, and grace johnson is hilary, her daughter. dennis nemec wrote the screenplay and larry elikann directed on location in montreal. abc will telecast the movie on monday
my character was inspired by a real outreach worker, otis woodard in st. louis,'' said harewood. ``he's a very special guy who's done a lot for the homeless.''
the story's set in an unspecified midwestern city. it follows the tribulations of the young appalachian woman and her daughter, who through no fault of their own, are in a downward spiral of poverty. ``it's a cycle that leaves her homeless and without much prospect of improvement,'' harewood said
harewood notes that many programs set up in the 1960s and '70s to aid the poor have been scaled down
this film doesn't make a political statement,'' he said, ``but it does make the statement that the government has got to become involved. children are our greatest resource and too many are growing up malnourished. is it any wonder that we've fallen behind the rest of the world in educating our children?''
harewood is involved with several programs that help people in need, among them life (love is feeding everyone) and chip-in (community housing involving people in need)
by the time the movie goes on the air, harewood expects to be well into the filming of a pilot for abc called ``mama's boys.'' he and perry king star as half-brothers who inherit an investigative newspaper
perry and i are good friends and we're looking forward to working together again,'' he said. `the movie `foster and laurie' in 1975 was our only time to work together. they wanted to make a series out of that, strange as it seems, since we were both assassinated (they played police officers)
but the chemistry between us is good. we didn't want to do that as a series, but we have been wanting to do something together for a long time.''
the idea for the series came from harewood's wife, actress ann mccurry, and her friend, louise haven. ``i met ann when we did one musical in new york and we started dating when we did another,'' he said. ``louise was in `general hospital.'''
the concept is of two half-brothers, one white, one black, who inherit the newspaper and are forced to settle their differences to keep it running. william blinn (``brian's song,'' ``roots'') wrote the screenplay
the last year or so has been extremely busy for harewood. he starred in stanley kubrick's ``full metal jacket,'' and played the title role in the tv movie ``guilty of innocence: the lenell geter story.'' he also played a television reporter in the abc miniseries ``amerika.''
harewood said he also got back to singing, which had been his original goal. he has an album coming out in april called ``love will stop calling.'' ``it's r&amp;b, with some rock,'' he said. ``i hate labeling it
i'd gotten some good offers when i started years ago, so it's not like i'm just capitalizing on my success as an actor. i've had other offers to record, but they weren't just right. i was able to do this album without slowing down my acting career.''
he may also do a musical version of ``to sir with love'' on broadway with stephanie mills
he is also planning to do a new version of ``othello'' for joseph papp, with mike nichols directing. papp is doing shakespearean plays with name actors
the ben hecht-charles macarthur play ``the front page'' has enjoyed a long career in films. adolphe menjou and pat o'brien starred in the 1931 talkie directed by lewis milestone and produced by howard hughes
howard hawks had the brilliant idea of changing the reporter to a woman, and ``his girl friday'' was a 1940 hit with cary grant and rosalind russell. billy wilder went back to the 1920s era with walter matthau and jack lemmon in 1973
now comes ``switching channels.'' it is patterned after ``his girl friday,'' with burt reynolds as the demonic editor and kathleen turner as his star reporter and ex-wife. but something new has been added: television
changing from a chicago newspaper to a satellite news network does surprisingly little damage to the timeless ``front page'' plot. if anything, the deadline urgency is more pronounced, given the competitive nature of tv news
where the filmmakers have gone astray is in their apparent belief that ``the front page'' needed a heavy dose of farce. the result is more marx brothers than hecht and macarthur
turner, star reporter for the news network, takes a rare vacation and falls in love with a dashing industrialist, christopher reeve. she returns to chicago and tells her news-crazy boss and former husband, reynolds, that she is quitting for married life
the wily reynolds prevents her departure, and turner agrees to one last assignment: the execution of an accused cop killer (henry gibson). when the condemned man escapes, the chase begins. instead of the customary roll-top desk, the reporter hides the escapee in the press room's copying machine
the actors romp through their roles in high style. reynolds is perfect as the fast-talking con artist, and turner is credible as the energetic reporter. reeve displays an unsuspected talent for comedy in the ralph bellamy role as the self-assured fiance. there is marvelous irony when the one-time man of steel is portrayed as a sufferer of acrophobia who panics in an elevator
where ``switching channels'' goes awry is with ted kotcheff's ambivalent direction, particularly at the frenetic, unfunny climax. ned beatty as the puffed-up politician overacts outrageously, and the media people are portrayed as gargoyles and cretins
oh well, ``the front page'' will survive
produced by martin ransohoff and written by jonathan reynolds, ``switching channels'' is rated pg, perhaps for language. running time: 104 minutes
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions
burt reynolds was recalling when he first arrived in hollywood almost 30 years ago:
i went to see a friend of a friend of a friend who was supposed to be in the movie business. it turned out he was in the insurance business and he wrote policies for a studio. he lived in the valley, and i rented a car to follow him
now, i'm from florida. when i went through laurel canyon, i thought i was in switzerland. i had never seen anything like that. i had the top down and was looking everywhere. i thought, `this is about as close to heaven as i'll ever get. this is where i'll live.'''
reynolds was in a rare reflective mood during a visit to help publicize the new tri-star movie ``switching channels.'' he came here from his jupiter, fla., base to talk about the movie, which is ``the front page'' switched to television. but he also seemed to enjoy reminiscing about his early hollywood days
when i went under contract to universal,'' he recalled, ``it was like a campus. you could walk across the lot and see all these people who were much prettier than you. gorgeous guys _ they all had names like race gentry. in those days the studios put beauty contest winners under contract. you could see miss universe and miss america tripping off to class.''
all contract players attended classes to learn drama, dance, singing, horseback riding and fencing. reynolds recalled a boxing class in which he was pitted against a smaller actor and knocked him down: ``it was audie murphy, and he went to get a gun. as it turned out, we became good friends. but i learned never to knock down a congressional medal of honor winner.''
the first big break for reynolds, who was once married to actress and comedian judy carne, came when universal cast him in ``riverboat,'' the first tv series in color. co-starring with darrin mcgavin was ``a little bit like playing tackle opposite lyle alzado; you learn to play the game very quickly.''
fired from ``riverboat,'' reynolds practiced his craft in new york and returned to star in more tv series. ``i'm the only actor who has been canceled by all three networks,'' he said
after ``dan august,'' he appeared on several merv griffin talk shows. johnny carson saw him and invited him on ``the tonight show.'' reynolds was warned that carson didn't talk between commercial breaks. but during the first one, carson asked, ``do you want to host the show?''
so reynolds was host of 10 ``tonight'' shows in new york and was called to hollywood for an interview with director john boorman about a role in ``deliverance.'' it turned out boorman had seen him as a talk-show host
i saw you in command of four people; that's what you have to do in this movie,'' reynolds recalled boorman as saying
twenty-odd movies later, burt reynolds, 52, remains as ambitious as when he was a contract player at universal. ``i'm healthy as a horse,'' he proclaimed, despite those rumors of three years ago that he had a fatal disease. he said a jaw injury on ``city heat'' made eating difficult
reynolds was off the screen for more than two years. to dispel the rumors, he made three movies in a row: ``heat,'' ``malone'' and ``rent-a-cop,'' none of which ignited the box office. he has great hopes for ``switching channels,'' in which he plays the walter burns role with kathleen turner as the reporter and christopher reeve as her fiance
i was a late comer to the film,'' said reynolds. ``i had the good fortune to live across the street from the producer, martin ransohoff. when michael caine got stuck in the mouth of `jaws iv' and wasn't available, ransohoff was running around looking for a replacement. richard dreyfuss wasn't available. a lot of guys weren't available
i was across the street eating an apple. ransohoff came over and said, `read this script.' twenty-four hours later i was in the lap of kathleen turner,'' he said
the character was much more elegant with michael caine. he changed from david niven to broderick crawford real quickly. they switched the pictures on the wall from winston churchill to marvin hagler. however, the dialogue wasn't changed. just some ad libs added.''
reynolds intends to maintain the filming pace, directing as well as acting
i missed it,'' he admitted. ``after all those stupid rumors, i decided just to go back to work. the best revenge is the good life: to be happy and be surrounded by the people i liked most
it worked. i've gotten healthier and happier with each picture. most of all i had missed the crew, the guys, the gals _ the making of the film is the most fun part of all.''
during his hiatus, he's kept a low profile, and that was part of his design: ``it was time for me to be less visible. i was seen everywhere for everything; i was doing everything but open supermarkets. (clint) eastwood used to tell me, `you could have such a big career _ if you'd just go away.'''
david zinman, who has been the music director of the baltimore symphony since 1985, is as delighted with the orchestra as he is with the city itself
just before zinman arrived in baltimore from his previous orchestra in rochester, n.y., baltimore philanthropist joseph meyerhoff, who'd been picking up the symphony's bills, died
to my horror, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.3 million and we were losing $1 million a year. we would be out of business in a year unless we raised money,'' he said
a new executive director and the board, with some new members, were told by consultants they probably couldn't raise a $14 million endowment. ``they went out and raised $40 million in baltimore in 22 months _ a new world's record
it was done by business leaders, which is essentially the way it has to be done. the selling point was, if you want to have a city that's taken seriously, we have to have an orchestra,'' zinman said. ``baltimore had a renaissance in the last 15 years. it's a can-do town. people who live there feel they can do what they want to do
we did a tour of europe and russia last may. one of baltimore's banks paid for it. the governor and a senator came along. they did a presentation lunch in london, with a big slide show. orchestra musicians played. people were invited to our concert the next night.''
the year's tour for the orchestra started march 7 in new york. it will continue in davis, san francisco, los angeles, costa mesa and palm springs, calif., and tucson, with cellist yo-yo ma as guest. next year, the orchestra will tour the east coast with flute soloist james galway
this season, zinman started saturday morning ``informal concerts,'' repeats of friday night concerts with a top price of $9 and a little conversation
they said, `you have to talk to the audience.' i'm a fan of `prairie home companion.' i decided to do it like an old radio show,'' zinman said. ``we have a phony sponsor _ tapioca _ and a tapioca jingle. next year we'll do eight of them, broadcast live by national public radio. i explain the musical themes for them to follow while they listen. we recommend that little kids don't come; it's serious classical music with zaniness in between pieces
i'm an american. i'm not viennese. i have wild ideas and fantasies. why not let them loose when you have the chance?''
this season, public radio is broadcasting 13 regular symphony concerts and the british broadcasting corp. is doing several
after the tour, ma and the baltimore symphony will record britten's ``symphony for cello and orchestra'' and barber's ``cello concerto'' for cbs. the orchestra has made a berlioz album for telarc and an album by resident composer christopher rouse for nonesuch. telarc plans to record the schumann symphonies and an all-elgar compact disc with the baltimore symphony
i work with my orchestra a lot,'' the 51-year-old conductor said. ``my contract calls for 20 weeks a year. i do about 24. the days are over when i want to flit about, guest conducting
i want to make the baltimore into a great orchestra. in order to do that you have to spend time digging in the garden. you can't just smell the flowers. you have to make them grow; you have to be there. guest conducting doesn't do much for you musically. what really does a lot for you is to work with your orchestra to develop a repertoire and a style of playing that is uniquely your own. you really then get to make the music you're capable of making
with guesting, you're doing pieces you know pretty well. you come in like a lover, smile, make love and go away. it's a little like the singles scene. when you're with the wife, you really have to be there for the long haul.''
the conductor's family includes a son who has a synthesizer business, a daughter in a brisbane, australia, dance company and a 12-year-old son living with zinman and his wife in baltimore
zinman, a new york native, met the late pierre monteux, conductor of the london symphony who was then 83, at tanglewood one summer. three years later, zinman began to assist him
he was a great model to emulate,'' zinman said. ``he was a master of balance and was at home in all styles of music. he had a great tradition behind him. he'd played in a string quartet for brahms. he conducted diaghilev's ballets, including the first `rite of spring.' he was a warm human being who got along with orchestra musicians. he was a psychologist and had wonderful patience.''
at the 1983 holland festival, monteux recommended zinman to the netherlands chamber orchestra when a scheduled conductor got sick. from that, zinman became music director of the netherlands chamber orchestra from 1964 -77 and of the rotterdam philharmonic from 1979-82. he was the rochester philharmonic's music director from 1974-85
someday he'd like to help young conductors
i would like to take three pupils, use them as assistants and coach them. it's a question of finding a way to schedule that and get the money to do it,'' he said
i really believe you must pay back what you've borrowed.''
the child in david lee roth is taking plenty of toys on his next trip: a 28-foot flying surfboard; a huge banner featuring bikini-clad women; and a regulation-size, red, white and blue everlast boxing ring
but this is no ordinary summer vaction for the shaggy-haired rock star with the trademark scream. it's a concert tour, and the playthings are meant to wow audiences for the next nine months in arenas from australia to new york
music should look like it sounds, no matter what kind of music it is,'' roth said in a recent interview. ``a lot of times this music sounds like something thundering up out of the floorboards or raining down from the heavens. sometimes it's like rolling waves of sound. and what's a wave without somebody to surf it?''
despite the props and an endless stream of jokes, roth is a shrewd businessman. he knows the gimmicks will bring attention to his craft _ rock 'n' roll
there's a lot of aerial tricks, but it's all built around the music. the band is doing more musical gymnastics than you've ever heard a rock band do,'' he said
roth, 32, is touring to promote his third solo album, ``skyscraper.'' the record, which includes the single, ``just like paradise,'' marks the first time he has tried on the producer's hat. his tour began on march 4 in lakeland, fla
i wanted to try something different,'' roth said. ``always in the back of my mind i had thought about producing. but i wouldn't try a flight like this unless i had the tools and the know-how to do it, and i didn't feel secure with that until fairly recently.''
the comic book-like showman spoke about his tour, with his long, blond hair tied back in a ponytail, wearing camouflage pants and a torn t-shirt, sitting in the second row of his rehearsal hall. he was careful not to reveal too many of the tour's surprises
during the band's moment of patriotism, i climb a ladder to the ceiling of the arena _ jeez, i don't want to give it all away,'' he said, but added, ``it's death-defying stuff.''
roth's hometown is bloomington, ind., but he moved to pasadena, calif., when he was about 12 and has lived there ever since. as a child, he was inspired by television. he said he figured if all these people were entertaining him on television, maybe he could be some kind of entertainer, too
the influences which led him to music ran the gamut of groups and styles
if i say to you deep purple was a big inspiration to me and so were the ohio players, you'd say, `oh, that's where dave got his scream from, deep purple!' no, no, no, i got the scream from the ohio players, i got the haircut from deep purple.''
he began his career after meeting eddie and alex van halen and michael anthony at pasadena city college. the four formed van halen, a band that set the standard for many heavy-metal bands to come, especially because of eddie's innovative guitar playing, and roth's wild-man antics
the group split up in 1985, and roth moved on to a solo career. his new band includes lead guitarist steve vai, bass guitarist billy sheehan, drummer gregg bissonette and keyboardist brett tuggle
roth's international tour will include some of the old van halen standards, in addition to his solo efforts, including a remake of the beach boy's ``california girls'' and the bluesy ``just a gigolo.''
in his spare time, roth climbs mountains, as seen on the ``just like paradise'' video in which he scales a 3,000-foot-high vertical wall of granite. he said he may be reverting to his childhood, because he got the climbing bug when he was a boy scout. climbing is a kind of therapy for him
you know, the most scariest place you can put yourself in has the most calming effect.''
although experienced, he says the hobby has not made him want to conquer mountains such as mount everest
something like that is a hyper-commitment,'' he said. ``i need all of my toes in order to jump around with great abandon. inevitably, you're going to lose a finger or a toe on a trip like that. somebody checks out early. taking that kind of risk is not my interest. the music gives me enough of that kind of adventure. fooling around with my career burns enough calories.''
roth also fools around with martial arts, receiving a black belt in karate about nine years ago. at one point he experimented with kick boxing. these days, he incorporates both disciplines in his stage show
martial arts has a lot of visceral impact. you can feel it _ pow! and combining it with the music, 10,000 people say, `oh, did you feel that?'''
despite his devil-may-care manner, roth is definitely a success. two previous albums have sold more that 1 million copies, certifying them as platinum, and ``skyscraper'' is well on its way. this does not include his revenues from the six van halen lps that share the same honor
a lot of what stands for success in rock 'n' roll or showbiz after a while seems like so many little trophies and prizes along the way,'' he said. ``if there's any real glory to be had it's in legend.''
all kidding aside, he insists the money he's made is not for things, but rather experiences. he said experiences provide better memories
if anything, roth's whole career is built around making a single point, getting across a single message:
there's a very definite message in all of this music. people say, `dave, what's the message?' that's it. imagination. take a chance. not just take your best shot, that's too dependable.''
the characters who inhabit black lizard books are contemporary losers struggling through scenes set in the sizzling middle of hell on earth
although that may not spur hordes of readers to rush out to buy one, black lizard co-founders barry gifford and don ellis report their dark suspense novels nevertheless have become a big hit, with sales approaching $1 million this year
they're not worried that fans of traditional mysteries or gothic romances shun harsh lizard novels such as ``a ticket to hell,'' ``the alcoholics,'' ``swamp sister'' or ``a moment to prey.''
i don't read mysteries, i don't know anything about mysteries ... i can't read them,'' said gifford, contending most are poorly written and focus primarily on advancing the plot. black lizard books may contain a mystery, but many don't include a corpse or even a crime, he said
as the editor who selects the black lizard lineup, gifford has a clear vision of what fits and what doesn't, and he has no intention of trying to attract the fainthearted
these thrillers are ``not just hard-boiled. they're books with a certain psychological edge,'' he said. many of black lizard's readers are young, and gifford speculated they may share the generally nihilistic views presented in the novels
consider this classic black lizard example from ``cassidy's girl'' by david goodis:
a feeling of vague uneasiness took root inside him and grew and sharpened and became acute. he knew he was disappointed because the battle hadn't continued. of course, he told himself, that didn't make sense. but then there were very few elements in his life with mildred that made sense. and lately, he recalled, there was absolutely nothing that made sense. it was getting worse all the time.''
in black lizard's own bibliography, the novels are described as presenting ``distinctive and absolutely authentic (mostly) american voices; satirical, maddening, compelling, fascinating.''
according to gifford and ellis, black lizard has become so successful that major publishing companies are trying to imitate the innovations of the small creative arts company that has carried the black lizard imprint since 1983
that's when gifford was browsing in a paris bookstore and discovered a stack of jim thompson and harry whittington novels, many of them the same ``dark'' 25-cent paperbacks that he loved to read as a kid while hanging out at his tampa, fla. neighborhood drugstore
while the books' popularity had plunged in the united states since the '50s, they remained a strong favorite with the french, who have shown steady appreciation of the ``serie noire'' storyline of such authors as thompson, whittington and goodis
it best represents the vision of america that the french like to retain,'' gifford said. ``it's kind of like the wild west.''
filmmaker francois truffaut claimed goodis as one of his favorites, filming the writer's ``shoot the piano player.'' goodis also wrote ``dark passage,'' and did the screenplay as well for the humphrey bogart-lauren bacall film. gifford's own ``port tropique'' is in pre-production for a movie
he said his friend, best-selling novelist elmore leonard, routinely calls to suggest black lizard nab a certain new author or novel. ``it's become a writers' series as well,'' gifford said
but the company's budget remains relatively small and it's impossible for it to lure big names such as leonard. and some new york publishing houses trying to duplicate black lizard have landed certain books and authors by paying higher fees
even so, black lizard founders are confident that by retaining the novels' strong identity it will survive and flourish. ``you can fill it (a company's booklist) with a lot of glop, but pretty soon your readership falls away,'' said gifford
i think we're just going to get better at what we do, not necessarily bigger,'' ellis said
despite black lizard's surge in popularity, gifford said he wasn't sure what to expect at first: ``i thought it would either catch on right away or we wouldn't sell more than 10 books. i didn't expect a mediocre reaction.''
they started out printing 5,000 copies for each of their first three books. today they begin with 10,000 copies each, reprinting when necessary. their booklist totals 43. black lizard is publishing its first hardcovers this spring and bookstore chains such as b. dalton and waldenbooks have placed orders
black lizard books are easy to spot. in addition to the trademark lizard logo taken from a peruvian stone rubbing and strategically placed on each cover, most of the novels also feature haunting, lurid cover designs by san francisco artist jim kirwin
gifford said they decided to tone down the focus of the novel cover after the first three, making it less violent and graphic yet ``something that can penetrate the psyche. ... it's almost like a dream.''
the covers have become so successful that contrary to the old maxim, some people judge black lizard books by their covers and buy them for that reason alone
the hager twins no longer stand in the ``hee haw'' cornfields or get smacked from the rear by a swinging board fence
the brothers, who often gave viewers double vision, are off the cornball program after 18 years. they left the syndicated show two seasons ago, and in their appearances across the country, they still tell jokes in the finest ``hee haw'' tradition:
what do you get when you jump in front of a car? ``tire''d
what do you get when you jump behind a car? ``exhaust''ed
where do you take old melons and cantaloupes? to john cougar's mellon camp
last year they performed for about three months in the smoky mountain resort town of gatlinburg, tenn., where jim and tammy bakker lived briefly after leaving the ptl ministry. never one to miss an opportunity, the hagers came up with some humor about the former evangelists
did you hear about jim and tammy bakker's new magazine? repenthouse
i think we drove them out of town,'' recalled jon hager, the older of the twins by 20 minutes
the two perform on cruises, at rodeos, benefits, exhibitions and state and county fairs. they frequently appear on the nashville network on cable tv, do tv commercials and are now putting songs together for an album
they appeared in the abc-tv movie, ``twin detectives,'' about 10 years ago. in the works now is a 30-minute situation comedy-variety show tentatively called ``doubles.''
we're different, being twins,'' jim hager said. ``we can tell a joke pretty good, i guess.''
the two will always be known for their singing and skits on ``hee haw.'' they were original cast members, dating back to the first show in 1968
america grew up watching us,'' jon hager said in an interview as jim sat alongside. ``we'll always be associated with the show.''
the two were born in the chicago area and adopted at age 3 by a methodist minister. they've been together all their lives except for 3{ years when jon left los angeles and moved to nashville. jim remained on the west coast, but finally followed
we get along; it's more profitable,'' jon said
to go along, we've got to get along,'' jim said
the two, who are also guitarists and drummers, had worked with country star buck owens and used his connection to join ``hee haw'' when owens signed as the show's co-host with roy clark
we auditioned and signed a contract that day,'' jon recalled
they remained on the show until two seasons ago when a contract dispute arose and they decided to concentrate on other projects
it gave us national exposure and made us a lot of friends,'' jon said. ``the pay was not that good but we got $1 million in exposure. it kept us off the street for a long time. the police knew where we were.''
`hee haw' made country music. it brought country music into city homes,'' he said
the hagers are not the only familiar faces gone from the show. owens left at the same time they did, saying he wanted to focus on his business interests. mainstays junior samples, archie campbell and kenny price all have died in recent years
but the program continues to showcase the major names in country music, from such pioneers as roy acuff to emerging stars such as randy travis
and the cornpone humor remains
they're not all platinum,'' jim hager said. ``the writers count on the person delivering the line to pull it off. it was cornball, no denying it.''
he said about the success of the show, ``people laughed at themselves. they liked the chemistry on the show and the fast pace.''
in their personal appearances, the two perform country hits such as kenny rogers' ``daytime friends,'' eddie rabbitt's ``driving my life away'' and charley pride's ``kiss an angel good morning.''
they describe their humor as suitable for the family with nothing off-color
we don't need to do that (risque material) because it's being done already. it's not what the audiences expect of us,'' jon hager said
their life off-camera and off-stage is not all laughs, but levity is valued. ``we have our serious moments, but i prefer a good laugh to a good frown,'' jon hager said

never die young'' (cbs) _ james taylor

never die young'' is classic james taylor, which is to say warm, melodic, soothing, thoughtful, reminiscent of ``sweet baby james'' _ progressive but just as personal
the lp's title comes from the fine cut: ``never give up, never slow down, never grow old, never die young.''
love seems to be in bloom once again in the rock world. well, sort of. bruce springsteen recently turned away from larger issues to tackle the subject in ``tunnel of love.'' ``never die young'' is taylor's two-cents' worth. it's prettier and more cutting. on the cover of ``tunnel of love,'' springsteen leans on a convertible on a beach. taylor puts a lone wolf on ``never die young.'' it's the call of the wild
his affinity for the wild life helped destroy his marriage with singer-songwriter carly simon, and he talks a lot here about troubled relationships
take ``valentine's day,'' which starts as a silly sweet ode to romance: ``beneath the tide the fishes glide, fin to fin and side to side, for fishy love has now begun, fishy love, finny fun.''
but in later verses, its true nature surfaces: ``me and you, you and him, him and her, us and them, we keep score, love as war, valentine's day.''
runaway boy'' is a slice of zydeco that inspires taylor to declare he's cleaning up his act: ``i'm gonna give up believing i was born to run, and stop acting like a man that gets shot from a gun. i'm putting down roots, i want to soak up the sun and stay right here until my days are done.''
sweet potato pie'' is the most commercial cut, a happy bounce down a latter-day tin pan alley. taylor even rhymes june, moon, spoon and loon
never die young'' is tough, pretty, loose, funny _ just about perfect. luckily for us, taylor took his own advice
_ by kathryn baker, associated press writer

pontiac'' (mca-curb) _ lyle lovett

country singer lyle lovett looks more like a pet shop boy than an oak ridge boy, so it's no surprise that ``pontiac'' is slightly off center. the tone is set by the opening song, ``if i had a boat,'' wherein lovett recalls the time tonto told off the lone ranger. it's impossible not to like
other highlights are the title cut, which could have been writen by randy newman in a dark mood; ``l.a. county,'' with a violent climax that lovett nearly sneaks past the listener; and three hilarious songs about the art of compromise _ ``give back my heart,'' ``she's no lady'' and ``she's hot to go.''
lovett includes several graceful bows to traditional nashville as well. the best is ``walk through the bottomland,'' which features emmylou harris' harmony on the chorus
lovett, who co-produced, doesn't clutter the arrangements. but along with pedal steel and piano, he effectively uses horns and, on the title song, a cello. altogether, ``pontiac'' is a most enjoyable ride
_ by steven wine, associated press writer
the october stock market crash will contribute to a significant slowdown in economic growth this year but the country should be able to avoid a recession, economists for top u.s. corporations say
the national association of business economists said monday its latest member survey found economists were more upbeat than three months ago when more than half of them said the record fall in stock prices on oct. 19 would lead to a recession in 1988
a federal appeals court has agreed to delay a ruling that would have given some banks limited investment banking powers
monday's ruling provided the securities industry with a last-minute boost in its effort to keep banks off its turf
the one-page stay by the 2nd u.s. circuit court of appeals in new york came a day before the scheduled expiration of a seven-month moratorium on new bank powers passed by congress last summer
the partnership controlled by t. boone pickens jr. has offered to buy homestake mining co., the nation's largest gold producer, for about $1.9 billion in cash
in a letter to homestake chairman harry conger, mesa limited partnership offered monday to negotiate an agreement to buy all common shares of the san francisco-based mining company for $20 a share. homestake has about 93 million shares outstanding, and did not immediately respond to the offer
two companies controlled by television producer burt sugarman have proposed taking over virginia-based newspaper publisher and broadcaster media general inc. for $1.75 billion
but the family of media general's chairman, d. tennant bryan, which controls a majority of the company's voting stock, indicated monday it wasn't interested in the proposal from sugarman, whose investments range from game shows to waste disposal
stop &amp; shop cos. inc. has agreed to be acquired in a $1.23 billion leveraged buyout by the investment firm kohlberg kravis roberts inc
but hostile suitor dart group corp. said monday it remained intent on trying to gain control of the retailer
stop &amp; shop said a kohlberg kravis subsidiary, ssc holdings corp., will purchase at least 66 percent of the 28 million outstanding stop &amp; shop shares at $44 each
dart, meanwhile, extended until march 9 an offer of $37 a share for all outstanding stop &amp; shop stock and indicated it planned to go ahead with a proxy fight to replace stop &amp; shop directors later this month
the head of american express co. is suggesting creation of a new international financial organization to help ease the debt crisis of developing nations by buying their loans
chairman james d. robinson iii said monday the organization would buy outstanding third world loans at a discount and then offer the banks which had held the loans new, long-term securties in exchange
robinson said he hoped the proposal will spark a dialogue because of the risk of a debt crisis
southland corp. is selling 473 7-eleven stores in 10 states to its chief competitor, circle k corp., for more than $147 million
the sale announced monday would reduce southland's 7-eleven chain to 7,542 from 8,296 stores before the company began divestiture moves started last year
company spokeswoman markeeta mcnatt said southland plans to sell hundreds more stores, lowering its total to between 7,000 and 7,300 by the end of 1989, to help reduce debt incurred in its $4.9 billion leveraged buyout
fidelity investments, the nation's largest mutual fund firm, plans to lay off 800 workers hired to handle the rapid growth it enjoyed before october's stock market crash
fidelity attributed the 10.5 percent work force reduction announced monday to a slump in new stock transactions, slower money management business since the oct. 19 crash and a drop in individual retirement accounts due to new federal laws limiting the tax deductability of ira contributions
the boards of directors at holding companies for dr pepper and seven-up have agreed tentatively to merge the privately-held soft-drink companies. terms were not disclosed
the two companies, which accounted for nearly 11 percent of sales in the $38 billion soft drink industry last year, said monday the proposed merger is contingent on drafting a definitive agreement and regulatory approval
anheuser-busch beverage group inc. wants to sell its asante and saratoga sparkling water brands and its zeltzer seltzer natural soda brand
the decision announced monday follows the company's recent discontinuance of the dewey stevens wine cooler brand due to a declining rate of growth industrywide in cooler sales
prices farmers got for raw products in february declined an average of 0.8 percent from january but still were 6.6 percent above those a year earlier, the agriculture department says
the department's agricultural statistics board said monday that lower prices for lettuce, tomatoes, cotton and milk contributed most to the february decrease. higher prices for cattle, hogs, corn and soybeans helped soften the declines for the other commodities, however
the value of midwestern farmland is up about 7 percent from depressed 1986 levels, but still is little more than half what it was seven years ago, the federal reserve bank of chicago says
the bank said monday its survey of about 500 agricultural bankers in five midwestern states shows farmland values rose 3.2 percent during the last three months of 1987 _ the fourth consecutive quarterly increase
the stock market climbed to its highest level since the october crash with a broad advance monday that carried the dow jones average of 30 industrials up 48.41 to 2,071.62
gold prices tumbled in europe but rebounded sharply in new york
the dollar vacillated in a narrow range in sluggish foreign exchange transactions. bond prices inched higher
futures prices for livestock plunged on the chicago mercantile exchange
crude oil futures prices have moved above $16 per barrel on the strength of a big jump in heating oil prices that analysts said was prompted by reports of bad weather in europe
on the new york mercantile exchange, west texas intermediate crude for april delivery settled at $16.01 per 42-gallon barrel monday, up 23 cents from friday's close
among refined products traded on the exchange, wholesale heating oil for march delivery gained 1.46 cents to 47.16 cents per gallon and wholesale unleaded gasoline gained .45 cent to 45.71 cents per gallon
analysts said several days of bad weather in europe and cooler than normal temperatures in the northeastern united states had touched off the heavy buying in heating oil
storms reported in the north sea also prompted some buying among oil companies hedging against a slowdown in production, the analysts said
the market is testing to see if we have bargain prices,'' said bob baker, an analyst with prudential-bache securities inc
baker said last week's reports speculating about excess production by members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, which helped depress crude prices, may have been overblown
there is still a lot of oil out there, but whether it's a big excess or a little excess is what we're trying to find out,'' he said
circle k corp.'s agreement to buy 473 7-eleven stores from southland corp. reflects the continuing strength of the convenience store industry
they've been growing rapidly,'' said ian bell, a retail analyst with merrill lynch &amp; co. inc., of convenience stores, noting there are more than 70,000 such outlets across the country
southland decided to sell the 473 stores in 10 states to its chief competitor not because it's getting out of the business, but because it needs to raise more than $147 million to help finance the founding thompson family's $4.9 billion leveraged buyout of the company in december
southland plans to keep selling stores until it has between 7,000 and 7,300 by the end of 1989, said spokeswoman markeeta mcnatt. the company will have 7,542 stores after the circle k transaction, down from the 8,296 it held before beginning its divestiture plan
despite the sales, southland will remain the largest convenience store operator in the country and the world
we have such a solid name now that we do not feel that name recognition is a problem,'' ms. mcnatt said. ``we are firmly planted in the minds of americans as the convenience store people.''
southland's plans fit right in with circle k's desire to expand. the phoenix-based convenience store operator has been growing by leaps and bounds in recent years and the latest acquisition will give it just over 4,000 outlets in 25 states
susan plumb, a spokeswoman for circle k, said the company was looking to continue its expansion and hoped to have a total of 5,000 stores by 1990. the company is negotiating the purchase of another 500 stores in the south and northeast from the charter co., she said
the 7-eleven stores will be converted to the circle k name, she said
the $147 million purchase price for the 473 7-eleven stores includes real estate and other assets, and circle k will pay an additional amount for store inventories, southland president jere w. thompson said
included in the sale are all of southland's convenience stores in alabama, arkansas, georgia, louisiana and south carolina, ms. mcnatt said
the proposed transaction, subject to a definitive agreement and government approval, also includes 63 stores in north carolina; three in yuma, ariz.; 18 in nashville, tenn.; 57 stores in small texas markets; and 23 stores in the florida panhandle
many of the stores also sell gasoline, which further increases their attractiveness, said bell
convenience stores are successful because they give consumers a place to buy quickly one or two items, such as coffee or cigarettes
bell said the stores also have been successful because they tend to be innovative, offering automatic cash machines and video cassette rentals to increase their main attraction _ convenience
southland's $4.9 billion leveraged buyout took the chain private and cemented the control of the founding thompson family
in a leveraged buyout, investors use mostly borrowed funds to acquire a company. the debt is repaid with the target company's cash flow or with money raised by selling its assets
southland already has sold 270 7-eleven stores to national convenience stores, the third-largest convenience store operator with about 1,170 outlets
southland also has announced definitive agreements for the divestiture of its chief auto parts, dairies group, tidel systems and moviequik videocassette rental operations
the company also plans to divest its reddy ice, snack foods and chemical-food labs divisions
blending the operations of dr pepper co. and the seven-up co. will allow the companies to continue an aggressive style in the beverage industry, company officials say
the boards of directors at holding companies for dr pepper and seven-up announced the merger of operations on monday. the transaction, which is contingent on a definitive agreement and regulatory approval, was expected to be completed in 60 to 90 days
groups led by the dallas-based investment partnership hicks &amp; haas acquired dr pepper and seven-up october in separate transactions during 1986. one group acquired dr pepper co. for $416 million in august 1986 and another group bought seven up co. for $240 million two months later
thomas o. hicks and robert b. haas, co-chairmen of both companies, said the merger was a culmination of ``superb achievement'' at both companies since their acquisition. no management changes were expected, the pair said in a prepared statement
the combination of our two companies will enable us to continue our aggressive style in this industry, as demonstrated by our recent introduction of two new products, 7up gold and diet 7up gold,'' said john r. albers, who is chief executive of both companies
the operations of the two companies have been increasingly integrated in recent months, the companies said. for instance, they each have used manufacturing facilities in st. louis to produce soft drink concentrate
the merger will allow the companies to be completely operated as one company, which has obvious advantages internally and in the marketplace,'' said albers
the trade newsletter beverage digest estimated the two companies captured about 10.7 percent of the $38 billion soft drink market in 1987, up from 10.4 percent the previous year
the soft drink leaders are coca-cola co., whose various brands accounted for 40.3 percent of the soft drink market last year, and pepsi-cola co., which had 30.2 percent, according to the newsletter based in greenwich, conn
this formalizes a close and efficient relationship,'' said emanuel goldman, who follows the beverage industry for the investment firm montgomery securities in san francisco. ``it will help them compete better in the marketplace.''
upon completion of the merger, significant owners of the combined enterprise will include senior management; hicks & haas; shearson lehman hutton inc.; cadbury schweppes plc; donaldson, lufkin &amp; jenrette securities corp. and citicorp venture capital. editing, corrects spelling of drexel burnham lambert. no pickup.</note>
r.h. macy &amp; co. has proposed a merger with federated department stores inc. with an indicated value of about $6.6 billion, apparently topping a rival $6.1 billion offer from toronto-based campeau corp., federated said late monday night
the offer from macy's was disclosed as federated's board considered a $68 a share negotiated offer from campeau for all of federated's 89.6 million common shares outstanding
privately-held macy's would make a cash tender offer for approximately 80 percent of federated's outstanding shares at $73.80 per share, federated said
federated shares not purchased in the tender offer would be exchanged in a merger transaction, for a number of newly issued shares of macy's common stock, equal to approximately 40 percent of the unpurchased shares
no value immediately could be placed on the stock portion of the buyout offer, but the total offer would be worth about $6.6 billion if valued at $73.80 in cash or stock for all of federated's shares
the federated board took no action on the campeau bid but directed its management and advisers to investigate macy's proposals, to negotiate a definitive agreement and submit both negotiated agreements to the board as soon as possible, the company stated
federated officials did not know when the board would get the proposals, according to spokeswoman carol sanger
the board of directors of the merged company, which would be renamed macy's-federated inc., would include significant representation from the existing federated board, federated said
macy's management and financial adivisers spoke at the board meeting in new york, federated said
macy's offices in new york were closed when federated announced the proposal late monday, and a spokesman could not be reached for comment
the macy's proposal was subject to execution of a definitive merger agreement, and to approval by the boards of directors and stockholders of both companies. a number of macy's outside directors already have participated in the deliberations, with respect to the combination, ms. sanger said
macy's was taken private in a $3.6 billion management leveraged buyout in 1986. its stockholders and directors include a. alfred taubman, a major shopping mall developer, and laurence a. tisch, chief executive of cbs inc. and loews corp
the company is one of the nation's biggest and best known retailers, with $5.21 billion in sales during the year ended last aug. 1
macy's operates 100 department stores and recently opened three specialty clothing stores
cincinnati-based federated is a $10.5 billion diversified retailer with more than 650 department stores, supermarkets and other retail outlets nationwide
federated's retail operations include the bloomingdale's, filene's, burdine's, lazarus, bullock's and gold circle store chains
macy's has indicated its financial advisers, drexel burnham lambert and kidder peabody inc. were confident they could privately place $1.8 billion in senior subordinated debt to finance the transaction, federated said. bankers trust co. and manufacturers hanover trust co. have agreed conditionally to arrange the balance of the financing
federated had announced earlier that its board was considering a third-party proposal that was competitive with campeau's offer
a campeau spokeswoman declined earlier monday to comment on the last-minute bid, although campeau repeatedly has stated it wanted the opportunity to meet competing offers
federated stock closed up $2 at $66.50 a share in new york stock exchange trading monday
the federated board, after rejecting three alternative, hostile tender offers from campeau, announced friday it had authorized merger negotiations with the toronto-based retailing and real estate company
in addition to the campeau proposal, federated's board had been considering whether to entirely shun purchase offers in favor of a restructuring that woudl keep present management in control
campeau, which acquired giant allied stores corp. in december 1986, has been pressing its takeover attempt since jan. 25
some industry analysts have said they expect federated to continue soliciting other buyers to fend off campeau's overtures
dart group corp. says it plans to continue its hostile bid for stop &amp; shop cos. inc., even though its target has agreed to a $1.23 billion leveraged buyout in an attempt to thwart dart
dart extended through march 9 its hostile $37 a share offer for stop &amp; shop's 28 million outstanding shares, totaling about $1.03 billion, and indicated it planned to proceed with a proxy fight to replace stop &amp; shop directors later this month, spokesman jeffrey gast said monday
the tender offer had been scheduled to expire monday night
stop &amp; shop, a major northeastern retailing chain, earlier monday had announced its tentative agreement to be taken private in a leveraged buyout led by the firm kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co., which will pay its stockholders $44 a share
the firm will purchase at least 66 percent of stop &amp; shop's outstanding stop &amp; shop shares. if all the outstanding stock were purchased, the leveraged buyout would total $1.23 billion
the company's shareholders still must approve the deal
in a leveraged buyout, investors acquire a company mainly with borrowed funds that are repaid with the target company's cash flow or the sale of its assets
stop &amp; shop has 113 supermarkets and 169 bradlees department stores in 12 states in the northeast
under the buyout plan , which may include participation by the company's top executives, stop &amp; shop will retain its present management and remain based in braintree, mass
the company's stock has risen by more than $25 a share since dart first announced its takeover intent in january. in new york stock exchange trading on monday, it rose another 87{ cents to $43.50 a share
harry wells, an analyst at adams, harkness &amp; hill in boston, guessed that dart was unlikely to match the $44 a share offer
you've got to be able to support the debt with some level of safety ... and ($44) is about as much as one can reasonably afford to pay (for stop &amp; shop),'' wells said
dart, which owns 738,200 stop &amp; shop shares, is best known for a series of unsuccessful but profitable takeover attempts of major retailers
in its most recent bid, dart dropped a $6 billion hostile offer for minneapolis-based dayton hudson corp. following the october stock market crash
other dart takeover attempts included a 1986 bid for safeway co. and a 1987 bid for supermarkets general
kkr, which took safeway private in a leveraged buyout following the failed dart bid, is one of the nation's biggest investment partnerships specializing i leveraged buyouts
last week, the firm acquired new york-based seaman furniture co. for $350 million
general motors corp.'s newest carmaking division has begun recruiting the first 3,000 factory workers for its spring hill, tenn., assembly plant, saturn corp. said monday
the saturn plant will begin production in the summer of 1990 for the 1991 model year. most workers will be hired in mid-1989, when saturn begins production on pilot models, said saturn spokeswoman laurie kay
saturn representatives will tour gm facilities around the nation, explaining directly to workers for the first time how saturn will work and what a job there would be like
saturn already has received a number of resumes, but the push announced monday is the first real recruitment effort it has made
under an agreement between gm and the uaw, gm workers will get the first 6,000 saturn jobs available over time, including the initial 3,000. saturn workers will be covered by a separate labor contract from the national gm-uaw pact
like japanese automakers that have hired for u.s. factories, including mitsubishi motors corp. and mazda motor corp., saturn's hiring process will be lengthy
potential saturn workers will go through an assessment process intended to give them an idea of what saturn work will be like and whether they want to do it, while giving saturn an idea of how well the prospective employee works in a team situation, kay said
saturn employees will work in teams, instead of performing more traditional auto assembly work that consists of repeating one precise task over and over. kay said the saturn plant probably will run on two shifts
workers' salaries will amount to 80 percent of gm hourly workers' base pay, with the 20 percent difference made up in incentive pay linked to such factors such as productivity increases and saturn's profitability, kay said
active or laid-off workers who leave the gm system for saturn automatically give up any recall rights and seniority at gm plants, she said
but at saturn, their jobs would be protected during industry slumps because the company will be required to look for ways to cut its inventory that exclude laying off workers, kay said
the u.s. dollar rose marginally against most major currencies in very thin european trading early today. gold prices were higher
traders said activity was muted before the release later today of the january index of leading u.s. economic indicators, although the report was expected to have little impact
midmorning dollar rates in europe compared with late monday: 1.6909 west german marks, up from 1.6875; 1.3945 swiss francs, up from 1.3903; 5.7205 french francs, up from 5.7150; 1.8963 dutch guilders, up from 1.8945; 1,245.75 italian lire, up from 1,244.25; and 1.2578 canadian dollars, down from 1.2622
the british pound slipped to $1.7712 from $1.7725
the dollar rose in tokyo in heavy speculative trading, closing at 128.63 japanese yen, up from monday's close of 128.12 yen. in later london trading today, the dollar was pegged at 128.50 yen
london's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended gold price of $429.15 a troy ounce at midmorning, down from an opening bid of $431.30 but up from monday's late bid of $425
a trader said gold drifted off its higher opening levels as market participants took profits on the metal's rally in new york late monday
in zurich, gold was bid at $428.70 an ounce, up from $426
earlier, gold closed in hong kong at a bid of $433.80 an ounce, up from $430.19
silver bullion was quoted in london at a bid of $6.21 a troy ounce, up from $6.14
the government has filed a lawsuit seeking at least $21 million from goodyear tire and rubber co. for allegedly falsifying price information about balloon-type devices used to guide bombs
the suit, originally filed last year by a competitor, was taken over by u.s. attorney rudolph giuliani and filed monday in manhattan
the suit names goodyear, a subsidiary called goodyear aerospace corp., and loral corp., which bought the subsidiary last year
goodyear is confident that once the facts in the case are examined objectively, the suit will be found without merit and the charges dropped,'' goodyear spokesman walt mcclenny said from his akron, ohio, office
the case involves two devices called air inflatable retarder assemblies that are used to slow and guide the flight of mk 500-pound and 1,000-pound bombs dropped from low-flying airplanes
the government charged that goodyear aerospace misrepresented prices and costs of the labor involved; that the company unlawfully induced a subcontractor to lower its price; and that it failed to disclose substantial price reductions proposed for a subcontractor
goodyear aerospace was the only maker of the devices from 1982 to 1986. irvin industries inc. entered the competition and filed a $100 million antitrust suit in 1986
irvin allegedly turned up information about fraud against the government that it used in another suit it filed in 1987. that suit was filed on behalf of the government under a ``whistleblower'' law that allows the government to take over a suit
the suit filed monday asks for at least $21 million in damages under the false claims act and common law theories. in addition, the government is seeking $10,000 for each unspecified false claim
a spokesman for loral, who asked not to be identified, said that those alleged practices would have occurred before loral bought the company and the potential for a lawsuit was known before the purchase
he added, however, that ``loral is confident the appropriate management practices are in place that are consistent with government procurement practices.''
mazda motor corp. said it is recalling 11,889 of its 1988 mazda 929 upscale sedans for possible improper positioning of an emissions-control hose
in a statement issued monday from los angeles, the japanese automaker said improper routing of a short section of the hose may put it in contact with the car's air-conditioning piping, leading eventually to a failure of the emissions-control system
owners are being notified by mail to take their cars to a mazda dealer for free inspection and repositioning of the hose if necessary. mazda said the procedure takes about 15 minutes
peugeot motors of america inc. said it was offering a $3,000 allowance to drivers who trade in their peugeots for the purchase or lease of a new peugeot 505
the dollar's declining value has resulted in higher costs for imported cars,'' said pascal h. henault, peugeot's u.s. president
since the resale value of used cars has not kept pace with new car prices, we're compensating by offering a $3,000 trade-in allowance.''
to qualify, customers must prove they have owned or leased a peugeot for at least four months and the new car must be delivered by may 31, the company said monday in a statement
j.c. penney co., which is relocating to texas, has decided to sell its midtown manhattan headquarters rather than lease the skyscraper as originally planned
the 45-story building could sell for up to $480 million, or $300 a square foot, according to real estate analysts
the expected price is well below the record $500 per square foot commanded by similar buildings in the area sold before the oct. 19 stock market crash
penney plans to move its headquarters to plano, texas, near dallas, by the end of june and had been trying to lease the building since last september
harvey mccormick, a spokesman for the giant retailer, said monday that penney already has received bids from prospective buyers, but he refused to name them
penney bought the building in 1977 for $55 million
william h. spoor, formerly at the helm of of pillsbury co., is coming out of retirement to take over his old job
the company announced monday that its board of directors at a regular meeting in naples, fla., elected spoor chairman and chief exectuive officer to replace john m. stafford, who resigned. it didn't give a reason for the management shakeup
contacted in naples on monday, spoor told the st. paul pioneer press dispatch that other management changes will be announced today. ``there won't be any firings, but we will be changing people and responsibilities,'' spoor said
spoor described himself as a ``very interim'' ceo, adding, ``this doesn't please me at all.''
the one thing this isn't is power plays and politics,'' he said. ``jack (stafford) and i are good friends. i chose him to succeed me.''
asked why stafford quit, spoor said, ``you'll have to ask him. it just reached a point where it was no longer worth it to him.''
johnny thompson, company spokesman, said stafford was unavailable for comment. he said his departure was voluntary and that he left with no ties to pillsbury
pillsbury also said the board of directors appointed a search committee to seek a chief executive for the company to succeed spoor
stafford, 51, presided in fiscal 1987 over the company's first earnings decline in 16 years. earnings were $1.82 million, or $2.10 a share, down from $2.08 million, or $2.38 a share, in fiscal 1986
stock analysts who were projecting fiscal 1988 earnings of about $2.80 a share were told by stafford in february to lower the projections by about 30 cents a share, thompson said
that may have been the straw that broke the camel's back,'' said craig carver, a food industry analyst with minneapolis-based piper jaffray &amp; hopwood inc. ``he has been under increasing pressure by the board. that may have been what did him in.''
carver said declining performance in pillsbury's restaurant division led to the the sharp earnings decline in fiscal 1987. but when stafford told analysts to lower their projections for fiscal 1988 earnings, he said it was because of an expected earnings decline in the consumer foods division, which includes frozen pizza, desserts and mixes
the announcement came as a surprise, carver said
spoor, 65, remained on the company's board of directors after retiring as chairman and chief executive in 1985. in september his involvement in the company increased when he was selected chairman of the executive committee
mcorp has agreed to sell its majority-owned mtech computer services unit to electronic data systems corp. for $281 million in cash and securities
the pact signed monday supersedes a $234 million tentative agreement reached last month with an investment group headed by robert m. bass of fort worth
under the agreement, mcorp, a bank holding company, would would receive $122 million in cash, plus about $159 million in undetermined securities from general motors corp., the parent of dallas-based eds
the agreement is valued at around $30 per share, both companies said
the bass offer included $187.4 million in cash and $46.6 million in subordinated debentures
the stock market stuttered at the start today after zooming to a new post-crash high on monday
the dow jones industrial average of 30 blue-chip stocks slipped 0.50, or 0.02 percent, to 2,071.12 in the first half hour of trading
but in the broader market, stocks gaining in price slightly outnumbered losers in the early going by 397 to 372 with 432 issues unchanged
volume on the big board totaled 29.88 million as of 10 a.m. on wall street, down markedly from monday when early dividend plays on utility stocks touched off heavy trading
analysts said traders received mixed signals from economic data released this morning. the government said its chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but an upward revision for december eased fears of an imminent recession
the commerce department reported a month ago that the index had declined 0.2 percent in december after falling in october and november. today's report, however, revised the december calculation to show an increase of 0.3 percent
three consecutive monthly declines in the index is the traditional, but not infallible, signal of an impending recession
also today, the commerce department said construction spending tumbeld 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months. the drop followd a 0.4 percent increase in december and evidenced weakness in both housing and non-residential building, economists said
aside from the inconclusive economic signals, market traders were expected to focus on the latest rash of takeover deals, which helped propel monday's advance. analysts said they did not expect any sharp reversals like the one that followed the market's brief january rally
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 0.27 to 150.19 in early trading. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 0.44 to 288.90
on monday, the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 48.41 to 2,071.62, reaching its highest point since the october crash. the run left the dow average 20 points higher than the previous post-crash peak of 2,051.89 on jan. 7
the january advance ended abruptly with a 140-point plunge in the dow the next day
advancing issues on monday outnumbered declines by about 7 to 2 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,257 up, 353 down and 357 unchanged
big board volume totaled 236.05 million shares, against 191.09 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index gained 2.76 to 150.46. gold production and add estimated reserves, picks up 7th graf pvs, new york-based...</note>
t. boone pickens is prospecting for another big gold strike, this time making a $1.9 billion cash offer for homestake mining co., the nation's biggest gold producer
the offer disclosed monday came about three months after the noted raider aborted an unsuccessful hostile takeover bid for newmont mining corp., another major gold producer, and as pickens is engaged in battles at texaco inc. and kn energy inc
the pickens-controlled mesa limited partnership offered to pay $20 a share for the 93 million outstanding common shares of homestake in a negotiated agreement. mesa already controls about 3.8 percent of homestake's stock
homestake said it would consider the unsolicited proposal and reply ``in due course,'' but declined to elaborate
the company's stock shot up $3.50 to $18 a share monday on the new york stock exchange, but backtracked to $17.75 in early trading today
based in san francisco, homestake holds interests in oil and natural gas and mines uranium, silver and gold, as does newmont. founded in 1877, homestake has an estimated 10 million ounces of reserves, worth roughly $4.3 billion based on the current gold price of about $430 an ounce. it reportedly produced 678,000 ounces last year
new york-based newmont last year was the target of ivanhoe partners, a group led by pickens, which made a $2 billion hostile bid for control of the company
that move was blocked in october when a delaware court upheld a ``market sweep'' in which newmont's biggest shareholder, britain's consolidated gold fields plc, snapped up enough shares in a two-day buying binge to raise its holdings to nearly 50 percent of newmont and thwart the hostile bid
pickens made his reputation with high-profile bids for several major oil companies in the early 1980s, including gulf corp., phillips petroleum co. and unocal corp
mesa launched hostile bids for such companies and then pocketed millions of dollars in profit when the target company either was bought out by a higher bidder or repurchased its own stock
last year, in addition to the move against newmont, pickens triggered takeover speculation by acquiring significant stakes in singer co. and boeing co., but no actual offer for either company ever was disclosed. singer later was taken private by investor paul bilzerian in a $1.06 billion buyout, in which mesa participated
recently, pickens announced his intention to seek federal approval to acquire up to 15 percent of texaco, and said he would support actions by fellow takeover strategist carl c. icahn to gain seats on the oil giant's board of directors and strip the company's takeover defenses
in addition, pickens earlier this month extended a prolonged campaign against kn energy inc., disclosing he would seek a seat on the lakewood, colo.-based gas pipeline company's board of directors
mesa said it owns 400,000 homestake shares directly and also holds a 45 percent interest in a partnership that owns about 3.1 million homestake shares. mesa has entered into an agreement to purchase the remaining 55 percent of the partnership, which would leave mesa with a 3.8 percent share in homestake, the company's statement said
in a letter to homestake chairman harry conger, pickens said mesa was prepared to proceed promptly with the purchase and was confident it could arrange financing for the acquisition
pickens also offered to allow key personnel at homestake to acquire equity stakes in the merged company, ``and thereby be positioned to benefit directly from the success of their efforts.''
homestake posted a profit last year of $146.4 million, or $1.51 per share, compared with net income of $22.6 million, or 23 cents a share, in 1986. revenue rose to $516.2 million from $347.6 million
the 1987 profit included gains of $95 million on the sale of 20 percent of homestake gold of australia ltd., and $5.7 million from the sale of exploration properties in south dakota and new zealand
homestake is incorporated in delaware, which recently enacted a law aimed at hindering hostile corporate takeovers. graf pvs, three consecutive ...</note>
the government reported today that its main economic forecasting gauge tumbled 0.6 percent in january, but an upward revision in the index of leading economic indicators for december eased fears of a recession this year
in a separate report, the government said construction spending fell 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline since a 3.3 percent drop in march 1987
the commerce department said that construction spending fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $395.2 billion in january following a 0.4 percent increase in december
in the report on leading indicators, the commerce department revised its report for december to reflect a 0.3 percent increase in the index rather than the 0.2 percent decline it initially reported. the index had fallen in october and november
three consecutive monthly declines in the index is the traditional, but not infallible, signal of an impending recession. thus, the revision in the december index was taken by economists as a heartening sign that the country is unlikely to suffer a downturn this year
on monday, the stock market jumped to its highest level since the oct. 19 market meltdown amid new signs of economic optimism
analysts said there was no major economic news to account for the burst of stock-buying on monday, which sent the widely-watched dow jones industrial average up by 48.41 points to 2,071.62
but traders were heartened to see the dow industrials vault past the 2,051.89 level after failing to do so last week. the average stood at that point on jan. 7 for its previous highest closing reading since the crash
in late-morning trading today, however, the closely watched indicator stood at 2,068.80, down 2.82
separately, a survey released monday indicated that economists for major corporations have become more upbeat about the economy than they were three months ago, not long after the oct. 19 stock collapse that wiped out half a trillion dollars in stock wealth
the national association of business economists said its latest member survey that only one-fourth of its members predicted a recession in 1988, down from more than half in the previous survey
but an overwhelming 83 percent of the analysts said a downturn was very likely before the end of the next president's first year in office
in other economic news on monday:
_prices farmers got for raw products in february declined an average of 0.8 percent from january but still were 6.6 percent above those a year earlier, the agriculture department said
_gold prices tumbled in europe but rebounded sharply in new york, based on a stunning rally in platinum that traders ascribed to fear of unrest in south africa, a leading producer of precious metals
at midmorning in london today, dealers fixed a recommended gold price of $429.15 a troy ounce, down from an opening bid of $431.30 but up from monday's late bid of $425
the stock market stumbled to a small loss today after zooming to a new post-crash high on monday
the dow jones industrial average of 30 blue-chip stocks was down 2.82, or 0.14 percent, to 2,068.80 in the first 90 minutes of trading
analysts said they expected to see the market follow through on monday's advance, but results in the broader market were disappointing in the early going. stocks losing ground outnumbered gainers by 708 to 595 with 450 issues unchanged
volume on the big board totaled 75.04 million as of 11 a.m. on wall street, down markedly from monday when dividend plays on utility stocks touched off heavy trading
analysts said traders received mixed signals from economic data released this morning. the government said its chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but an upward revision for december eased fears of an imminent recession
also today, the commerce department said construction spending tumbled 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months. but as in the case of the leading index, the drop followed a revised 0.4 percent increase in december
analysts said the figures were in line with expectations and had little impact on trading
aside from the economic data, market traders were expected to focus on the latest rash of takeover deals, which helped propel monday's surge
among the most active stocks on the nyse, federated department stores gained 1\ to 67} following r.h. macy's offer of $73.80-per-share for about 80 percent of the company's outstanding shares. campeau corp., which has been chasing federated with a bid of $68 per share, said macy's offer was ``simply not competitive.''
general electric was down [ to 45], pillsbury was up ~ to 37|, wendy's was down [ to 7]; international business machines corp. was up [ to 117|; and wal-mart was down \ to 29[
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost 0.50 to 149.96 at mid-morning. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 0.67 to 289.13
on monday, the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 48.41 to 2,071.62, reaching its highest point since the october crash. the run left the dow average 20 points higher than the previous post-crash peak of 2,051.89 on jan. 7
the january advance ended abruptly with a 140-point plunge in the dow the next day. pvs; also moving on general news wires</note>
script writers and entertainment producers, trying to hammer out a strike-averting contract settlement, called a recess today after a 21-hour bargaining session
the writers guild of america said in a brief statement that negotiators recessed at 7:15 a.m. and agreed to return at noon
both sides declined to say if an agreement was near, but alliance and union officials earlier expressed pessimism
the old contract for the 9,000 members expired at midnight monday with no resolution to the union's demands for greater creative control on the set and more money from television residuals
it doesn't look optimistic,'' said cheryl rhoden, spokeswoman for the wga, which represents about 6,500 writers on the west coast and 2,500 on the east coast
the situation is not good,'' agreed herb steinberg, spokesman for the alliance of motion picture and television producers
the writers produce scripts for productions ranging from daytime soap operas and talk shows to prime-time dramas and feature films
a strike would be felt first by daily daytime programs and talk shows, ms. rhoden said. she said it would take longer for the effects of a walkout to become visible on shows produced in advance that need fewer scripts
negotiators were still at the bargaining table at 5 a.m. this morning and were expected to wrap up today
west coast union members would vote tonight on whether to approve the producers' final offer or strike. east coast members will vote wednesday, and results of the two votes aren't expected to be available until about noon wednesday
brian walton, the guild's chief negotiator, said going into the final round of talks monday evening that the wga would stay at the bargaining table as long as possible
but he criticized the producers' alliance for allegedly spreading stories of widespread financial problems in the industry
steinberg responded that the industry as a whole was doing well but makers of one-hour television series are suffering because of difficulty selling their products into syndication
main issues separating the two sides were disputes over creative rights, residuals from foreign markets and residuals for one-hour programs
the median annual income for writers is $40,000, but about half of the wga's members are unemployed at any given time, ms. rhoden said
the entertainment arm of the writers' union, which has a reputation as one of hollywood's most militant, last went on strike three years ago. that walkout lasted two weeks before writers voted to accept a package offering them essentially the same terms as the one they had earlier voted down
ms. rhoden said the guild also represents about 600 television news writers, who struck abc and cbs last spring, but they operate under a different agreement and weren't affected by the negotiations
grain and soybean futures opened steady to lower today on the chicago board of trade
a late rally monday sparked some overnight farmer selling of corn and soybeans, and that helped limit further gains on the opening today, analysts said
wheat traders were encouraged by news of new purchases by the soviet union and by the agriculture department's announcement that it had sold less than 16 million bushels in last friday's weekly auction of surplus wheat
but advances in wheat futures were limited by concerns about this afternoon's usda auction, the first in a series of three weekly auctions that will replace the once-a-week sales, analysts said
that's taking a little edge off the enthusiam over the soviets buying wheat overnight,'' said jerry gidel, an analyst in chicago for g.h. miller &amp; co
in early trading, wheat was 1 cent lower to \ cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.14{ a bushel; corn was unchanged to \ cent lower with march at $2.03} a bushel; oats were unchanged to } cent higher with march at $1.95 a bushel; soybeans were \ cent to } cent lower with march at $6.35\ a bushel
livestock and meat futures were higher in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .30 cent to .55 cent higher with april at 71.80 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .28 cent to .60 cent higher with march at 80.15 cents a pound; live hogs were .02 cent to .30 cent higher with april at 43.27 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .05 cent to .28 cent higher with march at 51.90 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures settled sharply lower on monday
farmers who received some government information late have been given additional time to file their 1987 federal income-tax returns
the internal revenue service said monday it was granting special relief to farmers who did not receive agriculture department documents by the feb. 15 scheduled date. those documents are form 1099-g, which reflects certain government payments, and form 1099-a, on which acquisitions or abandonments of secured property are reported
farmers generally are not subject to penalties for underpayments if they file their returns by march 1. the irs concluded that farmers who failed to receive required information from the agriculture department by feb. 15 might be unable to meet the march 1 deadline
the irs said farmers affected by the delay should attach to their tax return a form 2210f on which they have written their name and social security number and, on the bottom right, the words ``farm waiver.''
with the extension, farmers will have to file returns and pay any tax owed by april 15, the deadline for most taxpayers
most mornings angel salazar can be found standing at the side of the city's majestic metropolitan cathedral, waiting with dozens of other unemployed tradesmen for a lucky break _ a day's earnings as a plumber
salazar, 25, has been coming for about a decade to this spot in downtown mexico city, a traditional gathering point for tradesmen looking for work
jobs this year, he says, are harder than ever to get
it's more difficult,'' he said, wearing a worn beige sweater against the chill of the morning air in this mountainous capital. ``there's less work and everything is more expensive.''
hundreds of tradesmen use this spot, within sight of the president's office at the national palace, to advertise their skills to prospective employers
an electrician sets a light bulb on top of his metal tool box, while a painter drapes brightly colored paint chips over his khaki-colored canvas bag, bulging with the tools of his trade. others list their varied skills on small pieces of wood
but this morning, there is little demand for their talents
mexico has entered yet another year of economic crisis, a year of uncertainty as the government embarks on a new, untested and so far unpopular economic program designed to halt the inflationary spiral
it will be a very difficult year,'' cautioned jonathan heath, senior economist at the forecasting firm of macro asesoria economica in mexico city
1988 may well be a watershed year, said abel beltran del rio, executive director of the ciemex-wefa mexico forecasting group in philadelphia
it is a very crucial year in a sense on the economic front,'' he said. ``we will know if we are going to conquer inflation.''
the answer hinges on the government's risky new program, called the economic solidarity pact, which was introduced late last year in an effort to rein in the worrisome inflation rate
the plan has logic and everyone wants to have the pact succeed because if it doesn't, we'll be in a mess because inflation is so high,'' said a high-ranking government official in a recent interview
we feel we can reduce inflation very quickly without the social costs of having a huge recession,'' said the official who spoke on condition of anonymity
overshadowing the program is the july presidential election
carlos salinas de gortari, the nominee of the ruling institutional revolutionary party, is virtually certain to be sworn in as the next president on dec. 1
but voter unhappiness over his role as a key architect of the government's policy during the nation's 6-year-old economic crisis may cripple his ability to govern
heath predicts the anti-inflation program will show results in time for the presidential balloting
the government will make sure,'' he said, ``that inflation comes down at all costs by the elections. ...''
what happens with inflation and growth will help determine what happens with the election,'' he said
government officials say the program should quickly bring down the inflation rate to 1 percent to 2 percent a month by year's end so that the yearly pace is 65 percent to 75 percent, less than half the record 159.2 percent of 1987
in december, alone, consumer prices soared 14.8 percent, which at the time was the biggest monthly gain since the government began collecting those statistics in 1968. the record was broken again in january, with a 15.5 percent increase recorded in consumer prices
a key part of the program was to have been an indexation plan, slated to go into effect this month to regulate increases in wages and prices. this past week, the government decided to postpone the implementation of that plan until april and instead announced a 3 percent increase in the minimum daily wage and a freeze on regulated prices of such things as gasoline, telephones and electricity
the government also urged private companies to join in the freeze and said the exchange rate for the peso would be held steady in march
we are going to reduce the increase in prices according to some guidelines,'' said one government official
several major stores, showing their support for the inflation fight, already have announced special sales or given cash refunds of the 15 percent sales tax imposed on consumer goods
moreover, the government has taken additional steps to open the economy to more imported goods, reasoning that foreign competition will over the long run force mexican manufacturers to produce better, cheaper products
it also sharply devalued the peso currency and promised to cut its deficit spending
despite the government's confidence in its handiwork, some private analysts remain skeptical
i certainly don't see anything good coming up for the next year and a half,'' said patricia nelson, financial editor of the english-language mexico city news and a frequent critic of government economic policies
they're not going to get inflation down ...'' she said. ``i really don't think there's much hope of getting it under 200 percent (in 1988).''
heath predicts an inflation rate of 151 percent this year and worries the inflation-fighting program will plunge the economy into a steep recession. others forecast a mild recession or a no-growth year
government officials acknowledge the program will brake the economy into a slight downturn in the first half of the year. but they predict a robust rebound by the end of the year for a final growth rate of 2 percent
the economy likely grew at an inflation-adjusted 1 percent in 1987 after a decline of 3.8 percent in the previous year
in the public's mind, the program has gotten off to a poor start
in unveiling the solidarity pact in mid-december, the government put into effect a series of hefty price increases on a variety of basic goods and services. most of the gains outstripped boosts in the minimum daily wage, which now stands at about $3.50
everyday we spend more,'' said gabino lara, 62, a plumber waiting for work near the metropolitan cathedral. he complained the minimum wage covers ``nothing ... absolutely nothing.''
intended to pull together people from all walks of life into a common front against inflation, the pact is proving an effective rallying point _ practically everybody seems to be against it. or at least not enthusiastically behind it,'' wrote the weekly magazine mexico journal
but officials contend the program will overcome its initial unpopularity
what would really worry me is not to take them (the economic measures). there's nothing free,'' said one high-ranking official
for some kansas farmers, sunflowers have become more than a state symbol
wild sunflowers have always flourished here _ hence kansas' reputation as the sunflower state _ but now, farmers in the northwest and north central part of the state are making money by growing the tall, green and yellow plants for sale to snack-food processing plants
we're the newest crop in the state, and the fastest-growing,'' said john featherstone, one of two california men who opened the ag dynamics sunflower seed processing plant in goodland, kan., in october 1986
the two sought to locate their plant at goodland, a small farming community near the state's border with colorado, because its high altitude, low humidity, long growing season and irrigation are perfect for cultivating the high-quality sunflowers used in snack foods, featherstone said
although most of the sunflower processing has been done in minnesota and north dakota, the prime growing area is shifting southward to kansas, officials said
according to an informal survey by the state department of agriculture, the total number of kansas acres planted in sunflowers increased from about 60,000 acres in 1982 to about 200,000 in 1987. farmers yield about 2,000 pounds of sunflower seeds an acre
from 1985 to 1987, the number of acres planted in non-oil seeds in kansas increased by about 41,000
sunflower seeds are used to produce oil and bird seed, in addition to snack foods
it's not ever going to take over wheat,'' said agriculture secretary sam brownback, ``but it does bring in some money for these people.''
it wasn't always that way. kansas has been strong in growing basic crops with stable markets, but has lagged behind other states in growing and marketing specialty crops
they can grow the stuff but the problem has always been marketing,'' featherstone said. ``marketing is more than just taking orders.''
when ag dynamics first moved into the goodland area, for example, some farmers were growing sunflowers for use in sunflower oil and bird seed. but growers were reluctant to venture into the snack-food market because they were unfamiliar with the crop and skeptical of its money-making potential
depressed prices for traditional money-makers, such as corn and wheat, convinced many to take the plunge into the sunflower business. ag dynamics helped ease the transition for some by guaranteeing a market their specialty crop
we cover his (the farmer's) product by selling contracts to roasters on the other end,'' featherstone said
but brownback cautions that each farmer must decide whether alternative crops such as sunflowers are right for his or her situation
many established farmers have no incentive to try alternative crops, brownback said, but smaller farmers with less capital or those with debts receive needed cash when they grow on contract
at the goodland plant, seeds are dehulled, cleaned, sorted and bagged and then shipped out of state to several nut companies, where they are roasted, bagged and distributed, brownback said
ag dynamics sells its sunflower seeds to about 40 nut companies, including planters. they also export about 25 percent of the crop to other countries, such as mexico
for the 1988 crop, they will contract with farmers to grow about 30,000 acres, featherstone said. their first year, they contracted for about 350 acres
improving the field-to-market organization has brightened the future for kansas sunflower growers considerably. processing plants in north dakota and minnesota also are beginning to contract with kansas farmers for the sunflower seeds they use to produce snacks
a major portion of the crop is now swinging down into kansas,'' featherstone said
and the quality of the seeds grown in northwest kansas is so good, brownback said, ``we're getting some people requesting kansas sunflowers.''
cesar nava has a small and prosperous tool business in this bustling provincial city. but like most businessmen throughout mexico, he complains that inflation is eating him up
it is chewing up his profits, his capital, and his working money. worst of all, he says he's even getting used to it
like most others _ rich and poor _ he is becoming ``confused, losing confidence in the system and i don't know what lies in store tomorrow.''
nava's trials and tribulations are typical of those afflicting business people in mexico
when the economic crisis hit mexico back in 1982, nava's dealership sold mostly electric motors of up to 3 horsepower and mills for grinding ``nixtamal,'' the corn dough out of which tortillas are made. ribbon-saws and other carpentry tools were a sideline
as inflation grew, sales slumped and credit began to dry up, nava quickly made carpentry tools his main line, which he sold to colonial furniture-makers throughout michoacan state
nava, 45, a mechanical engineer by profession, got rid of the many salesmen he had on commission, keeping four of the best. he gave them a salary plus commission, but also made them double as drivers, deliverers, bill collectors and service men
he also gave his customers credit, on easy payment terms
not one of them welshed. some were late with their payments, but overall my collection rate averaged 98 percent, far better than any bank in the state,'' nava said
i'd give them up to 10 months credit, at about 6 percent when the banks were charging more than 11 percent monthly,'' he added
by late october 1987, nava's business was thriving. the salesmen alone were earning an average of 600,000 pesos monthly, the equivalent of $351, a good wage at the time and about one-quarter more than their rivals were making
but last november, the government suddenly devalued the peso currency from around 1,708 to around 2,025 to the u.s. dollar in order to keep the price of mexico's exports competitive. nava's working capital of 40 million pesos shrank overnight in dollar terms from the equivalent of $23,400 to $19,700
the devaluation set off another huge round of inflation, so president miguel de la madrid's lame-duck administration announced an economic solidarity pact to keep worker's purchasing power _ and sales _ from shrinking even further
the de la madrid administration has said its main aim is to keep things relatively stable until carlos salinas de gortari, the institutional revolutionary party's shoo-in candidate, is elected next july 6 and takes over as president dec. 1 for a six-year term
salinas de gortari, who was the current president's budget and planning secretary, has promised to ``modernize'' the country, closing or selling hundreds of money-losing state companies, slashing the budget deficit, reducing unnecessary subsidies
if salinas accomplishes even half of what he has promised we will all be in good shape. the trouble is that they (candidates) have made promises and promises over the years, but have not fulfilled them,'' said nava
so people believe less every day,'' he said, describing himself as neither a supporter of nor an indiscriminate critic of the ruling party
meanwhile, he complains that in real terms his business is shrinking
i have raised interest rates to my clients to 8 percent monthly and reduced payment deadlines to a seven months, maximum,'' he said. ``even so, we have had to absorb a lot of the added costs (caused by inflation)
as a result, he said that, ``while the volume of sales in peso terms has gone up, the number of units sold has dropped.'' overall his net profits have dropped 10 percent since late october
it's psychological to a great degree. inflation is in part due to a lack of confidence,'' he said
the stock market stumbled today after vaulting to a new post-crash high on monday
the dow jones industrial average of 30 blue-chip stocks was down 1.33, or 0.06 percent, to 2,070.29 at noon on wall street
analysts had expected to see the market follow through on monday's advance, but the move failed to materialize in the early going. some said the morning's activity was highlighted by big investors cashing in their gains
stocks losing ground outnumbered gainers by 775 to 602 with 461 issues unchanged
volume on the big board totaled 103.25 million at noon, off from 133.99 million at the same time monday when dividend plays on utility stocks ignited an early trading burst
it's sort of a pause to take profits and see where we go next,'' observed eldon grimm, senior vice president for birr, wilson securities
analysts said traders found little to inspire them in the economic data released this morning. the government said its chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but an upward revision for december eased fears of an imminent recession
also today, the commerce department said construction spending tumbled 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months. but as in the case of the leading index, the drop followed a revised 0.4 percent increase in december
analysts said the figures were in line with expectations and had little impact on trading
aside from the economic data, market traders were expected to focus on the latest rash of takeover deals, which helped propel monday's surge
among the most active stocks on the nyse, federated department stores gained 1] to 67~ following r.h. macy's offer of $73.80-per-share for about 80 percent of the company's outstanding shares. campeau corp., which has been chasing federated with a bid of $68 per share, said macy's offer was ``simply not competitive.''
but other results were mixed. sears, roebuck was up \ to 38; general electric was down \ to 45\, pillsbury was up 1 to 37}, wendy's was down [ to 7]; and international business machines corp. was up ] to 117~
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks was down 0.51 to 149.95 at mid-day. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 0.65 to 289.11
on monday, the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 48.41 to 2,071.62, reaching its highest point since the october crash. the run left the dow average 20 points higher than the previous post-crash peak of 2,051.89 on jan. 7
analysts noted that while today's early performance was disappointing, the market appeared firm enough to avoid the kind of slide that followed the january advance. the day after hitting that peak, the dow plunged 140 points
texas international co. has suspended payment of interest and principal on subordinated debts totaling $155 million
the oklahoma city-based oil and gas company announced monday that interest payments on the $155 million subordinated debt had become more than the company can handle
payments on other debt obligations will continue, said james gregory, director of investor relations for the company
our business environment has simply come to the point where it is presently not in the best interests of either our shareholders or our subordinated debt holders for us to remain current on our subordinated debt as it is currently structured,'' said james a. kishpaugh, president and chief executive officer
the first payment suspended was a biannual interest payment of $869,000 due monday on the company's 10 percent second delayed convertible senior subordinated notes due dec. 31, 1993, gregory said. principal on those notes is about $32 million, he said. the company has about 11 other issues of subordinated notes, he said
the problem is we're not generating enough cash flow from our egyptian assets'' to be able to handle both current debt and move ahead in the company's exploration plans, gregory said
by the end of 1987, texas international had expected crude oil production to be between 3overy on the khalda concession in the egyptian western desert, gregory said
instead, the concession is producing 20,000 barrels daily, with texas international receiving about 10 percent of that, he said
gregory said the company plans to meet with creditors and establish a plan to allow it to continue its exploration activities in egypt and elsewhere. and second report on construction spending; also moving on general news wires.</note>
the government's chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but an upward revision for december eased fears of an imminent recession
the commerce department reported a month ago that the index had declined 0.2 percent in december after falling in october and november
three consecutive monthly declines in the index is the traditional, but not infallible, signal of an impending recession
in today's report, however, the december calculation was revised to show an increase of 0.3 percent
since it was created in 1948, the index has correctly forecast every recession the country has had with declines for at least three consecutive months. thus, the revision to december was taken by economists as a heartening sign that the country is unlikely to suffer a downturn this year
the leading index shows that this is a no-recession year for the u.s. economy,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co. ``we will have a slower economy but no recession.''
sinai predicted that overall economic growth, as measured by the gross national product, could dip as low as 0.5 percent in the current january-march quarter as factories cut back production to work off a backlog of unsold goods. but he said growth will gradually strengthen as the year progresses, aided by continued strong demand for u.s. exports
the economy will have a reasonably good year for an election year, especially in view of the mine field of risks that are around, ranging from the old age of the expansion to the effects of the stock market crash,'' sinai said
in a second report today, the government said construction spending dropped a sharp 2.9 percent in january, the biggest setback in 10 months, as widespread weakness in all categories from housing to non-residential construction and government building posted declines
the leading index has taken on added significance since oct. 19, when stock prices plunged a record 508 points, eclipsing the 1929 market crash, which preceded the great depression
since october's steep decline, however, a number of business barometers have shown strength, including continued declines in the unemployment rate. even the stock market has rallied in recent weeks, climbing more than 48 points on monday to close at its highest level since the october collapse
economists are looking for the economy to slow in the first half of 1988, but they now believe that the sluggish growth will not worsen into a recession
the national association of business economists said monday that while more than half of its members responding to a november survey believed the country would suffer a recession this year, that figure had now dropped to about one-fourth
the 0.6 percent january decline was led by a big increase in new claims for unemployment benefits, which averaged 351,000 a week in january, up 12.5 percent from the december level. since january, however, the weekly unemployment claims figures have been falling, further easing recession fears
in all, five of the nine available indicators showed weakness during january. after unemployment claims, the negative factors were a drop in building permits, a decline in manufacturers' orders for consumer goods, changes in raw materials prices and a drop in business delivery times
four indicators showed strength during the month, with a rise in stock prices making the biggest gain. other positive forces were the growth of the money supply, increases in the length of the average workweek and a rise in orders for plant and equipment
the various changes left the index at 190.2 percent of its 1967 base of 100
michael evans, head of a washington forecasting firm, until recently had been expecting a recession in the early part of 1988. but he said he was now less pessimistic because a variety of business barometers have rebounded after an initial shock from the stock market decline
the economy isn't out of the woods yet, but a recession forecast is a diminished probability now,'' he said
the overall economy, as measured by the gross national product, raced ahead at a 4.5 percent rate in the final three months of 1987. but almost all of that increase came from a big buildup of unsold products
analysts said production will be cut back in the current quarter while those high inventory levels are worked down. many economists think growth will slow to below 1 percent with some even expecting a negative gnp growth figure from january through march
but economists think growth will then slowly improve, allowing the economy to expand at around 2 percent for all of 1988, about half of the 1987 level
most of the growth in the economy is going to come from exports with consumer spending and home building continuing to be depressed,'' said john o. wilson, chief economist at bank of america in san francisco
financial reforms agreed to by leaders of the european economic community two weeks ago appeared threatened tuesday by italy's refusal to pay its share into the 1988 budget
sources within the 12-nation common market said italy's objections to the budget draft could lead other eec states to disavow their earlier consent to the reforms. ``once one country begins to question the agreement, all others will want to do the same,'' one official said
the official, who asked to remain anonymous in keeping with established practice, said the problem is likely to be sent to a meeting of eec foreign ministers to be held march 5 at konstanz, west germany
of course, we are very disappointed that we have to deal with this problem at this stage,'' said a german official who asked not to be named. ``the whole situation endangers the 1988 budget ... everything is blocked,'' he said
the much-heralded reforms, agreed in brussels feb. 13, were designed to rein in the eec's skyrocketing farm spending and give the trading bloc a sound financial footing for the next five years
but italy's objections had forced common market budget ministers last wednesday to suspend efforts to adopt the overdue spending plan
in a letter monday to west german chancellor helmut kohl, prime minister giovanni goria rejected the formula as offending ``the principles'' on which the reforms stand
an official message from rome tuesday said italy's contribution to the fund was at least $143 million higher than agreed at the summit
west germany, which currently holds the eec presidency, gave italy until noon tuesday to change its mind
but the deadline passed and the italian government remained adamant in opposing the new formula for calculating national contributions to a budget supplement set at 7.6 billion european currency units, or $8.2 billion
that amount is needed to bridge the gap between anticipated spending needs totaling the equivalent of $54.6 billion and revenue available under current eec rules
texas financier charles hurwitz has moved to gain control of kaisertech, the world's fifth largest aluminum producer, with an agreement to pay up to $230 million for a 32.1 percent voting share
hurwitz' bid to kaisertech chairman alan e. clore competed with a bid by marc rich, a swiss aluminum business owner. hurwitz, like clore, has no experience in the aluminum industry
the announcement monday said the company would have preferred that the british industrialist's' holdings be sold more broadly. clore was under intense pressure to sell from creditors
if clore hadn't found a buyer by a monday deadline, he could have faced default on loans he had obtained using kaiser stock as collateral. after the stock plunged because of the october market crash, lenders wanted repayment
the oakland-based company's stock rose $1.125 a share monday to close at $11.875 on the new york stock exchange
under the deal, los angeles-based maxxam group inc., a company controlled by hurwitz, agreed to buy from clore and his lenders 6.2 million shares of kaisertech stock for $12 a share
once maxxam purchases the stock, it has an option to acquire 8.2 million shares of kaisertech convertible preferred stock at $13.75 to $14 a share. maxxam also must pay $8 million to $10 million in expenses, the nature of which was undisclosed
in addition, maxxam is negotiating agreements with other parties to buy an additional 2.8 million shares of kaisertech common stock for $12 a share
it was not clear what effect maxxam's purchase would have immediately on the kaisertech board. all 14 seats are up for election shortly. included are eight board members appointed by clore, including clore and james pasman, kaiser's chief executive officer
the probable changes in kaisertech's executive suite and boardroom come as the company is rebounding from six straight years of losses. kaiser has sold its chemicals, oil and gas businesses, has slashed debt, and is concentrating on its core aluminum business
british aerospace plc has expressed interest in acquiring state-owned rover group plc, the moneylosing automaker that the government previously said it intended to sell
trade and industry secretary lord young said tuesday that the government would negotiate until april 30 with british aerospace, which was privatized in 1985. if the negotations fail, lord young said the government would explore other options for divesting its 99.8 percent stake in the automaker
rover group chairman graham day said he welcomed british aerospace's interest
for rover group we see this as a very exciting opportunity. the two groups are complementary and not competitive,'' he said. ``in addition, it offers a speedy route to privatization, with the minimum disruption to our management, work force, dealer network and suppliers.''
the government had said it would sell the rover group, makers of the land rover vehicle and sterling cars, by 1992
rover group is comprised of the austin rover carmaker and the land rover utility vehicle maker. it sold the leyland trucks unit last year
in rover's most recent earnings report, the group said it lost $74 million on revenue of $2.8 billion in the first six months of 1987. but the loss was 80 percent less than in the year-earlier period
the government took over the automaker, formerly called british leyland, in 1975 to prevent its collapse
general motors corp. has announced an agreement in principle to sell its fairfield auto parts stamping plant to cynba international inc
cynba, headed by automotive executive anthony barclae, proposes to continue operating the stamping plant, gm officials said at a news conference tuesday
gm declined to reveal the sale price. it is one of two plants in southwest ohio that gm is closing as part of a nationwide program to cut operating costs and stay competitive
gm shut down its norwood auto assembly plant last aug. 26, eliminating 4,300 jobs there, and plans to close the fairfield operation in august
barclae proposes to buy the fairfield plant and equipment. he also promises to try to hire laid-off gm employees, gm officials said
the deal is contingent on a feasibility assessment. barclae has 90 days to explore business opportunities and talk with city, state and united auto workers union officials and to decide whether to buy the plant
about 2,500 people once worked at the fairfield plant. current employment stands at 971
barclae owns and operates two sheet metal stamping and assembly plants _ shadyside stamping corp., in shadyside, ohio, and pigeon manufacturing corp., in pigeon, mich. he also operates cameo color coat inc., a detroit-based automotive corrosion resistance painting company
peter konzak of devils lake rummaged through the clutter of his briefcase and found a letter as proof that his invention, a ``pop-up scarecrow,'' has already earned him some attention, if not wealth
i am still invited to the johnny carson show. it is a standing invitation,'' the 66-year-old retired farmer said, answering questions about his scarecrow at the second annual north dakota inventors congress
forty inventors and manufacturers, most of them from north dakota, showed off gizmos, gadgets and thingamajigs at the show that ended tuesday
spokesman scot nething said only four of them had displayed their wares in last year's show. ``it's a whole new crop.''
the inventions showcased this year ranged from an ultralight airplane manufactured in edgeley to a swinging mailbox that a minot man devised after a neighbor complained about his mailbox getting knocked down by snowplows each winter
and then there was a lawnmower doubling as a fertilizer spreader, a clothes dryer vent closure, a crayon holder, a retractable engine heater cord and a wheel bearing packer
konzak's pride and joy stood at one side of his booth on the floor of the jamestown civic center
it was a steel contraption wearing fluorescent work gloves, decked out in red and yellow ribbons and sporting a dummy's head adorned with a cowboy hat
in a sunflower field, the clumsy-looking ``pest-scaring device'' jumps up from among the plants, twirls and whistles to startle blackbirds and keep them from feasting on the seeds, konzak said monday
all you need is one on 40 acres,'' he said. ``with the buzzer in here and all the stuff, it can pay for itself in one year.'' a battery and propane tank give the scarecrow its life
since getting his mechanical scarecrow patented in april 1986, konzak has made about 30 of them and sold them all at about $500 apiece, he said
but he said he hasn't made any money yet. ``i've just made my expenses. i put $20,000 into patenting this thing.''
business hasn't even been that brisk for the ultralight maker, jackson manufacturing co. of edgeley, which built its first ultralight airplane a year ago and has sold two so far, sales manager gene hanson said. a yellow one displayed at the inventors congress costs $7,450, not including options
ranchers can use them. retired people. anybody who likes to fly can use them. it isn't any different than boating, motorcycling and snowmobiling,'' hanson said. ultralights don't require pilots' licenses
gordon johnson of cando displayed his ``garda-a-lok,'' which he patented a year ago. it clamps around the outside door handle of motels or apartments, a lock over a lock. ``nobody gets into that room,'' he said
tonight, there will be one on our motel room when we leave it,'' he said
walt behrens of minot developed his damage-proof mailbox last fall and sold 16 so far at $46.90 each
the idea is simple _ a mailbox that swings back into place if a snowplow or other vehicle gets off the side of the road and bashes it
behrens, who retired after 28 years as an assistant airport manager, came up with the idea after a neighbor complained about how difficult it was replanting an uprooted mailbox when the ground was frozen
behrens said he provides his own testing laboratory: ``i got my own out by the road, of course, and i give it a bat and a swing to see how it's working.''
the dollar ended mostly lower against major foreign currencies tuesday after another sluggish trading session in europe. gold prices rose
traders said the dollar came under some mild selling pressure late in the day, possibly because of a slightly worse-than-expected u.s. leading indicators statistic for january
the commerce department said the index fell 0.6 percent in january, but the decline was partly offset by a revision in the december index to a 0.3 percent rise from a previously announced 0.2 percent fall
many dealers discounted the dollar's slight decline tuesday and said the market remains stagnant
the british pound, meanwhile, was boosted by higher interest rates in britain. sterling rose to $1.7775 from $1.7725 monday
other late dollar rates in europe compared with late monday included: 1.6855 west german marks, down from 1.6875; 1.3915 swiss francs, up from 1.3903; 5.7065 french francs, down from 5.7150; 1.8940 dutch guilders, down from 1.8945; 1,244.35 italian lire, up from 1,244.25; 1.2570 canadian dollars, down from 1.2622
the dollar rose in tokyo, closing at 128.63 japanese yen, up from monday's close of 128.12 yen. later in london, the dollar was lower at 128.30 yen
gold rose in london to a late bid price of $428.70 a troy ounce, compared with monday's late bid of $425. in zurich, gold was higher at a bid $429.50 compared with $426 monday
the metal closed in hong kong at a bid $433.80, up from $430.19
silver bullion prices rose on the london market where the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.29 a troy ounce, compared with $6.14 monday
looking at japan's trade figures for the past year is like looking at a glass of water _ the glass is either half empty or half full, depending on one's perspective
from the japanese side, the figures show improvement, with exports beginning to decline in volume terms after years of growth that provoked resentment among its trading partners
from the american side, the trade deficit with japan rose again, mainly because the soaring yen inflated the cost of japanese imports
in tokyo, government officials are optimistic that recent trade statistics show a trend toward reducing japan's huge trade surplus. but independent economists are voicing reservations over long-term trade prospects
referring to the latest u.s. trade figures, a ministry of international trade and industry official said the tide is slowly turning and that, although the figures showed the biggest deficit in history, the imbalance with japan actually decreased
it depends on whether you look at trade in yen or dollar terms,'' he said
japan's exports rose 5.6 percent in dollar terms but fell 8.2 percent in yen terms in the last three months of 1987, compared to a year earlier. at the same time, imports rose in terms of both dollars and yen
as for volume, japan's imports are growing, with a big increase from the newly industrialized countries and europe, though the increase with the united states was not so large,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
according to u.s. figures, the trade deficit last year was a record $171.2 billion, up from $156.2 billion in 1986. the united states' largest bilateral deficit again was with japan _ a record $59.8 billion, up from $58.6 billion in 1986 and $49.7 billion in 1985
ron napier, vice president and japan economist with the investment firm of salomon brothers inc., does see a short-term easing in the trade imbalance, but warns that good figures in the short term may be misleading
the first quarter looks good, and we will see a brief lull because japanese automakers have too much inventory already in the united states,'' he said. ``but i don't really think the figures for the final quarter of 1987 signal that japan's trade surplus has topped out. there were basically no trends in 1987.''
barriers keeping u.s. exporters out of certain japanese markets, such as highly controversial restrictions on imported beef, citrus fruits and rice, add to the trade imbalance problem and have come under heavy fire from the u.s. government
but the most pressing question now may not be barriers or exchange rates, napier said
i think that the yen-dollar rate is no longer a problem for u.s. exporters. more marketing focus is needed in this country, which traditionally has not been a target,'' he said
napier said the united states lags behind europe and the newly industrialized countries in expanding exports to japan because of a lack of distribution facilities, an insufficient sales force and scanty product representation
it was interesting to hear that u.s. steel would be exporting again, but that they chose europe as their market,'' he said
the official at the japanese trade ministry agreed
success depends on exporters' efforts,'' he said. ``exporters in the u.s. now have the chance to compete. japanese consumers are changing and there are more and more foreign products for sale in supermarkets here
domestic demand for foreign goods is increasing, so now is the time for the u.s. to try to expand in the japanese market. exporters should act immediately to take advantage of developments here,'' he added
as for the future prospects of japan's trade with the u.s., i think that with the yen-dollar rate our imports will continue to steadily increase.''
napier also offers some comfort to americans wondering if the trade imbalance with japan will ever end
the marketing focus is starting to change, with more attention being given to japan,'' he said. ``it may take awhile, but this will eventually have an impact.'' agreement</head>
a federal bankruptcy judge has approved the sale of kaiser coal corp.'s two northern new mexico coal mines to pittsburg &amp; midway coal mining co. for $97.7 million, a company official said
but the deal's consummation hinges on the resolution of a dispute over a coal delivery contract with arizona's salt river project, said fred meurer, pittsburg &amp; midway manager of public affairs, on tuesday
u.s. bankruptcy judge charles e. matheson on monday approved pittsburg &amp; midway's purchase of the york canyon complex _ two coal mines 35 miles west of raton, n.m. _ for $88.1 million in cash and the assumption of $9.6 million in kaiser's liabilities, said meurer
we're gratified at the ruling, and we'd like to close on the deal as soon as possible,'' meurer said
the bankruptcy judge's ruling was required because kaiser coal corp. and its parent company, kaiser steel corp., have been operating under chapter 11 reorganization since february 1987, said meurer
but he said that part of the agreement calls for his company's assumption of kaiser's 25-year agreement to supply 475,000 tons of coal per year from the york mines to the salt river project _ while the salt river project is trying to end the agreement through a petition to the bankruptcy court
prior to closure of this sale, this litigation must be favorably resolved,'' said meurer. he said matheson was scheduled to hear arguments march 22 and 23
when the deal is made final, pittsburg &amp; midway, a chevron corp. subsidiary, will gain control of a surface mine and an underground mine that together employ 275 hourly employees and 75 salaried workers, said meurer
he said the pittsburg &amp; midway has been managing the mines since january and laid off 74 employees on feb. 22
the mines produced 1.75 million tons of coal last year, meurer said
archer daniels midland co., a major processor of raw agricultural commodities, has signed a letter of intent to buy clc of america inc., a st. louis-based barge line, the companies have announced
the barge company emerged in december from a complex chapter 11 bankruptcy, during which it fended off several buy-out offers. adm agreed to pay about $60 million in common stock for the company in a transaction to be completed by june, company officials said
the acquisition will substantially increase archer daniels midland's ability to to transport grain and finished products, adm vice-president richard e. burket said monday
we've been doing a greater volume and have greater needs for river transportation,'' burket said
clc has a fleet of 515 barges, 13 line haul towboats, 12 switching boats and barge fleeting facilities in wisconsin, iowa, new orleans and st. louis
the transaction does not include morgan drive away inc., a subsidiary of clc that provides highway transportation of mobile homes, recreational vehicles and other commodities, clc officials said
industry observers view the merger as a mark of confidence in a barge industry slowly recovering from years of financial turmoil. clc faced a staggering pile of debts when it filed for bankruptcy in january 1986, but in the last two years, barge shipments have increased and barge rates have risen
the stock market crept ahead today after vaulting to a new post-crash high monday
the dow jones industrial average of 30 blue-chip stocks recovered from a small loss earlier in the day to stand at 2,071.95, up 0.33, or 0.02 percent, at 2 p.m. on wall street
analysts had expected to see the market follow through on monday's strong advance, but the trend was mostly disappointing with two hours of trading to go. some said the morning's activity was highlighted by big investors cashing in their gains
stocks losing ground outnumbered gainers by 802 to 688 with 424 issues unchanged
volume on the big board totaled 147.54 million at 2 p.m., well behind the levels reached at the same time monday when dividend plays on utility stocks ignited an early trading burst
it's sort of a pause to take profits and see where we go next,'' observed eldon grimm, senior vice president for birr, wilson securities
analysts said traders found little to inspire them in the economic data released this morning. the government said its chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but an upward revision for december eased fears of an imminent recession
also today, the commerce department said construction spending tumbled 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months. but like the leading index, the drop followed a revised 0.4 percent increase in december
analysts said the figures were in line with expectations and had little impact on trading
aside from the economic data, traders focused on issues swept up in the latest rash of takeover deals, which had powered monday's surge
among the most active stocks on the nyse, federated department stores gained 1[ to 67| following r.h. macy's offer of $73.80-per-share for about 80 percent of the company's outstanding shares
gaf corp., which received a sweetened buyout offer from its top management, dipped [ to 49~
other results were similarly mixed. sears, roebuck was up \ to 38; general electric was down ] to 45[, pillsbury was up 1\ to 38, wendy's was down [ to 7]; and international business machines corp. was up [ to 117|
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks was down 0.46 to 150.00. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 0.79 to 289.25
on monday, the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 48.41 to 2,071.62, reaching its highest point since the october crash
senior officials from britain, france, west germany and spain on tuesday ordered europe's airbus industrie to try to reach an agreement on industrial and commercial cooperation with mcdonnell douglas corp. by mid-1988
the decision emerged at the end of a one-day meeting of transport ministers and chief executives of the industrial partners in the european commercial aircraft group
aviation industry observers said it was the latest display of europe's eagerness to penetrate the lucrative u.s. market while trying to reduce trade friction over american claims of unfair competition by airbus
trade negotiators from the united states, the european community commission and the four airbus partner-countries are scheduled to meet in konstanz, west germany, march 18 to discuss u.s. claims that the europeans unfairly subsidize the consortium
french transport minister jacques douffiagues told reporters after the ministers' meeting that airbus' mandate is ''unlimited,'' although the negotiations would tend to focus more on planned aircraft than on existing programs
a cooperation accord with mcdonnell could take the form of a joint venture or co-production scheme, he said
douffiagues suggested that possible areas of useful cooperation between airbus and mcdonnell could include small short-range jets with between 100-150 seats as well as large aircraft with 350 seats or more. ''there is no upper limit,'' he said
''any agreement with mcdonnell must be balanced, taking account of the advantages and constraints for both sides,'' douffiagues said
douffiagues said part of the interest in an agreement is that it would ease airbus's access to the u.s. market, where the group has only three customers
a statement released after the meeting said airbus' mandate is to negotiate ''diligently'' and ''with a will to reaching a balanced agreement that is beneficial to the two parties.''
the industrial partners of the airbus consortium _ france's aerospatiale, britain's aerospace, messerschmitt-boelkow-blohm of west germany and spain's construcciones aeronauticas _ have had contacts with mcdonnell for almost two years now on eventual cooperation
previous talks with mcdonnell douglas on possible cooperation collapsed in 1986
w.t. grimm &amp; co., a firm that specializes in the purchase and sale of small to mid-sized companies and monitors the pace of corporate acquisitions, has become part of its own takeover statistics
wall street giant merrill lynch &amp; co. said tuesday it had acquired chicago-based grimm, recognized as a prominent source of information about merger and acquisition activity. the price wasn't disclosed
the acquisition of w. t. grimm further enhances our ability to provide fee-based services to small businesses and to the high net-worth individuals who own them,'' john l. steffens, president of the merrill lynch consumer markets, a subsidiary of the parent company, said in a press statement
the statement also announced the appointment of jeffrey s. feldman, a director of merrill lynch's business financial services unit, as president of grimm, which will remain headquartered in chicago. james j. kelly, grimm's principal shareholder, will become a senior vice president, the statement said
the stock market slipped lower today after vaulting to a new post-crash high monday
the dow jones industrial average of 30 blue-chip stocks held its ground most of the day but weakened in afternoon trading, falling 13.26, or 0.64 percent, to 2,058.36 at 3 p.m. on wall street
analysts had expected to see the market follow through on monday's strong advance, but the trend was mostly disappointing with just an hour of trading to go. some said the day's activity was highlighted by big investors cashing in their gains
stocks losing ground outnumbered gainers by 890 to 640 with 415 issues unchanged
volume on the big board totaled 174.08 million at 3 p.m., behind the levels reached at the same time monday when dividend plays on utility stocks ignited an early trading burst
it's sort of a pause to take profits and see where we go next,'' observed eldon grimm, senior vice president for birr, wilson securities
analysts said traders found little to inspire them in the economic data released this morning. the government said its chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but an upward revision in the index of leading economic indicators for december eased fears of an imminent recession
also today, the commerce department said construction spending tumbled 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months. but as was the case with the leading index, the drop followed a revised 0.4 percent increase in december
analysts said the figures were in line with expectations and had little impact on trading
aside from the economic data, traders focused on issues swept up in the latest rash of takeover deals, which had powered monday's surge
among the most active stocks on the nyse, federated department stores gained 1[ to 67| following r.h. macy's offer of $73.80-per-share for about 80 percent of the company's outstanding shares
gaf corp., which received a sweetened buyout offer from its top management, dipped [ to 49~
other results were similarly mixed. sears, roebuck was up [ to 37~; general electric was down ~ to 44|, pillsbury was up 1\ to 38, wendy's was down [ to 7]; and international business machines corp. was down ~ to 116|
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks was down 1.07 to 149.39. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 0.06 to 288.52
on monday, the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 48.41 to 2,071.62, reaching its highest point since the october crash
a management group led by gaf corp.'s chairman has raised its bid for the company to $1.4 billion, and the board of directors agreed to submit the offer to shareholders ``without endorsement,'' gaf said tuesday
the deal, now valued at $1.4 billion, would provide $46 in cash and junior securities with a face value of $6.50 for each share
in december, the group led by chairman samuel j. heyman had offered $1.35 billion, or $40 in cash and $8.50 in securities per share
that represented a downward revision from its $2.3 billion first offer, made in september, of $64 in cash and $2.50 face value in debt securities. heyman said rising interest rates made it impossible for the group to continue the original bid
a special committee of the board of the specialty chemicals and building materials company has agreed to submit the new proposal ``without endorsement'' to shareholders, gaf said
to permit that, shareholders must first vote on an amendment to the company charter
the amendment would allow shareholders to act in place of the board in considering a merger offer, as the heyman-led proposal has been presented
the committee had earlier rejected the $64-a-share proposal as being inadequate. gaf said it had decided to let stockholders decide based on the favorable opinion of the offer by salomon brothers inc., retained by the committee as financial advisers
the decision was also made following the committee's instructions to salomon brothers to solicit other possible purchasers, gaf said
the committee said that if it receives an ``economically superior alternative proposal'' for gaf, it could cancel its agreement with the buyout group
we think the price is a fare and full price,'' heyman said. ``it's seven times the price of the stock only four years ago.''
gaf stock, which reached a low of $31.50 after the oct. 19 stock market crash, has traded around $50 with speculation about an agreement
it was $49.75, down 25 cents, on the new york stock exchange in afternoon trading tuesday
the agreement will put the management offer ``to the test of the marketplace,'' said heyman, who wrested control of gaf in 1983 after a bitter proxy fight to oust former chairman jesse werner
during his tenure, gaf has made hundreds of millions of dollars in unsuccessful buyout attempts of union carbide corp. and borg-warner corp
we're primarily an operating company, but we're not retiring from the takeover arena,'' the 48-year-old executive said tuesday
heyman owns 2.8 million shares of gaf, or about 10 percent of its outstanding stock
he said the takeover would be financed by loans from a bank syndicate led by chase manhattan, a limited debt offering and the group's own money
gaf also said it had reached tentative settlements of lawsuits brought in connection with the buyout offer
du pont co. will pay $39 million to clean up ditches, lagoons and other groundwater sites contaminated by hazardous waste that seeped from its chamber works plant here, a company official said tuesday
the cleanup is part of an administrative consent order with the state department of environmental protection and represents the largest settlement by a single company for one location to date in the united states, said commissioner richard t. dewling
the company will construct a 2{-mile pipeline that will transport waste water from the plant to du pont's on-site water treatment plant, assistant plant manager stuart schenk said. construction is expected to be completed in 1991
in addition, three water basins and about six miles of unlined ditches on the 1,600-acre site will be cleaned up and no longer used to store waste water, schenk said
the company makes about 750 chemical products at the facility in the deepwater section of this salem county community. the waste water is generated by the manufacture of those products
the plant is also the state's largest commercial hazardous waste disposal facility and one of three existing industrial facilities seeking state approval to build an incinerator to burn hazardous wastes generated elsewhere in the state
midwest express airlines announced tuesday it will provide a free trip to corporate executives and consultants interested in looking at wisconsin as a business location
jose oller, vice president for marketing, made the offer to forward wisconsin inc., a milwaukee-based economic development and marketing concern aimed at attracting business to wisconsin
our support will entail complimentary air transportation for site inspection parties on their first visit to wisconsin from any midwest express on-line destination,'' oller said
that includes service to milwaukee, madison or appleton from atlanta, boston, dallas, new york, washington, philadelphia and newark, n.j
bp america inc., enjoying higher oil prices in 1987, reported a return to profitability
the former standard oil co., now a segment of british petroleum co. plc, earned $564 million in 1987. standard oil incurred a $188 million loss in 1986, its final full year not under bp's control
due to tax accounting requirements of the united kingdom, bp america could not report fourth-quarter net earnings, spokesman john andes said tuesday. the company's results were released monday
income from operations in the fourth quarter was $613 million, compared with $109 million in standard oil's fourth quarter of 1986. in all of 1987, operating income totaled $2.26 billion, compared with an operating loss of $242 million in 1986
the 1986 annual loss included $1.13 billion for writedowns and restructuring charges
operating income reflects what bp america contributed to its parent company's results. operating income does not include regular tax charges or interest payments on debt
the report was the first release of financial results by bp america since june, when british petroleum bought the 45 percent of common stock of standard oil co. that it did not already own
bp america sales were $15.4 billion, compared with $13.9 billion in 1986. for the fourth quarter, sales were $4.01 billion, up from $3.35 billion for the year-ago period
as these results show, bp america's performance is highly dependent on crude oil prices,'' said robert b. horton, chief executive officer of the company
in 1987, higher crude oil prices, lower costs and increased production have significantly improved the contribution made by the exploration and production segment,'' he continued. ``we also benefited from the resumption of activity at the bingham canyon mine (in utah) at a time of higher copper prices.''
grain and soybean futures closed mostly lower tuesday on the chicago board of trade
concerns about increased supplies offset bullish expectations of new export business, analysts said
it really turned into a quiet affair here after we were down early and then came back,'' said jerry gidel, an analyst in chicago for g.h. miller &amp; co
wheat posted the greatest losses, with pressure stemming from the agriculture department's auction of surplus wheat scheduled for later in the afternoon, gidel said
the auction marks the beginning of a series of thrice-weekly auctions which will replace the weekly friday sales the usda began in november
the agency has said it hopes to sell 10 million bushels of wheat in each of the new auctions compared to targets of about 25 million bushels for the old weekly auctions
at the close, wheat was 3} cents to 4{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.11 a bushel; corn was unchanged to } cent lower with march at $2.03} a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to { cent higher with march at $1.94\ a bushel; soybeans were 1{ cents lower to } cent higher with march at $6.34} a bushel
unilever, the anglo-dutch home products giant, reported tuesday that its fourth-quarter net profit was flat as revenue slipped a bit
the company, which is made up of unilever plc of britain and unilever nv of the netherlands, said its after-tax profit was unchanged at 186 million pounds, which is the equivalent of about $331 million. sales dipped 0.7 percent to 4.45 billion pounds, or about $7.92 billion, from 4.48 billion pounds
unilever said pre-tax profit on its north american activities doubled to the equivalent of $178 million
for all of 1987, unilever reported a net profit of 756 million pounds, or about $1.35 billion. that was up 14 percent from earnings of 664 million pounds the previous year
sales for the year fell 3 percent to 16.55 billion pounds, or about $29.5 billion, from 17.14 billion pounds in 1986
pre-tax profit on north american activities also doubled for the year, rising to the equivalent of $425 million
unilever said that for the full year, sales gains were recorded in most product groups and substantial contributions were made by recent acquisitions, including the u.s.-based chesebrough-pond's inc., which was purchased in december 1986 for $3.15 billion
a brussels court on tuesday approved societe generale de belgique s.a.'s issuance of 12 million new shares in a ruling that could intensify the battle for control of belgium's biggest holding company
societe generale announced in january it was raising its capital to 40.2 million shares from 28.2 million shares, shortly after italian investor carlo de benedetti indicated he wanted to gain control of the company
de benedetti raised questions about the new capital issue in court, and the courts stripped the shares of voting rights in two previous decisions
tuesday's ruling would retore voting rights for those shares temporarily and if approved by a higher court, the issue would dilute the stake of all shareholders
belgian industrialist andre leysen, who is aligned with de benedetti, said he has an option on 10 million of the 12 million new shares
but the management of societe generale, which opposes de benedetti's bid, has said the option is no longer valid because leysen failed to form an alliance in support of societe generale early last month
societe generale director etienne davignon said the new shares are owned by seven companies from belgium, luxembourg and france that have formed an alliance which is siding with the 166-year-old company
the alliance claims to hold 52 percent of societe generale's original 28.2 million shares
de benedetti has claimed he and his allies control 47.2 percent of societe generale's shares, but davignon said it was only 43 percent
if a higher court confirms the capital increase, davignon said it would reduce de benedetti's stake to about 28.5 percent
meanwhile, de benedetti said in a statement from milan he intends to call a shareholders meeting to decide the future of the company after its public offer to buy more societe generale shares ends march 4
a source close to de benedetti said ``we are fully confident we will have a majority of shares at the meeting.''
leysen's holding company gevaert n.v said in a statement it was ``now in a position'' to buy the new shares as it had agreed to do on feb. 3
the shares were initially placed with a societe generale subsidiary but have since been sold to the seven companies allied with it, davignon said
the top official of societe generale, rene lamy, said last week the agreement with leysen was no longer valid ``since leysen has failed to cement a belgian federation'' in support of societe generale
leysen could not get a deal with several belgian and european groups to keep the company anchored in belgium earlier this month
instead, he reached a partnership agreement with de benedetti and the copeba holding company, the belgian subsidiary of the french paribas group
together they founded a new holding company called europa 92
the management of societe generale first announced the capital increase jan. 18, just after de benedetti said he wanted to take control and turn it into a holding company with interests across europe
societe generale has interests in about 1,400 companies worldwide and in about half of belgium's top 50 companies. it has an important stake in belgium's gas, electricity and petroleum sector and in belgium's largest bank
public service co. that was also a prerequisite for the modernization plan
although the energy issue has been resolved, the second issue _ namely productivity improvements in the workplace that would result in employment and security and profit-sharing _ must also be resolved with equal satisfaction,'' rediger said
the closure of the four mills would leave two shaped-products mills at indiana harbor works chicago, inland's only steelmaking plant
inland had previously announced its intention to close two of the mills even without worker concessions, olszanski said
an additional 500,000 metric tons of subsidized u.s. wheat has been sold to the soviet union, the agriculture department said wednesday
the sale, equal to about 18.3 million bushels, was handled by continental grain co., 100,000 tons; cargill inc., 375,000 tons; and mitsui grain corp., 25,000 tons
at recent prices averaging $2.75 per bushel, the wheat would have a farm value of about $50 million
more than 6.8 million tons of subsidized wheat has been sold to the soviet union under the department's export enhancement program, or eep, for delivery in the year that began last oct. 1
george j. pope, acting general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said that only 200 tons of wheat are still available to the soviet union under current eep authorization. there has been no official indication that a new line of subsidy may be approved
under eep, private exporters are given surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp. so they can sell a foreign buyer wheat or other authorized commodity at competitive world prices
pope said the subsidies, or bonuses, averaged $27 per ton on the latest sales, or about 74 cents per bushel. the subsidies for the soviet union have been available only for wheat
the sales also are part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of a long-term agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans, or 39.4 bushels of corn
in addition, 2.62 million tons of u.s. corn, 813,300 tons of soybeans and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal have been bought by the soviets for delivery this year
the stock market finished lower today after fighting to hold the gains that propelled it to a post-crash high monday
analysts had expected to see the market follow through on monday's strong advance, but the trend was mostly disappointing. some said the day's activity was highlighted by big investors cashing in their gains
it's sort of a pause to take profits and see where we go next,'' observed eldon grimm, senior vice president for birr, wilson securities
traders found little evidence in the government's latest batch of statistics to satisfy their curiosity about the health of the economy. the commerce department said its chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but december's index of leading economic indicators was revised upward, easing fears of an imminent recession
also today, the government said construction spending tumbled 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months. but as was the case with the leading index, the drop followed a revised 0.4 percent increase in december
because the figures were inconclusive, they had little impact on trading, analysts said
aside from the economic data, traders focused on issues swept up in the latest rash of takeover deals, which had powered monday's surge
lionel trains inc. will keep 1988 sales rolling with a tiny video camera that almost lets model railroaders feel like part of their prized layouts, a spokesman said tuesday
and in an effort to establish itself in other areas, lionel is making plastic parts for a new board game for would-be rail tycoons, marketing director john brady said
lionel hopes the high-tech, miniaturized ``railscope'' video camera, expected to be in stores in time for christmas, will be the ticket to higher sales
the camera is small enough to mount in a locomotive for an engineer's eye view of a model railroader's prized layout
it's just like getting small and becoming part of that layout,'' brady said. ``it's a simple idea that was not doable until this year.''
lionel developed the tiny black-and-white electronic camera with the help of james wickstead design in new jersey. the picture can be displayed on a standard television or even larger screen, although lionel will sell a 4{-inch monitor, brady said
railscope was introduced at the annual toy fair trade show in february in new york, he said, adding, ``i had people asking to buy the prototype.''
it will sell for about $300 in a model-train collectors market in which lionel's prices, for example, range from less than $75 for a train set to more than $1,000 for a locomoti
attached to each bomb were about 300 sticks of dynamite, according to a communique issued by the civil aviation office. the bombs and the dynamite were buried at the western end of the runway, and were connected to a 2,000-foot-long detonating cable that ran to a secluded ravine nearby, it said
the explosives were discovered on saturday, the communique said
according to la nacion, a government-owned and -operated daily published in santiago, the bombs represented ``a new extremist plot against the head of state's life.''
it cited unidentified security sources as saying the bombs were planted in late january, after it was announced that pinochet would attend an agricultural fair in la serena on jan. 29. the president later canceled the visit
in september 1986, pinochet survived an ambush of his motorcade by the pro-communist manuel rodriguez front, the country's principal leftist guerrilla organization. five of his bodyguards were killed in the attack by machine-gun and rocket fire
pinochet on tuesday credited providence with foiling the reported plot in la serena
god doesn't want to carry me off, so he helps me,'' pinochet told reporters in the southern city of puerto montt, where he was inspecting public works projects. his remarks were broadcast by santiago radio stations
it give me more enthusiasm to fight for my country, as i am doing,'' he said. ``i'm a lot luckier than they (extremists) think.''
he said it was only ``by chance'' that he did not travel to la serena as planned. ``there were a series of problems that obliged me to stay in santiago,'' he said without elaboration
the dow jones average of 30 industrials lost 1.16 points to 2,070.46
losers outpaced gainers by 7 to 6 on the new york stock exchange with 811 issues declining, 696 gaining and 457 unchanged
big board volume totaled 199.99 million shares, against 236.05 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index dipped 0.28 to 150.18
wal-mart stores inc. reported tuesday its fourth quarter-earnings jumped 34 percent as sales at the rapidly-expanding discount store chain rose 30 percent
wal-mart said that for the quarter ended jan. 31., it earned $247.1 million, or 44 cents per share, up from $184.3 million, or 32 cents per share, in the final three months of fiscal 1986
sales for the 1987 quarter rose to $5 billion from $3.85 billion
for the full year, wal-mart said its earnings were up 39 percent to $627.6 million, or $1.11 a share, from $450.1 million, or 79 cents a share, in all of 1986
sales for the year totaled $15.96 billion, up from $11.91 billion in 1986
wal-mart continued its explosive growth throughout 1987. as of jan. 31, 1988, the company had 1,211 stores, including wal-mart, dot drugs, sam's wholesale club and hypermart usa stores. on jan. 31, 1987, the company operated 1,035 stores
the company's stores are located in 24 states, primarily in the midwest and southwest
the dollar fell marginally against most key currencies tuesday, reflecting what dealers called a narrow trading range that has emerged over the past several days
gold prices rose overseas but were mixed in the united states. as of 4 p.m. est, republic national bank of new york quoted gold at $430.45 a troy ounce, down 15 cents from the price late monday
currency dealers said there was little news to influence the behavior of the dollar. they said a commerce department report on the index of leading indicators, an important economic barometer, failed to convey a definite trend
the department said the index fell 0.6 percent in january but it revised the december figure from a 0.2 percent drop to a 0.3 percent increase. that revision snapped a string of three straight monthly declines, which has often signaled an impending recession
we need something more specific to set the market one way or another,'' said zlatko glamuzina, chief currency dealer at the new york branch of the italian bank banco di sicilia
gary dorsch, senior money market economist at lns financial group inc. in chicago, said ``there appears to be very little impetus for traders to move out of the dollar's range, at least in the near term.''
by contrast, he said, currencies such as the british pound and canadian dollar seemed to be appreciating because of relatively high interest rates in britain and canada
we're seeing a lot of deflation in commodity markets and weakness in gold prices, which supports the idea that global interest rates will be steady to lower,'' dorsch said. ``so international money managers are searching for higher yields.''
the dollar rose in tokyo, closing at 128.63 japanese yen, up from the monday close of 128.12 yen. later in london, the dollar was lower at 128.30 yen. by the time trading concluded in new york, the dollar was trading at 128.32 yen, marginally higher than 128.24 rate late monday
the british pound rose to $1.7775 from $1.7725 monday on the london market. later in new york, sterling was quoted at $1.7766, more than the $1.7742 quoted late monday
other late dollar rates in new york compared with late monday levels included: 1.6864 west german marks, down from 1.6874; 1.3916 swiss francs, down from 1.3931; 1.2578 canadian dollars, down from 1.2592; 5.7100 french francs, down from 5.7155; 1,243.25 italian lire, up from 1,243
late dollar rates in europe compared with late monday included: 1.6855 west german marks, down from 1.6875; 1.3915 swiss francs, up from 1.3903; 5.7065 french francs, down from 5.7150; 1.8940 dutch guilders, down from 1.8945; 1,244.35 italian lire, up from 1,244.25; 1.2570 canadian dollars, down from 1.2622
gold rose in london to a late bid price of $428.70 a troy ounce, compared with $425 late monday. in zurich, gold rose to $429.50 vs. $426, and in hong kong gold closed at $433.80 vs. $430.19
on the new york commodity exchange, gold for current delivery rose 50 cents a troy ounce to $431
silver bullion prices rose in london to $6.29 a troy ounce, compared with $6.14 monday. on the new york comex, silver for current delivery fell 1.7 cents an ounce to $6.222. recapitalization</head>
american standard inc., target of a hostile $2.12 billion takeover attempt by black &amp; decker corp., said tuesday it was taking steps to sweeten the cash portion of a recapitalization designed to foil the bid
the company said it had begun talks with unidentified third parties regarding the possible sale of debt securities as a means of increasing the cash part of the recapitalization, which would pay shareholders $1.9 billion plus give them a stake in the recapitalized company
a recapitalization, in which a company restructures its amount of debt and equity, is used often to thwart unwelcome takeovers. the strategy usually plunges a company into debt, making it less attractive as an acquisition
under the american standard recapitalization plan, which would raise the company's long-term debt from $412 million to $2.3 billion, stockholders would receive $59 in cash, $5 worth of high-yielding debt securities and one new share of stock in the recapitalized company for each share of old stock
the company's announcement tuesday did not elaborate on how much it intended to raise the cash portion of the recapitalization but said there was no assurance that any change would be made in the existing proposal
in composite new york stock exchange trading, american standard stock rose 12{ cents a share to $68.62{. black and decker stock rose 62{ cents a share to $19.12{
black &amp; decker, a tool and appliance maker based in towson, md., has been attempting since late january to acquire american standard, a new york-based maker of plumbing, air conditioning and auto equipment
the stock market slipped off its post-crash peak tuesday but showed enough spunk to hold most of its recent gains
the dow jones industrial average of 30 stocks bounced off its lows late in the day, closing down 1.16 points, or a scant 0.06 percent, at 2,070.46
with an hour to go, the blue-chip average had been down more than 13 points, but traders took the opportunity to buy stocks, pushing the dow near monday's close of 2,071.62, its high-water mark since the oct. 19 collapse
stocks declining in price outpaced gainers by 7 to 6 on the new york stock exchange, with 811 issues declining, 696 gaining and 457 unchanged
big board volume totaled 199.99 million shares, against 236.05 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index dipped 0.28 to 150.18
the market's lackluster numbers belied its resilience, some analysts said. they noted that the market's previous post-crash high, reached on jan. 7, was followed the next day by a drop of more than 140 points
the relative firmness of prices tuesday suggested to some that the market had finally found its sealegs
the market had every reason to go down and it didn't,'' said michael metz, a technical analyst for oppenheimer &amp; co
traders are no longer afraid of a crash; they're afraid of missing a buying opportunity,'' said metz
others were not so sure. hugh johson, chief investment officer for first albany corp., characterized the market as ``almost lifeless,'' adding that uncertainty about the economy was still a drag on trading
a batch of government statistics released tuesday failed to satisfy the market's curiosity about the economy's health
the commerce department said its chief economic forecasting gauge dropped a sharp 0.6 percent in january, but the december reading for the index of leading economic indicators was revised from a 0.2 percent drop to a 0.3 percent gain
the government also said construction spending tumbled 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months. but as was the case with the leading index, the drop followed a revised 0.4 percent increase in december
it was a little frustrating,'' said johnson. ``we had hoped to resolve some of the uncertainty (about the economy) and we didn't.''
the only conclusion is ... we'll miss a recession (in 1988), but not by much,'' he said
aside from the economic data, issues swept up in the latest rash of takeover deals dominated interest as they had monday when the dow jumped more than 48 points
among the most active stocks on the nyse, federated department stores gained 1\ to a new high of 67} following r.h. macy's offer of $73.80 a share for about 80 percent of the company's outstanding shares
j.p. stevens, which received a revised buyout offer from a management group and said other parties had expressed interest in the company, jumped 6\ to 54{, also a new high
other results were mixed. sears, roebuck was up { to 38\; general electric was down { to 45; pillsbury rose \ to 37; bethlehem steel rose ~ to 21]; atlantic richfield dropped ~ to 76; and international business machines corp. was down { to 117
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 230.18 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials dropped 0.62 to 308.81, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down 0.60 to 267.22
the wilshire equity index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks lost $3.69 billion in value to settle at $2,632.042 billion
at the american stock exchange, the market value index gained 0.45 to 288.91. the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market closed at 367.32, up 0.37
wheat futures prices slipped substantially lower tuesday on the chicago board of trade as the agriculture department launched a new series of auctions aimed at reducing government stockpiles of surplus wheat
on other markets, other grains and soybeans ended mostly lower; energy futures retreated; most livestock and meat futures advanced; precious metals were mixed; and stock-index futures were higher
the usda's weekly auctions of suplus wheat, begun in november, have gradually lost steam. so on tuesday the agency launched a new series of sales to be held three times a week
the agency has set targets of 10 million bushels for each of the new auctions during the first two weeks, which creates the potential for adding 30 million bushels a week to the open market
the old weekly auctions usually had targets of 25 million bushels. sales in recent weeks had fallen well short of that goal, however, with less than 16 million bushels sold last friday
traders fear the new auctions, which divide the sales by regions of the country, will be more successful and depress cash prices by adding to available supplies of wheat, analysts said
the possibility of selling 10 milllion bushels the first time out is probably going to be a little tough,'' said jerry gidel of chicago-based g.h. miller &amp; co. ``but it's the fact that they're coming right back tomorrow, then on friday again, that has the market a little on edge.''
however, analyst jim quinton of agri-visor services inc. in bloomington, ill., said the new auctions probably would have little long-term impact on futures prices
quinton attributed tuesday's wheat losses of up to 5 cents a bushel to profit-taking by speculators
results from tuesday's auction will likely be released on wednesday
wheat settled 4{ cents to 5 cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.11 a bushel; corn was unchanged to } cent lower with march at $2.03} a bushel; oats were unchanged to { cent higher with march at $1.94{ a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent lower to 1{ cents higher with march at $6.35 a bushel
energy futures prices, particularly for refined products, fell sharply on the new york mercantile exchange, where analysts said bulls and bears have been waging a technical tug-of-war
this market seems to be moving briskly within a range, which is what it probably will continue to do before it decides which way it wants to go,'' said peter beutel, an analyst in new york for elders futures inc
west texas intermediate crude oil traded as much as .46 cent lower, but settled .11 cent to .29 cent lower with april at $15.72 a barrel; heating oil was .82 cent to 1.15 cents lower with april at 43.47 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .93 cent to 1.10 cents lower with april at 45.29 cents a gallon
livestock and meat futures settled mostly higher on the chicago mercantile exchange
cattle futures moved higher in mostly technical trading, analysts said
hog futures advanced on bargain buying after monday's sharp decline, said tom price, vice president of linnco futures inc. in chicago
live cattle were unchanged to .52 cent higher with april at 71.95 a pound; feeder cattle were .05 cent to .85 cent higher with march at 80.42 cents a pound; hogs were .10 cent to .40 cent higher with april at 43.47 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .42 cent lower with march at 51.60 cents a pound
gold moved slightly higher while silver futures retreated a bit on new york's commodity exchange
gold for april delivery sank to $425 a troy ounce during the session, but rebounded to settle at $432.40
richard levine, vice president of elders' precious metals divison, noted that gold had touched $425 on monday as well, and predicted it would bounce off that level once more before falling to $400 a troy ounce in the next three or four weeks
silver drifted lower in featureless trading, he said
gold settled 50 cents to 60 cents higher with april at $432.40 a troy ounce; silver was 1.7 cents to 2 cents lower with march at $6.222 a troy ounce
stock-index futures inched higher on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index setttled .35 point higher at 267.65. the underlying spot index was .59 point lower at 267.23
turner broadcasting system inc. announced tuesday that it has reached an agreement in principal with think entertainment on programming for superstation tbs and the proposed new turner network television
think entertainment, a partnership between actress shelley duvall's armadillo productions and telecommunications inc., newhouse broadcasting, united artists communications inc. and united cable television, produces original programming exclusively for initial run in the cable market
ted turner, tbs president and chairman, said the agreement affirms tbs' commitment to developing high-quality family programming. corrects globe newspaper from owner to publisher of globe in last graf.</note>
affiliated publications inc., owner of the boston globe, said tuesday it has bought a 40 percent equity interest in xyquest inc. of billerica, a developer of software for word processing and publishing systems
under the agreement, affiliated will pay $3 million for newly issued xyquest shares
xyquest, founded six years ago, developed the xywrite word processing line
in prepared remarks, affiliated president john p. giuggio said of the investment, ``this is an exciting young company with a promising future in electronic publishing. xyquest has an excellent management team, and we're delighted to be associated with it.''
xyquest president john hild said the company's long-term goals for product development include creating a full range of tools for writing and editing and continuing to expand into corporate word processing
affiliated is parent company of globe newspaper co., which publishes the globe. it also owns billboard publications inc., the globe pequot press inc., and a major interest in mccaw cellular communications inc
government reports tuesday painted a confusing picture about the health of the economy and led to indecision in the financial markets
the government said its chief barometer of future economic activity fell again in january, although an upward revision in december eased fears that the nation was headed for a recession
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 1.16 points to 2,070.46. it was equally quiet in the bond market, where the treasury's bellwether 30-year bond fell a slim [ point. the dollar was narrowly mixed
the commerce department's index of leading economic indicators dropped 0.6 percent in january. analysts discounted the sharp decline and instead focused on a revision that changed the index's showing in december from a 0.2 percent decline to a 0.3 percent increase
the leading index has taken on added importance since last oct. 19, when stock prices plunged a record 508 points, eclipsing the 1929 market crash that preceded the great depression
the upward revision for december broke a string of three consecutive monthly declines, which has often in the past been the signal of an impending recession. the index had fallen 0.1 percent in october and 1.1 percent in november
separately, the commerce department said construction spending fell 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months, reflecting widespread weakness in all sectors of the building industry
economists said the decline was bigger than expected and will likely mean that construction will be a drag on overall economic growth in the first quarter of 1988
what was surprising about the figures was how widespread and pervasive the weakness was. virtually every category from housing to industrial to hotels and motels did poorly in january,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co
economists said the december revision in the leading index and other positive signs provided evidence that the country is suffering few adverse effects from the market turmoil
sinai said it showed that ``this is a no-recession year for the u.s. economy.''
since it was created in 1948, the leading index has fallen three or more months during an expansion on 12 different occasions. on eight of those instances, a recession did follow. but four times the index gave a false signal of a downturn and the recovery kept going, although at a slower pace
analysts said the index is indeed sending a signal of slower growth for the first half of 1988, but they predicted that rising export sales would be enough to offset expected weakness in consumer spending and construction
the economy, as measured by the gross national product, raced ahead at a 4.5 percent rate in the final three months of 1987, but the bulk of that increase came from a buildup of unsold products. economists predict that production cutbacks will slash growth to a rate of 1 percent or less in the first three months of the year
for 1988 as a whole, many economists are forecasting growth of around 2 percent, just about half the 3.9 percent gnp increase registered last year
analysts said various business barometers have eased their fears of an end to the current recovery
industrial production and export sales are still rising, orders and employment continue to grow and the stock market is regaining its balance,'' said richard rahn, chief economist for the u.s. chamber of commerce. ``absent any policy blunders by congress or the federal reserve, i anticipate a strong second half.'' after 8th graf, ``analysts said''; also running on general news wires</note>
the government said tuesday that its chief barometer of future economic activity fell again in january, but an upward revision in december eased fears that the nation was headed for a recession
the commerce department's index of leading economic indicators dropped 0.6 percent in january. analysts discounted the sharp decline and instead focused on a revision that changed the index's showing in december from a 0.2 percent decline to a 0.3 percent increase
the upward revision for december broke a string of three consecutive monthly declines, which has often in the past been the signal of an impending recession. the index had fallen 0.1 percent in october and 1.1 percent in november
the leading index has taken on added importance since last oct. 19, when stock prices plunged a record 508 points, eclipsing the 1929 market crash that preceded the great depression
economists said the december revision in the leading index and other positive signs provided evidence that the country is suffering few adverse effects from the market turmoil
the leading index shows that this is a no-recession year for the u.s. economy,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co. ``the magic string of three or more declines which has often suggested a recession was broken.''
since it was created in 1948, the leading index has fallen three or more months during an expansion on 12 different occasions. on eight of those instances, a recession did follow. but four times the index gave a false signal of a downturn and the recovery kept going, although at a slower pace
analysts said the index is indeed sending a signal of slower growth for the first half of 1988, but they predicted that rising export sales would be enough to offset expected weakness in consumer spending and construction
the stock market, which closed monday at its highest level since the oct. 19 collapse, edged down a bit wednesday, with the dow jones industrial average dipping 1.16 points to 2,070.46. analysts said the signal from the leading index that the country would escape a recession this year was not forceful enough to prompt another wave of buying
beryl sprinkel, the president's chief economic adviser, said he believed the three declines in the leading index in the past four months was accurately signaling slower but continued growth in the economy
the good news is that there is no series of three running'' declines, which could mean a recession, he said in answer to questions. he noted that the administration's own economic forecast calls for slower growth this year
in one indication that the economy has slowed, the commerce department said in a second report tuesday that construction spending fell a steep 2.9 percent in january to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $395.2 billion. it was the biggest drop in 10 months and reflected widespread weakness in all categories of construction
the economy, as measured by the gross national product, raced ahead at a 4.5 percent rate in the final three months of 1987, but the bulk of that increase came from a buildup of unsold products. economists predict that production cutbacks will slash growth to a rate of 1 percent or less in the first three months of the year
for 1988 as a whole, many economists are forecasting growth of around 2 percent, just about half the 3.9 percent gnp increase registered last year
but where half of the country's business economists in november were predicting a recession in 1988, that figure has now declined to 25 percent, according to the latest survey of the national association of business economists
analysts said various business barometers have eased their fears of an end to the current recovery
industrial production and export sales are still rising, orders and employment continue to grow and the stock market is regaining its balance,'' said richard rahn, chief economist for the u.s. chamber of commerce. ``absent any policy blunders by congress or the federal reserve, i anticipate a strong second half.''
three-fourths of the decline in the january leading index came from a big jump in new claims for unemployment benefits, which averaged 351,000 a week in january, an increase of 39,000 weekly claims from december. since january, however, weekly unemployment claims have been falling, further easing recession fears
in all, five of the nine available indicators showed weakness during january. after unemployment claims, the biggest negative factors were a drop in building permits, a decline in manufacturers' orders for consumer goods, changes in raw materials prices and changes in business delivery times
four indicators showed strength during the month, with a rise in stock prices making the biggest gain. other positive forces were the growth of the money supply, increases in the length of the average workweek and a rise in orders for plant and equipment
the various changes left the index at 190.2 percent of its 1967 base of 100
many analysts predicted that the january decline in the leading index would be followed by significant advance in the leading index for february, based on already known information about the economy
ford motor co. said it reached separate agreements early tuesday with bargainers representing workers at two plants in mexico, including one idled since feb. 8 by a strike
two-year agreements were reached with the council of automotive workers of ford motor co., representing about 1,000 hourly employees at the chihuahua engine plant and another 1,100 at the hermosillo stamping and assembly plant, ford said in a statement
chihuahua workers went on strike feb. 8, eight days after their previous two-year contract was extended, the statement said. production of 2.3-liter, four-cylinder engines for the domestic market and export to the united states and canada was to resume wednesday, it said
the hermosillo workers' contract expired at midnight monday. but ford did not indicate whether production of two- and four-door mercury tracers for export to the u.s. and tracer station wagons for export to the u.s. and canada was interrupted
william h. spoor, returning as chief executive officer of the pillsbury co., said tuesday the company has no intention of selling its burger king subsidiary despite the chain's flat performance in recent months
spoor, named monday to replace john m. stafford as pillsbury's chairman and chief executive officer, also announced several management changes at the minneapolis-based parent company
on wall street, pillsbury stock rose 25 cents a share to $37 in trading on the new york stock exchange
burger king, which generates 40 percent of pillsbury's sales, reportedly has seen its share of the hamburger chain market fall in recent months after rapid growth in the mid-1980s
burger king's share fell to about 16.8 percent in early 1987 from a 1986 high of 17.4 percent, the wall street journal reported in december
the company has said its average sales per store have been flat at about $1 million for the past two years
i want to say without qualification that burger king is central to pillsbury,'' spoor said in a statement at the conclusion of a two-day meeting of pillsbury's board of directors
that was true yesterday, it is true today, and it remains true for the company's strategic future,'' he said
spoor's statement made no mention of pillsbury's other restaurant businesses _ steak &amp; ale, godfather's and bennigan's _ and a spokesman said neither he nor stafford was available for comment tuesday afternoon
spoor had retired from pillsbury in 1985, but remained on the company's board of directors. his return as ceo was announced monday in a statement that gave no reasons for stafford's resignation
i pledge to take whatever steps are necessary in the next three months so that we will enter fiscal 1989 with momentum and a solid portfolio of businesses capable of returning superior shareholder value,'' spoor said in his statement
we have a clear strategy that will lead us successfully into the 1990s. fiscal 1988 is a disappointment in many ways, but our future is bright and fiscal 1989, which begins june 1, will be an excellent year and gratifying to our shareholders.''
pillsbury in fiscal 1987 reported its first earnings decline in 16 years: $182 million, or $2.10 a share, down from $208 million, or $2.38 a share, in fiscal 1986
stock analysts who were projecting fiscal 1988 earnings of about $2.80 a share were told by stafford in february to lower the projections by about 30 cents a share, a pillsbury spokesman said
spoor on tuesday announced four promotions in the top management of the company:
_john l. morrison, was elected a pillsbury executive vice president and was named chairman, u.s. foods. he was formerly a pillsbury vice president and president, international foods
_thomas r. mcburney, executive vice president, was named chairman, international foods. mcburney served previously as chairman, u.s. foods
_jerry w. levin, executive vice president, corporate development and chairman of the haagen-dazs co., was given the additional responsibility for pillsbury's industrial foods business. industrial foods was previously a part of u.s. foods
_james r. behnke, senior vice president for technology, was made responsible for pillsbury's research and development activities worldwide. management trying to `force' strike, picking up 7th graf pvs, `first to...'.</note>
a walkout by 9,000 movie and television script writers seemed likely tuesday as last-ditch contract talks ended with major issues unresolved and the union saying the producers' last offer appeared designed ``to force a strike.''
negotiators for the writers guild of america and the alliance of motion picture and television producers met for just two hours before calling it quits tuesday afternoon
the brief meeting followed a marathon, 21-hour session that lasted until 7:15 a.m. tuesday and made progress on ``25 to 30 lesser issues,'' said herb steinberg, spokesman for the producers
but the two sides remained far apart on the three major stumbling blocks _ a ``creative rights'' issue that would give original writers more control over the product, higher residual payments when programs are distributed in foreign markets, and a revision of residuals for domestic syndication in the stagnant market for one-hour programs
both steinberg and union spokeswoman cheryl rhoden confirmed there was no significant movement on those issues in the afternoon session
it (the producers' final offer) appears to be a company-generated package designed to force a strike,'' ms. rhoden said
she said the union will study the proposal but declined to say if union leaders would recommend that it be rejected until it is presented to members
the union's 6,500 west coast members were to vote tuesday night on the latest proposal from management, while the 2,500 east coast members are to vote wednesday afternoon
results from both votes are to be released wednesday evening, and a strike could come as early as thursday if the producers' offer is rejected. the union's old contract expired at 12:01 a.m. tuesday
first to feel the impact of a walkout would be daily daytime tv programs and talk shows that have a short lead time for scripts. the effects on prime-time programs and feature films wouldn't be visible unless a strike was protracted
for producers, the key issue has been obtaining relief on the payment of residuals for syndication of one-hour television programs. the market for such programs has dried up significantly, producers say
they are asking the writers to adopt a revised residual plan similar to one already approved by directors. under that plan, writers would 50 percent of the normal residuals if a program is put out in only limited syndication. if it is later put out in full national syndication, they get another 100 percent, making it possible for them to receive 150 percent of their normal payments
on the creative-rights issue, the union is seeking to get original writers the power to do the first rewrite of any material, plus the right to be on the set when the program is produced
the producers say such issues must be negotiated individually
on foreign residuals, the union claims writers haven't had a change in their payment schedule in 17 years. that schedule now is based on a single lump sum payment and varies widely based on individual negotiations
the entertainment arm of the writers' union, which has a reputation as one of hollywood's most militant, last went on strike three years ago. that walkout lasted for two weeks before writers voted to accept essentially the same terms they had rejected earlier
the median annual income for writers is $40,000, but about half of the wga's members are unemployed at any given time, the union says
affiliated publications inc., owner of the boston globe, said tuesday it had a net loss in its fourth quarter, partly due to its equity share of the loss suffered by its mccaw communications cos. affiliate
affiliated posted a net loss of $3.62 million in the quarter ended dec. 27, compared with a profit of $40.1 million, or $1.14 per share, in the same period a year earlier
revenue during the quarter rose to $135.6 million from $110.3 million a year earlier
affiliated said its equity share of mccaw's losses from continuing operations during the quarter was $19.2 million. affiliated said the operating loss stemmed from expansion of mccaw's mccaw cellular communications subsidiary and accounting changes relating to the unit
for the year, affiliated posted a profit of $201.1 million, or $5.73 per share, compared with $66.1 million, or $1.85 per share, a yer earlier. revenue rose to $490.1 million from $401.1 million in 1986
gains from the sale of discontinued operations and results from discontinued operations in 1987 came to $40 million against $26.3 million in 1986. earnings for 1987 included equity in an extraordinary $17.9 million credit from mccaw communications
mccaw, based in kirkland, wash., is the parent of mccaw cellular communications, the country's largest operator of cellular telephone systems
in addition to a major interest in mccaw, affiliated owns globe newspaper co., publisher of the globe; billboard publications inc., and the globe pequot press inc. editing to tighten. no pickup.</note>
gov. bob martinez joined a court action to block texas from banning fresh florida citrus on tuesday, the same day a federal judge in texas overturned the ban
the ban was imposed last month after the u.s. department of agriculture lifted a 3{-year-old federal quarantine on florida citrus that was prompted by outbreaks of citrus canker in florida
u.s. district judge james nowlin said tuesday in austin, texas that he lifted the state ban because federal rules allowing the shipments took precedence over the state rule
martinez had notified texas gov. william p. clements that he was joining a court petition to be filed by florida agriculture commissioner doyle conner supporting a court action brought by florida citrus growers
texas officials had refused to allow florida citrus into their state despite the lifting of the federal quarantine on shipments of florida fruit to other citrus-producing states. florida producers must take a number of actions to ensure their fruit does not introduce citrus canker into other states
a major foreign trade group asked the government wednesday to slow the south korean currency's appreciation against the u.s. dollar
in a report to the government, the korea foreign trade association said the recent sharp rise of the won against the dollar could lead to a series of collapses among exporting firms
a stronger won _ and conversely, a weaker dollar _ raises the costs of korean products in the united states, a major export market
the united states has been pressuring south korea to revalue its currency at a faster pace to help reduce the nation's growing u.s. trade surplus, which soared to $9.5 billion last year
the association said if the won's value rises 10 percent against the dollar, the average export profitability of south korean-made products would fall by 3.7 percent
the won has appreciated by 4.13 percent against the dollar so far this year, accounting for about half the range registered for all of 1987. as of wednesday, the won was quoted at 760.90 to the dollar, down 31.30 won from year-end 1987
if the won continues rising at that pace, its appreciation rate for all of this year could surpass 24 percent, the association said
