a blind attorney who was carried forcibly from a jetliner after a dispute over where she should be seated complains that airlines look at the handicapped ``as if we're a safety risk and have to be treated like baggage.''
the attorney, peggy pinder, said friday she is still angry over an incident thursday evening aboard a midway airlines jetliner waiting to take off from washington's national airport on a flight to chicago
after boarding, she said, she sat in a window seat in the second row from the back of the cabin in the smoking section. but she was told to move to the first row in the front of the cabin because she is blind and needed to be closer to a full-door emergency exit
when she refused, arguing that there are no federal safety regulations that require her to sit in a particular seat, police were summoned and carried her off the plane. she was charged with trespassing
it was embarrassing,'' miss pinder, 34, an attorney from grinnell, iowa, and a vice president of the national federation of the blind, said in an interview. ``they told the police to carry me off and they did.''
she insisted that she sought no confrontation and wanted only to return to her hometown when the dispute erupted aboard midway flight 179 as it prepared to depart for chicago
the flight was delayed about 45 minutes because of the confrontation, according to airport officials
ironically, miss pinder had flown to washington to meet with several members of congress and officials of the republican party platform committee to discuss problems blind people are having in air travel
she said she was told by a flight attendant that she could not sit at the rear of the aircraft even though her seat did not block access to any emergency exit doors because of the airlines' policy on dealing with handicapped passengers
then the captain came. he said, `you will do what the flight attendant tells you and sit where you're told or not fly on this airplane.','' she recounted
she refused to budge and airport police were called to carry her off the plane, according to accounts related by airline and airport officials as well as miss pinder
they (airline officials) feel that blind people are not the same as other passengers, that we're a safety risk and that we have to be treated like baggage in order to carry us safely,'' said miss pinder. ``that's not federal law. they violated my rights.''
she has been summoned to appear at an arraignment on the trespass charge may 19
faa spokesman fred farrar said the faa has no requirements on where blind passengers should be seated, although the agency has recomended that they not be seated in a row that has an emergency exit. miss pinder said she sat in a row with no such exit
a midway airlines spokeswoman, sandra allen, said that the airline has a firm policy of seating handicapped passengers, including those who are blind, on the front row of the aircraft cabin because those seats are closest to a floor-level emergency door
responding to the incident involving miss pinder, miss allen said ``she refused to be briefed (on safety procedures) and maintained she could sit where she wanted ... we could not take off seated where she was and asked her to step off (the plane) because she was inconveniencing 100 passengers.''
because of her confrontation thursday night she remained in the capital another day and on friday accompanied several other officials of the national federation of the blind to a meeting with transportation secretary jim burnley to discuss alleged discrimination against the handicapped by the airlines, a spokewoman for the federation said
the federal aviation administration, which is part of the department, is developing new regulations aimed at giving the airlines closer guidance on how to provide for the handicapped, but those regulations are not expected to be announced for several months
here are tentative schedules for the presidential candidates for the week beginning april 3. the information was provided by the candidates

sunday, april 3:

democrats:
dukakis _ wisconsin
gore _ washington, d.c
jackson _ colorado
simon _ milwaukee and madison, wis

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ denver


monday, april 4:

democrats:
dukakis _ milwaukee
gore _ wisconsin
jackson _ wisconsin
simon _ stevens point and milwaukee, wis

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ denver; norfolk, va


tuesday, april 5:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston; new york
gore _ new york
jackson _ arizona (phoenix)
simon _ wisconsin; new york

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ open


wednesday, april 6:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston; philadelphia
gore _ new york
jackson _ arizona; indianapolis
simon _ washington, d.c

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ open


thursday, april 7:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston; new york city
gore _ new york
jackson _ new york
simon _ open

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ open


friday, april 8:

democrats:
dukakis _ new york city and suffolk county, n.y
gore _ open
jackson _ new york
simon _ open

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ open


saturday, april 9:

democrats:
dukakis _ pennsylvania; albany and syracuse, n.y
gore _ open
jackson _ new york
simon _ open

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ open


sunday, april 10:

democrats:
dukakis _ down day
gore _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ open

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
robertson _ open
a new jersey congressman says ``something just doesn't smell right'' about a federal banking agency's request for an fbi check of one of its critics
the request to the fbi from a federal home loan bank board official ``smacks of a way of life that seems to be more appropriate to life in latin america than it does in the united states,'' rep. james florio, d-n.j., said friday
the fbi check was revealed by an internal bank board investigation requested by florio, chairman of the house energy and commerce consumer protection subcommittee
the report, by bank board inspector general paul gibbons, disclosed that the office of rosemary stewart, bank board enforcement director, asked the fbi on aug. 17 to check on william juliano, a mount laurel, n.j., developer
the fbi returned the request, which listed only juliano's name and address, stamped ``insufficient information,'' and ms. stewart decided not to pursue the matter
because of juliano's criticism, florio had asked for an investigation of the federal asset disposition association, the arm of the bank board that manages and sells real estate from bankrupt savings and loans
fada was under attack from juliano, other business people and members of congress for reported mismanagement and conflicts of interest
juliano had threatened to bring a class action lawsuit against fada on behalf of disgruntled developers who believed they had been poorly treated by the agency
ms. stewart told investigators she was asked in june to obtain the fbi check from fada general counsel robert j. axley, who said juliano had made verbal threats and written nasty letters to then fada president rosyln payne
axley told the investigators that ms. payne asked him to ``have juliano checked out'' after she received anonymous telephone calls in the middle of the night to her unlisted home telephone
axley said he subsequently received a tip that juliano had ties to organized crime. however, the bank board report said the tip referred to someone with a different first name than juliano's
after her request to the fbi was returned, ms. stewart said she learned more about the nature of juliano's dispute with fada, consulted her superiors at the bank board and decided it was not appropriate for her to resubmit the query to the fbi
but florio said, ``for the bank board to even contemplate investigating a citizen for complaining raises a lot of questions. ... something just doesn't smell right here.''
ms. stewart did not immediately return telephone messages left at her office friday afternoon. there was no answer at juliano's office
karl hoyle, a bank board spokesman, said the agency acknowledges that the request to the fbi should never have been made
once we were aware of it, we indicated we didn't want that pursued and after that it was not,'' he said. ``rosemary, to her credit, said `maybe we're not supposed to be doing that sort of thing.'''
the bank board has also acknowledged that a law firm hired by fada engaged a private detective agency to look into juliano's finances
fbi spokesman william carter said the fbi would not consider it proper to investigate a government critic. the bureau's practice, he said, is to ask for more information about the reason a background check is requested and if the explanation is not appropriate it can recommend administrative or disciplinary actions against the person who made the request
hoyle said ms. stewart has not been reprimanded
horseradish eaten during traditional passover dinners can pose a health hazard, says a jewish doctor whose father collapsed after consuming an olive-sized serving of the bitter herb
dr. haya r. rubin said friday that her father, cleveland state university sociologist israel rubin, quickly recovered after he fainted, keeled over and suffered a small seizure during a seder, or traditional passover meal, several years ago
she said the incident shows that people prone to high blood pressure, heart or artery disease or stroke might be better off if they let horseradish fumes evaporate by keeping it uncovered for a half hour before the seder, or use a substitute such as chopped romaine lettuce stalks
rubin suffered high blood pressure before the incident, said his daughter, an internist at the university of california, los angeles, and consultant to the rand corp
the passover holiday, which celebrates the israelites' exodus from slavery in ancient egypt, extends from friday night until sundown april 9. seders are held on the first two nights. horseradish is eaten during the ceremonial meal as a ``bitter herb'' symbolizing the bitterness of slavery
a letter warning that horseradish can be dangerous was published friday in the journal of the american medical association by ms. rubin and dr. albert w. wu, a clinical instructor at the university of california, san diego
wu said the horseradish-induced sudden loss of blood pressure that caused rubin to faint and collapse could trigger a fatal stroke, heart attack or abnormal heart rhythm in people with heart disease
wu and ms. rubin trained together at mount sinai medical center in new york. they decided to write the letter after wu spotted a letter about a similar incident published in the same journal in january
in that letter, dr. daniel e. spitzer of montefiore hospital in new york told how a healthy 63-year-old man collapsed after eating a large mound of wasabi, or green-colored japanese horseradish, during a meal of sushi
spitzer's letter was headlined: ``horseradish horrors: sushi syncope.'' syncope means fainting. the follow-up letter by ms. rubin and wu carried the headline ``the bitter herbs of seder: more on horseradish horrors.''
ms. rubin said horseradish usually is grated. but the night her father collapsed, the family ground it in a food processor, then placed it in an airtight container, preventing vapors from escaping and making the horseradish unusually potent
wu said the collapse probably occurred because the horseradish vapors caused a reflexive drop in blood pressure. coupled with the elder rubin's consumption of passover wine and use of medicine to reduce his high blood pressure, that briefly deprived the brain of enough blood
he still eats horseradish,'' ms. rubin said. ``my dad is sort of macho.''
about 400 people huffed and puffed friday at the 17th annual hash bash, a spring rally for the legalization of marijuana
police made no arrests and issued no citations during the event on the university of michigan campus. university officials had issued a permit for the event but emphasized they were not endorsing it
possession of small amounts of marijuana in ann arbor is punishable by a $5 fine
i've been coming to this since i was a little boy,'' said a 29-year-old who called himself jizmo noodles and was one of the first to light up. ``my first one was in 1973. it's a means of expression, civil disobedience.''
noodles, carrying incense and wearing jeans, a t-shirt and a denim vest with a peace sign, described himself as a ``student of life.''
jon gettman, assistant director of the national organization for the reform of marijuana laws, or norml, told the gathering that pot smokers were tired of being labeled criminals
we're here for a lot of different reasons today,'' he said. ``a lot of people think that because this is april fools' day, that this is some some kind of a joke. we are serious, very serious.''
norml wants marijuana legalized, with taxes on it used to develop treatment centers for cocaine and heroin users
mark amicone, sophomore history major, said he started smoking marijuana at 16. ``i got a late start,'' he said
american corporations that owe taxes to panama will be allowed the u.s. foreign tax credit if payments are made to the government of ousted president eric arturo delvalle, the internal revenue service says
friday's announcement was aimed at discouraging u.s. businesses from sending tax payments to the panamanian government controlled by military strongman manuel antonio noriega, which washington does not recognize
some large u.s.-based multinational firms recently made quarterly tax payments just in time to give that government a desperately needed infusion of cash
the foreign tax credit is designed to prevent two national governments from taxing the same dollar of income. in general, the united states will not tax income that an american corporation earns in and pays taxes on to a foreign country

washington (ap) _ the general accounting office recommends mandatory inspection of all nuclear power plants for pipe deterioration following findings that nearly one-third of the nation's commercial reactors already have such a problem
the congressional watchdog agency deemed the industry-wide inspections necessary after reviewing actions taken by the nuclear regulatory commission and the utilities themselves since a pipe rupture at the surry unit 2 plant in virginia killed four workers in late 1986
rep. edward j. markey, d-mass., who released the gao report, declared that the nrc's ``failure to act aggressively on this matter is astounding.''
after the surry accident, the nrc did develop evidence of widespread pipe deterioration at the trojan nuclear plant in oregon, and as of jan. 21 this year the commission had identified a total of 34 plants with at least some pipe damage caused by erosion or corrosion
in defense of the nrc's approach, robert newlin, a commission spokesman, said the commission had sent out ``several notices'' to the industry asking them to inspect their own plants and report back

washington (ap) _ taking advantage of an appeals court ruling earlier this week, the army has ordered a resumption of random drug testing of civilian employees in certain critical jobs
the directive went out today,'' paige eversole, an army spokeswoman at the pentagon, said friday. ``it orders resumption of the program effective immediately.''
the move had been expected since tuesday, when a federal appeals court struck down a preliminary injunction that had stopped the drug-testing program a month ago
a three-judge panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals said it was staying the injunction granted to employee unions while it considered the legal merits of the case

washington (ap) _ the veterans administration is raising its maximum interest rate for federally backed va home mortgages by one-half percentage point to 10 percent
the va said it was making the change, which will take effect sunday, to reflect recent increases in interest rates in financial markets
in the past 12 months, the va rate has been changed seven times, fluctuating between 9.5 percent and 11 percent. the last change was feb. 1, when the rate was lowered a full percentage point from 10.5 percent to 9.5 percent
the federal home loan mortgage corp. said friday that the national average for 30-year conventional mortgages, those without government guarantees, rose above 10 percent for the first time since late january. the national average rate was 10.05 percent, up from 9.99 percent the previous week

washington (ap) _ the air force has rewritten its contracts covering development of the new midgetman mobile nuclear missile, canceling almost $1 billion worth of work planned by six contractors
the service, in a brief statement, stressed it could not speak for the six contractors involved but estimated the cutbacks could affect the jobs of as many as 2,300 private-sector employees
the air force action became inevitable several months ago when defense secretary frank c. carlucci decided the pentagon could not afford to develop and deploy the single-warhead midgetman within the budget levels set by the white house and congress
the air force had recommended carlucci kill the program outright, but the defense secretary decided to request $200 million in fiscal 1989 to keep the program alive pending a final decision by the next president

washington (ap) _ the food and drug administration is warning consumers not to use nutrien and vitalite powdered drink mixes because they may be contaminated with salmonella bacteria
both products are nutritional supplements marketed as powdered drink mixes by sunrider international of torrance, calif., and marketed nationally through more than 37,000 independent distributors, generally individuals who sell them door-to-door or to friends
the fda reported there have been at least seven cases of illness associated with the products
it said sunrider has agreed to begin a nationwide recall, but has not supplied the agency with specific distribution information. honasan were his guards. picks up 3rd graf, `chief of ...</note>
the leader of the august coup attempt that almost toppled the government of president corazon aquino escaped saturday from his prison ship in manila bay, the military announced
a statement said former lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan fled at about 2:30 a.m. saturday (1:30 p.m. est friday) aboard two rubber boats along with 13 of his guards
chief of staff gen. renato de villa ordered a massive search for the 39-year-old honasan and alerted subordinate commands nationwide to be on the lookout for him
the charismatic former lieutenant colonel had been detained on the navy ship since his arrest last december in a manila suburb
col. oscar florendo, chief military spokesman, said a reserve lieutenant who was frustrated over his inability to obtain a regular commission had aided in the getaway
florendo said the boats used in the escape had been sent to increase security after the military learned of a plot to free honasan
de villa immediately relieved the commander of the vessel, the rps andres bonifacio, and ordered his arrest, florendo said in a radio address. he appealed to the public to provide information to help recapture honasan
honasan, former chief of security at the defense ministry, played a key role in the feb. 22, 1986, mutiny which triggered the popular uprising that toppled president ferdinand marcos
but honasan became disillusioned with marcos' successor, president corazon aquino, accusing her of ``weak and inept'' leadership that fortified the 18-year-old communist insurgency
on aug. 28, honasan led a force of 2,000 men who attacked the presidential palace and seized several media and military installations in the capital before they were driven off by pro-aquino forces
the coup attempt left 53 people dead and wounded hundreds, and mrs. aquino said it was aimed at killing her and her family
honasan's effort was the most serious of several major plots to unseat mrs. aquino's government
military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the former colonel was so popular that he had become the ``dominant figure'' aboard the ship which was supposed to be his prison
it is with sadness that the afp (armed forces of the philippines) makes public the unfortunate escape from custody of ex-col. gregorio honasan from his detention,'' florendo said in a statement. ``during a normal inspection of the ship, it was discovered that subject detainee together with his guards headed by lt. j.g. gerardo mojica and 12 enlisted personnel were found missing
initial investigation revealed that honasan was apparently assisted and joined by his guards led by lt j.g. mojica ... it is believed that bribery was a factor that led to the betrayal of their oath and sworn duty.''
florendo said de villa had alerted the military to take precautions to ensure that communist rebels did not take advantage of the confusion to launch ``terroristic actions.''
the spokesman said troops were being deployed around manila to search for honasan
florendo said the military received information a week ago that honasan would try to escape and it sent rubber boats to guard the ship
he said the military expected outsiders to try to storm the vessel but ``instead it came from the inside.''
honasan was security chief of the defense ministry when opposition sen. juan ponce enrile was minister of national defense. enrile was fired in november 1986 after the government said it thwarted a coup attempt by his followers
honasan remained in hiding for months after the august coup. brig. gen. ramon montano, commander of the national capital regional defense command, said weeks before the arrest that honasan was being protected by undisclosed civilian and military figures
the nikkei stock average closed at 26,282.12 points, up 177.90 points, on the tokyo stock exchange saturday
douglas edwards, one of the ``founding fathers'' of broadcast journalism, signed off after more than four decades on the air by thanking his coworkers and his viewers during his last tv appearance for cbs
and so ends the chapter of almost 46 years as this reporter moves on along the journey,'' edwards, 70, said on friday's midday ``cbs newsbreak.''
a deep bow of gratitude, love and respect to the men and women of cbs news and to the company for which they stand. to you out there, thank you for honoring me with your presence in my audience, and most of all for your voices, your most sweet voices. douglas edwards, cbs news, new york.''
edwards was the nation's first nightly tv anchorman, preceding walter cronkite in the job at cbs in 1948
edwards joined cbs radio in 1942, and was a member of edward r. murrow's legendary london staff toward the end of world war ii. he also served as paris bureau chief
edwards' last radio broadcast was friday night. at its close, cbs news vice president joe dembo wished edwards ``goodbye and godspeed,'' and cbs evening news anchorman dan rather saluted him as ``one of the founding fathers'' of broadcast journalism
president reagan sent a congratulatory letter calling edwards a ``consummate professional.''
edwards plans to move to sarasota, fla., and continue lecturing on broadcast journalism while he starts work on a book
actress britt ekland has given birth to her third child, an 8-pound, 12-ounce boy named thomas jefferson ekland mcdonnell, her manager says
the baby, born thursday at cedars-sinai medical center, is miss ekland's first child with husband james mcdonnell, manager paul cohen said friday
miss ekland and mcdonnell, former drummer for the stray cats rock group have been married four years
miss ekland, 45, has appeared in more than 30 films, including such movies as ``the man with the golden gun.''
her other children are victoria sellers, 23, and nickolai edland adler, 14
gov. neil goldschmidt will play host next week to an ex-boss _ former president jimmy carter
carter is coming to oregon to give a lecture at linfield college in nearby mcminnville, and plans to stay wednesday night at the governor's residence here, goldschmidt spokesman gregg kantor said friday
goldschmidt served as secretary of transportation under carter
carter also plans to spend some time vacationing in oregon, kantor said
hall of fame pitcher vernon ``lefty'' gomez was hospitalized after complaining of chest pains, and was expected to remain in the hospital for several days, a hospital spokeswoman said
gomez, 79, was in improved condition, marin general hospital nursing supervisor diana rich said friday night. ``he's doing very well, but he'll be here awhile longer,'' she said
gomez has a longstanding heart condition
he was driven to the hospital by his wife, june, from their home in nearby novato, 25 miles north of san francisco
if he lets me drive him, he has to be sick,'' mrs. gomez said. ``thirteen years ago he had a heart attack and he drove me to the hospital. he said he didn't trust me to drive. then he had a triple bypass.''
gomez, a strong left-hander who pitched for 14 years in the major leagues, all but one year with the new york yankees, had a career record of 189-102. he was 6-0 in appearances in five world series
performers robert cray, albert collins and kim wilson of the fabulous thunderbirds are to headline a benefit concert sunday for grammy-winning blues singer koko taylor, who was injured in an auto accident
miss taylor, known as the ``queen of the blues,'' suffered broken ribs and a broken collarbone in the feb. 4 accident, which also injured three band members
it was a disaster, but we are so fortunate to be alive,'' miss taylor said in a telephone interview friday from her chicago home. ``i'm very thankful that so many people think so much of me to put on this benefit.''
sunday's benefit will raise money to pay for the $40,000 in medical bills, said bruce iglauer, president of alligator records, who helped arrange the event at the riviera nightclub
miss taylor said she was unsure whether she'll be able to attend. but she was grateful for the support, and for the thousands of cards and letters she's received
it makes me know there are lots of people out there that care,'' she said
gunmen in a passing car opened fire indiscriminately on people gathered in several groups along a street friday night, killing one and wounding at least 10, police said
among the wounded was a 4-year-old boy shot four times, a hospital spokeswoman said
the shooting started around 7:20 p.m. when several gunmen in a car ``indiscriminately fired at people who were on a sidewalk,'' said deputy police chief william rathburn
at least 11 people initially were reported wounded, although rathburn said others may have been hit
four people were taken to los angeles county-usc medical center, where a 19-year-old man shot in the right side was pronounced dead, said hospital spokeswoman adelaida de la certa
the 4-year-old boy was in serious but stable condition, ms. de la certa said
a 29-year-old man hit in the right hand and right leg and a 20-year-old man shot in the left leg were both in fair condition
the other seven wounded were taken to other hospitals, she said
drive-by shootings have become a problem in recent months in the los angeles area. police have attributed many of them to gang wars, but did not say if friday's shootings were gang-related
two years after an iowa physicist nearly ruined his reputation by suggesting that 10 million small, speedy comets hit earth's atmosphere annually, a nasa scientist has found evidence supporting louis frank's theory
i'm happy, but it's been a long two years,'' frank said friday, adding that he was met with ``total disbelief'' and ``lost a lot of friends'' after proposing that billions of water-bearing comets could have provided enough water to fill the seas during earth's early history
other scientists said they remained skeptical of the new evidence, which came from telescope observations by clayne yeates, a physicist at the national aeronautics and space administration's jet propulsion laboratory here
i'm very convinced that what i'm seeing is real,'' said yeates, who is deputy project scientist for the planned 1989 launch of the galileo space probe to jupiter. ``these objects would not have been seen inadvertently during other searches. they're small, they're dark and they're moving fast.''
the theory by frank, a physicist at the university of iowa, is ``one of the decade's most controversial astronomical theories,'' a nasa news release said
frank proposed the theory after ultraviolet photographs of earth taken by nasa's dynamics explorer 1 spacecraft between 1981 and 1986 revealed countless dark spots that appeared to be tiny holes in earth's atmosphere
he theorized that about 10 million comets, essentially 30-foot-diameter fluffy snowballs with a dark coating, plunge into the atmosphere each year, forming holes, then breaking up and vaporizing
yeates said his observations on the 36-inch spacewatch telescope at kitt peak national observatory in arizona make him believe that at least a million such comets hit the atmosphere annually at a speed of 22,000 mph
the comets appeared as white streaks on enhanced telescope images, he said
in a telephone interview from iowa city, frank said a soon-to-be-published study, in which atmospheric holes were recently observed by sweden's viking spacecraft, also supports his theory
i'm a little skeptical,'' said astronomer anita cochran of the university of texas at austin. ``he (yeates) may be seeing something, but to leap to 10-meter comets is a fairly large leap of imagination.''
cochran voiced the most common objection to frank's theory: if so many icy comets hit earth's atmosphere, they also should strike the moon, creating a lot of water vapor. yet the moon has very little water vapor
university of michigan physicist and planetary scientist thomas donahue said that until he examines yeates' findings, ``i'm not going to say this sounds like confirmation of frank's comets or not. but it certainly is exciting.''
about a year ago, donahue used 1977 data from the voyager 2 space probe to show that earth's atmosphere contained an excess of hydrogen atoms released from water vapor. he said the discovery could be consistent with frank's theory, but also could be explained if the hydrogen came from 10 million times fewer comets that were smaller, faster and much more active than those postulated by frank
the less abundant comets wouldn't provide enough water to fill the oceans, donahue said
i really am a bit skeptical'' of yeates' observations, said brian marsden, associate director for planetary sciences at the harvard-smithsonian center for astrophysics in cambridge, mass
if they (comets) are as numerous as he's talking about, then some of these should show up when the telescope is in more normal operation, and they haven't,'' marsden said
frank said only two specialized telescopes in the country, including spacewatch, are capable of observing the comets
mayor edward i. koch says he disagrees with jesse jackson on virtually every issue, but will vote for jackson if he is the democratic presidential nominee
i think that in three weeks, based on all the social programs we would be putting into effect (under jackson), if you did everything he said he wanted to do, we'd be in bankruptcy,'' koch said friday. ``people know that's pie in the sky.''
in response, jackson's campaign manager, jerry austin, said koch has ``solidified his position in the national exaggeration hall of fame.''
koch said jackson is ``on the wrong side of every issue i know of with two exceptions: drugs _ he's great in opposition to drugs _ and he's great in talking about the need for family responsibility and particularly as it relates to education
on the economy, he's terrible. we'd be in bankruptcy.''
nevertheless, the mayor said, he'd vote for jackson if he were the nominee out of party loyalty and because ``he'd be better than (vice president george) bush.''
in green bay, wis., jackson told reporters he had not heard of koch's remarks. but when they were described to him he said, ``that's unfortunate. i should not dignify that statement.''
iowa democrats say they'll expose and work to defeat supporters of political extremist lyndon larouche who filed as democrats to run in legislative and congressional primaries
what they seek to do is clothe themselves with the respectability and tradition of the democratic party in order to further their misguided beliefs,'' said house speaker don avenson. ``i will use all the available resources to ensure the defeat of larouche candidates in every democratic primary contest.''
they apparently feel this is fertile ground, but we are going to teach them a major lesson,'' said joe shanahan, who runs legislative elections for the party
their alarm grew out of the number of larouche supporters meeting friday's deadline for filing nomination papers to run in the june 8 primary for legislative and congressional seats
roeder and shanahan said they've identified 16 larouche supporters who had filed nominating petitions to run in the democratic primary
gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts has named former lincoln mayor helen boosalis and former democratic national committeemen dan morgan as co-chairmen of his presidential campaign in nebraska, the campaign announced
mrs. boosalis was the unsuccessful democratic candidate for governor in 1986 and is a former director of the state department of aging
morgan, a rancher, was active in former vice president walter mondale's 1984 presidential campaign in nebraska
both america and jesse jackson have matured to the point where jackson could become president, says former new mexico gov. toney anaya
anaya on friday was priming pueblo voters for jackson's campaign swing through colorado today and sunday
the political climate is ``getting warmer every day,'' anaya said, and jackson's ``time has come.''
anaya said jackson has come a long way from being the ``anti-establishment'' candidate he projected himself as four years ago, when he finished third to walter mondale and gary hart among democratic candidates. presence</head>
soldiers were off the streets as easter weekend began and a jailed opposition leader's wife said her husband was being held hostage in gen. manuel antonio noriega's effort to maintain power
also friday, the pentagon said it was sending 1,300 more military personnel to protect u.s. bases and thousands of american residents, bringing to nearly 12,000 the number of u.s. troops in panama
opposition leaders said they planned to meet today or sunday to decide whether to lift a 12-day-old general strike that has shut down most commercial activity in an effort to oust noriega, panama's de facto leader and heads of its 15,000-member defense forces
virtually all businesses were closed for good friday. the general strike had eased earlier in the week, with groceries and pharmacies reopening, reportedly under government pressure
in the united states, news reports said reagan administration officials had discussed trying to force noriega from power through military intervention, kidnapping or by arranging a coup
the general is under u.s. indictment on drug trafficking charges
carlos gonzalez de la lastra, a top leader of the opposition national civic crusade, spent his fifth day in jail friday. other crusade leaders and several journalists arrested with him monday had all been released by midday tuesday
all legal efforts on his behalf have been useless,'' vilma gonzalez de la lastra told the associated press friday night. ``they have not charged him, but they don't let him go
we consider carlos a political hostage,'' she said of her husband
the pentagon said many of the u.s. personnel to be dispatched next week are military police, but army helicopter units will be included
the u.s. southern command, based in panama, had about 600 security personnel among its 10,000 troopers before washington intensified its campaign for noriega's removal
over a 10-day period that ended march 24, the pentagon dispatched 670 more security personnel to panama for the stated purpose of protecting military facilities
southern command spokesman col. ronald sconyers said the latest troop increase was prompted by ``a longstanding look at what has been going on down here.'' he said it was not made in anticipation of an imminent departure of noriega and any instability that might follow
no evacuation plans have been discussed with the 45,000 americans living in panama, he added
limitations on movement for u.s. military personnel were decreased friday to the lowest of four levels for the first time since the crisis began feb. 26, permitting them to move freely but avoid crowds and demonstrations
panamanian police patrols replaced soldiers friday for the first time since a failed march 16 coup attempt against noriega. it was an indication of how the city has quieted for the holiday weekend, after weeks of protest
banks have been closed since march 3, and panamanians who had cash appeared to be using it only for essentials
despite rumors the decision to lift the strike had been made, two crusade leaders, roberto aleman and luis casco arias, said that was not the case
to the contrary, no decision on that will be made until we are able to meet to discuss it,'' said casco arias
the national council of private enterprise, an umbrella group of business organizations, has decided to continue the stoppage, aleman said
noriega supporters in the national legislature ousted civilian president eric arturo delvalle on feb. 26 after delvalle tried to fire the general
the united states subsequently froze panamanian government deposits in u.s. banks in an effort to drive out noriega. the shortage of money and a run on panama's banks forced them to shut down
the right-wing nationalist republican party has vowed to seek a nullification of the legislative assembly elections, in which it fell short of a clear majority by gaining 30 of the 60 seats
party leaders accused the central elections council of manipulating the official results of the march 20 balloting, which were announced friday
the council said the party known by its spanish acronym arena won 30 seats, president jose napoleon duarte's centrist christian democrat 23 and the conservative national conciliation party seven
arena emerged as the strongest single party, replacing the christian democrats, but its failure to win a majority could produce a legislative deadlock during duarte's final year in office
national conciliation lawmakers were reported considering an alignment with the christian democrats. that would give them the balance of power on major issues and counter arena's strength
in the outgoing legislative assembly, elected in march 1984, the christian democrats had 33 seats and arena 13
mario samayoa, president of the elections council and a director of the christian democratic party, said the final results presented an ``interesting situation because no party will predominate.''
he also said that while the computer count of votes for mayors in the nation's 262 municipalities was not complete, it appeared arena candidates had won in 178 races
the elections council report was denounced by angry arena leaders, who earlier had claimed their party won 35 assembly seats and a firm majority
on tuesday, arena removed its representative from the panel of observers from the three major parties overseeing the vote count
francisco merino, the arena representative, said the christian democrat and national conciliation delegates were trying to make a ``game of the vote tallies in order to change the results of the elections.''
roberto d'aubuisson, the former army major who founded arena, said the alliance would petition the council to nullify the official results and if that was rejected the issue would be taken to the supreme court
three days after the election, d'aubuisson had said ``we don't want to promote violence. but we want to play clean and they won't let us.''
samayoa said friday that arena would have to accept the results and ``re-evaluate its positions.''
the national association for private enterprise declared it would call a general strike if the elections council did not report an arena majority
duarte, a staunch u.s. ally, was elected in 1984 and is barred by the constitution from seeking another five year term next year
in the 1984 campaign he pledged to improve the economy and end the 8-year-old war with leftist rebels
arena had based its campaign this year on the continuing conflict, unemployment estimated at 40 percent and inflation running at an annual rate of 40 percent
the u.s. navy says it has succeeded in using underwater robots to locate mines in the persian gulf for the first time since mine-sweeping operatons began last year
a spokesman for the florida-based u.s. central command said the navy used the devices to locate two mines in the so-called farsi channel of the northern gulf, where the u.s. mine-sweeping operations have been concentrated
he spoke on condition he not be identified
on monday, the mine sweeper fearless used its new ``super sea rover,'' as the submersible is known, to locate a mine tethered to a seabed anchor in 90 feet of water, he said
on wednesday, the fearless' submersible robot found another mine, this time by following an anchor and cable to where the explosive lay on the bottom, the spokesman said friday
both mines, covered with a layer of marine growth indicating they had been in the water a long time, were detonated by navy divers
the navy also said friday that it has found and destroyed 41 mines in the gulf since its sweeping operations began
the updated figure doubles the number of mines previously reported to have been destroyed by the americans
in late november, after the navy's korean war-vintage ocean mine sweepers went into action and quickly found 15 mines in the northern gulf, commanders reported the mine threat was ``under control.''
on friday, when asked about the current situation, the navy said through its spokesman that ``our mine countermeasure force is well-suited for the requirements at hand.''
u.s. officers have refused to say whether they have found evidence of any recent mine-laying activity by iran, which is believed to have planted the explosives
the mines found by the u.s. navy, as well as about 20 found in other areas of the gulf by the french and the british navies, were all of the 1908-model contact-type, which explode when a ship bumps against their detonator spikes
one such mine damaged the 401,283-ton supertanker bridgeton during the first northbound convoy of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers july 21
the bridgeton incident prompted the united states and five european governments to send mine sweepers to the gulf
the soviets and saudi arabia also maintain minesweeping vessels in the waterway, where the ``tanker war,'' an offshoot of the 7{-year-old iraq-iran war, has raged for four years
the u.s. spokesman said the 41 mines destroyed by the navy are in addition to 14 others that were recovered intact for research purposes
overseas brats, a magazine for americans who went to high school half a world away from their homeland, is helping them find classmates they haven't seen for years, says its army brat publisher
the difference between stateside graduates and army brats, air force brats, navy juniors and others is that those in stateside have a hometown to go to for a reunion,'' said publisher and editor joe condrill
but the brats, after they graduate, they leave the military environment and sometimes are lost,'' he said
military dependents often are seen as pampered kids living off their globe-traveling parents, condrill said recently. but they endure hardships abroad and often have trouble adjusting to american life, he said
class reunions help by bringing overseas graduates together, he said
these people need someone who understands their predicament,'' said condrill, 32
at least 1 million people have gone to overseas u.s. schools since the institutions were created in 1946, condrill said. more than 80,000 students attend overseas schools each year and more than 5,000 graduate
we're not going to find everybody through the magazine, but at least this is one way of finding some of them,'' said condrill, whose father was an army colonel
condrill, a 1973 graduate of the tehran american high school in iran, said many military dependents are unable to have 10-year high school reunions like graduates of stateside schools because their classes usually are so small. some cannot return to their alma maters because it would be too expensive
because of the difficulty in organizing reunions, many students who attended a particular overseas school get together, even if they graduated in different years
these reunions create incredible bonds,'' condrill said. ``when you put these people together i'm not surprised to see strangers talking like old friends.''
condrill, who founded his quarterly magazine in 1986, boasts 1,000 subscribers in the united states and 12 countries
during the day he works for a floor products company, but spends evenings and weekends answering correspondence or writing stories for overseas brats. his byline appears on most stories, but there are a few subscribers who offer articles reminiscing about growing up overseas
the 12-page tabloid also carries announcements about upcoming reunions and personal advertisements that resemble lost-and-found ads
peggy roth, a 1976 graduate of george dewey high school in subic bay, the philippines, organized a reunion in 1986 before the magazine was founded. she says the magazine has made finding friends much easier today
overseas brats has been a big help,'' said the arlington, texas, woman. ``it's interesting reading other people's experiences, and it has made me realize that we are a unique group, sort of a loose fraternity. it has helped us unite.''
condrill also has helped organize reunions. in 1982, only six overseas schools held reunions, but 30 three-day reunions are planned this summer throughout the country, condrill said
this takes them back to a happier time, to a more innocent time in their lives,'' he said. ``at these things they are not talking about kids, about taxes. they feel much younger than they are and they're talking with people who were in the same predicament as they were.'' and inserts new 3rd graf to include higher mention of colorado caucuses.</note>
michael dukakis is borrowing a few pages from the populist playbooks of rival jesse jackson and ex-rival richard gephardt as the presidential candidates try to drum up delegates in next week's wisconsin primary
with dukakis and jackson neck-and-neck in the delegate count thus far _ dukakis with 653.55 to jackson's 643.55 _ another 81 delegates are at stake in tuesday's primary in wisconsin
both candidates also planned weekend forays into colorado, which holds caucuses monday that begin the selection process for 45 of the state's 51 democratic delegates and its 36 gop delegates to the national conventions
the massachusetts governor on friday stepped up his quest for blue-collar votes in wisconsin by sounding the themes of economic populism that had been articulated by gephardt until the missouri congressman exited the race last month
the human cost of seven years of republican indifference is staggering,'' dukakis said in a television ad that started airing friday. ``who in this administration could look right into the eyes of the laid-off factory worker or the homeless family and say they've kept the promise of america? i say they've broken that promise.''
the new emphasis was evident in his speeches as well
wall street pirates and corporate hit teams aren't the model for a new america,'' dukakis told a crowd of about 500 people crowded into the racine labor center
gephardt, interviewed on the syndicated show ``one on one,'' said he didn't mind seeing his ideas circulate among those left in the race he'd once hoped to finish first
everybody has stolen it,'' he said. ``i willed it to everybody when i pulled out and i hope they will use it. it is the issue of this campaign.''
jackson, who sounds the populist message as well, on friday called for higher prices for farm products and said consumers easily could pick up the tab
the fact is farmers deserve fair prices and workers deserve fair wages and the rich must pay fair taxes,'' jackson told a gathering at the farm of bud and faye lee in amery, wis. ``the reality is if urban people are working, they can pay a few more pennies for a glass of milk or for a cone of ice cream or for a loaf of bread.''
jackson, speaking later friday in la crosse, invited disgruntled republicans to vote for him in tuesday's primary
for people who made the ``colossal error'' of voting for president reagan and now ``realize your mistake, you can correct your error,'' he said. wisconsin law allows voters to select a candidate from any party regardless of their political affiliation
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., lagging behind in the democratic race, continued to be the main voice of criticism against jackson, whose popularity has surged in recent contests
an end to bigotry does not mean some candidates are game for criticism and some are immune,'' gore said
bringing up the rear was paul simon, who aimed his fire at gore
simon, visiting about 100 supporters at an airport rally in eau claire, accused gore of making bold promises to farmers and added: ``if you're looking for a candidate with all kinds of easy promises, i'm not your candidate. i voted against the 1985 farm program that caused a drop in milk prices. we have to do better and i won't make promises, unlike some people.''
gore favors government price supports for dairy farms and is proposing a two-tier support formula that he said would help family farms compete against corporate farms
on the republican side, 47 delegates were at stake in wisconsin, with vice president george bush the commanding leader over token competitor pat robertson
robertson was spending the weekend in colorado, which holds caucuses monday, trying to drum up some support western-style. his schedule included talks to an estimated 5,000 people in denver-area congregations on easter sunday
robertson has conceded he has virtually no chance of being the gop nominee, but wants to help influence the gop platform at the convention
he wants to represent conservatives and christians in the formation of the platform so that we can have a voice,'' said aide david nelson
hundreds of costumed revelers paraded through the financial district, celebrating ``st. stupid's day'' in a parade sponsored by the ``first church of the last laugh.''
the revelers _ most wearing dunce caps, gorilla outfits, roller skates, tap shoes or capes _ chanted ``free the lunch, hold the mayo'' and other nonsensical phrases during the traditional april fools day procession friday
this parade is dedicated to the fools, bimbos, bozos and ding-a-lings who know how to have a good time,'' said actor ed holmes
not everyone who saw the affair were entertained
i think this is pretty stupid,'' said alex nisenbaum, an 8-year-old from loomis visiting the city. ``grown-ups are really weird.''
four youths linked to a los angeles youth gang were defiant and almost boastful as they admitted raping a 13-year-old girl and stealing a dollar from her, police said
the gang members also were accused of robbing a 17-year-old of his watch and wallet thursday night, then looking for a girl to rape, assistant police chief richard kirkland said friday
last evening they said the sole purpose of them getting together was simply to commit a sexual assault,'' said lt. ron glensor, who interviewed three of the four youths arrested
police said the youths were defiant and almost boastful as they talked
the youths stole a car tuesday, decorated it with graffiti, then plotted thursday's night of crime, kirkland said
the girl told investigators she was riding her bicycle with her brother and a friend when a car carrying the youths drove by
the strangers threw concrete blocks at her and her two companions, who ran in different directions, she said. the four youths threatened her with an ax handle and force her into the car
she said she was driven to a remote area, raped by all four, robbed of her dollar bill, then dropped off back in town, where she telephoned police
william wright, 22, and marc banks, 19, were arrested thursday night for investigation of kidnapping, sexual assault, sexual assault of a victim under the age of 14, robbery and possession of stolen property
they were held under $122,500 bail each. if convicted they could face life in prison without parole
wright and banks came from the los angeles area where the ``crips'' gang is based, glensor said
the juveniles, who were not identified, were held in a detention center, and have been charged with the same crimes under juvenile statutes, glensor said
one, a 16-year-old who has lived in reno about eight months, told police he was a former member of a california crips gang that was a satanic cult, glensor said. the other is a 13-year-old apparently recruited from the reno area
the youths wore all-blue crips-type clothing, from their bandanas, to jeans, jackets and t-shirts, police said. pictures of the suspects and other alleged gang members were confiscated from the arrested youths
the pictures showed gang members holding sawed-off shotguns and painting crips graffiti on walls
scores of black los angeles area youth gangs are broadly affiliated under the crips banner, and are sometimes opposed to another loose confederation known as the ``bloods.''
authorities have become particularly concerned in recent years as gang turf wars over drug dealing have intensified. there have been reports from around the west of crips members trying to set up drug rings. stepped up</head>
leaders in punjab called on prime minister rajiv gandhi to impose a state of emergency in their northern state to quell violence by sikh separatists that has killed more than 100 people this week
late friday and early today, sikh extremists killed 14 more people in the punjab state as police stepped up security on gandhi's orders, the united news of india reported
the prime minister also called the federally appointed punjab governor, s.s. ray, to new delhi today for urgent consultations on the violence
in addition, police and paramilitary troops began stepping up security on pakistan' border with the state, where police say smugglers have been moving large quantities of new weapons to the sikh extremists, uni said
the latest killings raised to 111 the number of people who have died in punjab since sunday in attacks blamed on militant sikhs who have since 1982 been waging a guerrilla war for a separate homeland
so far this year, more than 635 people have died in punjab state, including hindus and moderate sikhs. sikh militants say they are discriminated against by india's hindu majority
right-wing hindu groups called for a general strike in amritsar district today to protest the killings. residents of the sikh holy city of amritsar said about half of the city's shops were shuttered today, but government offices and schools remained open and transportion was normal
punjab leaders of gandhi's congress party called friday for the state of emergency. they included bhagwan dass, vice president of the state congress party's governing committee, two of the state party's general secretaries and a former president
the federal government last month was empowered by parliament to impose an emergency in a single state to combat ``internal disturbances.'' under an emergency, the government would have the authority to detain people without warrants, suspend press freedom and take other steps against the militants
sikhs, whose religion was formed about 500 years ago as an alternative to hinduism and islam, make up less than 2 percent of india's population of 800 million but are in a majority in punjab
uni said that eight sikhs, four hindus and two unidentified people were killed overnight in three districts of punjab by suspected sikh gunmen
thirty-seven people were reported killed thursday night and friday in the state, the worst one-day toll since march 4, when 45 people were reported slain in a single day, 34 of them at a festival marking the indian holiday of holi. measures</head>
secretary of state george p. shultz has recommended kidnapping panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega and a cia-coordinated military coup as ways of unseating the general, a newspaper reported today
shultz and elliott abrams, assistant secretary of state for latin america, also suggested landing more than 3,000 u.s. soldiers in panama to encourage panamanian military officers opposed to noriega, said the los angeles times
the proposals were strongly opposed by the cia and defense secretary frank c. carlucci, who labeled them dangerous and ill-timed, said the times, quoting unidentified administration officials on both sides of the discussion
however, actions still being considered by the cabinet include fomenting a coup against noriega and landing more than 3,000 soldiers at u.s. installations in panama in a show of force, the times said. a group of panamanian officers attempted a coup last month, but failed
state department spokesman charles redman, traveling with shultz in rome, would not comment on the report
shultz and abrams suggested sending a special operations team to kidnap noriega and bring him to the united states for trial on drug trafficking charges, the newspaper said
a kidnapping was ruled out after opponents argued that the united states' image would be blackened if noriega were accidentally killed during such an attempt, the times said. they also warned shultz of the repercussions of arresting a foreign leader in his own country to face criminal charges in the united states
shultz and abrams also proposed taking unspecified military action inside panama in response to a request from deposed civilian president eric a. delvalle, the newspaper said. delvalle was ousted by noriega last month after he attempted to fire the general
the pentagon announced friday that it was sending about 1,300 additional military personnel to panama to improve security for u.s. bases and for u.s. civilians living there
the move fell far short of the steps advocated by shultz, who urged the use of force against noriega after aides concluded u.s. economic pressure on the troubled central american country was faltering, the times said
the united states already has about 10,000 troops in panama to protect the strategic panama canal. an additional 17,000 u.s citizens live in panama
pressure against noriega's regime has been mounting since he was named in a federal indictment alleging he helped drug traffickers move cocaine into the united states
u.s. officials have also alleged that noriega was dealing with cuban president fidel castro while was ostensibly cooperating with u.s. drug and intelligence agencies
the reagan administration precipitated an economic crisis in panama last month by cutting off the supply of u.s. dollars to panamanian banks. but the maneuver appeared to weaken this week after noriega broke a general strike, seized flour mills and reopened panama's ports
jim jordan, whose likeable but bumbling fibber mcgee character delighted millions who tuned into radio's classic comedy ``fibber mcgee and molly'' for 22 years, is dead at age 91
jordan died friday at beverly medical center about a week after suffering a blood clot in the brain following a fall at his home, said family friend and broadcast personality fran allison
his show was one of the greatest continuing radio shows that ever existed,'' said miss allison, who starred in early television's ``kukla, fran and ollie'' show
fibber mcgee and molly'' was on the nbc radio network from 1935 to 1957. it spawned such maxims as: ``tain't funny, mcgee,'' ``heavenly days,'' ``you're a hard man, mcgee'' and ``dad-rat the dad-ratted ...''
familiar routines included mcgee's overstuffed closet, which always unloaded mercilessly on jordan's character whenever it was opened
even the mcgee's address, 79 wistful vista, became a place on america's cultural roadmap
each tuesday night, jordan welcomed to his home such unforgettable characters as wallace wimple, the old timer, beulah the maid and myrt, mcgee's omnipresent telephone operator
even though he had become very frail, his mind and his humor were as fresh as ever. we all adored him,'' said lenore kingston, a vice president of pacific pioneer broadcasters. jordan had served as chairman of the radio veterans' group
like the couple in the ``fibber mcgee and molly'' scripts, the show's stars were married. jim and marian jordan came to radio out of vaudeville to formulate with writer don quinn the quintessential situation comedy
we don't like _ i mean, people don't like _ humor that suggests anything repulsive,'' jordan said in an interview during the show's height. anatomy gags, jibes about marriage and mothers-in-law were kept out
it is typically american humor, neither the broadway type nor hollywood influenced,'' hubbard keavy of the associated press wrote in 1940. ``they get their humor from simple things like fixing the brakes or playing checkers. they never just tell jokes. they never step out of character.''
the situations in the show turned on such simple items as fibber deciding, against molly's advice, to tune the piano. his bumbling effort was invariably interrupted by the ``bong-bong'' of the door chimes
the mcgees' neighbors were a classic set of american humor characters
hal peary played the rumbling, pompous throckmorton gildersleeve; cliff arquette was the cantankerous old-timer; bill thompson was henpecked wallace wimple and gale gordon, later a regular on ``the lucy show,'' was mayor la trivia
after the show ended in 1957, a television version was attempted in nbc's 1959-1960 season. of the original cast, only peary remained and he played mayor la trivia, not gildersleeve
jordan, a native of peoria, ill., met marian driscoll at choir practice when both were in their teens. they married in 1918
the couple began appearing on radio in 1925, but still worked vaudeville because the new medium paid so little. in 10 years of trial-and-error work, they created fibber mcgee and molly
mrs. jordan died of cancer in 1961. jordan married gretchen stewart the following year. she survives him
other survivors include a son, jim jr., and daughter, kathryn, from his marriage to marian, as well as several grandchildren. random</head>
police combed a neighborhood today for a carload of gang members who fired on pedestrians as they drove by, killing one and wounding 12 others, including a 4-year-old boy, authorities said
the gunmen indiscriminately shot at people standing on a sidewalk friday night in a gang-ridden area of south los angeles, said deputy police chief william rathburn
no motive was given for the shootings. ```it's a little too early,'' said a policeman who declined to give his name. ``the officers are still out there hustling up whatever they can find.''
extra officers were dispatched to help look for three men in a brown cadillac, rathburn said
thirteen people were hit by gunfire, said police cmdr. william booth, but only 11 could be accounted for at hospitals. authorities said two of the wounded may have sought medical attention on their own
a 19-year-old man shot in the right side was pronounced dead at los angeles county-usc medical center, said hospital spokeswoman adelaida de la certa. none of the victims' names were immediately available
the 4-year-old boy was in serious but stable condition with wounds in the side, arm and legs, ms. de la certa said
a 29-year-old man with leg and hand wounds and a 20-year-old man with a leg wound were in fair condition, she said
a man was in critical condition at the hospital of the good samaritan with gunshot wounds to the stomach and legs, said a nursing supervisor who refused to be identified. another man was treated and released
two men with leg wounds were in fair condition at daniel freeman memorial hospital, said nursing supervisor christie ciraulo
a 29-year-old man was taken to california medical center with minor injuries, but it was uncertain whether he would be admitted, said a nursing supervisor who refused to give her name
a 16-year-old and another teen-age boy were treated at other hospitals and released, officials said. eat</head> sted contras, add that cease-fire went into effect friday.</note>
u.s. taxpayers helped the nicaraguan contras smell good, play volleyball and watch tv from a new sofa in 1986, but u.s. officials refused to approve bills for whiskey and jumbo shrimp
using the freedom of information act, peter kornbluh of the national security archive obtained a 1986 letter to a liaison for the rebels from the director of the state department's nicaraguan humanitarian assistance office
the letter lists some ``approved'' and ``disallowed'' expenses incurred by the contras in 1985 and 1986 and submitted to the office for reimbursement. all items on the list, published in the may issue of harper's magazine, previously had been rejected ``pending further review.''
allowed:
_ $5,760.53 for deodorant
_ $1,071 for volleyball equipment
_ two living room sets worth $1,283.63, a dining room set worth $654.94 and a $477.75 sofa
_ 12 domino sets worth $132.18
disallowed:
_ 16 bottles of whiskey worth $120
_ 32 pounds, or $8 worth, of meat for dogs
_ $369.82 in christmas decorations
_ 25 pounds of jumbo shrimp worth $235
_ $226 in guitar strings
the office approved three 19-inch color televisions that cost about $1,000 each, but rejected two other sets. it approved 620 boxes of candy worth $6,570, but rejected 14 boxes of chocolate and two boxes of candy worth $381.35
the office, which was opened to distribute humanitarian aid appropriated by congress and closed in july 1986, did approve a limited amount of martial aid: two pairs of boxing gloves
the contras have been fighting nicaragua's sandinista government. a 60-day cease-fire went into effect friday
breezy weather early today forced organizers to scratch their attempt at a world-record human-powered flight across the aegean sea by a cyclist-pilot in a flying machine called the daedalus
windless weather is important for the 74-mile flight to the island of santorini and winds of nearly six miles an hour grounded the silver-and-pink aircraft on a military runway at the last moment
it's disappointing, but the wind seems to be a little too strong,'' pilot greg zack, 26, a professional cyclist from wilmington, n.c., told reporters
the last-minute postponement illustrated just how unpredictable the weather can be on this southern greek island
gusting winds and rain squalls delayed the first scheduled flight of the daedalus 88 on wednesday
after nine days of blustery weather, conditions thursday were good enough to allow the five athlete pilots to take turns test-flying the plane at speeds of around 14 miles per hour and about 15 feet above the tarmac of the greek air force base
a successful touchdown on santorini (thira) would more than triple the exisiting record of 22.5 miles for straight-line human-powered flight, set by bryan allen piloting the gossamer albatross across the english channel in 1979
built of high-tech composite materials _ graphite epoxy, kevlar plastic fiber and mylar polystyrene film _ the daedalus plane has a huge 112-foot wingspan and resembles an outsized insect in flight
the flight in a fragile pedal-powered plane is aimed at emulating daedalus, the legendary craftsman who flapped his way across the aegean on wings of wax and feathers, according to a 3,500-year-old greek myth
according to the myth, daedalus made it safely across the aegean but his son icarus flew too close to the sun and plummeted to his death as his wings melted
a man working at an archaeological dig attacked co-workers, stabbing two women to death and injuring a pregnant woman and her husband, police said
the suspect, identified as arthur faulkner and believed to be 40 to 45 years old, remained at large today, police said
authorities said they had no motive for the stabbings friday
police temporarily shut down a nearby expressway and searched a wooded area in this philadelphia suburb after the man fled in a pickup truck registered to one of the victims
the four graduate students were ``stabbed with a knife or other sharp instrument,'' while working in a house where artifacts are tested, police capt. john sheehan said. he refused to say whether a weapon was recovered
glenn w. sheehan, 39, was stabbed several times. he ran from the house to a neighbor's house, then to a construction site where the archaeological dig was under way, according to witnesses
sheehan was taken to bryn mawr hospital with stab wounds of the legs, arms and abdomen. he was in stable condition, hospital officials said
his wife, 31-year-old anne m. jensen, was taken to hahnemann hospital in philadelphia, where she was treated for multiple stab wounds to the back and internal injuries
she was in serious but stable condition, said an unidentified hospital spokeswoman. her fetus suffered no damage, the spokeswoman said
the couple were working on their doctorates in anthropology at bryn mawr college, college spokeswoman catherine lafarge said
the two slain women, also graduate students in anthropology and archaeology, died of multiple stab wounds, montgomery county coroner dr. theodore garcia said
lower merion township police lt. john maloney identified them as clarice j. dorner, 30, of elk grove village, ill., and annaliese h. killoran, 22, of lynn, mass
wcau-tv, quoting unidentified police sources, reported that faulkner was released from prison last october after serving time for attempted rape
john jensen, anne jensen's brother, said faulkner was a former convict who seemed interested in his work as a digger
i just couldn't believe it,'' said jensen. ``i talked to him yesterday. he was a solid worker; he never complained.'' be court-martialed, tight guard at presidential palace, details on escape. edits to tighten. no pickup. ^laserphoto ny74</note>
the young officer who led an august coup attempt that nearly felled president corazon aquino's government fled a prison ship in manila bay early today aided by his elite navy guards
mrs. aquino cut short a private easter holiday in northern luzon and rushed to the capital for an emergency cabinet meeting after hearing of the escape of former lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan
she told a national television audience honasan was to have been court-martialed for leading the bloody aug. 28 coup attempt, in which at least 53 people were killed and hundreds wounded
mrs. aquino warned military personnel that those who assist or harbor honasan ``will be dealt with promptly and severely with the full force of the law.''
the charismatic soldier escaped at about 2:30 a.m. aboard two rubber boats along with 14 guards from the navy's special warfare unit who were guarding him, col. oscar florendo, chief military spokesman, told reporters
florendo said the roughly half dozen remaining guards fired on the boats as they slipped away in the darkness, but apparently missed. the prison ship, the andres bonifacio, was anchored 500 yards from the navy's main wharf, he said
chief of staff gen. renato de villa ordered a nationwide search for the 39-year-old honasan, who had been on the ship since his december arrest in a manila suburb
armored personnel carriers and bulldozers blocked entrances to military camps in manila, and checkpoints were set up on major highways
florendo said a reserve lieutenant who was frustrated over his inability to obtain a regular commission had aided in the escape
it is believed that bribery was a factor,'' the spokesman added, saying the lieutenant and 13 enlisted personnel had apparently assisted and joined in the escape. he said the boats used to flee had been sent to increase security after the military learned of a plot to free honasan
florendo warned that honasan may try to organize a new bid to topple mrs. aquino. he said the government expected honasan to resume anti-aquino propaganda efforts and again try to divide the military
mrs. aquino said honasan fled to avoid prosecution for mutiny and sedition, arson, murder and conduct unbecoming an officer. she said his escape ``is tantamount to an admission of his guilt.''
she also said honasan staged his coup attempt to evade investigation of alleged misapproriation of $100,000 worth of military equipment and to avoid a combat assignment against communist rebels
i appeal to all citizens and leaders, public and private, to assist us in the recapture of honasan as soon as possible,'' she said
presidential guards stepped up security around the presidential palace immediately after word of the escape. civilians were barred from the palace compound
defense secretary fidel v. ramos said the military was ``taking every possible action'' to bring back honasan and ``minimize or neutralize any further damage that he can make.''
honasan, former defense ministry chief of security, played a key role in the feb. 22, 1986 mutiny that with a popular uprising toppled president ferdinand marcos
but he became disillusioned with mrs. aquino, accusing her of ``weak and inept'' leadership that fortified the 19-year-old communist insurgency
on aug. 28, honasan led a force of 2,000 men who attacked the presidential palace and seized several media and military installations in the capital before they were driven off by pro-aquino forces
mrs. aquino said the attack it was aimed at killing her and her family
honasan's was the most serious of several major plots to unseat mrs. aquino. the military says 11 officers and 90 enlisted men involved in the coup attempt are still at large
honasan is widely regarded within the 160,000-member armed forces as a courageous, experienced officer. military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he is so popular he had become the ``dominant figure'' aboard the ship that was supposed to be his prison
florendo said the military received information a week ago that honasan would try to escape and it sent rubber boats to guard the ship, expecting outsiders to try to storm the vessel. ``instead, it came from the inside.''
honasan was defense ministry security chief when opposition sen. juan ponce enrile was minister of national defense. enrile was fired in november 1986 after the government said it thwarted a coup attempt by his followers
honasan remained in hiding for months after the august coup
maj. gen. ramon montano, former commander of the national capital regional defense command, said weeks before the arrest that honasan was being protected by undisclosed civilian and military figures
a disc jockey who told a white lie about the weather found his listeners ready for an april fools' day snow job
wkir-fm radio personality dan baxter told a whopper about the weather that was swallowed hook, line and sinker by some listeners. his phony forecast _ freezing rain and snow _ in a state where the merest hint of winter weather sends residents scurrying to the grocery put a damper on at least one businessman's day
they said the rain was supposed to turn to sleet and snow, and the temperature tonight and tomorrow was going to be in the 20s,'' said barber larry kirk, who said trade was slow following baxter's bogus prediction of icy streets
i'm not going to listen to that station any more,'' kirk said
the state highway patrol was bombarded with anxious calls about road conditions. troopers were stymied, however, when they turned to the national weather service for help
the weather service called us wanting to know where we got our information,'' station spokeswoman rhonda perry said. ``then the highway patrol called wanting to talk to the station manager. then, the civil defense called wanting to talk to the station manager.''
baxter went on air to apologize, and told listeners he'd lost his job
april fool!
he's still kidding around,'' perry said
the phone hasn't stopped ringing (with listeners concerned for baxter) since i got in,'' said tim allen, the disc jockey who follows baxter
a disc jockey's on-air account of an unidentified flying object causing commotion in a park was so convincing that some people claimed they witnessed the mysterious rumble and flash of light
people are seeing it. but it ain't there,'' said fred honsberger, news director for kdka-am, the station that broadcast the april fools' day joke
we just had a lady call who said she saw a bunch of gray trucks go in led by a jeep. these people are claiming to have seen that thing. but we started it all,'' honsberger said, chuckling
not everyone was laughing
worried listeners flooded the switchboard at the allegheny county police station in north park. sgt. william wolverton repeatedly assured callers there was nothing going on and that the radio report had been a hoax
they were pretty much upset with the fact that a radio station would be allowed to get away it,'' wolverton said. ``a lot of them were critical because they picked good friday. good friday seemed to be more important than april fools' day.''
morning disc jockey john cigna startled his listeners with the report and offered no explanation or elaboration when he ended his four-hour broadcast at 9 a.m. but his replacement, doug hawkes, informed listeners it had been a joke
remember everyone, today is april fools' day,'' hawkes said
none of the morning news reports included the so-called emergency, honsberger noted
that should be a clue to anybody,'' he said. ``if anything was happening, it would be our lead story. we'd have reporters there.''
tornadoes touched down in five east texas towns, destroying two mobiles homes, damaging dozens of houses and overturning cars, authorities said. one minor injury was reported
in east mountain, near longview, a tornado damaged 25 homes friday, blowing seven or eight of them off their foundations, witnesses said
i was on top of the mountain watching for tails out of the clouds when the rain began falling so hard you couldn't even see,'' said east mountain assistant city marshal phil luchau. ``we knew the storm was getting worse, but it happened so quick, there wasn't time to warn anyone.''
a tornado also destroyed two mobile homes and damaged three homes in nearby glenwood acres, officials said, but it was unclear whether it was the same tornado that struck east mountain
the city hall, an elementary school and a car dealership suffered heavy damage at gladewater, about 20 miles northwest of longview. a supermarket and several mobile homes also were hit
another tornado damaged four homes in mound city, and severely damaged the mound city store
it just hasn't sunk in yet,'' said deanna holden, owner of the store. ``we just all got underneath the dining room table. if we hadn't gotten my grandbaby out of her crib, she'd be dead because of all the flying glass.''
shan haggerty, 10, of houston was cut on the hand by flying glass as he crouched beneath a kitchen table of a mound city home he was visiting
a tornado also was spotted in union grove, where strong winds destroyed one home and damaged at least one other
at least four tornadoes hit anderson county in 1987, killing two people. three of them hit the southern part of the county, near mound city
this is a bad area for tornadoes,'' said tommie denson of mound city. ``we're going to move. i'm going to sell my home and leave.''
it is certainly my intent to carry on my duties as long as the president wants me to.'' _ attorney general edwin meese iii, after independent counsel james c. mckay said he had not found sufficient evidence to indict meese
i appeal to all citizens and leaders, public and private, to assist us in the recapture of (lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'') honasan as soon as possible.'' _philippine president corazon aquino, following the escape of the young officer whose attempted coup almost toppled her government last august
if they haven't heard from him in a few days, ... they'll assume he is rejecting their offer. in that case, they would move immediately to dismiss him.'' _ juleen turnage, spokeswoman at the national assemblies of god, in response to evangelist jimmy swaggart's reported plan to defy a one-year suspension from the pulpit
secretary of state george p. shultz today received pope john paul ii's blessing on the eve of his new middle east peace mission. the pontiff stressed any accord must respect the ``legitimate rights'' of both israel and the palestinians
god bless your efforts,'' the pope told shultz following their 30-minute private meeting in the papal library
i go from here to the middle east with your blessing to sustain the effort'' to spur the arab-israeli peace process, shultz responded in front of reporters and photographers
shultz leaves for jerusalem on sunday on the first part of a trip that will also take him to jordan, syria, egypt and saudi arabia. his trip to the region last month failed to bring an agreement
vatican spokesman joaquin navarro said the talks focused on the two mens' ``common preoccupation for international peace,'' specifically east-west relations, ``the continuing grave situation'' in the middle east and developments in central america
the pope ``insisted on the legitimate rights of the palestinian people and on the moral duty to find a solution that also takes into account the legitimate rights of israel,'' the spokesman said
john paul voiced ``great interest in the efforts under way for the search, obligatory for everyone, of a process that opens the way to solutions acceptable to all,'' navarro said
the pope has frequently spoken in favor of a palestinian homeland
the vatican does not have diplomatic relations with israel. vatican officials have cited the palestinian question, israel's unsettled boundaries and the status of jerusalem as reasons for the absence of ties
the vatican does not have diplomatic relations with jordan either
shultz, who is episcopalian, brought to the vatican today an entourage of 31 people, including his wife, helena, a roman catholic
after a salute in the vatican's marbled, frescoed clementine room by seven swiss guards in multi-colored uniforms designed by michelangelo, shultz was ushered into the pope's chambers by archbishop dino monduzzi, head of the papal household
following the audience, the two were joined by mrs. shultz, wearing a black dress and a black lace mantilla over her head, and the u.s. ambassador to the holy see, frank shakespeare, and his 21-year-old daughter, fredericka
john paul, wearing white robes, presented shultz with a framed sketch by italian artist lello scorzelli. he gave pontifical medals and rosaries to the others
the group then moved to the salome throne room, where the pope shook hands with the rest of the delegation, including secret service agents and state department spokesman charles redman. the pope wished them all a happy easter
it was shultz's third meeting at the vatican with john paul. he and his wife visited the vatican in 1986 for easter. the previous meeting was in december 1982
shultz and his wife are scheduled to attend the pope's easter mass in st. peter's square on sunday morning
rain and snow inundated arkansas, kansas, oklahoma and colorado today after tornadoes in five east texas towns destroyed two mobile homes and damaged dozens of houses, a city hall, a school and a car dealership
a tornado that touched down in east mountain did some of the worst damage of friday's east texas twisters, damaging 25 houses, officials said. two mobile homes were destroyed in nearby glenwood acres
a tornado in gladewater extensively damaged the city hall, an elementary school, a car dealership, a supermarket and several mobile homes, while a funnel cloud that struck near mound city damaged a roof and overturned vehicles
a tornado was also spotted in union grove, where strong thunderstorm winds destroyed a home and damaged at least one house
the only injury reported was to a 10-year-old mound city boy whose hand was cut by flying glass
as snow piled up in western kansas, the oklahoma panhandle and eastern colorado, flooding became more widespread across arkansas, oklahoma and kansas
blizzard conditions continued late friday in the oklahoma panhandle. twenty-two inches of snow fell at goodwell and 15 inches at guymon
clayton, n.m., had 10 inches of snow and drifts up to 6 feet high. all roads to the city were closed
in southeast colorado, la junta was blanketed by a foot of snow in seven hours with 16 inches already on the ground
a blizzard warning remained in effect today for western portions of the oklahoma panhandle. winter storm warnings were issued for the northern texas panhandle and the southeast corner of colorado
today's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms from southeastern south dakota to eastern sections of nebraska and kansas, the lower and middle mississippi valley, alabama and the southern and central appalachians; scattered thunderstorms over western georgia and the florida panhandle; scattered rain showers lingering over eastern texas and northern oklahoma; and light snow from the texas panhandle into western kansas
highs were expected to be in the 60s or 70s in much of the nation; 40s and 50s from colorado to northern new mexico, the texas panhandle, the central plains, the upper half of the mississippi valley, the great lakes and new england; 50s over washington state; and 80s over inland southern california, the desert southwest, south texas and the florida panhandle
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 20 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 75 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 60 partly cloudy; boston 49 cloudy; buffalo 36 fair; charleston, s.c. 60 partly cloudy; cincinnati 58 rain; cleveland 50 foggy; miami 72 fair; new york 45 cloudy; philadelphia 49 cloudy; pittsburgh 51 foggy; portland, maine, 38 cloudy; washington 52 foggy
_central: bismarck 33 fair; chicago 44 foggy; denver 32 cloudy; des moines 45 foggy; indianapolis 57 foggy; kansas city 55 rain; minneapolis-st. paul 42 partly cloudy; nashville 60 cloudy; new orleans 69 rain; st. louis 60 foggy
_west: albuquerque 33 fair; anchorage 34 cloudy; las vegas 51 fair; phoenix 60 fair; salt lake city 35 fair; san francisco 47 fair; seattle 47 foggy
_canada: montreal 37 fair; toronto 34 partly cloudy. troops firing at funeral mourners. picks up 16th pvs, `according to...'; deletes outdated last three grafs, `early friday ... a coma.' ^laserphoto ny5</note>
israeli troops opened fire today on palestinians who attacked them with rocks, bottles, knives and metal bars in the west bank and gaza strip, and four protesters were killed, the army said
two israeli soldiers were injured
there were conflicting reports on the number of wounded protesters. the army said two protesters were wounded by gunfire, but palestinian journalists set the number as high as 13
the bloodshed broke out as jews celebrated the first day of passover, the weeklong festival celebrating the exodus of the jews from egypt, and a day after christians marked good friday
in gaza city, protesters hurled knives and metal rods at patrolling troops and tried to seize their weapons, an army spokesman said. soldiers opened fire on the attackers, killing three, he said
one soldier suffered stab wounds and was taken to a nearby hospital, the army spokesman said. his condition was not described as serious. another soldier was slightly injured, the military official said, speaking on condition of anonymity in keeping with army regulations
officials at gaza city's ahli arab and shifa hospitals said they admitted three palestinians with gunshot wounds, and arab reports said another was transferred to an israeli hospital
palestinian reporters identified the dead men as jamil rashad al kourdy, 55, ahmed samir al kourdy, 40, and hassan al kourdy, 21
in the biblical west bank town of bethlehem, troops fired at hundreds of protesters who attacked them with rocks and empty bottles in the town's main market, and one arab was killed, the army said
witnesses in bethlehem said the violence began in the morning after soldiers forced shops in the main market to close in violation of plo orders that they stay open in the morning but observe a strike in the afternoon
protest leaders then arrived and forced shops to reopen, the witnesses said. hundreds of youths gathered and began moving through the market streets to central manger square, where troops were stationed
as the protesters hurled rocks and empty bottles at the troops, some soldiers turned and began chasing the youths through the winding, cobblestoned streets, firing tear gas, rubber bullets and finally live bullets, the witnesses said
they said several demonstrators were wounded
salim hallas el shaer, 23, was dead on arrival at nearby bet jalla hospital from a gunshot wound to the head, according to doctors there and the ambulance driver, who would only give his name as issa
an army spokesman confirmed the death but said troops only fired at the man when he approached them with an object that resembled a firebomb
during a hastily organized funeral march for el shaer along a main road in bethlehem, troops fired tear gas and live bullets at mourners, said a witness who would only give his name as halman. there were no immediate reports of injuries
on the street where el shaer was shot, the branch of an olive tree was put in a puddle of blood, beside a sign that read: ``the heroic martyr, salim.''
according to u.n. figures, the killings brought the palestinian death toll to 131 since unrest broke out dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza strip. one israeli soldier has died
with fewer holy week visitors than usual because of the arab uprising in its occupied lands, israel sought to ensure the safety of thousands of christians who had come for easter sunday observances
the violence came on the day before secretary of state george p. shultz was scheduled to arrive for talks in jerusalem as he pushes a middle east peace plan
shultz was in vatican city today and received pope john paul ii's blessing on the eve of his peace mission. the pontiff stressed any accord must respect the ``legitimate rights'' of both israel and the palestinians
police and troops were reinforced in and around jerusalem's holy sites to protect participants at easter ceremonies by christians celebrating their belief that christ was resurrected two days after dying on a cross
disturbances took an early toll on the holiday weekend friday, as israeli troops killed two arabs and wounded at least 13
officials of the united methodist church's publishing house say they have decided not to publish a book by a newark bishop who called for greater understanding of homosexual relationships and unmarried couples
robert k. feaster, president of abingdon press in nashville, tenn., said in a news release that publishing episcopal bishop john shelby spong's book, titled ``living in sin? a bishop rethinks sexuality,'' might be misinterpreted as support for spong's views
while the publishing house planned to publish `living in sin' to encourage vigorous debate, it has determined that the church's publisher could appear to be aggravating fierce controversy, rather than helping to find solutions,'' feaster said in the release, dated wednesday
abingdon press officials did not answer calls to their offices friday
in january, with spong's backing, representatives of northern new jersey's 125 episcopal parishes voted to give their blessing to homosexual relationships and unmarried couples and to minister to those people
the rev. leslie smith, a spokesman for spong, said in a news release thursday that five other publishing houses have contacted spong about publishing the book. smith did not return telephone messages friday
spong said in the release that ``moralistic repression is not going to terminate the discussion.''
he said church leaders need to face up to the changing role of women and marriage and called for greater understanding of homosexuality and sexual reproduction alternatives
a county judge said he has begun a 40-day fast to demonstrate his credibility in the face of an attempt to remove him from the bench for allegedly making sexual advances to a male court reporter
ramsey county district judge alberto miera, who has denied the allegation, said friday his bisexuality and the fact that he is hispanic have been factors in the attempt to remove him
i feel obligated to do that to prevent this kind of abuse and injustice from happening to other individuals who are socially vulnerable, and to encourage people to recognize that they have to stand up and fight even though there may be costs,'' said miera, who will take liquids throughout the fast and have one meal every other day
the state board on judicial standards in february recommended miera be removed for allegedly making sexual advances to his former male court reporter and for other judicial misconduct. the judge was convicted last year of battery for forcibly kissing the former court reporter
the state supreme court temporarily suspended him march 9 to consider the recommendation. arguments are scheduled may 24
it's not me that's the issue anymore,'' miera said. ``it's the concept of justice, it's the concept of how we treat people, it's the concept of whether we treat people differently because we're fearful of what they represent,'' he said
the alabama journal, which won a 1988 pulitzer prize for a series about the state's infant mortality problem, is donating its prize money to help fight the stituation
richard amberg said the newspaper will donate the $3,000 prize to the gift of life foundation, a montgomery group dedicated to lowering the state's infant mortality rate, which is the highest of any state
in addition, the newspaper's parent company, multimedia, will match the $3,000 donation, amberg said friday
we want to demonstrate our personal commitment to this problem by donating this money,'' the publisher said
the newspaper won a pulitzer prize for general news reporting for a series on why more than 13 out of every 1,000 babies born in alabama die before their first birthday. update with guerrilla leader confirming heavy fighting. picks up 7th pvs, `he said...</note>
iraq said today that its forces have overrun kurdish guerrilla bases in the mountainous northeast in an offensive aimed at crushing iranian-backed rebels who threaten vital oilfields
kurdish guerrilla leaders have claimed the iraqis, backed by tanks and air strikes, were dropping poison gas bombs on villages in what one commander called ``a war of genocide.''
baghdad radio, monitored in nicosia, quoted a military communique as saying its troops ``completely purged'' the area around qara dagh in the sulaimaniyeh region, 50 miles west of the kirkuk oilfields
qara dagh is only 20 miles west of lake darbandikhan, where iranian revolutionary guards have thrust into iraq in a 16-day-old offensive
all traitors have finally been destroyed,'' the communique declared in a reference to the iranian-backed kurdish rebels who have been fighting baghdad for an independent homeland for years
there was no independent confirmation
jalal talabani, leader of the patriotic union of kurdistan, told the associated press that heavy fighting was raging in the region friday but that he had no reports of an iraqi breakthrough
massud barzani, leader of the iranian-backed kurdish democratic party, said in a statement several days ago, that the iraqi army had launched a major offensive against the guerrillas march 23
he said two divisions of troops, backed by tanks, artillery and air strikes, were seeking to dislodge kurdish fighters from the qara dagh mountains between kirkuk and the provincial capital of sulaimaniyeh
an iraqi division usually numbers about 12,000 men
barzani said the iraqi assaults had been beaten back
he claimed iraqi warplanes were dropping chemical bombs on kurdish strongholds and villages suspected of harboring guerrillas
the villages were north of the iranian bridgehead around lake darbandikhan, where iran claims iraqi chemical bombing attacks march 16-17 killed 5,000 civilians and injured as many more
talabani said the iraqis had seized some villages. he also charged the iraqi air force was dropping gas bombs on kurdish settlements
it's a war of genocide against the kurdish people,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``they use chemical weapons against us all the time and raze our villages.''
today's communique said an iraqi force, including kurdish fighters loyal to baghdad, had overrun 21 kurdish bases and villages used by the guerrillas in the last few days. it gave no casualty figure
the kurdish guerrillas have in the last 18 months created a second front in the 7{-year-old iran-iraq war. the iraqis have had to divert tens of thousands of troops badly needed in the main battle zones in the south to contain the insurgency in kurdistan
the kurds claimed to control 4,000 square miles in the northeast
about 20 million kurds live in the mountainous region where the borders of iran, iraq, syria and turkey meet
authorities in the southern chinese province of guangdong seized 792 pounds of opium and heroin and arrested several gangsters involved in drug smuggling, the pro-beijing newspaper wen wei po reported saturday
the newpaper did not say how many people were arrested but said the gang had more than 80 members who have been dealing in drugs since 1985
it said the gang transported the drugs from the golden triangle area of vietnam, burma and thailand to the southern chinese province of yunnan and guangdong and then to the british colony of hong kong
the operation was directed by a hong kong man identified only as chan x kwong, the newspaper said, but it did not say if chan was among those arrested
it said chan directed the drug smuggling operation with a walkie talkie from a house in suburban canton, the capital of guangdong province
a truck modified in hong kong transported 264 pounds of the drugs through the chinese special economic zone of shenzhen into neighboring hong kong, the paper said
the gang members fought among themselves and chan reportedly tried to rob his partner ah wing last year, the paper said
hong kong police said they have not heard of the gang
the marxist government imposed huge price inceases on food, and a government newspaper said saturday that the increases were necessitated by a guerrilla war that has ravaged the economy
prices for rice, sugar, corn, cooking oil, bread and soap all rose sharply under government-mandated increases that took effect friday in the southern african nation. in a bid to offset the higher food prices, the government also granted wage increases to some workers
rice went from 9 cents to 60 cents per kilogram, about 2.2 pounds. corn flour rose from nine cents to 32 cents per kilogram and a kilogram of sugar went from 11 cents to 59 cents
the minimum wage for an industrial worker has been raised from about $17 a month to $29 per month. however, raises were not granted to workers in factories that were losing money
mozambique also has a high unemployment rate and thousands of refugees displaced by a war raging since the 1960s. mozambique won independence from portugal in 1975 after years of fighting. since then guerrillas of the mozambique national resistance have been battling to oust the marxist government
the daily newspaper noticias, in an editorial saturday, blamed the country's economic woes on ``the continued and systematic aggression against mozambique, carried out by the racist regimes of the region _ first rhodesia and later south africa.''
in the mid-1970s, then white-ruled rhodesia helped backed the anti-marxist guerrillas. after rhodesia became black-ruled zimbabwe in 1980, south africa began supplying the rebels
south africa and mozambique signed a mutual non-aggression pact in 1984, but both sides regularly accuse the other of violations
noticias said foreign support of the rebels has destabilized mozambique and ``has prevented us from consolidating our independence and developing our economy.''
mozambique, devastated by more than 20 consecutive years of war, is currently one of the poorest countries in the world,'' noticias said. ``the state can no longer go on paying food subsidies.''
an estimated 5 million of mozambique's 14.5 million people are in need of food aid
in other developments, government troops killed 38 rebel fighters in clashes during the past week in three separate provinces, the national news agency aim said
the rebels were killed in clashes from march 29-31 in the central provinces of sofala and zambazia and the northwestern province of tete, aim said, citing a report on radio mozambique
the report made no mention of government troop casualties
soviet officials negotiating with the united states on halving nuclear arsenals no longer believe they will have an agreement to sign by the time president reagan visits next month, well-placed soviet sources say
the ruling politburo officially remains determined ``to work intensively for the speediest drafting of a set of documents'' to have them ready for signing at the moscow summit. but soviet officials said privately they do not sense a similar urgency on the american side
reagan is scheduled to meet soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev in moscow may 29 to june 2 at the fourth u.s.-soviet summit since gorbachev came to power three years ago
one source familiar with the negotiations said the united states still has not responded directly to four specific proposals gorbachev put forward at his last meeting with u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz in february
they don't appear to be in a position to make decisions at this point,'' the analyst said of the american negotiators
speaking on condition he not be identified, the source said there are ``major, substantive issues'' outstanding on how to cut both sides' strategic arsenals by 50 percent even before consideration of the u.s. ``star wars'' program for a space-based shield against nuclear attack. disputes over that program have blocked agreement in the past
the concept of a 50 percent cut has been accepted by both sides, but the issue is complicated by the differing numbers and types of weapons in each side's arsenals
the source said the two sides remain far apart on how to reduce mobile intercontinental ballistic missiles, which make up an important element of the soviet arsenal, and on cuts in sea-launched cruise missiles
chief u.s. arms negotiator max kampelman acknowledged differences in those areas as well as others in testifying before congress last week
a western diplomatic source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the united states is pressing for a ban on mobile icbms such as the soviet ss-25 because it would be too difficult if not impossible to verify the number of such weapons remaining in the soviet arsenal after an agreed-upon number had been destroyed
the soviets, the diplomat said, are pressing to include sea-launched cruise missiles in any agreement, but u.s. negotiators contend they should be left out because no acceptable verifications measures exist to ensure compliance
a soviet source said, and the diplomat confirmed, that the soviets have proposed a joint project to test a verification procedure using airborne electronic sensors. u.s. negotiators have expressed doubts such sensors could tell one nuclear weapon from another or from a ship's nuclear reactor
we proposed a way to verify sea-launched weapons,'' a soviet official said. ``they told us they didn't think it would work. but they haven't come up with any other plan.''
another soviet analyst in the communist party apparatus said he suspects the u.s. side has concluded the soviets are so anxious for an agreement that the reagan administration can gain more concessions by holding out longer
kampelman said the united states is still trying to conclude an agreement before the summit. but he, too, was skeptical
achievement of a treaty in that time frame is possible, but it will be difficult given the number and complexity of issues which remain unresolved,'' kampelman said
mailing a letter costs more starting sunday, as new postage rates go into effect
it will cost 25 cents to mail first-class letters, up 3 cents
the second ounce of first-class mail also rises 3 cents, to 20 cents
but postal cards are up only a penny, to 15 cents
the rate increases cover most classes of mail, with larger hikes for advertising and periodicals than for letters
daylight-saving time is back
the change, moving clocks ahead one hour, occurred at 2 a.m. sunday
folks who forgot likely found themselves an hour late for church or other activities
daylight time will remain in effect until oct. 30 this year, when that hour of lost sleep will be returned
bombs planted by the afghan intelligence agency, created and run by the soviet kgb, have killed more than 400 civilians in pakistan, according to u.s. and pakistani officials
pakistan has balked at signing a united nations-brokered deal calling for an end to covert u.s. aid to afghan guerrillas at the same time that moscow stops aiding the the kabul regime
the bombings definitely have people worried. they are designed to get pakistan to sign the geneva agreement. but the government has stuck to its position,'' said a pakistani official. he, like u.s. intelligence sources interviewed about the bombings, spoke on condition of anonymity
the afghan ministry for state security, or wad, ``is a mirror image of the kgb,'' combining domestic and foreign intelligence activities with military functions, said one u.s. intelligence analyst
a state department report issued last year said wad had 20,000 agents, although some u.s. and pakistani officials put the number at 30,000. wad has its own uniformed military units and assigns officers to regular military units to bolster discipline, according to the state department
wad has 1,500 advisers from the kgb, which has run it since since shortly after the coup that brought marxists to power in april 1978, the sources said
the most recent terrorist episode was last thursday, when a bomb exploded in a poultry shop near the afghan border, killing seven people and injuring 18
the bloodiest incident was last july 14, when three car bombs exploded at the main bazaar of karachi, the largest city in pakistan, killing 72 and injuring 260
wad staged about a dozen bombings inside pakistan in 1985, 20 in 1986, and more than 100 in 1987, said a second u.s. analyst. ``they are continuing at about the same rate this year.''
among recent bombings attributed to wad:
_feb. 22, one person was killed and two others were hurt by a bomb in a popular hotel in bajaur in the northwest frontier province
_feb. 23, a boy was killed by a bomb in his home in bajaur. the same day, another bomb destroyed a shop owned by an afghan refugee in the city
_feb. 27, five people were killed and 11 injured by a bomb in a motorcycle in a in the main bazaar in thal, a refugee center in the northwest frontier province
_march 1, two people were killed and two others were injured when a bomb exploded in peshawar, a city in northern pakistan crowded with afghan refugees
_march 18, a letterbox exploded at a bus station, in rawalpindi, setting fire to an empty bus
_march 25, nine people were injured, one critically, by a bomb at a bus stand in rawalpindi
diplomats at the afghan embassy in washington declined to comment on wad or any other subject
the bombings started in 1985, about when mikhail s. gorbachev became general secretary of the soviet communist party, and the current afghan leader, known by the single name of najibullah, left the afghan intelligence agency to become secretary in the ruling party, say u.s. and pakistani sources
najibullah, trained as a physician in kabul, became party leader in 1986 and head of state last year. col. geb. ghulam farouq yaqubi now runs wad, which until last year was known as the committee for state security, or khad
clearly, sometime in 1985, moscow decided it had to increase pressure on pakistan, and began cross-border air raids'' in afghan warplanes piloted by soviets and afghans, said one u.s. government source
but the air raids ``backfired,'' said the source. the united states came very close to selling pakistan high-technology airborne warning and control (awacs) planes to track the intruders, a sale that was opposed by india, a friend of the soviet union and an enemy of pakistan
instead, wad ``stepped up the terror bombing, and there hasn't been so much of a reaction,'' said the source
the initial bombings were aimed at the 3 million afghan refugees who live just inside pakistan, crossing the border to wage their guerrilla war against the estimated 115,000 soviet troops backing the kabul regime
the campaign became more serious, said a pakistani official, when the bombs began to explode in major cities like islamabad, rawalpindi and lahore, far from the refugees, deep in the heart of pakistan
afghan intelligence, under soviet tutelage, recruits agents to plant the bombs, which analysts describe as ``crude,'' and consisting in part of soviet-made components
we have arrested a lot of these guys, and they say they are paid by the kabul government,'' said the pakistani official. ``they include pakistanis and afghans,'' who are drawn from the same ethnic groups and cross the border easily, he said
for each bombing, they are paid several hundred dollars, ``a huge amount of money'' in such an impoverished area, said the official. ``for killing, they get more.''
in the best of times, which these are not, life was no cinch in san miguelito
but a general strike aimed at overthrowing the regime of gen. manuel antonio noriega closed panama's banks and much of its business and sent the poor suburb's unemployment even higher. the few who have jobs often can't cash their checks to buy food because of government-ordered banks closures and u.s. financial sanctions
better-off panamanians had cash at home or were able to withdraw some before the banks closed, and by buying only essentials they are managing to get by
but in the hillside shacks of san miguelito, that option didn't exist
hunger spread so rapidly that the parish churches, which were distributing food, have had to pass the job to caritas, a roman catholic relief organization, and content themselves with trying to catalogue the soaring need
they are giving out 3,500 meals a day in my parish,'' said the rev. reynaldo karamanites, who heads the samaria parish in san miguelito. three days earlier, he said, the number was 2,800
in 1980, there were about 80,000 people in the parish and 44,000 were unemployed,'' he said. ``add at least 30 percent to the unemployment figure now.''
unemployment always has been bad,'' said the rev. jorge altafulla of the slightly less impoverished san miguelito parish of christ the redeemer. ``a lot of people here had only occasional day work and now they have lost even that.''
caritas is feeding about 9,000 families in the province of panama, which includes the capital, and the number is soaring. most of the 9,000 are in san miguelito
the caritas food is donated or bought with donated money
we keep praying that people will give more food and money,'' said the rev. laurino duran, who heads caritas in the panama city area
he said donations are meeting the present need but worried about the near future
we've received nothing from the government,'' said ursinis de castillo, who helped dish out cooked rice and scrambled eggs to residents of sector 28, where she lives in christ the redeemer parish. ``all we have is the church and our community.''
some people from the government were here with 100 bags of food to sell to government workers,'' said one man. ``they charged $15.60.''
yesterday, (caritas) brought rice with chicken,'' said soia de aguilar, who was waiting for food. ``they try to see that everybody has enough, but each family gets the same and some families have eight or nine members.''
caritas started giving food to churches to distribute starting in early march after banks closed because a political crisis had sparked panic among depositors
on march 3, the united states froze panamanian funds in american banks, one of several steps intended to force noriega from power. noriega, head of panama's armed forces and the power behind the civilian government, is under indictment on drug trafficking charges in the united states. the freezing of funds deprived panama of its supply of dollars, the official panamanian currency, and on march 4 noriega ordered the banks to remain closed
the churches stopped trying to hand out the caritas packages last week when the crowds got too big too fast, and now the food is brought to central distribution points, cooked over wood fires and distributed to the list of the neediest compiled by the church
even if banks were to reopen, they are critically short of dollars because of the american freeze. the government has been unable to pay most of its 130,000 employees, and the banks likely would have trouble producing dollars to cover checks waiting to be cashed
generally, stores insist on cash and will not take checks or credit cards
caritas officials say it now requires about $600,000 in donations a month to keep the people it feeds supplied with basics such as rice, beans, cooking oil and powdered milk. in sector 28, a caritas worker said the list of families deemed eligible is growing by five or six families a day and that the increase is higher in other areas
a few people here worked for the government, a few had other jobs, all sorts of jobs,'' said mrs. de aguilar. ``that's san miguelito. we do a little of everything and a lot of nothing.''
president francois mitterrand and politicians from france's left and right put aside their quarrels saturday and paid their last respects to edgar faure, one of the most widely respected statesmen of the century
faure, a brilliant and witty politician who in four decades of service occupied nearly every important french government post except president, died wednesday at the age of 79
the ceremony at paris' st. clotilde basilica was simple. faure's plain coffin was draped with the french tricolor. upon it was placed the bicorn hat and sword of the academie francaise, of which he was a member
mgr. daniel pezeril, former auxiliary bishop of paris, represented cardinal jean-marie lustiger in conducting the service. in his brief homily, pezeril noted faure's long fight for human rights, saying he believed such a fight was a ``touchstone of political responsibility.''
as a christian, the deceased will have thus participated in the fate of the world,'' he said
also attending were bernadette chirac, representing her husband, premier jacques chirac, who was on a trip to the french antilles; former president valery giscard d'estaing; jacques chaban-delmas, president of the national assembly; alain poher, president of the senate; finance minister edouard balladur and other present and former leaders and opposition members
faure was known for his oratorial skills and his ability to advance policies that went beyond the traditional right-left cleavage in french politics
although he was a member of several socialist governments in the fourth republic, he was widely respected by all
his last post was as head of the bicentennial commemoration of the french revolution, which occurs next year
efforts to wrap up farm provisions of the 1,000-page trade bill are snagged over a plan by sen. tom harkin, d-iowa, to pump $75 million a year into crop research every year for 20 years
the plan is designed principally to spur demand for corn and soybeans by finding new, non-food uses for them, leading to higher farm earnings. ``it's really a long-term agricultural bill, an investment in the future,'' press secretary pam mckinney says
thus far, house negotiators on the trade bill aren't so sure
the plan would be a boon for iowa state university and similar research centers but could whet other lawmakers' appetites for more of the same for the folks back in their own states
the chairman of the house agriculture committee, e. ``kika'' de la garza, d-texas, has been cool toward the notion thus far. and for that reason farm lawmakers were still wrangling late in the week, when most other conferees on the trade bill had reached tentative agreement
it now appears unlikely that the matter will be resolved until after april 11, when congress returns from its spring break
as big as it is, the plant research provision is small potatoes compared to some of the subsidy programs that do have tentative approval from the trade conferees
chief among them is a so-called ``triggered marketing loan'' program, similar to export subsidies contained in the 1985 farm law, that sent u.s. cotton and rice exports skyrocketing _ but at a hefty price to taxpayers
the latest proposal focuses on the reagan administration's goal of using the current uruguay round of trade talks to start the united states and its trading partners on a course of phasing out all agricultural subsidies
failure to make ``substantial progress'' on such an agreement by 1990 would trigger the estimated $500 million marketing loan program designed to boost exports of wheat, feed grains and oilseed crops
soybean farmers have been clamoring for a marketing loan program, under which producers receive price-support loans from the government as usual, pay them off at the lower, world price of the crop and pocket the difference
even if uruguay round talks bogged down, the next president could refuse to put the 1990 marketing loan into effect if he were prepared to assure congress that the subsidy program would would harm the international negotiations
doing that, however, would trigger one of the trade package's most expensive and complex features _ an offshoot of the 1985 export enhancement program, which has sent millions of dollars in government-owned surplus crops to private exporters
big grain companies and other exporting firms receive the surplus crops as bonuses to spur overseas shipments of american farm products
the program remains in effect and the trade proposal would extend it through 1990 and boost the price tag from $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion
a presidential waiver of the marketing loan would automatically trigger a new export program, requiring the government to pay out no less than $2 billion in additional surplus-crop bonuses. these bonuses represent a heavy cost to taxpayers because the commodities were acquired mainly through unredeemed price-support loans to farmers. congressional chairman; originally moved in advance for sunday editions as b0698-9</note>
it is the evening of april 4, 1968. the rev. martin luther king jr. leans over a balcony railing at the lorraine motel. the crack of a single shot from a high-powered rifle shatters the air
suddenly, he's gone
this much is clearly documented. but who killed the 39-year-old civil rights leader and winner of the nobel peace prize?
james earl ray, the small-time thief who pleaded guilty, has spent the past 20 years trying to prove he didn't do it. he talks of a shadowy ``raoul.''
other principals in the case hold widely varying opinions: ray's attorneys disagree on whether he was the triggerman; the prosecutor acknowledges he wasn't confident about the case; u.s. rep. louis stokes, d-ohio, the chairman of a congressional committee that studied the assassination, says he still concurs with the committee's findings that ray may have been part of a larger, unsolved conspiracy
the questions remain. what of the cigarette butts found in the getaway car _ given that ray did not smoke? what of the clothing in two sizes in the car's trunk?
the fatal shot came from a communal bathroom at the rear of a flophouse across a narrow street from the lorraine motel. ray maintains he was not in that bathroom when the shot was fired
i was a few blocks away, trying to get a tire fixed on my car,'' he said in a recent interview with the associated press at brushy mountain state prison, where he is serving a 99-year sentence. ``when i started back to my room i saw a police roadblock had been set up; it was about that time that i heard on my car radio king had been shot and the police were looking for a man in a white mustang, the same kind of car i was driving, so i took off for atlanta.''
ray, who had checked into the rooming house the day king was killed, said he was in memphis to take part in an illicit gun-running scheme. he said the scheme was concocted by a mystery man named raoul, an international smuggler whom ray contends he met several months earlier at a waterfront bar in montreal
he also says raoul, whom he describes as a blond man with a latin american accent, set him up to be framed for king's murder
the fact is i don't know who killed king,'' said ray, who recently turned 60. ``i only pleaded guilty because i was desperate. i had been in isolation for eight months in the memphis jail, and percy foreman was pressuring me to cop a plea. he was telling me my family would get in trouble and i'd get the death penalty if i didn't do what he said.''
foreman, the houston attorney who represented ray when he entered his guilty plea march 10, 1969, angrily disputes these assertions
the s.o.b. got down on his knees and thanked me for saving his life when i told him i had gotten the prosecutor to go along with a guilty plea,'' foreman said when contacted in houston recently
foreman, now in his mid-80s, says he thinks ray was extremely fortunate not to have stood trial. he also rejects ray's story about raoul. ``i think he acted alone,'' he said
asked what might have motivated ray to commit such an act, foreman said, ``it was racism. his conversations simply steamed with racist remarks.''
ray, who was a fugitive from the missouri state penitentiary at the time king was killed, denies he harbored any ill will toward king and defies anyone to prove otherwise
king was just another politician to me,'' he said. ``why would i want to do something like kill a big-shot politician, me a fugitive, and bring all that heat down on myself?''
he admits buying the rifle, a remington gamemaster, 30.06 caliber, that authorities say was the murder weapon. but he says he bought, at a birmingham, ala., gun shop, at raoul's instruction and with money provided by raoul
i gave the rifle to raoul,'' ray said. ``if i had been buying it to kill king, you can bet i wouldn't have bought it at a gun shop. i would have gotten it from a fence, so it couldn't have been traced.''
birmingham lawyer arthur hanes sr. said he tends to believe that story. he represented ray for four months before foreman
i've never believed ray shot king,'' said hanes, a former fbi agent and one-time birmingham mayor. ``i personally stood in that flophouse bathroom and looked across to the motel balcony where the rev. king was standing when he was shot. it was a difficult angle. ray simply didn't have enough expertise with rifles to make a shot like that, in my opinion.''
hanes also said he had never heard ray utter a single racist statement
i've given this case a lot of thought, and i've concluded someone assisted ray,'' he added, ``but i can't say who.''
the case should have gone to trial, he said, ``to clear the air, if nothing else. i tried to get the judge to try the case, but he said there was too much pressure, from the government and the memphis business community, to accept a guilty plea and avoid the publicity that a trial would generate.''
the judge, w. preston battle, died a week after ray's guilty plea. however, the chief prosecutor, philip canale, acknowledged last week that, contrary to foreman's assertion, he had been happy to get a plea from ray
it would have been a big, time-consuming and expensive trial with dozens and dozens of witnesses from all over the country,'' said canale, now an assistant u.s. attorney in memphis. ``i have never regretted the guilty plea because we got a substantial sentence. also, i didn't want to take a chance on getting a cranky juror and having a mistrial.''
canale added that although he had no eyewitness and the evidence against ray was largely circumstantial, he doesn't buy the conspiracy theory
i think he acted alone,'' he said, noting that the fbi had found ray's fingerprint on the rifle discarded by the gunman near the scene of the crime
however, supporters of ray's story say his fingerprint was on the rifle because he had purchased it. they also note that, while ray is a lifelong non-smoker, viceroy cigarette butts were found in the rooming house bathroom and in his car ashtray, and that two sizes of clothing were found in his trunk
ray said the fact that raoul often used his car may explain the butts in the ashtray and clothes in the trunk. ``as for cigarettes in the bathroom i can't say because i was never in that bathroom,'' he said. ``my prints were never found in there, you know.''
then there were the two white mustangs. the late guy canipe, whose amusement company was located next door to the flophouse, told investigators he saw a fleeing man ditch a rifle and a small overnight bag in front of his store and then drive away in a white mustang, one of two that had been parked in front of the store that afternoon. he described the man as having dark hair and a beard
ray, who was captured in london two months after king's death, says the fact that the gunman ditched the rifle and his bag _ which ray says he had left in his room when he went to get the tire fixed _ shows somebody was trying to frame him
why would i have dumped my stuff there for the police to find when all i had to do was put it in the car and drive away?'' he asked
after two years of hearings, ending in 1978, the house select committee on assassinations couldn't answer that question. the committee issued a report saying ray probably had been part of a larger conspiracy
but while the committee couldn't say who else had participated in the plot, it did exonerate the cia and fbi, both of which had conducted extensive illegal surveillance and smear campaigns against king throughout the 1960s. former fbi director j. edgar hoover was known to have hated king
fbi agents testified that no evidence could be found of conspiracies involving the mafia, ku klux klan or foreign communists
some of king's friends, however, still feel that letting hoover's fbi investigate king's assassination was like letting a hungry fox guard a henhouse
i have no proof but i feel in my heart that the government, probably the fbi and j. edgar hoover, and perhaps the cia, were involved,'' says the rev. ralph david abernathy, who was with king when he died in a memphis hospital an hour after the shooting
it's just a pity but, given the way things were back then, we'll probably never know the whole truth about one of the greatest tragedies of our time.''
strat douthat is the ap southeast regional reporter, based in atlanta
about one-third of the 185 drug traffickers sentenced to death in malaysia since 1975 have been hanged, a malaysian official said saturday
idris ibrahim, who is deputy president of a malaysian anti-drug organization, said 62 people had been hanged and another 109 were awaiting decisions on their death-sentence appeals
idris did not comment on the status of the remaining 14 people on death row. he did say, however, that 299 people were serving life imprisonment
in 1975, malaysia passed a law under which convicted drug traffickers received a death sentence or life imprisonment. in 1983, parliament amended the law, mandating the death sentence for traffickers
on july 7, 1986, two australians convicted of heroin trafficking became the first whites to be hanged in malaysia
malaysian officials have said about 500,000 of the country's 15 million people are drug addicts
when the clock jumps forward an hour for daylight-saving time at 2 a.m. sunday morning, it means a little more than a lost hour of sleep
people's stomachs will be telling them `snickers bar' and we'll be serving lunch. but if you're an early eater, it'll be beneficial,'' said jeff manzer, manager of the chattanooga riverboat company
the firm plans to serve an easter brunch on the tennessee river sunday afternoon, but the time change ``will probably affect people's appetites,'' said manzer
businesses and services that work on into the night lost an hour _ or gained an hour, depending on the point of view
some police officers who work the night shift get to go home an hour early. they don't lose an hour's pay for their ``early'' departure. and when the time changes back in the fall, they'll get an hour's overtime pay, officials said friday
firefighters who work 24-hour shifts are in the same situation
some churches will hold additional services for sleepyheads and for the holiday crowds
going visiting for easter? the nation's public transportation system is ready for the switch, said fred waymack, manager of a nashville travel agency
at some points there are some minor changes in schedules, but for most airlines, cruise ships and trains, it's just another day on the job,'' waymack said
most of the schedule changes come about because of the season, not daylight-saving time, he said. some flight times might be adjusted one or two minutes because of changes in headwinds, waymack said, and others might be changed to accommodate peak passenger loads
it's really a very sophisticated system,'' waymack said. ``they've had a number of years since the wright brothers to perfect it.''
but he urged passengers to double-check departures 24 hours in advance
at first tennessee bank in memphis, spokesman bob young said the time change would have little effect on most banking services. however, he said, there might be a moment's hesitation when computer operators key in the commands to switch times on the banking computers, automated tellers and other equipment
it just depends on how quickly an operator can enter it in,'' young said
recorded time and temperature announcements must be changed, along with signs at banks, shopping malls and stores. teresa birdsong, assistant to the general manager at nashville's wyhy-fm, said she will have to come to the station at 2 a.m. sunday morning to make the change in the time and temperature announcement computer
bank and store signs are also changed by computer, usually by the owner of the sign, said mark allison, owner of allison sales and marketing
the time works off an internal clock, which you reset just as you would a digital clock,'' allison said
time clocks must also be changed before workers punch in monday morning. most computerized time clocks will make the change automatically, but there will still be thousands of older models that need to be changed by hand, said southern time services technician bill asplint
we could be doing daylight-saving time changes for the next two weeks,'' he said
this is the second year that daylight-saving time will begin on the first sunday in april. before congress changed the law, the time switch occurred on the last sunday of april
strikes, demonstrations and tensions between national groups in two southern soviet republics have quieted but economic damage from the unrest is severe, newspapers reported saturday
official and dissident sources said the atmosphere in the republics of armenia and azerbaijan was improving. but in moscow, activist sergei grigoryants said ethnic relations remained volatile
at a news conference at his north moscow apartment, the half-armenian former political prisoner said he had spoken with sources in armenia who told him tensions have eased there and in the disputed region of nagorno-karabakh in neighboring azerbaijan
however, he said he was told some residents of stepanakert, nagorno-karabakh's main city, remained on strike
armenian activists want nagorno-karabakh, which is mostly armenian, annexed to armenia. at least 32 people have died in ethnic violence in the region since late february in bloody clashes between azeris and armenians
grigoryants said the stepanakert airport had been reopened for local residents but that frequent document checks were being made at all roads leading into the region to keep outsiders away
workers in stepanakert, angered over the kremlin's failure to issue a clear decision on appeals to annex the region, have been staying home for more than a week
official newspapers acknowledged labor unrest continued, but said more people have been showing up for work. in the beginning, virtually the entire adult population went out on strike
the communist party newspaper pravda carried an interview with armenian scholar gevorg garibdzhanyan, who accused the state-run press of telling a one-sided story about the nagorno-karabakh situation and being too quick to label armenian activists as extremists
but he also defended the presence of soviet troops in the armenian capital of yerevan, saying he ``slept peacefully knowing our soldiers were in the city.''
it appeared from his comments that the armed security troops that patrolled the city last month had been reduced
foreign reporters have been barred from traveling to the caucasus region and telephone contact with the area has been disrupted
the national television news program vremya reported friday that public transport and many major industries in stepanakert had been idled by the strikes and urged residents of the area to go back to work
the daily sovietskaya rossiya said saturday that some workers showed up at major enterprises in the city of stepanakert on friday for the first time in more than a week, although the factories were still not up to full strength
an editor who answered the telephone at the soviet karabakh newspaper in stepanakert on saturday said the labor situation was returning to normal in the city, but declined to give his name or details
selskaya zhizn newspaper wrote that state and collective farms in the troubled region had lost nearly $775,000 by mid-march because of strikes and demonstrations. shortages of meat, milk and eggs have resulted, the newspaper said
even larger losses have been reported in recent days due to the industrial strikes in stepanakert, where production and deliveries ground to a halt over the past week
nagorno-karabakh has been part of the azerbaijan republic since 1923, although more than three-quarters of the region's 160,000 residents are armenians. armenians are predominantly christian, while most azeris are shiite moslems
the labor situation worsened in stepanakert in mid-march, when the soviet leadership called armenian agitation for nagorno-karabakh's annexation ``intolerable.''
while apparently rejecting the bid for reuniting the region with armenia, the party and government leadership unveiled a program to invest $690 million in housing and social services like armenian-language schools, literature and broadcasting
the fbi and the federal food and drug administration are probing an incident in which a nurse was blinded by eye drops contaminated with a caustic chemical
her left eye looks like it melted and her right eye looks like it's covered with white glue,'' said richard critchlow, an attorney for aerial van zee miller, 34, of fairfax in marin county
although the clear eyes drops were found to contain a caustic alkali solution, an fda spokesman said friday no recall will be ordered unless it is found that the incident was not an isolated case
miller was taken to marin general hospital moments after she put some of the solution into each eye monday. critchlow said 80 percent of miller's left cornea and 60 percent of her right cornea was destroyed, and doctors do not know if she'll ever recover her sight
cathy babington, a spokeswoman for abbott laboratories, said ``there has never been a complaint before'' against clear eyes
secretary of state george p. shultz insisted saturday on the ouster of gen. manuel antonio noriega but sidestepped a report that he had recommended kidnapping the panamanian strongman
shultz predicted he would ``see a little headway'' when he again takes up his plan for mideast peace talks next week with arab and israeli leaders. shultz called on palestinians to participate in the negotiations, but he again ruled out talks with the palestine liberation organization
obviously, there are some we won't meet with,'' shultz said as he reiterated the 13-year-old u.s. policy of not dealing with the plo until it accepts irael's right to exist
shultz held the news conference after receiving pope john paul ii's blessing at the vatican for his new venture in the middle east that begins sunday evening in jerusalem. the pope stressed any accord must respect the ``legitimate rights'' of both israelis and palestinians
the vatican does not have diplomatic relations with israel nor does it recognize its control of once-divided jerusalem, the israeli capital
the los angeles times reported friday that shultz recommended kidnapping noriega and fomenting a military coup coordinated with the central intelligence agency
the newspaper also said shultz and elliott abrams, the assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, suggested landing more than 3,000 u.s. soldiers to encourage panamanian military officers to move against noriega
the proposal was strongly opposed by the cia and defense secretary frank c. carlucci, who labeled it dangerous and ill-timed, said the times, quoting unidentified adniminstration officials
asked if he made such recommendations, shultz said ``the position of the u.s. government is that noriega should go. everybody agrees about that. he's been indicted on drug charges.''
in a lengthy reply, shultz said the panamanian people have demonstrated they agree with the united states in opposing noriega. he said u.s. forces in panama were being increased to guard the panama canal
we debate various possible options,'' shultz said. ``but basically this is a question of a person who is no longer welcome in his own country by his own people and he should leave.''
when another reporter suggested shultz had not really answered the question, shultz showed some irritation and said, ``i never comment on speculative newspaper articles.''
told u.s. officials reportedly had described a kidnapping plot as harebrained, shultz said: ``i never comment on particularly harebrained-type proposals.''
he also refused to say whether the united states would seek noriega's extradition to face criminal charges
shultz and his wife, helena, are spending a leisurely weekend in the italian capital and planned to attend the pope's easter mass in st. peter's square
shultz also held a series of meetings with italian government officials
he praised italy for its willingness to host the 72 u.s. f-16 jet fighter planes that spain is expelling in 1991
on the middle east, shultz said he had no further word from arabs and israelis on whether they would accept his proposal, but ``we expect to see a little headway.''
his plan calls for negotiations to begin may 1 on arrangements for self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians on the israeli-held west bank and in gaza
israel would deal directly with a joint delegation of jordan and palestinians. in december, negotiations on an overall settlement of the 40-year arab-israeli dispute would open, also with syria's participation
shultz said he would keep working for peace even if he were turned down on his second trip to the region in a month
the problem is there,'' he said. ``everybody recognizes it. and the problem isn't going to go away.''
shultz said after talking with arab and israeli leaders he could ``feel it in my bones there is an answer out there if you can only find it.''
roland dickey once again is ready to don a rabbit costume and take some holiday cheer to area hospitals in his annual spring role as the ``ether bunny.''
dickey, 73, first put on the fuzzy suit and long ears when fellow members of the loyal order of moose asked him to preside over the club's annual easter egg hunt
then i got the idea that i would like to expand and bring the bunny into the children's hospital wards,'' dickey said. nurses dubbed him the ``ether bunny'' many years ago after he fainted on the bunny trail, he said
i was at methodist hospital, walking back to the children's wards, when i walked past one of the operating rooms,'' dickey said. ``back in those days, they used ether as anesthetic. the ether got trapped up in that bunny head and out i went.''
after doing his routine for 41 years, dickey said he has no plans to retire
everybody asks me, `when are you going to get someone else to do it?' i want to keep doing it for as long as i can,'' he said
mr. wolf wasn't taking calls at the bronx zoo friday
neither did buffy lowe, bob katz, bob boon, don key or p.n. gwynne. but that didn't stop many april fools' targets from trying to return calls to those characters
they's groaners, i'm telling you,'' luanne mcgrain, a publicist for the zoo, said friday. ``we've had a lot of doctors calling _ `this is dr. rosenberg. may i speak to mr. g. raffe?'''
for the second year running, the zoo turned the annual prank into a brief fund-raiser. other zoos around the nation use the same tactics with people are fooled into calling on april fools' day
the switchboard answered calls friday with ``nyzs,'' the call letters of the new york zoological society. when callers said they were returning a call from mr. wolf, they were transferred to a volunteer phone bank
they say, `mr. wolf is being fed right now. you have reached the bronx zoo. somebody's played a joke on you for april fools' day. but while i have you on the phone, would you care to make a donation?''' mcgrain said
if they can stop laughing long enough, generally people do make a pledge.''
callers wound up making $4,000 in donations, which new york telephone has promised to match
thousands of dead african desert locusts have shown up on beaches just outside rome, the coast guard reported saturday, prompting concerns some swarms might reach italy alive
coast guard officials said winds must have pushed the insects from northern africa toward italy and that they died in the cold weather
the italian press expressed concern that warmer weather might allow future swarms of locusts to survive and thrive. the rome daily il tempo described the scene on the beach as ``the sign of a narrowly missed invasion, or worse, of an invasion that lies at the gates.''
but experts have said italy will not be hit by the same invasion of locusts that has spread over morocco, tunisia, algeria and libya. last month, the rome-based u.n. food and agriculture organization described the insect invasion in north africa as the worst in 30 years. possibility of military offensive to oust noriega; edits 4th and 5th grafs pvs to conform and picks up 6th graf pvs, but the</note>
the reagan administration has considered a number of military alternatives to oust panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega, but has rejected them, president reagan's chief spokesman said today
asked about a flurry of news reports that secretary of state george p. shultz was pushing a bold military or covert move to get noreiga out, fitzwater said the panamanian problem has presented ``fertile ground for a rich imagination'' about possible solutions
but the united states' intentions are to protect our citizens and our assets there,'' he said
there have been any number of offensive plans raised, but to this point, they have been rejected,'' he added
reagan, who has started a 10-day easter vacation at his mountaintop ranch near here, is closely watching the situation, fitzwater said, as the pentagon prepares to send 1,300 u.s. military personnel to strengthen the american military presence there
shortly after reagan arrived in california friday, the defense department announced that the additional troops would be deployed, beginning next week, to improve the security of u.s. military installations in the troubled country
the reagan administration for weeks has been applying economic and diplomatic pressure to force noriega out of power. noriega has been indicted by a federal grand jury in the united states on drug trafficking charges
fitzwater, asked earlier this week if the administration was considering seizing noriega, said, ``no.''
but the spokesman told reporters accompanying reagan to california on air force one on friday that the administration was still ``reviewing options'' aimed at securing noriegan's departure
the pentagon decision to send additional manpower, many of them military police officers, came in the wake of a march by panamanian troops on a panama city hotel earlier in the week. during that incident, several u.s. journalists were detained briefly, and authorities confiscated videotapes of four u.s. television networks
fitzwater said reagan would be kept abreast of several matters while the president and his wife, nancy, relax at rancho del cielo in the santa ynez mountains
he'll get daily intelligence updates on world situations,'' the spokesman said. ``he could get special information on three or four areas of interest. one is panama, a continuing problem to keep an eye on.''
reagan also will be kept informed of any progress that shultz makes as he renews the administration's middle east peacemaking efforts with visits to several countries in the region
the president also will be briefed on the goings-on in nicaragua, where the marxist sandinista regime is scheduled to enter talks with the contra rebels tuesday aimed at bringing about democratic reforms envisioned in a truce agreement signed march 23
but the political and governmental crisis in panama seemed sure to take much of reagan's attention
reagan has sought to minimize the possibility of u.s. military force being used to oust noriega. last monday, for instance, he told high school students in vienna, va., he did not think the citizens of panama wanted to see ``the great colossus of the north'' flex its muscles there
but the administration apparently has become increasingly frustrated as noriega has survived an array of economic sanctions. these include the withholding of payments the united states makes to the panama canal commission under terms of the 1979 treaties providing for the canal to be gradually turned over to panama by the turn of the century
in another effort to turn the financial screws on noriega, the administration on thursday announced steps to stop u.s. dollars from flowing into the central american nation
the administration is concerned that the continuing flow of tax payments by american corporations with operations in panama has served to sustain the existing government headed by noriega
the first family plans a quiet easter vacation, which lasts through april 10. fitzwater said there were no plans for get-togethers at the ranch by reagan relatives, and it could not be learned whether the first couple would leave the mountain to attend easter services here _ as they did last year
reagan's lone public outing is an appearance monday at a luncheon of some 75 supporters of the reagan presidential library
he is scheduled to make a foreign policy address to a convention of the national association of broadcasters in las vegas, nev., en route back to washington on april 10
mormon church leaders today urged followers to love god above worldly success and prepare themselves for the second coming of jesus christ
in the opening session of the 158th annual general conference of the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints, leaders said service to god and love of christ should be the highest priority of the faithful
we should put god ahead of everyone else in our lives,'' said president ezra taft benson, the 88-year-old spiritual leader of the 6.5 million member church
when we put god first, all other things fall into their proper places or drop out of our lives. our love of god will govern the claims for our affection, the demands on our time, the interests we pursue and the order of our priorities,'' benson said in prepared remarks
the sermon was the first of three scheduled to be delivered by benson, who has been convalescing from a heart attack the past six months. church spokesman jerry cahill said benson, who served as secretary of agriculture during the eisenhower administration, appeared to be in good health and excellent spirits
benson was one of 22 of the church's general authorities scheduled to speak during the conference's five sessions. general authorities are full-time clergy who lead the church under the direction of the first presidency, which consists of benson and counselors gordon b. hinckley and thomas s. monson
thousands of lay clergymen and other church members from around the world have gathered for the two-day conference held in the tabernacle on temple square in downtown salt lake city
during this morning's opening session, leaders stressed fundamental church doctrines, such as belief in resurrection and atonement of jesus and the importance of missionary work
leaders were expected to announce this afternoon that convert baptisms reached an all-time high during 1987. cahill said the exact figure would not be released prior to the afternoon session, but said it was about 250,000. he said the church's full-time, volunteer missionary force also has reached an all-time high of 34,200 men and women
neal a. maxwell, of the council of the twelve apostles, urged church members to prepare for christ's second coming, but said they should not believe the rapture necessarily is near at hand
the council of the twelve are second to the first presidency in the church hierarchy, and assist in directing the church
over the sweep of christian history, by focusing on a few prophecies while neglecting others, some believers have prematurely expected the second coming. today, while obviously closer to that great moment, we are in the same danger,'' maxwell said. ``on the other hand, smugness is also a real danger.''
maxwell noted that a number of biblical prophecies said to be precursors of christ's return already have occurred. among them, he said, is the return of the jewish people to the holy land
l. tom perry, of the council of the twelve, said mormons should get involved in community affairs and promote honest government, neighborhood beautification and high educational standards
rather than spend time complaining about the direction in which these institutions are going, we need to exert our influence in shaping the right direction. a small effort by a few can result in so much good for all mankind,'' he said. cycle designator</note>
an apparent fuel spill stretched about 70 miles down the ohio river today from near cincinnati to louisville, ky., according to the u.s. coast guard
at this point it smells like diesel fuel, so we are assuming it is diesel fuel,'' said lt. eric mosher, with the coast guard in louisville
mosher said his agency had contacted water companies along the river and health officials in louisville
our first step is trying to find a source and secure the source,'' mosher said
there is about a 1-foot chop on the river right now. to contain the oil is almost an impossibility,'' he added
sgt. james hickerson with the indiana state police post in sellersburg said investigators had used a helicopter this morning to track the spill about 70 miles
it's not thick and heavy all the way, but there are traces of it. it's heaviest between madison (in jefferson county) and clark county (across the river from louisville),'' he said
we don't know exactly what it is, some kind of petroleum,'' he said
one report i got from the (police) radio was that it was in spots as wide as the river. they say it is a real thin film, but they don't know if it is a fuel or a chemical,'' said patrolman tim armstrong of the police department in madison, about halfway between cincinnati and louisville
armstrong said madison residents began reporting a strong diesel fuel smell friday night. he said officials at the indiana-kentucky electric corp. generating plant took a boat out to check the river and discovered the spill shortly after 6:30 a.m
consumer advocate ralph nader is criticizing the rise in postage rates and urging consumers to organize and insist on a voice in postal affairs
the new postage rates, including a 3-cent rise in the cost of mailing a first-class letter, take effect sunday. it will now cost 25 cents to mail a letter
nader termed the increase a ``harsh blow'' on individuals and said the postal service routinely hears from businesses and non-profit groups about mail service and rates, but not from the average consumer
nader's solution is to form a group called residential postal action
if we can get 10,000 people to write in, we could escalate this to something significant,'' he said in a recent telephone interview
clearly, there is a great imbalance of representation,'' nader said, and a consumer group ``can help even the scales.''
the rate hike comes at a time when congressional budget cuts have forced the postal service to curtail window hours and some collections
at the same time, proposals to allow private firms to begin competing in the delivery of first-class mail have been put forth
this combination of factors ``threaten the stability of what was once a well-regarded public service'' nader said in a letter to postmaster general anthony frank. nader urged frank to find ways to cut costs without reducing services
he called on interested individuals to write to residential postal action, p.o. box 19367, washington, d.c., 20036
the group could be funded through voluntary member contributions, nader said
pope john paul ii gave his blessing saturday to u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz's new middle east peace mission and stressed that any settlement must respect the rights of israel and the palestinians
shultz, who is on a three-day visit to italy, briefed the pope on his mideast peace proposals during a 30-minute private audience in the papal library
god bless your efforts,'' john paul told shultz as the two posed for pictures with the rest of the american delegation after the meeting
i go from here to the middle east with your blessing to sustain the effort'' to promote arab-israeli peace negotiations, shultz responded
the american plan calls for israel to give land to the palestinians in exchange for peace
under the plan, negotiations would begin may 1 on arrangements for self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians on the israeli-held west bank and in gaza. israel would deal directly with a joint delegation made up of jordanians and palestinians
in december, negotiations on an overall settlement of the 40-year arab-israeli dispute would open with syria's participation
the u.s. envoy leaves sunday for israel, the first stop on a trip that will also take him to jordan, syria, egypt and saudi arabia. shultz visited the region last month but found no consensus for an agreement
shultz also discussed the mideast situation with his vatican counterpart, cardinal agostino casaroli
progress comes in small increments,'' shultz said, holding up his thumb and index finger close together to stress his point
vatican spokesman joaquin navarro said the pope and shultz have a ``common preoccupation for international peace,'' and their talks focused on east-west relations, ``the continuing grave situation'' in the middle east and developments in central america
the pope ``insisted on the legitimate rights of the palestinian people and on the moral duty to find a solution that also takes into account the legitimate rights of israel,'' the spokesman said
john paul voiced ``great interest in the efforts under way for the search, obligatory for everyone, of a process that opens the way to solutions acceptable to all,'' navarro said
the pope has spoken frequently in favor of a palestinian homeland
the vatican does not have diplomatic relations with israel. vatican officials have cited the palestinian question, israel's unsettled boundaries and the status of jerusalem as reasons for the absence of ties
the vatican also does not have diplomatic relations with jordan
at a news conference later in rome, shultz declined to give details of his meeting with the pope. ``it is always an extraordinary privilege to have the opportunity to talk with his holiness the pope,'' he said. ``i have benefited greatly from that audience.''
shultz was asked whether in his talks with vatican and italian officials he had urged them to play a role in mideast peace efforts
i found very warm support for our efforts and a readiness to help in any way they can,'' he said
shultz, who is episcopalian, brought to the vatican on saturday an entourage of 31 people, including his wife, helena, a roman catholic
it was shultz's third meeting at the vatican with john paul. he and his wife visited the vatican in 1986 for easter. the previous meeting was in december 1982
shultz and his wife planned to attend the pope's easter mass in st. peter's square on sunday morning. impeachment</head>
democratic acting gov. rose mofford has walked a tightrope in the nearly two months since republican gov. evan mecham was impeached, and from all appearances she has enjoyed nearly every minute of it
she's everyone's auntie rose,'' said state rep. cindy resnick, and there's proof in the way children come up without prompting to hug the tall woman with the white beehive hairdo
she may not be the kind of technocrat some people want her to be, but she certainly knows people,'' says democratic house minority leader art hamilton
she moved quickly to calm arizona's troubled political waters after mecham was impeached on feb. 5 and she, as secretary of state, took his office until he is acquitted or ousted. her bipartisan volunteer staff included many who served under mecham's predecessor, democratic gov. bruce babbitt
with mecham's fate up in the air pending a senate verdict on the house impeachment allegations, plus an upcoming criminal trial and recall election, mrs. mofford has avoided any policy initiatives beyond indicating a willingness to consider tax hikes that mecham opposes
mrs. mofford did not seek a place on the ballot in the may 17 recall election, but a draft committee gathered enough petition signatures to put her on anyway and she is the favorite in a seven-way race
a court challenge has been filed arguing that she cannot remain on the ballot unless she files a financial disclosure report. if she files that, she could be considered to be actively campaigning and that, under arizona law, would mean she would have to resign both as acting governor and as secretary of state
god only knows what the future holds for rose mofford, but i'm telling you while i'm sitting up there as acting governor i'm there to serve you,'' she told a luncheon club in one of her many public appearances
besides speaking at building dedications, county fairs and countless luncheons and dinners, she has posed for photos with school children, cotton farmers, mayors, basketball players, lawmakers, annette funicello and mickey mouse. as she goes, she hands out mofford pens, address books and watches
when she isn't making speeches, she can be found flipping through her three huge rotary files for the telephone number of those who are on her list of birthdays or anniversaries that day
no matter who you want to see, honey, you call me _ i'll probably know him,'' she tells visitors
in her 46 years in state government, many of the roles she's filled have had little substance, and there are conflicting views of how well she will do on heavier matters
but a statewide poll released by the phoenix gazette last week gave mrs. mofford an 81 percent approval rating for her job performance
mecham is automatically on the ballot unless he is ousted via impeachment in a vote expected this week. also on the ballot are another democrat, two republicans and two minor candidates
as secretary of state, mrs. mofford's duties included such non-controversial functions as keeping the state's great seal, attesting to official acts of government and handling government publications
the office also keeps records on lobbyists and campaign financing, and john anderson, former executive director of the government watchdog organization arizona common cause, says the state has done a poor job in that area
i think they tried real hard,'' he said of mrs. mofford and the secretary of state staff, ``but the system they used for maintaining any files that i was primarily interested in was not a good one.''
records often were missing and there was no attempt to enforce or have the state attorney general's office enforce laws against violations, anderson says
mrs. mofford was ``not really interested in the compliance end of things unless somebody made waves, especially the press,'' he said
hamilton and other defenders of mofford note that she had to contend with a gop-controlled legislature and was short-staffed, and anderson himself acknowledged that record-keeping improved somewhat with addition of computers
mrs. mofford is divorced and has no children. she began her government career in 1941 as a secretary, and she has worked for or with 11 of the state's 16 governors. she was appointed assistant secretary of state in 1955 and secretary of state 22 years later. she won the post in her own right in 1978, 1982 and 1986, each time by wide margins
her honeymoon in office is in sharp contrast to mecham, who seemingly never had one
mecham became the subject of criticism from the start over errors, news conferences, appointments, hirings and firings, and his cancellation of a state martin luther king holiday established by babbitt
mrs. mofford has drawn little public criticism in such areas, and there also has been little stir over her generally having refused to voice her opinion on major pending bills
i think rose is a very capable person,'' said republican house speaker joe lane. ``she's been very conciliatory toward me.''
she doesn't offend folks,'' said hamilton
a telephone company has decided to print a photo of acting gov. rose mofford instead of impeached gov. evan mecham in an advertisment for arizona, a spokesman says
us west, parent company of mountain bell, has been running a series of full-page ads in the wall street journal highlighting each of the 14 states in its territory
each ad in the series, which cost $1.4 million and started in january, includes a picture of the portrayed state's governor and text provided by the governor. the ads are intended to emphasize the states' strong points and to encourage business development in the company's service area
the arizona ad was slated to run early in the series, which began in january, but was delayed because of circumstances surrounding mecham, company officials said in february
the state senate is winding up mecham's impeachment trial, with closing arguments scheduled monday. the first-term republican also faces an april 21 criminal trial and a may 17 recall election
as secretary of state, mrs. mofford, a democrat, became acting governor after mecham was impeached by the arizona house on feb. 5
now, us west has decided to go ahead with the arizona ad the week of april 18, but with a photo of mrs. mofford instead of mecham, mountain bell spokesman jim cullison said friday
we certainly don't want to offend anyone or step on any toes. we just went with what will be the reality at that point, which is that rose mofford will be acting governor at that time,'' said cullison
father panik village, a giant public housing project once called bridgeport's ``greatest christmas gift,'' has come unwrapped
the mice run around like they're paying the rent instead of you,'' said brenda johnson, president of the concerned tenants of father panik village
people are a problem too. ``they're selling guns like it's the old west and they're dealing (drugs) in the open,'' she said
the project could lose millions of federal dollars if city officials don't follow orders to tear parts of it down, partially reconstruct it, and relocate about 1,300 of the estimated 4,000 residents to other housing in bridgeport
tenants of the complex claim that some of the 41 three-story buildings are in such poor shape and crime so pervasive that living there puts them in peril
i would say it's one of the worst projects in the country,'' said tom sherman, director of the office of public housing in the u.s. department of housing and urban development
several years ago the modernization money was not used properly, and we're afraid the bricks are going to pop off the buildings and someone could get killed,'' sherman said in a telephone interview from washington, d.c
you just can't have a dump sitting there and that's more or less what father panik is.''
father panik village began as yellow mill village on dec. 23, 1939. it was renamed in 1955 in honor of the rev. stephen panik, a roman catholic priest who served as the first chairman of the brideport housing authority and was considered a connecticut pioneer in low-rent housing projects
for it means perhaps the greatest christmas gift that ever was given to the people of bridgeport _ not a promise, but the beginning of a reality, fine decent homes for about 5,000 people at rentals that are well within their means,'' panik said at a ceremony in 1939
today the largest housing project in the state's largest city looks like a battlefield. gunshots occasionally echo within the project and drug deals are routinely made on street corners. walls are marked with graffiti and the hallways smell of urine
at least 90 percent of the residents are single parents with an average of two children and annual incomes of $5,000 to $10,000
the federal government has given the bridgeport housing authority $36 million to demolish 13 buildings, relocate residents to new quarters to be created around the city, and rebuild some units
hud is waiting to see if those directions are carried out before it makes plans or allocates any more money to improve the rest of the project
sherman said the bha has been slow in submitting its plans
we should have had the application for the demolition by the end of december and it's not in yet,'' he said. ``we'll give them an extension, but we're kind of tired of giving them extensions.''
he said if the city doesn't make progress by april 15, he'll recommend cancelling the federal grant
clarence craig, executive director of the bha, said the agency is determined to meet its deadlines
all of the little pieces show we're moving ahead,'' craig said
but so far the authority has located only 10 sites to fit 88 apartments, leaving them short of locations for 251 units that must be moved in the first phase of the project
the problem is bridgeport does not have all of the resources to do things as quickly and well as hud would like,'' said u.s. rep. christopher shays, r-conn. ``it would be very self-defeating if hud punished the residents and city for inadequacies that exist that we're trying to work out.''
meanwhile, tenants of father panik are uneasy about the future, said johnson, president of the tenants' group
johnson, who has lived in father panik for all but two of her 36 years, said that even if it is torn down and rebuilt, crime problems will linger
if they don't do something about the security here, it doesn't matter if they call it mud,'' johnson said
mayor thomas w. bucci said the village is ``one of the city's most important priorities.''
it is known as being one of the worst housing complexes in the country and that reputation naturally is associated with the city,'' bucci said. ``it's not moving as quickly as we'd like, but progress is being made.''
president reagan today urged congress to enhance federal support of scientific research, saying ``we couldn't be where we are'' without such exploration
in his weekly radio address, delivered from reagan's ranch in the santa ynez mountains, the president said that while spending for scientific research is 58 percent higher than a decade ago, after discounting for inflation, this is insufficient
he said that since world war ii, the united states has won more nobel prizes for science than europe and japan combined, and that this country must not lose its world leadership role
he said that scientific research, unlike the construction of bridges, interstate highways and courthouses, has no local constituency. but reagan said the united states cannot let this political fact of life get in the way of continuing breakthroughs
without such exploration, ``we couldn't be where we are today,'' he said. ``we can travel as far as the eye of our imagination can see.'' picking up at the 3rd graf previous.</note>
a storm dumped up to 22 inches of snow on the great plains, snarling traffic and causing power outages, while heavy rain caused flooding in which one person drowned and dozens of people had to evacuate from kansas to mississippi
tornadoes touched down in four east texas towns friday, destroying at least two mobile homes, damaging dozens of homes _ some blown off their foundations _ and overturning cars
new orleans and suburban gretna both got eight inches of rain in 12 hours, the national weather service said. three tornadoes touched down in nearby slidell, damaging homes and bn businesses but causing no injuries, police said
about 150 people were evacuated from lowlying subdivisions in marrero, across the mississippi river from new orleans, said paul d. connick, civil defense director in jefferson parish. one marrero woman drowned when her car turned off a flooded street into a drainage canal, police said
in northwest oklahoma, the storm dropped 22 inches of snow on goodwell and about 15 inches on guymon. the highway patrol closed roads and discouraged travel in the area
everyone keeps saying when they come in, `april fools' day,''' said cindy mitchell, who called the towering snow drifts outside her guymon auto shop a cruel joke
it's oklahoma. but even for oklahoma, it's a little extreme,'' said national weather service meteorologist carl szatkowski
in southwest kansas, rolla had 13 inches of snow, johnson 10 inches and liberal 6 inches. most roads were closed west of garden city
there are times when you can't even see across the street,'' said rayna brown, a spokeswoman for the stanton county sheriff's office in johnson, kan
we have a blizzard, with no electricity and no heat,'' said a morton county, kan., sheriff's dispatcher who refused to give his name. ``the only thing i've got that works is a telephone.''
a bus with 39 people aboard slid into a ditch in syracuse, kan., along with other vehicles on friday, but no injuries were reported, authorities said. a motel and high school gymnasium were filled with stranded travelers
rain-swollen rivers jumped their banks in northeast oklahoma. flooding in bird creek forced the evacuation friday night of about 20 homes and seven businesses in skiatook
water began spilling over the creek banks around noon friday and was rising at a rate of a foot an hour, said skiatook police officer paul floyd. the river was expected to crest today near 26 feet; flood stage is 21 feet
about 30 flood victims spent friday night at a shelter in the skiatook community building, red cross officials said
in chandler, kan., about seven families were moved out of homes because of rising water
they're kind of used to it,'' said lincoln county civil defense director mike clarkson. ``they just kind of put things up high on the lower floors and move out for a few hours.''
flooding washed two cars off a road in fort smith, ark., where many roads were closed and cars were nearly submerged
heavy rain also swelled the amite river in east-central louisiana, where minor flooding was expected today
a judge who released an 18-year-old suspected car thief will be seeing the man in court again. this time, the young man is accused of stealing the judge's car
seattle district court judge philip y. killien ruled there was no compelling reason to hold the teen-ager after he was arrested for investigation of driving a stolen car
the judge decided to release the man, although he had no job and no permanent address, while police and prosecutors investigated. the judge's own car was stolen soon afterward
killien said he thought the theft of his car march 22 was nothing more than a coincidence. he got his car back four days later
killien was expected to testify against the suspect, who is charged in two other cases but has not not yet charged in the judge's case
the man is back in king county jail
a state-owned newspaper denied rebel charges that burmese government authorities carry out large-scale drug trafficking
kachin rebel leader brang seng last month told foreign correspondents that his forces overran a military outpost in burma's northern kachin state. he said they captured 180 boxes filled with 5,016 pounds of opium, which he cited as evidence of government involvement in drug dealing
but the burmese state-owned working people's daily said in its report, published wednesday and made available saturday in bangkok, that the rebels found drugs stored for use as court evidence
the article went on to accuse the kachin rebels, one of several minority groups fighting the central government, of smuggling jade, heroin and opium to bankroll their activities
burma is the world's largest producer of opium with an anticipated harvest this season of up to 1,200 tons, officials say. up 5th graf, `no new...</note>
with 23 more deaths reported saturday, india's troubled state of punjab has suffered the bloodiest week since sikh rebels first began calling for a separate nation six years ago
last week's death toll of 120 has prompted calls for imposing a federal emergency in the northern state and already may have crippled the government's latest effort to reach a compromise with militants of the religious minority
prime minister rajiv gandhi called the appointed governor of punjab state, s.s. ray, and state police chief julius f. ribiero to new delhi on saturday to plan new initiatives against the violence
ray told reporters that the government would keep up its ``relentless war'' against the sikh radicals who have been blamed for more than 630 killings this year
the united news of india said sikh militants shot to death six people saturday night in the village of ragarh in amritsar district, adding to the 17 deaths reported since friday night
no new government actions were announced saturday, but sikhs in punjab expressed fears that gandhi's goverment would declare an emergency, severely limiting civil rights and imposing harsh police rule
this is an excuse by new delhi to impose emergency on the state,'' darshan singh ragi, a sikh religious leader, said saturday at his home near punjab's capital, chandigarh. ``the bullet is not an answer to any problem, either from the militants or new delhi.''
at the same time, opposition political leaders and some in gandhi's congress party demanded action. and three radical groups issued a statement blaming the latest killings on police agents
all this is being done to defame the militant sikh youths in the eyes of the sikh masses so that the movement for khalistan is weakened,'' said a statement from the radical groups
l.k. advani, leader of the opposition indian peoples party, demanded in new delhi that gandhi impose a security belt along punjab's border with pakistan, believed to be the source of the ak-47 assault rifles used by the rebels in their latest onslaught
past efforts to seal the porous border, the traditional domain of smugglers on both sides, have failed
harsh police action, exemplified by the indian army's raid on the sikhs' golden temple in amritsar in 1984, has succeeded only in turning ordinary sikhs against the government
the june 1984 raid to drive radicals from the shrine left more than 1,200 people dead, most of them sikhs. soon afterwards, sikh bodyguards killed prime minister indira gandhi, who was gandhi's mother. sikh radicals began openly demanding an independent khalistan _ ``land of the pure'' in the punjabi language
the killings are spiraling despite the gandhi government's direct federal rule over punjab since last may when it invoked indian law to dislodge the elected state government of sikh moderates
in march alone, 272 victims were gunned down, compared to 215 who died in the first three months of last year
the latest police reports confirm the pattern of random killings with the victims both hindus and sikhs
in the neighboring villages of tara and kaler in gurdaspur district, two sets of hindu brothers, in their 60s and 70s, were shot to death friday night by four men with ak-47 rifles
in tara, about 30 miles south of amritsar, all but two of the 50 houses in the village were deserted by families fleeing the persistent violence
ram lal, a hindu, said he and a few other villagers had been coming during the day to mind their fields and shops. after friday night's slayings, he said: ``we will not come back at all. we are not able to stay here with the terror.''
sikhs, whose religion is a mixture of hinduism and islam, make up only 2 percent of india's 800 million population, but they are a majority in punjab
the radicals argue that only a separate sikh nation can save the minority faith from being overwhelmed by the hindus, who comprise more than 80 percent of the country's people
ironically, some sikh sources say the upsurge in killings results from a new effort by the government to find a compromise with the militants through jasbir singh rode, a 34-year-old sikh preacher
rode was among about 40 sikhs who were freed in early march after being imprisoned without trial. he was promptly elected to the most powerful post in the sikh faith amid reports his freedom was part of a government move to compromise with the radicals _ or divide them
rode has denied there were any conditions to his release, and the government has not publicly outlined its plans
gandhi was asked in an interview published saturday in london's financial times why he had decided to release rode and other imprisoned sikhs
we have tried everything else,'' he replied
chrysler corp.'s labor problems, inflamed by the closing of a wisconsin plant and the threatened sale of a parts subsidiary, are not expected to prevent it and the united auto workers from reaching a settlement in contract talks this month
since chrysler backed down in early march from the planned sale of its 28,000-worker acustar inc. parts subsidiary, caustic rhetoric and threats of crippling strikes have been replaced by silence as negotiators prepare demands and strategies for the opening of talks april 18
the union's demands will be discussed and approved by the 140-member uaw national chrysler council during a meeting this week in kansas city, mo
the talks are likely to be much less dramatic than the unrest that led to chrysler's agreement to negotiate early, since the contract must follow an industry pattern contract established last fall at ford motor co. and used at general motors corp
the framework should be there, and the readiness to bargain early should generally be an admission that things will go smoothly,'' said harley shaiken, labor and technology expert at the university of california at san diego
however, shaiken added: ``given all the trauma (at chrysler) in recent years, there could be a surprise. there is discontent in chrysler plants, a real unease that could come out in this bargaining.''
chrysler's contract covering 59,500 active workers and 8,000 on layoff expires sept. 14. the uaw wanted to adapt the three-year ford and gm contracts to chrysler last fall
chrysler, however, didn't agree until it backed off from the acustar sale, realizing it had opened a wound that would only fester if left until the normal mid-july opening of talks
chrysler's workers agreed to concessions in the early 1980s to help the company survive its brush with bankruptcy
many workers say they are disillusioned because a spirit of camaraderie, of fighting together, has disappeared now that chrysler is in the black and their contributions aren't so keenly needed or appreciated
the average auto worker at chrysler in 1979-81 had no business assuming they were going to have a job there. but they made it through beautifully, the company's done very well. to now have to start worrying about your job is very nerve-wracking,'' said michael luckey, an independent auto industry analyst who has worked closely with chrysler
indeed, 5,500 uaw members are to lose their jobs this summer when chrysler closes a plant at kenosha, wis., that it acquired last year when it bought american motors corp
the union and state and local officials protested bitterly when the plan was revealed, saying chrysler had promised to operate the plant for up to three years, but chrysler insists there was no agreement and that the market does not justify keeping the 86-year-old factory open
chrysler also appears to want to close at least one assembly plant not previously announced and possibly more than the six announced acustar plants planned for closing the next two ye
chrysler also will maintain heavy pressure to produce the most products with the fewest workers possible, said chris cedergren, industry analyst with j.d. power and associates in agoura hills, calif
while vital to all automakers, cost-cutting is crucial at chrysler because its sales depend on keeping its prices lower than gm and ford, cedergren said
the pattern contract includes these protections for workers:
_a ban on plant closings
_job security provisions that forbid layoffs unless sales of a particular product fall and restrict transfer of inside work to outside suppliers. workers who otherwise would be laid off because of subcontracted work or improvements in technology or efficiency are put into a job bank where they receive most of their regular pay and often retraining
_an agreement for the two sides to study jointly over six months ways to improve quality and productivity at each plant, preventing the company from abruptly forcing drastic workplace changes on plants by threatening to close those whose workers refuse
among potential obstacles to a quick and eventually healing settlement is what many view as a loophole in the pattern contract
although the pattern contract forbids plant closings, gm has skirted that obstacle by simply laying off all the workers at a plant whose product isn't selling well and indefinitely idling the factory
in the chrysler talks, uaw negotiators are expected to seek a tighter definition of indefinite idling, a difficult task and one likely to be resisted by chrysler, shaiken said
it would be difficult to renegotiate the ford and gm contracts at chrysler,'' he said
president reagan voiced fear saturday that the united states could slip to a second-rate world power in technology, saying scientific research is ``an indispensable investment in america's future.''
we can travel as far as the eye of our imagination can see,'' reagan said in his weekly radio address to the nation. ``but one thing is certain: if we don't, others will, and we'll fall behind.''
this is why i've urged congress to devote more money to research,'' reagan said in the speech delivered from his ranch in the santa ynez mountains near this seaside resort city
this year, we'll begin work on the great-grandchild of those particle accelerators that have meant so much to our economic growth,'' he said. ``it's called the super-conducting supercollider. and it will harness the galloping technology of superconductivity so we can explore sub-atomic particles in ways we've never been able to before.''
reagan also said that ``we'll also continue developing the space station. when it's in orbit, the space station will let us perform once-impossible experiments in the weightless environment of outer space, and understand our world and universe better.''
meanwhile, back on earth, we will be pursuing breakthroughs in biotechnology that promise to revolutionize medicine, agriculture and protection of the environment,'' he said
but in his talk, reagan acknowledged that scientific research is expensive
some say that we can't afford it _ that we're strapped for cash,'' he said. ``well, leadership means making hard choices, even in an election year.''
without citing dollars-and-cents figures, reagan said that federal spending for scientific research is 58 percent higher than a decade ago, after discounting for inflation. but he indicated this is still not enough
we've put our research budget under a microscope and looked for quality and cost-effectiveness,'' he said. ``we've put together the best program for the taxpayers' dollars
after all, the american tradition of hope is one we can't afford to forget
the problem here is that science, unlike a bridge or an interstate highway or a courthouse, has no local constituency,'' he said. ``federal funding for science is in jeopardy because of budget constraints. that's why it's my duty as president to draw its importance to your attention and that of congress.''
a 25-pound lobster that nearly became somebody's easter dinner has been rescued and will be jetting to maine on monday to live out its old age beneath the atlantic
publicity forced a seafood company owner, a seafood lover, an animal-rights group and the maine department of marine resources into an unlikely alliance to save the creature, which was estimated to be between 40 and 125 years old
also saved from the pot was a 19}-pound companion
this was something that strikes you in your moral craw,'' said gloria felscher-cohen, vice president of the rights group, pity not cruelty inc
here is a very old lobster and it just seemed disgusting that it should end its life to the cruelest predator _ man _ in a pot of boiling water.''
the 25-pounder, equipped with claws the size of baseball mitts, arrived from boston on march 25 after an order got mixed up at hill's main line seafood co. in ardmore
when owner kevin hill recovered from his astonishment, he and his staff dubbed her shirley. then he sold her and the other hefty crustacean to a regular customer, a retired carpenter from haverford, for $287
but before shirley was out the door, the philadelphia inquirer ran a story about her, and hill's phone began ringing with calls from lobster advocates, including ms. felscher-cohen
she told him it would be a ``lovely gesture'' during the passover and easter holidays to celebrate themes of freedom and resurrection by buying back the lobsters
she even offered to top the carpenter's price
after several calls like that, hill was convinced. when the carpenter came to pick up the second lobster, hill offered him $387 for both
his first feeling was `what do you mean they're going to take the lobsters?''' hill said
i said, `look, there's too many people (calling). let's free the things.''
the customer, robert miller, agreed to exchange the large lobsters for 45 pounds of smaller ones, rather than for money
i think it's ridiculous,'' miller said. ``what's the difference between a one-pound lobster and a 25-pound lobster?''
pity not cruelty, meanwhile, had already made arrangements with the state of maine to turn the creatures loose. the group assumed the flight costs
crated and covered with seaweed, the lobsters are due to fly to portland monday afternoon for a few hours of observation
if they are healthy, we will liberate them the next day,'' said lt. joseph fessenden of the maine bureau of marine patrol
they should be freed off the shore of cape elizabeth, by the portland head light, he said
in maine, he added, it would be illegal to catch shirley, because she is much longer than the five-inch maximum (measured from the rear of the eye socket to the end of the body shell) allowed by the maine department of natural resources. the older lobsters are protected, he said, because they have more offspring
his department will probably investigate shirley's origins, he said
the state helped save a 23{-pound alaskan lobster from gourmands last november, he said
that lobster ``was very lively,'' he said. ``i'm pretty optimistic that these will fare as well.''
restoration work on rembrandt's ``danae,'' which was cut and splashed with acid by an attacker in 1985, has revealed how the dutch painter reworked the 17th century masterpiece, the tass news agency said saturday
restoration experts in leningrad using x-rays, ultraviolet and infrared light, have completed the first stage of their work and now are getting ready to retouch the areas where the original paint was destroyed, the report said
a ``case history'' of hundreds of pages has been recorded, tass said
the painting was damaged june 15, 1985, by what officials described as a ``madman'' who threw sulphuric acid on it and slashed it twice with a knife at leningrad's hermitage museum
soviet art officials have said the damage was serious, but never have said specifically how much of the painting was destroyed
restorers, including chemists, biologists, physicists and other scientists, began work immediately on the canvas. the painting depicts the mother of perseus, who, according to greek legend, killed medusa and her head of snakes
soviet art books say rembrandt painted ``danae'' in 1636 and repainted it in 1646-1647
x-ray studies showed that rembrandt had repainted the gesture of the right hand, changed the appearance of the old woman looking from behind the canopy, that he had painted over danae's earrings and beads, and that he had altered her facial features several times in the course of the work,'' tass said
experts also established that the 81-inch canvas was actually two pieces that had been skillfully sewn together, covered first with a brown primer, a layer of gray and then whiting
it is our immutable principle not to paint over even a single millimeter of the author's painting,'' yevgeny gerasimov, head of the restoration effort, told tass
now we are beginning work on those sections where the layer of paint had been washed off, and advancing from the sides of the painting to the four epicenters that suffered most from the acid. we are drawing copies of `danae' to master rembrandt's style,'' he said
the experts also tried to restore the painting's lacquer, which had seriously deteriorated in several places, tass said
the report said experts would not speculate on when restoration work would be done, but that they were confident the painting would be displayed once more in the hermitage when the work is completed
gov. roy romer shouldn't have to look for a new tailor any time soon
thom payseno offered to make a new overcoat for the governor after a denver attorney walked off with romer's coat. payseno is serving a life sentence for murder in state prison
the original coat was eventually returned, but romer said he accepted payseno's offer because he believes it is important for inmates to be able to display their talents
romer showed off the new coat at a news conference at the capitol on friday. the coat is too large because the governor furnished his measurements before he lost more than 20 pounds on a diet
rather than make the coat fit by gaining the weight back, we're going to go alter the coat,'' romer said. ``it's certainly large enough. it's a nice coat.''
ann landers is better than dear abby, but the two sisters both beat out seven other advice columnists by a wide margin, the harris poll reported saturday
fifty-one percent of respondents chose for ann when asked which of the nine did the best job of writing an advice column
ann landers leads among all regions and major segments of the public, but is particularly popular in the midwest, among women, business executives, as well as blue-collar and white-collar types,'' wrote pollster louis harris
dear abby shows strength in the west, and among less well-educated and less affluent readers.''
abby was first choice for 31 percent, followed by dr. joyce brothers with 13 percent and miss manners with 4 percent
harris said advice columns claim a total of 96 million readers. nearly two-thirds of all women are readers, he said. middle-class people and those over 50 are among the more avid readers
democrats tend to read the columns more than republicans, and political moderates read them more than liberals or conservatives, harris found
the poll, taken by telephone march 9-13 among a national cross section of 1,257 voters, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points
jeff brown and diane ridley got in on a bit of 18th-century romance when they married in an old blacksmith's shop
brown, 28, a landscape designer and part-owner of basketball's boston celtics, and ridley, 28, came here from huntsville, ala., to be wed by rev. adam barr. the couple met barr, 21, who lives near glasgow, while he was studying in the united states last year
we wanted to wed in scotland for a touch of romance but had never heard of gretna green until adam suggested it,'' brown said. ``it was a neat idea.''
gretna green became a mecca for couples in the 18th century when marriages involving just a declaration of intent before witnesses were outlawed in england. runaway couples flocked over the scottish border to the first town _ gretna green _ and made their declaration before the blacksmith
marriages by blacksmiths were outlawed in 1940
princess anne returned to britain saturday from a five-day visit to australia, smiling cheerfully and looking none the worse after her fall from a horse
the 37-year-old daughter of queen elizabeth ii, an expert horsewoman, was thrown from her mount at sydney's randwick racecourse friday when the horse apparently shied at some running water on the side of the track
in contrast to her fitness, anne's husband, mark phillips, was hobbling on crutches because of an achilles tendon injury he suffered last fall
the couple had been in australia to help celebrate the country's bicentennial
here is the text of president reagan's radio address saturday, as delivered from his ranch in the santa ynez mountains
my fellow americans, passover and easter are festivals of hope. that's why this weekend is a good time for all of us to reflect on the enduring importance to mankind of hope and faith in the future, and nowhere do our hopes take more visible form than in the quest of science
science has grown, and with it the fascination it holds for all us. but as the pursuit of science has become ever more nationally and even multinationally funded, it has also become more expensive. the problem here is that science, unlike a bridge or an interstate highway or a courthouse, has no local constituency
today, when we are witnessing some of the most exciting discoveries in the history of science, things similar to the breakthroughs associated with einstein, gallileo and newton, federal funding for science is in jeopardy because of budget constraints
that's why it's my duty as president to draw it's importance to your attention and that of congress. american has long been the world's scientific leader. over the years, we've secured farm more patents than any other country in the world. and since world war ii, we have one more nobel prizes for science than the europeans and japanese combined. we also support more of what is called ``basic research.'' that is, research meant to teach us, rather than to invent or develop new products. and for the past 40 years the government has been our leading sponsor of basic research
the remarkable thing is that although basic research does not begin with a particular practical goal, when you look at the results over the years, it ends up being one of the most practical things government does. for example, government-sponsored basic research produced the first laser. today, less than three decades later, lasers are used in everything from microsurgery to the transmission of immense volumes of information and may contribute to our strategic defense initiative that promises to make ballistic missiles obsolete
when i think that over the past 50 years the government has helped build a number of particle accelerators so scientists could study high-energy physics, major industries, including television, communications and computer industries, couldn't be where they are today without devlopments that began with this basic research
we cannot know where scientific research will lead. the consequences and spin-offs are unknown and unknowable until they happen. in research, as albert einstein once said, ``imagination is more important than knowledge.''
we can travel wherever the eye of our imagination can see. but one thing is certain: if we don't explore, others will, and we'll fall behind. this is why i've urged congress to devote more money to research. after taking out inflation, today's government research expenditures are 58 percent greater than the expenditures of a decade ago
it is an indispensable investment in america's future. let me tell you about just a few of the many projects we'll fund this year. this year, we'll begin work on the great-grandchild of those particle accelerators that have meant so much to our economic growth. it's called the super-conducting supercollider, and it will harness the galloping technology of superconductivity so we can explore sub-atomic particles in ways we've never been able to before
we'll also continue developing the space station. when it's in orbit, the space station will let us perform once-impossible experiments in the weightless and sterile environment of outer space, and understand our world and universe better. and we're developing new technology to allow man eventually to journey beyond earth's orbit
astronaut sen. jake garn and others in congress have given the space program the support it needs to once again reach for the stars. meanwhile, back on earth, we will be pursuing breakthroughs in biotechnology that promise to revolutionize medicine, agriculture and protection of the environment
we're working on new ways to spread the seeds of federal research. working with universities across the country, we have established 14 engineering research centers devoted to basic research on emerging technologies. and we're planning 10 to 15 new science and technology centers to do the same thing in the fields of general science
all of these centers will work with industry so that what they discover can quickly lead to new and better and internationally competitive products. all of this and more is before congress now. some say that we can't afford it, that we're too strapped for cash
well, leadership means making hard choices, even in an election year. we've put our research budget under a microscope and looked for quality and cost-effectiveness. we've put together the best program for the taxpayers' dollars. after all, the american tradition of hope is one we can't afford to forget
until next week, happy easter and passover. god bless you
former democratic presidential candidate george mcgovern on saturday warned democrats that an attempt to deny the party's nomination to the front-runner at the convention could spell defeat in november
i don't want to see a big, divisive fight at the convention and a desperate attempt to block the front-runner because i think that would bring a repeat of 1972,'' mcgovern told the associated press
mcgovern said efforts by some democrats to block his nomination despite his delegate lead going into the 1972 democratic convention split the party and contributed to his landslide defeat to then-president nixon in the general election
it really cost us heavily. the fallout was devastating,'' mcgovern said
those last-minute, desperation blocking efforts contributed to the democratic defeat in the fall,'' he said. ``we should not repeat that experience in 1988.''
mcgovern's advice to fall in line behind a front-runner echoes a similar call by democratic party chairman paul kirk, who also wants the nomination settled before the convention
mcgovern said a brokered convention is unnecessary because ``the voters are the brokers and they are making it clear that michael dukakis and jesse jackson are the two candidates who command the most support.''
after the last primary, we should rally around whichever of these two front-runners has the most delegates,'' he said
if dukakis and jackson end up in a ``virtual dead heat'' after all the primaries, then the convention delegates should decide which will be the candidiate, mcgovern said
but if one of the candidates compiles a significant first-place win, he is entitled to the nomination,'' mcgovern said
mcgovern said the democratic race has narrowed to ``a two-man race now'' between michael dukakis and jesse jackson
he said neither sen. albert gore of tennessee nor sen. paul simon of illinois is likely to pull ahead, but he said he was not suggesting they drop out
that's a judgment they should make, but i think that if at the end they come up as short as they are now, they should get behind the front-runner,'' he said
mcgovern has not endorsed anyone in the race yet. he said jackson ``offers a message of hope and reconciliation'' and dukakis ``offers a record of experience and competence in government.''
democrats should evaluate both ``progressive spirited men'' and nominate the one with the most delegates, he said
striking ferry sailors voted saturday to return to work, ending their 17-day walkout in time to carry easter holiday travelers across the english channel
seamen in the french ports of calais, dunkirk and dieppe voted to accept an agreement worked out friday between their unions and the maritime arm of the state-run railroad. the accord provides for employment guarantees, better working conditions and higher salaries for part-time employees
the workers were readying three idled ferries to serve easter sunday passengers. they join two british ferries that had been carrying the backed-up traffic alone
but on the british side of the channel, talks broke down friday between ferry workers and p and o european ferries and a two-month strike continued
senate republicans are complaining that the democratic-controlled judiciary committee hasn't acted quickly enough on president reagan's federal judge appointees
there is no reason, why we can't with a little extra hard work, hold hearings when necessary and move some of the nominations presently pending out of this committee,'' sen. strom thurmond, r-s.c., said at a recent committee hearing
but sen. patrick leahy, d-vt., who heads the ad hoc subcommittee that screens candidates, denied there has been any foot-dragging over nominations. and leahy told thurmond in a letter, ``your concern is misplaced.''
leahy also said there is no truth to a rumor circulating on capitol hill that the senate would not take up any executive or judicial nominations if they were not received by senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., by april 1
i don't know where that rumor came from,'' leahy said in an interview. ``sen. byrd never told me anything like that. sen. kennedy also told me that he has received no such instructions.''
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., who heads the senate labor and human resources committee, has been running the judiciary committee in the absence of joseph r. biden jr., d-del., who is at home recovering from surgery
linda peek, byrd's spokeswomen, also said that byrd had not made a demand on the senate's committee chairmen for nominations by early april
thurmond, backed by other republicans on the judiciary panel, complained about what he called ``the extremely slow pace that the committee is processing nominations this year.''
in 1986, he said, the judiciary committee received 145 nominations and 139 were confirmed, including two supreme court justices, 11 appeals court judges and 33 district court judges. that was the last year the republicans controlled the senate
thurmond said there are currently 36 judicial nominees waiting for committee action, five of which are for the appeals court and 21 for the district court
thurmond said some of the nominees have been waiting for nearly a year for senate action
others have been waiting months. specifically, he cited the nominations of david treen of louisiana, which has been pending eight months, and stuart summitt of new york, six months, both for the appellate court; and paul gadola of michigan, 11 months, richard voorhees of north carolina, eight months, david ezra of hawaii, four months, robert roberto of new york, four months, vaughn walker of california, three months and howard levitt of new york, three months, for the district bench
leahy said thurmond had written to biden three times in march complaining about what he described as ``the extremely slow pace that the committee is processing nominations so far this year.''
in a reply, leahy wrote: ``i believe your concern is misplaced.''
he said the committee had received nine nominations to the federal courts this year thus far. he said his committee had already held hearings on 11 nominations with seven more scheduled
i can offer you my personal assurance that, as far as i am concerned, every single judicial nomination that comes before this committee will be considered fairly, thoroughly, and without any unjustified delay,'' leahy wrote. ``i know joe (biden) shares this attitude, and i believe the committee has lived up to this standard throughout his chairmanship.''
a study that is looking at ways to help students enjoy college has found that the happiest students at harvard university are athletes
the preliminary study also has found that too many students don't give enough thought to their major and suggests a need for better advising
the results are too new to have been properly interpreted, cautions richard f. light, director of the harvard seminar on assessment. he suspects athletes are happier because of the social life inherent in their activity
almost by definition anybody in an athletic group has a group of people they become very good friends with,'' light said in a recent interview
the seminar is a three-year, $350,000 project funded by private, federal and college funds. it involves 90 faculty, administrators and students from northeastern colleges including amherst, brandeis, pennsylvania, princeton, smith, williams, mit and brown
among the findings halfway through the project, a student at wellesley college said she chose a joint major in middle east and peace studies after a friend suggested it fit her personality, said wellesley professor david pillemar
another student chose psychobiology the first week of her freshman year because her mother, leafing through a course catalogue, thought it sounded interesting
a lot of people feel an improvement in the overall college experience may not come from teaching the subject a tiny bit better but from better advising,'' light said
the researchers also have found that less than half the female freshmen who entered a science program at dartmouth, harvard or yale graduated in the field, but they aren't sure yet what that means, light said
one interpretation is that is bad _ we're losing talented women,'' he said. ``the other is that's great, they're making choices.''
the researchers will examine 18 separate areas, including the effects of part-time work and extra-curricular activities on student success
and at a time when secretary of education william j. bennett has accused colleges of ``ripping off'' students through poor instruction, the project will look at different methods of instruction, ways to improve student writing and student advisory programs
researchers expect to issue a report this summer. grafs after 5th pvs to add explanation why testimony can't be compelled; picks up 6th graf pvs, on friday</note>
independent counsel james mckay's criminal investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii has run into roadblocks because key witnesses have refused to cooperate with the probe
among those who have erected a wall of silence that mckay has been unable to penetrate is a central figure in the probe, longtime meese friend e. robert wallach
the attorney general's former financial manager, w. franklyn chinn _ who was introduced to meese by wallach _ also isn't talking to mckay. chinn and wallach were indicted in december in the wedtech scandal, one of the areas in which meese has been under investigation since last may 11
former wedtech consultant r. kent london, another indicted in the wedtech scandal, also has also refused to talk to mckay
the latest figure to stand in the way of mckay's probe is swiss oil man bruce rappaport. sources familiar with the probe said he decided at the last minute not to give a deposition in london, where he had agreed to meet with mckay's investigators, on questions of whether meese may have been part of a bribe conspiracy in connection with a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project. the washington post reported that rappaport changed his mind because he was afraid he might not remember everything accurately
federal prosecutors decided to have criminal charges filed against wallach, chinn and london and decided not to grant them immunity from prosecution to compel their testimony
in december, after the three invoked their fifth amendment right against self incrimination, mckay said he might seek their testimony again after their criminal trial on racketeering charges in the wedtech scandal
on friday, mckay said there was insufficient evidence to date to warrant indicting meese in connection with a $1 billion iraqi pipeline plan in which wallach was involved, or a possible conflict of interest involving meese's telephone company stock, a matter in which chinn was involved
meese said he was ``gratified by the action and the statement.''
at a news conference, meese referred to the independent counsel's investigation as ``an exhaustive process. ... when that particular process is completed i think there will be no doubt in anybody's mind what the facts are and at that time i will rest on that judgment.''
when a reporter pointed out that principals in the investigation weren't talking, meese responded, ``i'm not going to comment on any aspect or details of the inquiry. that's something that will have to be determined by the independent counsel.''
sources familiar with mckay's probe have said that although the special prosecutor has not found sufficient evidence to indict meese, he could issue a sharply critical report about meese's conduct
the grand jury will continue to examine the pipeline and telephone stock matters mostly to tie up ``loose ends,'' the source said, speaking on condition of anonymity
if mckay dismisses the grand jury without bringing charges, he could retain his appointment or seek reappointment if new evidence surfaces later, the source said
the grand jury is expected to question meese, his wife, ursula, and u.s. circuit judge douglas h. ginsburg, who was head of the justice department's antitrust division during the breakup of the american telephone &amp; telegraph co
in regard to the pipeline, wallach, who was rappaport's lawyer, obtained meese's help in arranging a meeting with then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane to help boost the pipeline project
four months later, wallach wrote meese a memo that wallach said was based on conversations with rappaport. it said a portion of up to $700 million from the oil pipeline would be funneled to the labor party of then-israeli prime minister shimon peres
that raised questions of whether meese, who has said he doesn't recall reading that portion of the memo, may have violated the foreign corrupt practices act barring bribes to foreign officials
without being able to question wallach or rappaport, mckay is at a dead end
another part of mckay's probe the independent counsel says he has insufficient evidence on which to seek indictment is meese's ownership of $14,000 in stock in the regional bell telephone companies
chinn was involved in the baby bell stck ownership at a critical juncture
meese as attorney general met with executives of four of the regional bell telephone companies at a time when he owned the stock
at the time, the bell companies were seeking to reverse the justice department's position opposing the bells' expansion into new areas of business. meese ended up approving a reversal of the department's position early in 1987
meese says he had intended to sell the stock in 1985 but couldn't because he had lost the stock certificates
complicating mckay's investigation was the fact that meese had signed a transfer of property agreement with chinn assigning the baby bell stock to the financial manager for more than two years. meese initially listed the stock as having been sold on his financial disclosure forms for 1985 and 1986
meese got replacement certificates late last summer and finally sold the stock himself after getting chinn to return it to him
meese says he considered the transfer agreement a legitimate divestiture of the stock. but mckay's investigators are unable to delve into details of the arrangement because they were unable to question chinn
in december, mckay said he had insufficient evidence at that time to seek an indictment of meese in the wedtech scandal and said he might seek testimony from wallach and chinn again after their trial
in the wedtech probe, then-white house counselor meese interceded on the company's behalf at wallach's behest to assist the firm in its efforts to obtain a $32 million no-bid contract to build small engines for the army
the company got the contract following a crucial white house meeting called by meese's deputy. three years later, meese set up a financial partnership after wallach introduced meese to chinn _ who at the time was doing work for wedtech and who later sat on the company's board of directors
senate majority leader robert c. byrd asked americans on saturday to pressure president reagan into signing comprehensive trade legislation
write the president and tell him ... that this trade bill will help you and help america feel proud again,'' byrd, d-w.va., urged in the democratic party's weekly radio address
under a compromise worked out by house and senate negotiators thursday night, the u.s. trade representative would have the authority to impose import curbs on the goods of nations who violate trade agreements. the president could waive the curbs if he thought their cost would outweigh the benefit
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater on friday renewed the threat of a veto by president reagan, saying the bill unreasonably ties the president's hands and that the administration has ``grave reservations'' about it
byrd complained that ``the president has done nothing but cry protectionism and wave his veto pen'' as the ability of the united states to compete has eroded
this is not the time for a veto,'' he said. ``the trade bill is a strong comprehensive bill that helps american workers help themselves.''
he said the democrats' ``goal has been a bill that the president will sign,'' adding, ``we have extended our hand in cooperation.''
the president may not understand what this bill means to the american worker ... i think you do,'' byrd said in urging his listeners to write to the white house
the measure also would impose import restrictions to punish toshiba corp. of japan for a subsidiary's role in selling computerized submarine propeller milling equipment to the soviet union
and, it would require employers to give workers a 60-day notice of plant closings and large layoffs
here is the text of the democratic party's weekly radio address, delivered saturday by senate majority leader robert c. byrd of west virginia:
good afternoon. this is sen. robert c. byrd from west virginia. the congress is putting the finishing touches on a very important trade bill
it is not a minute too soon. our nation's trade policy is in shambles. you know it. i know it. we import more than we export. we send more of our money overseas than we get back. we are losing american jobs. we are losing our industrial base. we are in hock to foreign lenders
once it wasn't so. america traded hard all over the world. the result was money in the bank and jobs for american workers. america ran a trade surplus. ``made in the usa'' was on the product that everybody looked for. americans took pride in being no. 1
now our ability to compete is eroding. for seven years the president has refused to act. ``free trade,'' he says. what about fair trade? the president has done nothing but cry protectionism and wave his veto pen. yet, unless we change the way america trades the tide of change will sweep our economic destiny out of our hands
you know what i am talking about. you see it in the frustration of all the young families who cannot afford to buy their first home. you understand it when american companies take their jobs overseas
america is rapidly developing a treadmill economy; everyone is working harder just to keep up; yet we still seem to be losing ground to our foreign competition. our prosperity has always been built on working smarter as well as harder. yet, despite our new technology and effort to compete, we have been losing the productivity race
for years the reagan administration has left trade policy to the whims of the international marketplace and our foreign competition. the administration has refused to act. it has had a do-nothing trade policy
it is time to get america moving again. the stakes are high and measured in jobs, and in the life style we pass on to our children, and in our vital national security
congress will soon send the president a comprehensive trade bill. we are not ready to say good-bye to the america of our dreams. what must be done to rebuild america's dreams?
first, america must boost its exports. selling more goods overseas lowers the deficit. it is that simple. our bill gives the president new tools to open new markets for american products
second, we must take steps to promote america's long run competitive strengths. we want to see more investment in individuals and in ideas. that means a better educated work force, stronger laws to protect american inventions from piracy by foreign firms
third, we want to give american industry and workers the opportunity to retool and retrain quickly. i have seen the devastating impact in my own state of west virginia where closed factories leave workers and whole communities struggling for their economic future
this trade bill sharply improves the opportunities for workers to retrain, to start new careers. if american workers want to move to expanding parts of the job market they ought to have that chance
finally, this trade bill would prevent foreign investors from dominating industries vital to our national security. america cannot control its destiny if our foreign competition is buying up our assets
opening new markets for exports, giving american industry a leg up to retool, creating new opportunities for american workers to retrain, keeping america's destiny in american hands, educating our children for a prosperous future _ these are the essentials of this trade bill, which the president would veto
in the last few months you have heard a lot of talk about this trade bill from the president. i am sure you will hear more. our goal has been a bill that the president will sign. we have extended our hand in cooperation
this is not a time for a veto. the trade bill is a strong comprehensive bill that helps american industry and helps american workers help themselves
the president may not understand what this bill means to the american worker, to young families who cannot buy their first home, to the unemployed worker who has lost his job to a foreign competitor. i think you do
so write the president. tell him of your concerns. let him know that this trade bill will help america feel proud again. let's put america's future back in american hands
an iraqi pilot held captive by iran said saturday he was shocked to learn how many civilians were killed in an iraqi gas attack on a border town and assumed the raid was a mistake
air force maj. ahmed sakr salaleh, 31, said he was shown an iranian documentary of the aftermath of the raid two weeks ago on the kurdish town of halabja, in northeastern iraq
all of us suffer seeing these pictures,'' salaleh told reporters in tehran. ``i ask god to take all of them to paradise.''
salaleh said he was aware that the iraqi air force had been dropping chemical weapons but added: ``we are under orders. we are officers.''
he said the chemical bombs were dropped to halt iranian advances into iraqi territory. iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980
iraq has denied using chemical weapons, which are banned by international law
iran has said it captured large tracts of territory in northeast iraq in league with kurdish separatists. iraq said saturday it routed the attackers
iran says chemical weapons raids on halabja, 160 miles northeast of baghdad, killed 5,000 people and wounded another 5,000 on march 16-17
the iraqi pilot said his soviet-built sukhoi su-22 was shot down 30 miles south of halabja on march 18 after the gas attacks were over
he said he earlier had released four conventional-explosive 1,100-pound bombs over uninhabited territory when clouds prevented bombing of a road
salaleh said he ejected and parachuted into iranian-held territory. iran has claimed shooting down more than a dozen iraqi warplanes since mid-march
the iraqi officer said he was not involved in the halabja attack. he said he was assigned to drop a chemical bomb into wetland border territory of iraq in 1983 to prevent an iranian offensive there
the bomb he dropped then was put on his plane by a crew in civilian clothes who arrived at the air force base with a truck and trailer with civilian plates, salaleh said
he estimated about 50 planes raided halabja from march 16-18 after the iranians and kurdish guerrillas captured the town. salaleh, speaking in relatively good english, said he thought the chemical-bomb attack was a ``mistake.''
he said one possible explanation was that iraqi intelligence did not know the inhabitants were still in the town
salaleh said he had been well treated since he was captured but had not yet been transferred to a prisoner-of-war camp
he said he had heard on iraqi television that iran has used artillery gas shells but had no confirmation of this, adding that iraqi forces had been issued gas masks
iran has denied using the internationally banned chemical weapons, but has said it has the capability to produce them
iraq has repeatedly denied using the weapons, while coupling its denials with assurances it will use ``all means'' at its disposal to defend its territory. industry</head>
the sale of federated department stores inc. to campeau corp. is more than just a retailer changing hands. analysts fear the $6.58 billion deal may lead to more centralization and less innovation in the retail industry 
when ownership of the nation's fifth-largest retailer passes to campeau, the toronto-based developer will do what it did when it acquired allied stores corp. at the end of 1986: pare the company down, sell its less attractive divisions and keep its most profitable stores
the forecasts are that federated, now a collection of diverse department and specialty stores, will become a centralized retailer with few differences among its various units
the structure will be much more of a chain store company,'' said walter loeb, a retail industry analyst with the investment firm morgan stanley &amp; co
robert h. morosky, the president of allied stores, denied saturday that campeau would centralize buying operations of federated department store divisions that include bloomingdale's and abraham &amp; straus in new york, lazarus in the midwest and burdine's in florida
operations such as distribution will be centralized, he said, but the stores' merchandise mix ``will be determined by the local department store divisions.''
however, loeb predicted that under campeau, federated would consolidate operations such as purchasing and marketing that are now carried out separately by the federated units
the merchandise will be uniform,'' said loeb, who has been tracking the industry for almost 40 years. ``it's bad for the whole industry.''
retail industry watchers want to see what loeb called ``innovativeness and testing,'' which helps develop new styles and trends. when there are more retailers buying and experimenting, there is a greater opportunity for growth in the retail industry
friday's announcement of an agreement between federated and campeau ended a grueling takeover battle that began jan. 25. federated resisted campeau's overtures for a month, agreed to negotiate with the canadian company, and then in early march accepted a buyout offer from r.h. macy &amp; co. inc
the wrangling continued for yet another month, until macy agreed on friday to bow out. but the new york-based retailer came away from the fight with the federated divisions it wanted most, bullock's stores in california and the southwest and the san francisco-based i. magnin chain
many retail industry analysts were rooting for macy to win the battle outright. they believed macy would have re-energized federated's department store divisions in much the way macy has revitalized its own image in recent years
campeau, they believed, was interested more in federated's real estate than its retail operations. the stores would give campeau chairman robert campeau an instant entree into major shopping malls in the united states
the expected sale of several of federated's divisions represents a chance for the retailing industry to move in a new direction, but whether that happens depends on who buys the stores
morosky said campeau will retain bloomingdale's, abraham &amp; straus, lazarus and burdine's, as well as tennessee-based goldsmith's and atlanta-based rich's department stores
campeau has already agreed to sell federated's texas-based foley's and boston-based filene's department stores to may department stores co
federated's discount and specialty store chains and its supermarkets divisions are expected to go on the block. however, morosky said, ``after we comple te our review, we might choose to keep certain divisions.''
campeau wants to sell some of the divisions to pay off debt incurred in the federated purchase and to simplify operations, morosky said
thomas tashjian, an analyst with the los angeles investment firm seidler amdec securities inc., said recently that if campeau sells federated's units to larger companies _ such as may _ it would continue the trend toward central control and ``sameness.''
however, he said, if the stores are sold to smaller companies or to entrepreneurial management groups, it would mean increased competition, which in turn leads to growth in the retail industry
the long-term benefit is to the consumer,'' tashjian said
morosky said campeau already has received inquiries from retailers, existing management and real estate developers about some of the federated stores. he said the stores would go on sale several days after the purchase of federated is completed
israeli troops shot and killed six arab protesters saturday on the eve of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz's visit to the middle east. it was the highest one-day death toll in four months of unrest in the occupied territories
the violence, coming at the beginning of the jewish passover holiday, was expected to take its toll on christian easter celebrations as well
church officials have said they expect a severe drop in pilgrims attending the traditional easter sunday mass in jerusalem because of the unrest
thousands of christians usually attend the mass at the 12th-century church of the holy sepulchre, where tradition says jesus christ was crucified and resurrected
in bethlehem, army helicopters buzzed a funeral procession for a slain palestinian and flew over the site where chrisitans believe jesus was born
since dec. 8, 133 palestinians and one israeli soldier have been killed in the violence in the territories occupied by israel in the 1967 middle east war
the most violent clash saturday took place in the seaside gaza strip, where the army said a gang of palestinian protesters hurled knives and metal rods at troops patroling a main street of gaza city
an army spokesman said the protesters tried to seize the soldier's weapons, and troops opened fire to extricate themselves, killing three arabs and wounding two
one israeli soldier suffered medium stab wounds and was taken to nearby tel hashomer hospital, the spokesman said. he said another soldier was slightly injured
troops in the biblical west bank town of bethlehem shot and killed a 23-year-old arab during a battle with hundreds of protesters in the winding, cobblestoned streets of the town's main market
troops also killed a protester in beit liqya, in the west bank 10 miles north of jerusalem, and killed another in nearby deir al sudan when their patrols came under attack, the army spokesman said
palestinian reporters identified the dead as jihad assi, 19 from beit liqya and hamis mahmud ahmed, 41, from deir al sudan
the army's version of the clash in gaza conflicted with reports from u.n. officials, who said the violence began when israelis in civilian clothing got out of two cars and tried to arrest a palestinian youth
christine dabagh, a u.n. spokeswoman in gaza, quoted local residents as saying the boy's father attacked the israelis with an axe, and troops who arrived at the scene killed the father. in the ensuing clash, the boy's uncle was shot and wounded, she said, and two others were killed
palestinian reporters identified the dead men as jamil rashad al kourdy, 55, ahmed samir al kourdy, 40, and hassan al kourdy, 21, all members of the same family
there were conflicting reports on the number of wounded protesters. the army reported two wounded by gunfire, but palestinian journalists set the number as high as 13
in bethlehem, a crowd of easter holiday tourists outside the historic church of the nativity watched as a funeral march for salim hallas el shaer, the 23-year-old shot earlier saturday in bethlehem, become a defiant anti-israeli demonstration
after burying el shaer on the outskirts of bethlehem, about 700 mourners marched back to central manger square chanting: ``plo! israel, no!'' and ``allah akhbar'' (arabic for ``god is great'')
as army helicopters buzzed over the square, the site where tradition says jesus was born, an associated press reporter saw angry mourners smash the windows of the municipality building
el shaer, an electrician, was killed after israeli troops tried to keep a market from opening. groups of youths attacked the soldiers with rocks and the soldiers responded with bullets, witnesses said
the army spokesman said troops only fired when el shaer approached them with an object resembling a firebomb
on the 10-foot-wide street where el shaer was shot, the branch of an olive tree had been placed in a puddle of blood. it was accompanied by a sign which read: ``the heroic martyr, salim.''
the violence came on the eve of shultz's arrival on a middle east swing strongly opposed by palestinian underground leaders, who have accused the secretary of trying to crush their uprising
in the latest underground leaflet, released thursday, leaders called for a three-day general strike monday through wednesday to protest the shultz trip. they also ordered riots ``to block shultz's peace plan and stop him from killing the uprising.'' graf pvs ``for hundreds</note>
america's biotechnology industry, hailed saturday by president reagan for its ``promise to revolutionize medicine, agriculture and protection of the environment,'' is seriously hampered by government delays on patent applications, congressional and industry officials say
reagan, in a radio address from his california ranch, called for renewed u.s. determination to remain the world's scientific leader, noting that ``over the years, we've secured far more patents than any other country.'' he cited biotechnology as one of the most fertile fields for exploration
for hundreds of small biotech companies developing new drugs, plants and other products through molecular biology, the issuance of a patent can mean instant success. but the wait can take more than four years, leaving some firms to ponder the risk of marketing their products without patent protection
in some of the biotech examining units at the u.s. office of patents and trademarks, ``it takes an average of 27 months just to open an application file, and another 25 months to award or deny a patent,'' complained rep. ron wyden, d-ore, whose house small business subcommittee is looking into the problem
biotech products have begun to pour out of the laboratories of the 12-year-old industry, doubling the backlog of patent applications from 3,903 in 1985 to 7,821 by august of last year. by some estimates, 11,000 applications are now pending
according to industry forecasts, biotech sales in u.s. markets will total $650 million this year. barring further bureaucratic snags, the industry projects domestic sales of $3.4 billion by 1993 and $13.2 billion by 1998. international sales could triple the domestic figure, officials say
but ``the longer it takes of patents to be issued, the longer we work in a black hole,'' says hubert j.p. schoemaker, chairman of centocor, inc
that complaint is echoed by officials of genentech, which has begun marketing a much-acclaimed drug known as tpa _ a clot buster for heart attack victims. genentech's patent application is still pending, however, and several other companies are planning to market their own tpa drugs
turnover among biotech patent examiners, lured to private companies by higher pay, has been part of the problem. wyden said the turnover was 50 percent last year, though the patent office has created 10 new biotech positions for a total of 42, and recently consolidated all those positions within a special biotech unit
patent commissioner donald j. quigg said, meanwhile, that the office is seeking approval from the office of personnel management to create special pay rates for the examiners, who usually have a doctorate or master's degree in molecular biology or biochemistry
quigg said the goal of the patent office is to process all applications within 18 months, but that target likely won't be met until 1993 or 1994
to encourage inventions, the constitution gives inventors the right to a short-term exclusive monopoly on products that result from their new ideas. currently, the monopoly lasts 17 years
to make sure the invention is indeed new, and not an obvious twist to existing technology, the patent office examines applications in light of previous patents
lack of patents leads firms to hold their products off the market, or to risk theft of their invention if they sell without full protection. since the united states does not publish applications after 18 months, as all other major countries do, the backlog may lead several companies to undertake duplicate research they would not perform if they knew someone else was likely to win a patent
increasing backlogs in the processing of patent applications will have serious deleterious effects on continuing investment and the maintenance of the united states' leadership position,'' said george b. rathmann, president of amgen inc. of thousand oaks, calif., in testimony to wyden's subcommittee
linda i. miller, a vice president of painewebber inc., a wall street investment firm, found in a survey of four dozen prospectuses by biotechnology companies that nearly all mentioned uncertainty about patent protection as a potential risk for investors
she gave the subcommittee charts of price movements of several stocks, up when specific patents were awarded and down when patent disputes broke out between two companies
the applications backlog appears to be growing at 20 percent a year, she reported
with the lack of clarity of property rights in biotechnology in the united states, many companies are developing similar products _ expending valuable resources, both human and financial _ on me-too programs,'' she said
the man who allegedly stabbed two co-workers to death at an archaeological firm and severely wounded two others was a former prison inmate who was apparently hired out of sympathy, police and friends of the victims said
all four victims were ``stabbed with a knife or other sharp instrument,'' police capt. john sheehan said. he would not say if a weapon had been recovered
the philadelphia daily news reported saturday that the stabbings occurred after the attacker tried to rape one of the women who was killed, but lower merion township detectives refused to confirm that
friday's attack occurred in a house where the archaeological firm, sjs industries, examined artifacts. its excavation was federally mandated as part of a sewer line installation in this philadelphia suburb, said bill stanyard, 32, who has worked with sjs
lower merion township police lt. john maloney identified the dead women as clarice j. dorner, 30, of elk grove village, ill., and annaliese h. killoran, 22, of lynn, mass. they were graduate students in anthropology and archaeology
glenn w. sheehan, 39, of conshohocken, and his pregnant wife, anne m. jensen, 31, were taken to hospitals. they were working on their doctorates in anthropology at bryn mawr college in nearby bryn mawr, said college spokeswoman catherine lafarge
police flooded the wooded area, but failed to find the attacker. police also closed the schuylkill expressway, the state's most congested, for an hour, leading to an accident involving a truck on a side road
police were looking for arthur faulkner, a philadelphia man described as 40 to 45. wcau-tv, quoting police sources, reported that faulkner was released from prison last october after serving time for attempted rape
sheehan's friends said he often hired former convicts whom he felt needed a second chance
john jensen, anne jensen's brother, said he had worked with faulkner and others at the site. he described faulkner as a former inmate who seemed interested in his job as a digger
i just couldn't believe it,'' he said. ``i talked to him yesterday. he was a solid worker, he never complained.''
glenn (sheehan) is on the philadelphia prison board and he got him (faulkner) from there or the salvation army,'' jensen said. ``he had been assured that he had no violent past.''
sheehan is a member of the board of the philadelphia prison society, a prison advocacy group. telephone calls placed saturday to the society and the salvation army went unanswered
sheehan was taken to bryn mawr hospital with stab wounds of the legs, arms and abdomen. hospital spokeswoman elaine mcvay said he was in stable condition saturday
his wife was in serious but stable condition saturday at hahnemann hospital in philadelphia, spokeswoman phyllis fisher said. she suffered multiple stab wounds to the back and had internal injuries, but her fetus apparently suffered no trauma, a spokeswoman said
when he wrote a newspaper column about falling in love with the voice at the automatic teller machine, dick ferry never imagined he would meet the scottish woman who recorded the message
but a local newspaper found the woman and arranged for her to come to central illinois after editors decided ferry ``should get to meet his infatuation.''
sally masterson, a 29-year-old scot who hosts a radio talk show in london, is scheduled to arrive here wednesday
truthfully it is frightening ... that she will be so disappointed in me,'' said ferry, an education professor, columnist and happily-married 60-year-old man
i think i'm in love with a woman i've never seen,'' ferry wrote in his feb. 4 ``prairie talk'' column in the decatur herald &amp; review. ``my infatuation is with the talking teller at the money network station at first national bank downtown
i imagine i must have a lot of competition, too, from any other guy who is a pushover for her seductive, sophisticated high-english way of saying, `please wait while your transaction is processing.'''
the unmarried ms. masterson told the newspaper she was flattered by ferry's interest. ``i'd be delighted to give him his money personally,'' she said
her voice, recorded three years ago in dundee, scotland for ncr corp., was chosen because of its ``very soft-spoken scottish accent, nice and clear,'' said euan williamson, an ncr consultant engineer
the story has made a big splash in the british press, which is calling it a ``romantic rendezvous'' triggered by a scottish accent which is ``driving an american teacher wild,'' the decatur newspaper reported
the decatur paper published the woman's photograph and ferry, a professor at millikin university, said he wasn't disappointed
she's an absolutely beautiful girl. and i think i really should have my wife along when i meet her,'' he said
ferry's wife, carol, says she has been teased her about the competition
i didn't realize i was going to be face-to-face with her,'' mrs. ferry said. ``it's a little unreal. but how would anyone feel if a young sexy person wants to meet your husband. i don't know what to say.'' 4th pvs, `every few...'</note>
eight months after they landed to enforce a peace accord between rival ethnic groups, indian soldiers are chasing a faceless enemy
the tamil rebels, who have waged a four-year war of guerrilla fighting and terrorism against sri lanka's sinhalese majority, seem to be everywhere and nowhere at once
every young man is a potential foe, whether dressed in trousers or the plaid sarongs favored in the steamy heat of this tropical island 18 miles off india's southern coast
every few miles along potholed roads, indian soldiers man sandbagged checkpoints where they halt travelers who come on foot, on bicycles and jammed into minibuses
despite an indian force estimated at 50,000 by the indians and as high as 100,000 by sri lankan officials, a ragtag band of tamil tiger rebels continues to kill and maim indian soldiers, massacre sinhalese villagers and extort money from tamils, sinhalese and moslems alike
the indians say there are about 2,500 hard-core fighters in the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the largest rebel group. the tigers claim there are only 175
more than 8,000 sri lankans, mostly sinhalese, have been killed since 1984. india has lost at least 400 soldiers since oct. 10, 1987, when it launched an offensive to disarm the tigers
the indians sent troops to control the rebels as part of a peace plan they sponsored in july 1987. the agreement granted some autonomy to tamils, but it was rejected by extremists on both sides of the conflict
india, sri lanka's northern neighbor, has a large tamil minority of its own
despite india's firepower, armor, lumbering troop trucks, darting jeep patrols and helicopters _ and allied government forces _ the tigers slip from village to village and even into big towns like batticaloa
in arapattai, 5 miles south of batticaloa on sri lanka's eastern coast, indian soldiers recently checked pedestrians' identity cards and munched snacks purchased in local shops
a five-minute walk away, a man sought by the indians for harboring tiger fighters said the rebels could not be vanquished. ``our fight is reasonable. we must win,'' he said, switching on an electric fan as an elderly relative tended his infant twins
the man asked not to be identified, although the indians know his name and where he lives. they also know that the minute they come after him, his neighbors will sound an alarm and he will slip away _ as he has done several times before _ through the fences of woven palm fronds that make arapattai look like an impenetrable maze
the tigers are fighting for an autonomous region in northern and eastern sri lanka. although tamils make up only 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people, they are a majority in northern and eastern provinces
in eastern province's batticaloa district, the population of about 365,000 is 72 percent tamil. sinhalese account for only 3 percent there, while moslems comprise 25 percent
the tamils say they have been discriminated against in education, jobs and by a 1956 law that made sinhalese the official language of sri lanka. tamils are mainly hindu, and the sinhalese are buddhists
batticaloa, population 46,000, is a town of poor fishermen, small shops and many churches, monuments to the missionary efforts of the dutch, portuguese and british colonial eras
the indian presence keeps armed tigers out of clear sight. but, according to residents who feared for their safety if their names were published, the tigers make themselves felt in other ways
they send notes asking for money. people who refuse are killed,'' a middle-aged tamil said. ``they have people in the banks, so they know how much money we have.''
but that tamil, like others who described the tigers' fund-raising tactics, defended the rebels' cause as a just fight for tamil rights
just because they're militant, they're not unreasonable,'' said one tamil bureaucrat
a occasional land mine or hand grenade explodes in batticaloa near a group of the indian soldiers or the predominantly sinhalese sri lankan police force
sometimes, the indian response is disciplined. other times, it verges on panic, batticaloa residents said
on march 26, a grenade was thrown at the sri lankan police headquarters. no one was hurt by the grenade, but it prompted three hours of gunfire that injured a half-dozen people, including two schoolchildren
sri lankan police officers declined to say whether their men fired, but batticaloa residents said the police apparently started the shooting and the indians followed with automatic rifle fire
the roads were packed with children,'' said the rev. harry miller, a jesuit from new orleans who has spent the past 40 years at st. michael's school. ``the schoolchildren just panicked. they dropped their books and bicycles and ran.''
an indian major, speaking on condition of anonymity, admitted that mistakes have been made. ``there is no doubt there is some confusion,'' he said
the disturbances in soviet armenia may have been instigated by a local leader who was a target of mikhail s. gorbachev's anti-corruption campaign, according to analysts
the local leader may have capitalized on unrest exacerbated by gorbachev's drive for economic reform, known as ``perestroika,'' and his allowance of greater public debate of some topics, known as ``glasnost,'' according to a government analyst
similar disturbances have been reported in each of the 15 republics in the soviet union. and in many instances, the demonstrations grew out of russian resentment of kremlin efforts to help non-russians by giving them jobs and raising their living standards, scholar paul goble of washington said in an article last year
many russians came to the conclusion that what had appeared to be reasonable affirmative action for the non-russians was in fact unreasonable reverse discrimination against themselves,'' goble wrote
that system worked under the late soviet leader leonid brezhnev, who tolerated corruption and widespread inefficiency in the economy. under his leadership, a russian and a non-russian were frequently allowed to hold redundant jobs
but gorbachev, in his effort to streamline the economy, has stepped on a lot of ethnic toes
it is not that he is coming down hard on any ethnic group. it is that he is trying to make the economy more efficient,'' said nancy lubin, a georgetown university professor
ostensibly, the demonstrations in armenia, a largely christian republic, stemmed from armenian desire to administer the largely armenian region of nagorno-karabakh, which is in neighboring azerbaijan, a predominately moslem republic
but the unrest began after party newspapers criticized the armenian party leader, karen demirchyan, said an administration source, who like other government analysts interviewed, spoke on condition of anonymity
demirchyan, 55, named to his post in 1974, was attacked last june by gorbachev, who said that reforms were ``stuck in a rut'' in armenia, and that demirchyan and his underlings showed ``totally unjustified complacency'' toward corruption
reformers in the armenia communist party attempted to oust demirchyan during a meeting of the party central committee last december, but were thwarted, according to elizabeth fuller, a soviet-watcher based in munich
the authoritative communist party daily pravda hinted strongly of a purge in armenia
the absolute majority of armenian working people are honest persons who conscientiously attend their duty, and it is not their fault that the process of democratization and renewal is meeting with fierce resistance of perestroika,'' pravda said in december. ``people yearn for genuine changes.''
the demonstrations in armenia began two months later ``with either the complicity or encouragement of demirchyan,'' said a government analyst. ``we believe he backed them, or encouraged them, to warn moscow that getting rid of him could cause trouble.''
demirchyan has survived the upheaval, although some party leaders in azerbaijan and nagorno-karabakh have been removed
gorbachev's efficiency drive has cost local jobs in kazakhstan, the scene of riots in december 1986. gorbachev abolished the kazakhstan ministry of non-ferrous metallurgy, transferring its functions to a parallel ministry in moscow, but ``throwing a lot of educated kazakhs out of work,'' said a government analyst
similarly, gorbachev's highly celebrated campaign against alcohol has cost jobs in the vineyards of armenia, creating tension there, said the analyst
the ethnic unrest has prompted gorbachev to announce that he will convene the policy-making communist party central committee to discuss the issue at an as yet unannounced date
gorbachev probably will continue to crack down, as he did in armenia and neighboring azerbaijan, ``to show people that they can't get what they want by going to the streets,'' an analyst said
a bus slammed into the back of a water tanker truck on a country road saturday, killing five french tourists and injuring 29, police said
the accident occurred at about 10:00 a.m. when the greek tour bus, carrying 47 french tourists to the ancient ruins and theater of epidauros, hit the back end of the truck, flipped over and crashed into an orange grove, police said
the bus was directly behind the truck. the truck took a left turn and the bus hit it from behind, flipped over two or three times and crashed into the orange trees,'' said a police official speaking on condition of anonymity
the official said two men, a woman and a young girl were killed instantly. a woman died after being taken to the athens kat hospital. seven of the seriously injured were also transported to the hospital, he said. the other 22 injured were being treated at corinth general hospital
the spokesman said the accident occurred near the seaside village of loutra oraias elenis, 27 miles south of corinth
he said the french tourists had left athens early saturday for the 114-mile trip to epidauros
the cause of the accident was not immediately known
officials identified the dead as claude patte, 44, michel patrick, 40, anne eugenie jouan, 9, and marie gabion, no age available. another woman killed in the collision was identified only by the surname dorre
police said all the tourists were from paris
an estonian nationalist, his family and the wife of another nationalist were kicked out of the soviet union on saturday, according to a spokesman for a stockholm-based estonian nationalist organization
mart kikerpuu, spokesman for hjalpcentralen, an organization which specializes in helping political refugees from the soviet republic, said one of the expelled, jaan nomm, held a nationalistic speech in tallinn last feb. 24, on the 70th anniversary of estonia's pre-soviet independence
the organization said this was why he was forced to leave
nomm was accompanied by his wife and two children, kikerpuu said
his oldest son, eke-part nomm, a buddhist activist, was expelled to sweden on feb. 13 along with another buddhist, vello vaartnou
the fifth estonian who arrived in sweden saturday was the wife of vaartnou, kikerpuu said
a diesel oil spill floated along about 50 miles of the ohio river on saturday, and the coast guard and state officials were searching for the source of the fuel
we want to make sure it's not still flowing into the river,'' said lt. eric mosher. ``we're looking for the source and have teams from louisville and cincinnati making bank searches.''
the oil extended from the area of madison in southeastern indiana to louisville
indiana conservation authorities also helped in the search, mosher added. barge fleets, towboats and holding tanks along the river were all being checked
mosher said the water was too choppy for an attempt to contain the oil slick
the spill apparently caused no serious problem for communities that use the river as a source of drinking water and mosher said none of them had closed water intake valves
we're treating (the river water) for some of the byproducts of oil, but the river is relatively warm and it doesn't look like it's emulsifying and it looks like it will float past,'' said jerry ford, manager of administrative services for the louisville water co
shutting down (intake valves) is always an alternative to treating, but when you have oil byproducts that will float on top of the water, normally you don't have that much effect,'' ford said. he noted that the intake valves are on the river bottom
indiana state police sgt. james hickerson said the slick was not thick and heavy all the way, but there were traces for the entire distance
patrolman tim armstrong, in madison, ind., said his department began getting reports of a strong diesel smell from the river about 7:30 p.m. friday, and the spill was discovered after sunup saturday morning
officials were unable to say what effect the spill might have on the environment
it depends on (the oil's) consistency as to whether or not it will threaten wildlife,'' ford said
we've had no fish kill and haven't observed loss of any marine life,'' said sgt. carroll henneke of the indiana department of natural resources. ``we don't anticipate any simply because this appears to be floating. if it doesn't settle in, we don't expect to lose any of our fishery.''
riot police fought hundreds of firebomb-throwing radical students saturday after the police used tear gas to keep the students from marching off a campus
riot police fired multiple tear gas launchers at about 500 students from a dozen seoul universities when they tried to march out of yonsei university after a pro-labor rally. students immediately streamed out of the campus and battled riot police for several hours
no serious injuries or arrests were reported
during the rally, student leaders denounced the government of president roh tae-woo as just another authoritarian regime. they had gathered to show support for workers who want higher wages and more independent unions
labor disputes have increased sharply since roh took office feb. 25, as have protests by anti-government students
since his election in december, roh has promised to better the lot of workers. but his government has also vowed to deal harshly with violent protests to ensure the country's stability and steady economic development
violent labor protests battered many south korean companies last summer following widespread protests that led former president chun doo-hwan to agree to democratic reforms
those reforms included the direct elections in which roh was chosen without having won a majority when two rival opposition candidates split the anti-government vote
members of a satanic cult have been frightened by the paranoia aroused by rumors that the cult was planning a human sacrifice, authorities say
they're keeping kind of low,'' magnolia police chief smithie buie said of the cult members friday
terrified parents kept hundreds of students out of schools in the nearby southern mississippi town of mccomb thursday as a precaution against a rumored list of potential student victims
but an unidentified source within the group informed police that ``they didn't want to hurt or frighten anyone,'' buie said
police in pike county reported a quiet evening thursday, the night, according to rumors, that satanists were to march down a mccomb street before sacrificing a young virgin
we didn't receive a single report thursday night,'' pike county sheriff robert lawson said friday
buie said the cult has existed since at least the 1960s and although its members occasionally sacrifice animals, including cats and dogs, they haven't been known to harm people
the midnight meetings are attended by between five and 20 couples, mostly between 17 and 23 years old, and are followed by group sex, buie said the source reported. new members traditionally are recruited by word of mouth and are required to sacrifice an animal, he said
i think they're mainly in it for the orgies,'' buie said
participants may be guilty of cruelty to animals and trespassing, buie said, but they change their ritual sites and police never know where they will meet
actually, as long as they are peaceful, we'd probably never know what was happening,'' the police chief said. ``also there's a question of a man having a right to his own worship.''
the animal liberation front claimed responsibility saturday for a raid on a large hatchery in what it called an ``easter liberation for life'' for at least 28 hens
members of the underground group broke into the davis poultry co. &amp; egg ranch in rural gilroy late friday, stole 28 hens and spraypainted the walls and grounds, said santa clara county deputy sheriff roland perez
the underground group said it raided the farm because of alleged ``atrocious conditions'' such as overcrowding and disease, according to margo tannenbaum, president of action for animals in san bernardino
tannenbaum said she was asked by the animal liberation front to speak for them. the group claimed it took more than 78 laying hens, but did not say what it did with them
the raid was the second by the group this easter season. it also took responsibility for a march 27 raid on a rabbit-breeding company in hayward, where 73 rabbits were taken in protest over the slaughter of rabbits for medical research, furs and meat
perez said a book on animal liberation was left behind and that the sheriff's department would increase patrols of the area. he said the three owners of the poultry farm were meeting with investigators
the owners could not immediately be reached for comment by telephone. a clerk at the farm said she knew nothing about the raid
in its statement, the animal liberation front said: ``a hatchery perpetuates the most abominable animal exploitation and abuse. we want everyone to think about how these hens live in order to furnish the eggs that are decorated in the celebration of `eternal life.'''
the group called its two raids an ``easter liberation for life.''
tannenbaum, who was also used as a media conduit after the rabbit-breeding company raid, told the associated press in a telephone interview that six members of the underground group participated in the hatchery raid
czechoslovak cardinal frantisek tomasek said in an interview published saturday that the czechoslovak government lost credibility when it broke up a peaceful demonstration for religious freedom last week
the roman catholic cardinal was quoted in the austrian daily kurier as saying that the demonstration in bratislava march 25 ``was a step towards more religious freedom and the government must take this into account.''
eyewitnesses estimated about 2,000 roman catholics took part in the protest on bratislava's downtown hviezdoslav square. officials said 125 people were arrested and later released. riot police and water cannons broke up the demonstration, which had been banned in advance
the czechoslovak government, through this measure, lost even more credibility,'' tomasek was quoted as saying in early sunday editions
tomasek, 88, said the roman catholic church is 99 percent laymen. ``it is the duty of the laymen to demonstrate for their rights,'' he was quoted as saying
the slovak communist party daily pravda charged saturday that the organizers of the demonstration were interested in the church and religious freedom ``only as long as they can misuse them politically against the socialist state.''
according to the czechoslovak state news agency ctk which carried parts of the editorial, pravda said religious activists intended to harm talks between the czechoslovak leadership and the vatican on filling 10 vacant bishoprics
tomasek complained in the kurier interview that the czechoslovak delegation which is to travel to the vatican for the next round of negotiations later this month was ``negotiating in rome about us, but without us.'' the paper said czechoslovak authorities had not allowed him to take part
austrian cardinal franz koenig, in a seperate interview with kurier, praised the strength of religious belief in the east bloc
what the believers in these countries want _ and the pope supports them in this _ is not an upset of the political relations, but the possibility as christians to live their beliefs in a state system which is officially based on atheism,'' koenig was quoted as saying
the former archbishop of vienna said he thought pope john paul ii's visit to austria in june would be a ``bridge between east and west in europe.''
what the pope says in austria will also be heard in yugoslavia, in czechoslovakia and beyond and will be followed with interest,'' koenig was quoted as saying in the kurier interview
thousands of hungarian and slovene catholics are expected to come to austria to see the pope. down</head>
former attorney general elliot richardson, a casualty of the ``saturday night massacre'' in 1973, added his voice on saturday to those calling for attorney general edwin meese iii to step down
richardson said on cable news network's ``newsmaker saturday'' program that meese ``has forfeited confidence'' and should resign
too many questions'' have been raised, he said, and meese ``was too close to too many questionable dealings,'' which are being investigated by an independent counsel
richardson resigned on oct. 20, 1973, a saturday, after refusing to carry out an order from president nixon to fire special prosecutor archibald cox. at the time, cox was investigating the white house's involvement in the watergate scandal
richardson said that as a private citizen, meese is entitled to full protection of the law, just as any citizen is. but, he said that as the nation's chief law enforcement official, meese must be held to a higher standard
it is absolutely vital that there be maintained the highest possible public confidence in the integrity of the department'' of justice, richardson said
independent counsel james mckay is investigating meese's conduct in connection with a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project and a possible conflict of interest involving meese's telephone company stock
mckay said friday he had insufficient evidence to date to warrant indicting meese in either case, but the investigation is continuing
attackers with rifles, spears and machetes raided a village and hacked 15 men to death in what appeared to be ongoing violence between tribes, police said saturday
all the victims were borans. the borans have have quarreled with another pastoral tribe, the somalis, over land and water in arid northern kenya, said a police source who spoke on condition of anonymity
police commissioner philip kilonzo was quoted in nairobi newspapers as saying the attack occurred wednesday night at a manyatta, one of the temporary settlements erected by pastoral tribes
authorities said the area is so remote that it took two days for word of the massacre to reach the nearest town, garbatulla, which is 320 miles north of nairobi, the capital
kilonzo said police were sent to the area to track the killers. he did not speculate on why the villagers were killed or who was responsible
one nairobi newspaper said the intruders were rustlers who made off with 2,000 goats after the raid. another newspaper called the killers ``bandits,'' but offered no explanation for the killings. both newspapers quoted police. used in escape. pick up 12 pvs, `mrs. aquino...'</note>
the military rushed extra troops to the presidential palace saturday and launched a nationwide hunt for the leader of an august coup attempt after he escaped from prison
military leaders warned that former lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan, who escaped with 14 prison guards and who remains a popular figure in the armed forces, might try to topple the government again
if he pursues his attempts to change the government and lead the afp (armed forces of the philippines), then we will have a problem,'' military spokesman col. oscar florendo said saturday. ``we are asking the support of the citizens to help us. we anticipate they (the rebels) will go on with consolidation and propaganda and they will again try to divide the afp.''
honasan, 39, escaped from a prison ship before dawn saturday with 14 elite navy personnel who were supposed to be guarding him. he had been confined there since his arrest dec. 9 for the aug. 28 attempted coup, which left at least 53 people dead and hundreds wounded
his daring escape was a blow to the prestige of the armed forces, already facing threats from communist and moslem rebels
president corazon aquino hurried back to manila saturday after the escape, interrupting an easter holiday in northern luzon for emergency meetings and a nationally televised address
i have instructed the chief of staff to issue a warning in unmistakable terms to all military personnel that any assistance given to the renegades will be dealt with promptly and severely with the full force of the law,'' she said in the address
mrs. aquino, who had refused to grant amnesty to honasan, appealed to the public for help in tracking him down. she said he fled to avoid court-martial for mutiny and sedition, arson, murder and conduct unbecoming an officer. his escape, she added, ``is tantamount to an admission of his guilt.''
justice secretary sedfrey ordonez hinted the government would shut down news organizations if it felt their reports in any way helped the rebels' cause. honasan had given several interviews to local and foreign media before his arrest in a manila suburb
florendo said honasan fled from the ``andres bonifacio'' prison vessel with a navy lieutenant and 13 enlisted men. the ship was anchored in manila bay about 500 yards from navy headquarters
they escaped in dinghies that had been sent to the ship to increase security after reports that honasan would try to escape. florendo said loyal guards fired on the fleeing boats but apparently missed
mrs. aquino said the prison ship's captain had been arrested and he and members of his crew would face court-martial for negligence
military officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the former colonel was so popular that he had become the dominant figure aboard the vessel which was supposed to be his prison. he remains widely respected in the 160,000-member armed forces even though he has officially been dismissed from the military
meanwhile, the government rushed to strengthen security in and around the capital saturday. trucks and bulldozers blocked entrances to military camps in manila, and mobile checkpoints were set up on roads leading north
defense secretary fidel v. ramos said the military was ``taking every possible action to bring him (honasan) back and to minimize or neutralize any further demage that he can make.''
despite the crisis, presidential spokesman teodoro benigno said mrs. aquino would go ahead with a visit to china, scheduled to begin april 14
honasan, a former defense ministry chief of security, played a key role in the feb. 22, 1986, civilian-military uprising that toppled president ferdinand marcos and brought mrs. aquino to power. but he later accused mrs. aquino of weak and inept leadership in the face of the communist insurgency
in august, honasan led 2,000 men in a coup on the presidential palace and seized several media and military installations in the capital. but they were driven off by pro-aquino forces
it was the most serious of six major plots to unseat mrs. aquino. honasan escaped and went into hiding before his arrest four months later. the military says 11 officers and 90 enlisted men involved in the coup attempt remain at large
mrs. aquino said saturday that honasan had carried out his coup attempt while facing investigation into misappropriation of military equipment. she also said he wanted to avoid a combat command
an ethiopian rebel group claimed saturday that it controls the main route for transporting food for millions of ethiopians facing starvation
assefa mamoa, spokesman for the tigre people's liberation front, said the road between the northernmost provinces of tigre and eritrea ``is only open for humanitarian assistance.''
we are calling upon the humanitarian organizations to go on with their operations and the tplf will guarantee their security,'' he said in a telephone call from washington to the associated press bureau in nairobi
mamoa said the front took control of the road thursday. the rebels' claims could not be verified, but the soviet-backed marxist government in the ethiopian capital, addis ababa, has acknowledged the rebels made some advances amid heavy fighting
tigre and eritrea are the worst-hit areas in a drought that has threatened about 7 million ethiopians with starvation. fighting in both regions has disrupted emergency relief efforts
because of rebel activities, the government often closes roads in the regions, cutting off truck convoys carrying food. most of the food reaching tigre comes in by road after being unloaded at the eritrean port of massawa on the red sea
david morton, director of ethiopian operations for the world food program, said a u.n. convoy used the road monday to deliver food to the town of wukro and returned along the same road tuesday. he said both trips were without incident
mamoa also claimed that government troops on thursday abandoned the northern tigre town of adigrat. the front previously announced the capture thursday of the towns of axum and adowa
the only remaining major areas held by the ethiopian government are the (provincial) capital, makelle, and maichew,'' mamoa said. ``the situation of the ethiopian military forces is collapsing.''
ethiopian president mengistu haile mariam said in a radio broadcast thursday that his troops were fighting ``grim battles'' against secessionist rebels in tigre and eritrea. it was a rare acknowledgement
mengistu inherited the insurgencies 13 years ago when he and a group of fellow army officers dethroned emperor haile selassie and set up a marxist government
eritrean rebels have been fighting for 27 years in africa's oldest civil war. the civil war in tigre is in its 14th year
a scallop fisherman's net snagged part of a solid-fuel rocket booster in the atlantic ocean east of here, and the boat brought the dangerous catch into port
the 1,000-pound booster piece, about 7 feet square, contained unspent fuel that could have ignited if heated, said dave sargeant, assistant fire chief of the cape canaveral volunteer fire department
air force spokesmen identified it as part of a delta rocket booster; many such rockets have been launched from the cape canaveral complex
the 75-foot triton ii, operated by canaveral seafoods, netted the motor thursday while scalloping 22 miles east of the port, said u.s. coast guard petty officer dan brosseau
brosseau said the ship's captain, billy phillips, notified the coast guard of his cargo when he reached port friday. sargeant said firefighters had some difficulty clearing the area because few people believed the benign-looking debris was dangerous
people just didn't understand what it was they were handling,'' sargeant said. ``it's non-toxic until it burns
air force ordnance experts trucked the motor to the cape canaveral air force station, where it will be burned, said capt. ken warren, an air force spokesman at patrick air force base
warren said the debris was identified as a castor 4 rocket motor, a solid-fuel booster used primarily on delta rockets
the booster is manufactured at a plant in huntsville, ala., said rocky raab, manager of external affairs for morton thiokol inc. in brigham city, utah. the propellant, about the consistency of a rubber eraser, will burn, but not explode, if ignited
a national guardsman spent a night in jail and faces a court-martial over what he says was his inability to roll up his sleeves because his arms are too big
ronald brown, a muscular escambia county utilities authority meter reader in civilian life, was arrested thursday by sheriff's deputies on a warrant for failing to appear at a feb. 23 court-martial
capt. james welsh, who will preside over the court-martial, said he doesn't think brown is telling everything he did wrong. brown is charged with disobeying an order
think to yourself, there's got to be more to it,'' welsh said. guard officials ``aren't that thin-skinned.''
brown, who was released friday on orders of his battalion commander, said he was told to roll his sleeves up while taking down tents following an exercise last november. brown said he was unable to comply because his arms were too big for his shirtsleeves
he said that a month later he was accused by a lieutenant of willfully disobeying an order and asked if he would voluntarily accept an unspecified punishment. brown said he refused and asked to speak to a higher authority
he said he didn't hear anything more about it until february when a clerk mentioned a hearing in his case, but he insisted he never received formal notification of the court-martial
the guard says three registered mail notices were sent to him
if they say i got three notices they must have been delivered to the wrong mailbox,'' brown said. ``the national guard should have just given me a phone call to tell me about the court-martial. they've got my number.''
capt. gary griffith, commander of the 417th signal battalion, said brown failed to go to the post office to pick up the registered letters and that he suspected the part-time soldier knew what was in the envelopes
griffith rescheduled the court-martial for may 19
angolan rebels killed 57 government soldiers and shot down a cuban-piloted helicopter in three attacks last week, the rebels said in a statement issued here saturday
the national union for the total independence of angola, which is fighting the communist government with u.s. and south african backing, said it killed 51 angolan soldiers last sunday in tota in the northern coffee-growing province of lunda
the unita rebels said they captured 63 soviet-made ak-47 automatic rifles and destroyed three trucks
in another attack, the group said it shot down the soviet-built mi-28 helicopter, killing its cuban crew, close to the southern town of menongue. the statement did not say how many cubans were on board or give the date of the attack
in the third attack, the rebels said they killed six enemy soldiers from an army patrol monday near the town of luma-kassai in lunda province
the statement gave rebel casualties in the attacks as four killed and seven wounded
there was no independent confirmation of the claims
unita has been fighting since 1975 to force the cuban- and soviet-backed government to share power in the former portuguese colony
if officials in china can work out the details, a chinese-owned winery next year might join the growing lineup of foreign-owned california wineries
so far china has never had a winery outside of china; we have to make research first,'' guo song-quon, chief winemaker of a leading chinese winery, said friday through an interpreter
guo's place of business is tianjin's 80,000-case-a-year heavenly palace winery south of beijing
heavenly palace has been marketing its ``spring moon'' brand in the united states since september, mostly in chinese restaurants. the wine, a medium-dry, fruity muscat, is the only export label in the heavenly palace line
china has been making an intensive effort to earn foreign exchange as fast as possible, and a quality california winery _ participating in a strong premium wine boom _ would help in that direction
at last count, there were 39 foreign-owned wineries out of about 650 in california
if the chinese join the lineup, their foreign colleagues in this state would include british, five wineries; canadians, seven; french, 11; west germans, two; belgians, one; swiss, five; spanish, two; japanese, five; and thais, 1
guo, the son of guo qichang, china's senior winemaker and a top official of the china's ministry of light industry, has been on a whirlwind tour of california wineries this week, he said in an interview
i will make a full report that will go back to the chinese government,'' said guo, who has visited wineries in the sonoma, napa and central valleys. he expressed admiration for the california style of winemaking
especially under study, said guo, is the american system of wine-marketing
what is marketing?'' he said, expressing the question as a statement. ``in china, we don't understand marketing ... even bottling ... we have a lot of problems with bottling in china; there is nothing modern like in california. we want china to follow the american (wine) system.''
through an interpreter, guo said preliminary plans for chinese investment in california wine call for an operation independent of the government, with home winery funds and dollars borrowed from u.s. banks. and disagreement with jackson; picks up 6th graf pvs, bgng: first, on...</note>
democratic presidential hopeful michael dukakis on saturday blamed arab leaders for the failure of middle east peace initiatives and said he disagreed strongly with jesse jackson on policies in the region
positioning himself for the crucial new york primary in two weeks, the massachusetts governor said that the question of a palestinian homeland should be resolved in the direct negotiations between israel and its neighbors
we will reach out to those on all sides, in all countries, who believe in a future of peace and security,'' dukakis said in a major foreign policy speech before about 600 people at the university of wisconsin at oshkosh. ``negotiations with the palestinian people are possible. negotiations with terrorists are not.''
dukakis has been reluctant to point out where he disagrees with rival jesse jackson on the issues, but he did so when asked about jackson's embrace of plo leader yasser arafat and whether the plo and israel are ``morally equivalent
i don't agree with him,'' dukakis said
that relatively mild statement contrasted sharply with sen. albert gore jr.'s denunciation of jackson's foreign policy ideas in the same area earlier this week
with the speech and a later news conference, dukakis was trying to make certain that rival presidential hopeful gore does not appear more committed to israel than he does _ a key issue with jewish voters who may make up a quarter of the new york electorate
aides denied the speech was designed to respond to gore but admitted it should blunt the controversy about gore's comments
on another matter, dukakis said the united states has the full right to defend the panama canal, and that he does not oppose president reagan's dispatch of more troops there in light of the unrest in panama
first on saturday, dukakis turned his attention to blue-collar voters in the wisconsin primary on tuesday. at a labor roundtable in kenosha, his approach was a combination of competence and earthiness
my friends, this is not a lot of talk. i know how to do things,'' the massachusetts governor told the crowd. ``after seven years of charisma, maybe it is time we had a little competence in the white house.''
twice in his speech, dukakis used an expletive, an unusual action for a politican with a repuation as a controlled technocrat
hell, i'm the only candidate in this race who has ever balanced a budget,'' he said at one point
then boasting about the benefits of full employment, dukakis added: ``hell, they are paying six bucks an hour in mcdonalds in my state, because they can't get people. it's a wonderful, wonderful thing. that's the kind of future i want to build for this country.''
in his foreign policy speech, dukakis touched on a range of issues, but the biggest chunk dealt with the middle east
dukakis called for a continuation of the camp david peace process, which he said was the ``unfulfilled'' vision of the late egyptian president anwar sadat and former israeli prime minister menachem begin
why? because few arab leaders have had the courage to see the middle east as sadat saw it. few arab leaders have had the wisdom to choose reconciliation over conflict, to choose hope instead of hate; to prepare for the future rather than relive the wars of the past,'' he said
dukakis made abundantly clear his commitment to israel
the first thing anyone must understand about the middle east is that we will never let israel down,'' he said . ``for decades, america leaders have know and the american people have understood, that israel's fate is our fate ... that our security interests are linked and that our historical and cultural bonds cannot and will not broken
israel _ like the united states _ is a special place.''
after support for israel, dukakis laid down three other tenets of his middle east policy
the second was the necessity for direct negotiations between israel and its neighbors
third was a continuation of the camp david understandings on the future of the west bank and the gaza strip
that framework recognizes the right of the people of the territories to shape their own destiny in a way that is consistent with israel's right to exist within safe and security and recognized borders,'' he said
and fourth, dukakis condemned the soviet union and china for continuing a major flow of arms into the middle east, particularly china's sale of medium-range missiles to saudi arabia
dukakis did not mention his dispute with gore over a letter 30 u.s. senators signed on march 3, encouraging secretary of state george shultz to pursue his peace plan and criticizing israeli leaders for not cooperating with the effort
on central america, dukakis praised the progress toward peace in the region, castigating the reagan administration for being unable to ``cope with the threat of peace'' there
dukakis also brought up u.s. policy toward south africa where he declared the president must ``say `no' to apartheid; `no' to racism; ``no to doing business with south africa.''
china's liberal economic reforms have caused a major increase in economic crimes, debt cases and divorce, the president of the supreme people's court said saturday
zheng tianxiang told the national people's congress, china's legislature, that since a crackdown on white-collar crime began in 1983 about 760,000 people have been sentenced to punishments ranging from a jail term of five years to execution
he also said there were 547,000 divorce cases last year, almost half the 1.2 million civil cases heard
china's reforms, started in 1976 after the fall of the ultra-leftist gang of four, have loosened state controls over business and opened the nation to foreign influences
but they also have prompted the ``corrupt and ugly'' phenomenon of nouveau riche ``upstarts who use money to seduce or philander with women, and even take concubines,'' zheng said
in addition, bribery, embezzlement and speculation have become commonplace, he said
from august 1983 to the end of 1987, the nation's courts passed judgment on 2 million people for white-collar crime. about 38 percent, or 760,000, received sentences of at least five years in jail, he said
last year the number of criminals given sentences of 10 years or more for such crimes more than doubled, zheng said, although he did not provide figures
zheng said that of the offenders since 1983, government employees made up 15 percent while 28 percent were factory workers
zheng did not say how many people were sentenced to die
foreign analysts have estimated that more than 10,000 people have been executed since 1983, but china has never released figures on capital punishment. it is unclear how many people were executed for white-collar crime
zheng said the growth of nongovernmental loans, many without written contracts and with high interest rates, has led to a sharp jump in debt cases. last year, there were 256,000 cases, eight times the 1983 figure
divorce cases are also up, he said, partly because women have become more economically independent under the government's reform policies
some women with greater economic means ``cannot bear the bond of arranged marriage or maltreatment by their husband, thus demanding divorces. their demand is progressive and the people's courts give them full support according to law,'' he said
in a separate speech, yang yichen, head of the supreme people's procuratorate, or prosecutor's office, said 1,500 leading officials had been prosecuted over the past five years for such crimes as tax evasion, trademark counterfeits and manufacturing fake and faulty commodities
zheng said the courts continued to deal with cases of people wronged during the leftist anarchy of the 1966-76 cultural revolution. he said courts had taken up 789,000 related criminal cases, and new verdicts were given in 286,000 cases
an organization of libyan exiles opposed to libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi said saturday an army officer had defected and denounced ``gadhafi's bloody rule.''
the statement was distributed by the cairo-based national front for the salvation of libya _ nfsl
it said libyan lt. col. abdallah ahmed khaled al-sheikhy had joined the nfsl because it is ``the honorable force struggling to overthrow gahafi's bloody rule.''
the statement was not signed by the officer and there was no way to independently verity the claim
the nfsl has reported two other defections of libyan colonels in the past nine days, but did not say where the officers were
a salvation of libya statement on march 30 was signed by col. saleh mohammed and said he had joined the nfsl
five days earlier, a statement said the chief of libya's forces in chad, col. khalifah abu el-kassem haftar, had defected to the nfsl. the statement gave no details but an nfsl spokesman said haftar had been a prisoner of war in chad
libya claims a large zone of northern chad and the dispute has provoked frequent battles between the north african neighbors. gadhafi also backs chadian rebel forces
the 500-foot highway of steel over the little missouri river is more than just a bridge to this small village on the fort berthold indian reservation
this one possesses personality, they say, so much so they refer to it by name _ lost bridge
the 20-foot-wide, three-span truss bridge was erected in 1929 when it only connected two dusty cattle trails, said bill jennings, assistant bridge engineer for the state highway department
they built a bridge that had no access to it,'' said lisa redford, a spokesman for mandaree inc
now that state highway 22 crosses the bridge, the state wants to build a replacement, and mandaree inc. hopes to preserve the old span as a focus for development
people old enough to remember its origin are still baffled. ``i don't even know why they built it,'' fred lone fight said
nobody used lost bridge before garrison dam was built downstream in the 1950s and lake sakakawea blocked many roads, pamela black hawk recalled
eventually, highway 22 became a paved ribbon of asphalt and the bridge, part of the shortest western route around the lake, got far more use. the state wants to replace it with a modern bridge that's 16 feet wider and can carry heavier loads, jennings said
so the state is searching for a buyer for the steel structure and is offering $50,000 to aid in moving it. if no one takes the bridge, it will be torn down
mandaree inc. is exploring the possibility of essentially adopting the bridge. the group envisions using it for a fishing site, the focal point of a place for prairie-weary travelers to stop for rest or a picnic, said redford
that would preserve lost bridge for its historic and sentimental importance, she said
the bridge sits 10 miles south of mandaree in a picturesque valley of rolling river bluffs that are void of any man-made structures except for the highway itself and an occasional highway sign
driving into the valley, the sun-drenched metal bridge glistens as it stands against a backdrop of prairie grass
any group that agrees to preserve the bridge gets at least $50,000 _ the estimated expense for tearing it down _ from the state, jennings said
the deadline for assuming ownership of bridge is november, he said. mandaree inc. hopes to make a decision within the next few weeks, redford said
we are looking right now into the liabilities and what the federal guidelines call for in maintaining a (historic) bridge,'' said redford
the history is what makes it unique,'' jennings said. ``the fact they call it a lost bridge.''
a new bridge just west of lost bridge will cost an estimated $1 million, he said. the state hopes to begin construction in 1990
in the early 1970s, the state tried to give away a rainbow-arch bridge over the cannonball river but found no takers, jennings recalled
they took a lot of pictures, wrote up quite a documentary on it, and destroyed the bridge,'' he said. than seats</head>
china's legislature blew a small breath of democracy into the government on saturday by approving a bill that for the first time allows candidates to compete for seats on its standing committee
from now on, the 2,794 delegates to the national people's congress will elect its 155-member standing committee
as before, 20 candidates, including the chairman and vice chairmen, will be chosen by the congress' ruling presidium and elected without opposition, but now 144 candidates will compete for the other 135 seats
deputies can vote against a candidate or abstain, but the 20 without opposition can be defeated only if they get fewer than half of votes cast
only two delegates opposed and one abstained in the vote to approve the procedure
the congress ruled out more than one candidate for such posts as president and vice president, congress chairman, chairman of the central military commission and president of the supreme people's court
it said the presidium will fill those key posts ``in line with the opinions of the majority of deputies.''
the presidium will also elect the premier, vice premiers, ministers, state councilors and other government officers, with a single candidate for each post submitted by the president
acting premier li peng is certain to be formally named head of government
china says the current session of the congress has been the most open and democratic ever. official newspapers and national television have spotlighted debate among the delegates and speeches voicing opposition to various policies
still, the communist party and its governing politburo remain in firm control over decisions of policy and personnel. the congress' main function is still to rubber-stamp moves by the party. insert two grafs after 5th graf pvs: a tenuous .... pick up 6th graf pvs: kuwait's ruler...</note>
iraq said saturday its forces killed thousands of iranian troops and overran bases of iranian-backed kurdish rebels in mountainous northeastern iraq
iranian warplanes bombed an iraqi garrison in the region, tehran radio reported, but iran's news media had no immediate comment on the iraqi victory claim
iran's islamic republic news agency reported that iraqi forces were leveling the kurdish town of seyyed sadiq in sulaymaniyah province and its inhabitants were seeking refuge in nearby towns
kurdish separatist leader jalal talabani confirmed there was heavy fighting and said iraq was ``waging a genocide campaign against our people through the daily use of poison gas.''
a tenuous halt in the ``war of the cities'' held as iraq continued to silence its long-range missile launchers for the duration of a trip to baghdad by turkish prime minister turgut ozal. iran did not report any attacks on civilian targets either
iraqi foreign minister tariq aziz reaffirmed his nation's readiness to continue the halt even after ozal returns to turkey, probably sunday evening, the iraqi news agency reported
but it quoted him as saying the truce would continue only if iran accepted several iraqi demands, including an iranian withdrawal from iraqi territory, that iran has repeatedly scoffed at
kuwait's ruler issued a new appeal to iran to end the war with iraq through negotiations
baghdad radio quoted a high command communique as saying iraqi troops ``completely purged'' the area around qara dagh in the sulaymaniyah region of iraq in the last two weeks
qala dagh is only 20 miles west of lake darbandikhan, where iranian revolutionary guards have thrust into iraq in a 16-day-old offensive
the iraqi news agency quoted its correspondent as saying thousands of iranians were killed. he did not give figures for casualties among the kurdish guerrillas
the correspondent also specifically denied a report, carried friday by the associated press, that kurdish rebels were within five miles of a major highway linking sulaymaniyah with other iraqi cities
the communique quoted by baghdad radio said ``all traitors have finally been destroyed,'' in a reference to the iranian-backed kurdish rebels who have been fighting baghdad for an independent homeland for years
it said an iraqi force, including kurdish fighters loyal to baghdad, had overrun 21 kurdish bases and villages used by the guerrillas in the last few days
tehran radio said iranian warplanes bombed an iraqi garrison at shanandari, in the heart of the area of hostilities, ``inflicting heavy losses and damage.''
talabani, leader of one of the two main kurdish rebel groups, the patriotic union of kurdistan, said an iraqi chemical attack on the village of seo-o-saru earlier last week killed 60 kurdish villagers and wounded 211
they are now resorting to a scorched-earth policy, killing defenseless women and children indiscriminately and destroying whole villages,'' he said in london on friday
irna reported that iranian troops who were nearby heard ``several huge explosions'' coming from seyyed sadiq on saturday and ``many buildings in the iraqi town have been demolished.''
it said groups of inhabitants were escaping from the town to nearby towns and villages
massud barzani, leader of the other big rebel group, the kurdish democratic party, had said several days ago that the iraqi army launched a major offensive against the guerrillas march 23
he said two divisions of troops, backed by tanks, artillery and air strikes, were seeking to dislodge rebel fighters and their allies, the patriotic union of kurdistan, from the qara dagh mountains between kirkuk and the provincial capital of sulaymaniyah
an iraqi division usually numbers about 12,000 men
the villages are north of the iranian bridgehead around lake darbandikhan, where iran claims iraqi chemical bombing attacks march 16-17 on ``liberated'' kurdish towns killed 5,000 civilians and injured 5,000 more
kuwait's ruler, sheik jaber al-ahmed al-sabah, said in an address at the inauguration of the sixth conference of arab justice ministers, ``judging by islamic and arab history, we find that inter-islamic wars did not provide any radical solution to problems.''
he called on iran ``to abide by the islamic teachings, stick to good neighborliness and accept reconciliation and dialogue instead of aggression and the continuation of war and destruction.''
sheik jaber's peace appeal came only three days after three iranian gunboats opened fire on a military post on kuwait's bubiyan island, wounding two kuwaiti soldiers
the daring prison escape of the leader of the august coup attempt raised new doubts about military leadership under president corazon aquino's government
the flight saturday of former lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan, with 14 prison guards from an elite navy unit, came four days after the military boasted of the arrest of seven top communist rebels
how was it possible, because he was on a ship and under guard?'' sen. juan ponce enrile said of the escape. ``how could it happen?''
honasan, 39, served as security chief when enrile, now an opposition leader, was minister of defense
before dawn saturday, honasan fled the prison ship where he had been held since his capture in december. the 14 officers from the navy's special warfare unit were supposed to be guarding him, but they fled with him
honasan and the guards escaped under gunfire from other guards and reached shore in two rubber dinghies a few hundred yards from navy headquarters
in what may be worse for the military's image, spokesman col. oscar florendo acknowledged the armed forces learned last week of a possible escape attempt and had doubled the guard force on the ship. the dinghies had come with the increased security
mrs. aquino announced saturday that the vessel's commander, lt. cmdr. fred tuvilla, had been arrested and may face court-martial for negligence
she also threatened to punish any soldiers who help honasan. he and other military dissidents were responsible for six major coup plots against her government
florendo said honasan was apt to try to organize new plots against the government and to divide the 160,000-member military. the charismatic former colonel remains widely admired in the military even though he was dismissed after his aug. 28 coup attempt left at least 53 people dead
his escape was widely reported saturday in the filipino media, which normally curtail operations on easter weekend. scores of callers to manila radio stations questioned how honasan could have escaped without the help of the guards
military chief of staff gen. renato de villa told reporters saturday he accepted responsibility for the escape but would let mrs. aquino decide whether he should be relieved
somehow, in one way or another, i bear responsibility for ensuring that our detainees are secured and procedures are followed,'' he said
last month, the congressional commission on appointments approved de villa's nomination as chief of staff
the move came despite opposition from some congressmen who felt the former constabulary commander should have retired instead. critics said extending his tour of duty limited promotion of younger officers and smacked of practices under ousted president ferdinand marcos
the escape also raised doubts whether the congressional commission would approve the recent nomination of adm. carlito cunanan, former chief of the coast guard, as navy commander
congressional sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they already had misgivings about cunanan because of the coast guard's inept handling of rescue efforts in a december collision of a filipino passenger ship and oil tanker that killed 3,000 people
the escape took place as the military was enjoying new prestige for tuesday's arrest of seven leading communists, including romulo kintanar, commander of the rebel new people's army
defense secretary fidel ramos had said the arrests showed that the military had overcome past divisions and could now act effectively
but on saturday, he called the escape ``disturbing news.''
de villa said the search for honasan, moreover, would divert military resources from the fight against the rebels
one filipino politician also worried about the international impact of honasan's escape. sen. john osmena said it was bound to tarnish the government's image abroad and raise more doubts about the stability of the aquino administration
tens of thousands of west germans joined saturday in the annual easter weekend marches to demand the elimination of all nuclear weapons and the closure of nuclear power plants
organizers said marches were held in all of the nation's major cities and there also were vigils near the sites where two jet fighters of west germany's allies crashed last week
no estimate of the number of people participating in the marches was given. police reported the demonstrations were peaceful
a french mirage jet crashed wednesday within a mile of a nuclear power plant in bavaria state, killing the pilot
a u.s. air force f-16 fighter crashed into the small town of forst on thursday and the pilot and a resident were killed
the f-16 went down about eight miles from a nuclear power station. officials said such crashes posed no danger of an accident at nuclear power facilities because thick concrete domes shield the reactors
march organizers said more anti-nuclear demonstrations will be held sunday
if fallen evangelist jimmy swaggart fails to quickly reverse his defiance and accept a year-long bar on preaching and television appearances demanded by the assemblies of god, the church will move to dismiss him, officials say
swaggart, whose worldwide ministry is scrambling to overcome financial problems, has said he will defy the church order and preach again on may 22, only three months after he confessed to unspecified sins
a rift between the church's leaders over how to discipline swaggart was settled friday when the louisiana district council announced it would not contest stern sanctions ordered by the assemblies' general presbytery
the church's general presbytery, meeting at its national headquarters in springfield, mo., on tuesday banned swaggart from the pulpit for at least a year for ``moral failure'' that reportedly included hiring a prostitute to pose nude
on friday, louisiana church officials said they would go along with the order despite their own recommendation that swaggart be barred from preaching for only three months
i would hope he would see the wisdom of submitting himself to the judgment of his brothers because there is a strong desire ... to be helpful to the man,'' said the rev. thomas zimmerman, the assemblies' retired general superintendent
on feb. 21, swaggart tearfully confessed to unspecified sins and stepped down from the pulpit
on wednesday, he announced through his attorney that he would return to the pulpit may 22 _ the end of the three-month suspension recommended by the state council _ in defiance of the national leadership
what was said at the wednesday press conference still holds,'' swaggart spokesman gus weill said friday. ``reverend swaggart is still planning to return to the pulpit may 22 and we're still examining the rights to appeal.''
church bylaws, however, do not allow ministers to appeal rehabilitation decisions, said juleen turnage, a spokeswoman at the assemblies' national headquarters
if they haven't heard from him (swaggart) in a few days, a reasonable period of time, they'll assume he is rejecting their offer. in that case, they would move immediately to dismiss him,'' she said
the national office expected to hear from swaggart on monday, mrs. turnage said
swaggart's ministry is not controlled by the assemblies of god. officials have said the credentials of the organization's ministers are the only direct link with the assemblies, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination
bill treeby, swaggart's lawyer, said lack of denomination credentials would not affect the ministry's operations
television appears to be the lifeline for swaggart's ministry, which includes worldwide missionary and hospital programs, a bible college and a worship center that seats 5,000
ratings from the a.c. nielsen co. showed swaggart's average viewership dropped from more than 1 million households in november 1986 to 860,000 homes a year later as he lost his position as the most-watched tv preacher
swaggart's ministry conducted a telethon in mid-march in which the evangelist's wife frances and son donnie warned that many programs faced cancellation. ministry officials have refused to reveal how much money was raised through the telethon
the march issue of the ministry's magazine, the evangelist, said the organization faced a $14.7 million deficit through february, before the sex scandal surfaced. the magazine's april edition was about half the size of those published in previous months
the ministry's bank account was overdrawn by $2 million, swaggart said in a march 19 appeal for funds sent to supporters
the organization recently mortgaged more than 100 acres of property to cover a suspended connstruction project and to secure a $20 million line of credit
swaggart's ministry has contributed between $10.3 million and $11.4 million annually over the past three years to the assemblies' foreign missions program, turnage said
there have been indications that a number of people sending money to individual organizations ... will now send through the church where there is accountability and they know what the money is used for,'' she said
a storm centered over kansas spread rain and thunderstorms up and down the mississippi valley on saturday, causing floods and tornadoes in louisiana and trailing heavy snow across the western great plains
heavy rain accompanied showers and thunderstorms across southern louisiana into southern alabama during the morning
widespread street flooding was reported across the new orleans area and north of lake pontchartrain. rainfall amounts in the new orleans area ranged up to 9 inches since friday evening, with 8.17 inches at gretna and 6.09 inches at gramercy. in east-central louisiana, 5.65 inches fell at bayou sorrel
during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est, 2.08 inches of rain fell at new orleans' lakefront airport
strong thunderstorms developed during the afternoon across parts of eastern iowa and northwestern illinois. showers were scattered from western nebraska through southern minnesota and northern illinois, with most rain amounts less than an inch
snow and blowing snow made travel difficult in northwestern kansas and northeastern colorado, and most roads in the western two counties of the oklahoma panhandle were closed
snow amounts included 13 inches at goodland, kan.; 22 at timpas, colo.; 20 at walsh, colo.; and up to 23 inches in the oklahoma panhandle, according to highway officials and the national weather service
drifts 4 to 5 feet high and wind gusting to 40 mph were reported across southeastern colorado, the weeather service said
elsewhere, showers were scattered across the pacific northwest as another storm system approached the coast
showers were scattered across parts of eastern georgia extending into northeastern florida. showers also developed over parts of the upper ohio valley
dense morning fog slowed travel across northern illinois and southern wisconsin into northern indiana
the fog halted landings at chicago's o'hare airport for about two hours early in the morning, said joe hopkins of united airlines, the airport's largest carrier. by 9:30 a.m., when visibility was about a quarter of a mile at o'hare, united had cancelled about 90 flights out of 800 scheduled because of the fog, he said
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 33 degrees at imperial, neb., to 86 at thermal, calif. the low for the day was 10 degrees at lake yellowstone, wyo
for sunday, widespread showers and thunderstorms were forecast from the great lakes through the ohio and tennessee valleys to the central gulf of mexico coast. widespread showers also were forecast over the northern pacific coast with scattered showers inland
highs in the 40s were predicted from northeastern minnesota into upper michigan; in the 50s across south-central and eastern colorado, the upper mississippi valley, the upper great lakes and much of new england, and across the pacific northwest; in the 80s from the desert southwest across southern texas into the lower mississippi valley, and across much of the florida peninsula; and in the 60s or 70s across much of the rest of the nation
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis held a narrow lead over the rev. jesse jackson in the week leading up to tuesday's wisconsin presidential primary, according to a newspaper poll published sunday
dukakis held a 43 percent to 35 percent lead over jackson among voters who said they would vote for, or leaned toward, a democratic candidate if the primary had been held at the time of the poll, the milwaukee journal reported in its sunday editions
in a poll two weeks earlier, dukakis led jackson by 38 percent to 30 percent, the newspaper reported
sen. albert gore jr., of tennessee, made the largest gain in the two-week period between polls, increasing his support from 10 percent to 15 percent, the newspaper said
despite campaigning heavily in wisconsin, sen. paul simon of illinois slipped from 11 percent support to 5 percent in the two weeks, the newspaper said
simon has pinned his fading presidential prospects on wisconsin, hoping that a victory in the primary would give him a boost going into next week's primary in new york
on the republican side, the poll showed vice president george bush would easily defeat his remaining primary challenger, former television evangelist pat robertson but might have a difficult time winning wisconsin in the general election if dukakis were the democratic nominee
bush held an 80 percent to 7 percent lead over robertson, the poll showed
however, bush and dukakis ended in a virtual tie among voters who were asked which of the two they would likely vote for in the general election in november
in similar matchups, bush held a 5 point lead over gore and a 14 point lead over jackson, the newspaper said
the poll was conducted wednesday and thursday and was based on interviews with 845 randomly-selected wisconsin adults who said they were absolutely or fairly certain to vote in the primary, the newspaper said. the margin of error was plus or minus 5 percentage points
the wisconsin primary is expected to draw a large voter turnout with as many as 1.6 million voters or 45 percent of the eligible voters participating, state elections board officials said
this week's expected verdict in gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial won't necessarily end the legal morass that surrounds the arizona governorship
the senate plans to vote monday or tuesday on whether mecham, a first-term republican, should be the first arizona governor removed from office
senators heard five weeks of testimony on allegations that mecham misused $80,000 in state money by loaning it to his auto dealership, and that he tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
with 20 of the 30 senate votes required for conviction, nobody is predicting what will happen
if he is acquitted, mecham will automatically regain the gubernatorial powers he gave up to acting gov. rose mofford, the democratic secretary of state, when he was impeached by the house feb. 5
if the senate convicts him on either count, mecham will be removed from office immediately
in either event, the matter won't necessarily end there
if acquitted, mecham faces two more battles to keep the governorship
a criminal trial is due to start april 21 on a charge similar to one impeachment charge the senate dropped: failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan. the governor faces six felony counts of fraud, perjury and filing false documents, and his brother and 1986 campaign treasurer, willard mecham, faces three similar counts
senators who voted to drop the impeachment count said they feared that if they heard evidence on the charge it would jeopardize mecham's right to a fair trial
if convicted in the criminal trial, mecham would be removed from office automatically and could face up to 22 years in prison
mecham also is running against six candidates in a recall election may 17. polls vary widely, with some showing him far behind but one putting mecham and mrs. mofford in a dead heat for first place
if the senate votes to oust him, the governor and his defense attorney, jerris leonard, say they could appeal to the u.s. supreme court on grounds that mecham's constitutional rights were violated
it's also unclear whether the may 17 recall must be held if the state senate convicts mecham on the impeachment charges
attorney general bob corbin, a republican, said friday he believes the recall still must be held because the arizona constitution says a recall is aimed at the office, not the officeholder
however, corbin said he philosophically opposes holding the recall if mecham has already been removed
i don't think our founding fathers who drafted the constitution ever dreamed we would be in this position,'' he said
this and other remaining legal questions should be settled in court, corbin said
if the recall were to go ahead following a senate conviction, officials say it's also unclear whether mecham would be allowed to run
he has an automatic spot on the ballot, but paul bender, dean of the arizona state university law school, argues that a senate vote to remove him would apply to the entire four-year term and he could not remain in office even if he won the recall vote
legal questions surround mrs. mofford's gubernatorial candidacy too. a campaign was formed to draft her because arizona's ``resign to run'' law apparently would require her to quit as acting governor and secretary of state if she declared her candidacy
a court challenge has been mounted to see if the mofford draft campaign was handled properly, without any involvement by the intended candidate
corbin said his office warned years ago that the laws were unclear and should be straightened out, ``and nobody has, so here we are.'' picks up 5th graf pvs, bgng: some 18,000...</note>
jesse jackson overwhelmed michael dukakis in democratic party caucuses saturday to win three of the virgin islands' delegate votes at the national convention
party vice chairman st. claire williams said jackson got 634 votes while dukakis trailed with only 37 votes. they were the only two candidates on the caucus ballot
six people, each casting one-half vote at the convention, were chosen in the caucuses held on the islands of st. thomas and st. croix
some 18,000 registered democrats live in this u.s. territory, whose three major islands are st. thomas, st. croix and st. john
st. john democrats traveled to st. thomas to attend the caucus
saturday's caucuses were the only step in the democrats' process to pick national convention delegates from the virgin islands. party members register their support by showing up at a caucus site and filling out a sign-in sheet, which is similar to casting a ballot in a primary
in addition to the six people being selected saturday, four members of the democratic national committee from the virgin islands, including gov. alexander farrelly, automatically will be delegates to the democratic national convention in atlanta july 18-21. those four dnc members each cast one-quarter vote at the convention
in all, the virgin islands' delegation will cast four votes at the national convention
republicans in the u.s. virgin islands pick their four national convention delegates at a territorial convention on may 21
while suds, sun and sin may prevail among much of the spring break throngs on the wide beaches of daytona this easter weekend, morning devotions replace hangovers in at least three beach hotels
daytona beach has become a mecca for spring break in recent years, and an estimated 500,000 students descend on the area to forget classwork and laze in the sun. but it's not all rowdy parties and promiscuity
at the beachfront el caribe hotel, students carry bibles through the lobby. the hotel caters to members of the campus crusade for christ, a national interdenominational group
you can only get so drunk and sunburned and bored,'' said cliff mills, director of operation sonshine of the campus crusade. ``a lot of them want to know more about christ.''
mills, whose organization has conducted conferences for some 3,000 students during spring break, said campus crusade members take their gospel message to the beach in the afternoons and that sun worshipers are often receptive
el caribe does not allow unchaperoned non-member students under 21 to rent rooms during spring break
the difference is day and night,'' said el caribe owner mary ann richardson, explaining how students in her hotel act compared with students staying at the dozens of other beach hotels
ms. richardson said the biggest problem in her hotel is minor noise making, and that the students are generally well-behaved and polite
the situation was much the same at the desert inn and the high seas motel, also spring break gathering places for campus crusade members
there was no muss, no fuss and no beer-bottle throwing,'' said anne madorsky, a part-owner of the desert inn, the voyager and americana hotels
many of the crowds at daytona used to go to fort lauderdale before that community began to try to change its image with stricter law enforcement
officials in fort lauderdale have estimated their crowds will range between 100,000 and 200,000 this year, compared with 350,000 in 1985
daytona officials say this spring break, students generally have behaved better than in the past, when hotel guests tossed such objects as unopened beer cans, room chairs and even rollaway beds from balconies
so far this year, there have been two spring break fatalities in daytona, one a 24-year-old man, not a student, who fell from a balcony, the other a 21-year-old student who was hit by a car
there were five other balcony falls this year in daytona, but only two of the six involved students and most resulted in only minor injuries. in the past three years, six deaths have resulted from balcony accidents
in the florida panhandle, two spring break visitors were hospitalized after balcony falls friday in destin, a gulf coast resort town
david jeffers, 26, of atlanta, fell while doing pullups from a fifth-floor balcony railing, authorities said. he was listed in guarded condition at humana hospital in fort walton beach
david mcgee, 18, of baton rouge, who fell three floors, was in stable condition at the same hospital
evelyn fine, executive director of the mid-florida research and business center of daytona beach community college, said some 500,000 students have come to daytona for spring break this year and 330,000 will have lodged in a hotel for an average stay of about five days
she predicted that each student spends an average of $375, not including transportation, for a direct-dollar impact of $123.7 million on the daytona beach economy
the incense vendor accepted a poor woman's coins and spooned tiny measures of powdered red sandalwood, honey-crystal myrrh and dried rosemary into scraps of paper
thirty cents,'' lamented miguel valencia, appraising the three dimes paid for the incense. ``this is the worst year ever.''
the tall, ebony-skinned man, who peddles crosses and other piety objects, said he has sold only a $1 portrait of jesus christ since midweek
holy week is usually the best time of year for valencia and the small business he runs from a rickety stand in front of the metropolitan cathedral. indeed, the easter holiday usually brings joy throughout this country where about 95 percent of 2.2 million people are roman catholic
but an economic and social crisis over the rule of military chief gen. manuel antonio noriega has cast a pall over this year's celebration
gen. noriega, under drug-trafficking charges in the united states, has moved to consolidate control despite increasing u.s. pressure on him to step down and leave the country
he closed banks a month ago to prevent a cash panic after washington froze panamanian assets in the united states. the government has failed to pay most of its 130,000 workers, and private employees have nowhere to cash their checks. the money crisis worsened nationwide hunger and unemployment
meanwhile, the u.s. government has been stepping up its military presence in panama, though administration officials say they don't intend to use force to oust the strongman they once backed. another 1,300 military personnel will arrive tuesday, bringing to nearly 12,000 the number of u.s. troops there
the administration says the troops are intended to protect u.s. bases and 45,000 americans living in panama
never have we panamanians lived a lent with such tension, division and increasing want in great sectors of the country,'' said a catholic church statement. ``the people suffer and await the feast of the resurrection, that it may signal some light of hope.''
few panamanians saw cause for optimism. the church said saturday that opposition leaders had accepted a church role as mediator in the country's travail. but the opposition continued to demand that noriega leave the country, something he has doggedly refused to do
many people in the streets expressed despair over unremitting price increases and hunger. fresh fish, a typical easter meal in years past, has risen beyond modest means in this isthmus between the atlantic and pacific oceans
many hunkered down in the capital of panama city, forgoing customary visits with family in the provinces to protect diminishing savings. department of transportation agent roger chacon said outbound traffic through la chorrera, the main gate to the countryside, was extremely light all week
external calm replaced weeks of political activity and demonstrations in panama city. police replaced the heavily armed defense forces soldiers on the street friday for the first time since an unsuccessful march 16 coup attempt against noriega
five men conversed on 17th street downtown. two sat on a workshop bench carried out to the sidewalk and three others stood while all sipped a mixture of rum, milk and ice from paper cups
none of us would be here now if it weren't for the crisis,'' said a man in a sleeveless t-shirt and shorts. ``we'd be in chiriqui where it's cool.''
the mountainous western province is a favorite tourist spot in better times
so our recreation is conversation and a couple drinks,'' said another in a blue ``guayabera,'' the loose-fitting tropical shirt
inevitably, talk turned to the crisis. all five said they opposed noriega. one suggested that ``out of the 2 million panamanians, 200 support him.''
because of fear of reprisals, none wanted his name published
some of the men also talked bitterly of how u.s. sanctions were making their holiday and their lives difficult
panama has been a good friend to the united states for more than 80 years,'' said one. ``and it hurts more to be wounded by a friend.''
and all doubted that the population, stymied by government repression, could do much to change things after the holiday
the families of six california scuba divers arrested in indonesia nearly two weeks ago say they are still anxiously awaiting word on whether the men will be charged with crimes for allegedly entering restricted waters
indonesian authorities suspect the six were seeking valuables from a dutch ship that sank more than 200 years ago, according to ruth van heuven, a spokeswoman for the u.s. bureau of consular affairs in washington, d.c
our lives are at a standstill. we all live hooked to our phones,'' said jennifer craft, wife of one of the men taken into custody march 22 when indonesian authorities boarded the boat they chartered in singapore
in addition to the six californians, three australians, a briton and an iranian were also aboard the budi indah, according to julie meldrum, an australian embassy spokeswoman
the divers are being held until the investigation is completed
sophisticated sonar equipment found on the boat added to authorities' suspicion about the group, ms. van heuven said
joseph yun, an american vice-consul in the north sumatra capital of medan, said the detained americans contended they were in international waters
as of yet there have been no formal charges filed against the divers,'' ms. van heuven said in an interview last week
they are in good condition and have no complaints about maltreatment,'' said james alleckson brown, a u.s. embassy spokesman in jakarta
mrs. craft said indonesian officials have told her the country does not hold a person for more than 20 days without bringing formal charges
u.s. and australian embassy officials said last week they were still trying to establish the facts surrounding the incident. indonesian officials in the department of communications, the foreign office and the navy would not make any comment
one of the six, cliff craft, 43, a building inspector from whittier, faces misdemeanor charges in california in the pillaging of an underwater wreck off channel islands national park, said allan gordon, a ventura county deputy district attorney
debi commerford of orange, the wife of another diver, said none of the six in indonesia was looking for treasure. she said her husband, danny, and craft were there to start a building inspection business in singapore and to dive with the others for recreation
the others from california have been identified as patrick gibson, 47, a systems analyst from van nuys; jim vorus of santa monica, and bob and bruce lanhan of pleasant hill. owners'</head>
the national rifle association is trying to get this city's interim police chief ousted, saying he unfairly charged a service station owner with illegal possession of a handgun after a robbery
in a letter mailed to nra members here friday, one of the organization's national directors asks for help in keeping keith bergstrom ``from bringing his campaign against law-abiding gun owners to tarpon springs.''
the letter told members they should to voice their opposition tuesday when city commissioners meet to consider permanently appointing bergstrom as chief
in question is bergstrom's enforcement of an anti-gun ordinance while he was police chief in oak park, ill. an april 1984 measure banned possession of a handgun within the city limits
i find it very ironic that the nra in effect is criticizing me for obeying the law and being accountable to the people who make the law,'' bergstrom said friday
oak park police charged service station owner don bennett with violating the ordinance when, following a robbery at his station in 1986, he chased the suspects and fired at them with a .45-caliber pistol, bergstrom said
bennett ultimately was acquitted
the police department and their attorneys spent all of their efforts in prosecuting don bennett and there was never an attempt to find the robbers,'' said theodore a. lattanzio, the washington-based nra official who wrote the letter. ``they were trying to prosecute a man who tried to use a weapon in self-defense.''
bergstrom, who came to tarpon springs in october 1987, denied the nra accusations
bennett has filed a federal lawsuit naming bergstrom, two oak park police officers and another city official and seeking more than $2 million in compensatory damages and $1 million in punitive damages from each defendant
the lawsuit alleges the defendants were part of a conspiracy to prevent him from doing business, bennett said friday
a 60-year-old easter tradition _ a sidewalk display of live easter bunnies _ may bow to protests and be gone next year, the florist who sets it up said saturday
it will be determined by the public. if they want us to have the rabbits next year, we suggest that they write in to us,'' said arthur scheinuk, owner of scheinuk the florist
he said he wanted tangible support for the display, not just comments from people who walk into the store
just to come here and say, `i was here as a young kid and now i'm bringing my grandchildren,' without bringing some moral support _ you ... get a little disgusted.''
the fenced-in display, in which dozens of adult and baby rabbits hop around a lawn or snuggle in wooden boxes cut to resemble buildings along st. charles ave., opens 10 days before easter and lasts until easter sunday
scheinuk said thousands of adults and children come to look at the rabbits every year. some buy them for $10.90 each _ a price at which scheinuk said he makes no profit
for the past several years, the display also has attracted pickets, people who say selling live rabbits for easter gifts amounts to animal cruelty because the bunnies all too often wind up at animal shelters
we suggested to them they would do beter telling unwed mothers how to take care of their children,'' scheinuk said
to add injury to insult, 15 rabbits were stolen late thursday or early friday by someone who cut an 8-inch-square hole in the chain-link cage
in this weather that we've had, these flooded conditions, police have too much to do than to fool with rabbit stealers,'' he said
defendants in white robes waited in cages in a makeshift courtroom as the trial began saturday for the 33 moslem fundamentalists accused of using terror to disrupt the government
prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for 15 defendants, two of whom remain at large, for allegedly trying to kill two former government ministers and a magazine editor
they are seeking penalties for the others of up to life in prison
the defendants pleaded innocent and said they were tortured and abused by state security policemen and prosecutors during questioning. the prosecution denied the allegations
the 15 facing possible death sentences are charged with forming an illegal organization called ``salvation from hell'' with the intent of destabilizing the government through assassinations and other attacks
they are charged with the attempted murders last year of former interior ministers hassan abu basha on may 6 and el-nabawi ismail on aug. 13, and magazine editor makram mohammed ahmed on june 4
abu basha was wounded seriously, ahmed sustained a minor hand wound and ismail was not injured
all of the defendants are accused of illegally possessing firearms, explosives and pamphlets that contained information designed to incite anti-government violence
security was strong outside the courtroom, with at least four armored personnel carriers and scores of armed soldiers present. the 4{-hour session before chief judge omar el-oteify of the supreme state security court and two fellow judges dealt mainly with procedural matters
the 31 defendants in custody sat or stood in three cages in the courtroom, a renovated exhibition hall
white banners hanging on the cages' iron bars proclaimed ``the moslems are coming'' and ``prison and execution won't move us away from islam.'' the defendants chanted similar slogans
attorney abdel-halim mandour, speaking for the group of 47 defense lawyers, told the court that police fabricated evidence against the defendants
there is no illegal organization. this is a fabrication from the state security,'' mandour said. ``it is an attempt by these people to strike against islam and religious men.''
a developer who is buying a marine laboratory in the florida keys from harcourt brace jovanovich inc. says he plans to build a resort but also hopes to preserve the research facility
henk mastenbroek, who has developed several time-share vacation properties in the keys, agreed to pay $700,000 for the 7{-acre sea world marine science and conservation center, the only operating facility of its kind in the country. an official at the florida institute of oceanography said the marine laboratory was unique because of its access to tropical waters
the lab is being sold by the book publishing company harcourt brace jovanovich inc., which has been under pressure to sell real estate and other assets to repay creditors after fending off a hostile takeover bid last year. the marine lab was used to collect sharks and tropical fish for hbj's sea world theme parks
the company had agreed to sell the laboratory to the florida institute of oceanography, an arm of the state university system, but the deal fell through when the hbj realized there was no guarantee that the legislature would allocate money for the purchase, said jim harris, senior vice president of hbj land co
mastenbroek agreed to pay the same price the state would have paid. he said although he planned to build a resort on the site, he hoped he could maintain the lab, built in 1978, the orlando sentinel reported in saturday's editions
an administrator at the institute of oceanography said she doubted that the marine laboratory would remain intact
our problem is they (the developers) keep saying they have to make money out of it, which isn't too likely,'' sandra vargo, a project coordinator at the institute. ``i've seen too many research facilities and they're not money makers.''
three years ago, the institute contracted with hbj to use the marine center for its own research. about 400 community college and university students visit the center every year for a week-long course on marine biology
currently, the department of natural resources is growing 10,000 conchs there to determine whether they can be grown to reseed depleted conch beds. state and university researchers also are studying the lobster population to determine whether the creature has been overfished and needs protection
vargo said the only other sites under u.s. control where similar research could be conducted were in puerto rico and st. croix. inserts 2 grafs after the 15th graf previous, beginning ``in the oklahoma,'' to update with kansas conditions, 12-foot drifts, closed highways, stranded travelers; ``wakeeny'' cq</note>
a major storm dumped up to 23 inches of snow on the western great plains and piled it in road-blocking drifts up to 12 feet high saturday. the same storm poured heavy rain from oklahoma into the gulf states, forcing scores to evacuate and causing one death
tornadoes caused scattered damage in louisiana early saturday after hitting four towns in eastern texas on friday
we had wave after wave of thunderstorms move into this area during the night,'' said mike koziara of the national weather service in new orleans. ``they raked it hour after hour after hour after hour.''
snow and blowing snow continued to bedevil travelers in southeastern colorado, where wind gusted to 40 mph, and many roads were closed in the oklahoma panhandle and western kansas, where 12-foot snowdrifts were reported
we're snowed in _ we're out of electricity and can hardly move,'' pete barnes, the mayor of elkhart, kan., said saturday morning. power was restored before noon to the town in southwestern kansas, by a utility crew that came by helicopter
louisiana was hit hard saturday. in the new orleans suburb of marrero, about 200 people had to leave their homes. a tornado damaged 30 to 40 houses and 20 businesses in slidell and neighboring parts of st. tammany parish, where fallen trees left many subdivisions without power into the afternoon
only 10 to 20 houses were flooded in new orleans itself, but bags of trash left out for garbage pickup floated down st. charles avenue while cars drove along the raised streetcar tracks in the median
new orleans and gretna, on the west bank of the mississippi, both got 8 inches of rain in 12 hours, with more expected, the weather service said
one woman drowned early saturday in marrero when she turned off a flooded street and drove into a drainage canal, said sgt. john fortunato of the jefferson parish sheriff's office
flood crests were forecast from sunday into wednesday along many rivers in southern louisiana
water also flowed into dozens of homes saturday in mississippi, officials reported. civil defense director wade guice said 4.2 inches of rain fell on harrison county from midnight to noon saturday, and that the flooding was not from streams but from water standing on already saturated ground
oklahoma had both floods and snow, from 23 inches of snow in the panhandle to 4 feet of water in streets in skiatook, in the northeastern part of the state
skiatook fire officials said about 30 homes were evacuated and more than 15 businesses were shut down after bird creek overflowed. the water began to recede saturday afternoon, said fire capt. lonnie fisher
one skiatook resident, arthur elam, 88, rejected pleas from neighbors to move to higher ground because of his dog, blackie
no one would want to let him in their house,'' elam said, adding that blackie wouldn't like getting out in the water. ``this water bothers me, but it don't bother me bad.''
in the oklahoma panhandle, ``we're just now starting to open some roads back up,'' said rick foreman, a communications officer at the state highway patrol. he said all but two highways in cimarron and texas counties were closed during the morning
in the west-central kansas town of syracuse, 105 travelers stranded by highway closings spent the night in the high school gymnasium after the town's motels filled up, said a police dispatcher who wouldn't give her name
those travelers left when roads were reopened saturday morning. but interstate 70 from goodland, kan., to limon, colo., remained closed by dusk saturday, and the kansas highway patrol shut down a 100-mile stretch of the interstate's west-bound lanes, from goodland to wakeeny, kan., after motels in goodland filled to capacity late saturday afternoon
in the adjacent southeastern corner of colorado, 20 inches of snow had fallen at walsh with 16 inches at fowler. the weather service said snowdrifts stood 4 to 5 feet high in the area
in nearby clayton, n.m., where 8 to 10 inches of snow fell, travelers resumed their journeys saturday after spending the night stranded in the town. about 140 people took shelter at the first united methodist church when motels filled up, carloads of people went to other churches and the national guard armory, and 65 stayed at the fire department
in albuquerque, up to 100,000 customers lost power for a time friday when up to a foot of heavy snow downed power lines
in chandler, kan., about seven families moved out of their homes friday night because of rising water
they're kind of used to it,'' said lincoln county civil defense director mike clarkson. ``they just kind of put things up high on the lower floors and move out for a few hours.''
for the second time in as many days, a freighter has broken anchor in rough seas and run aground just off the beach, the coast guard reported saturday
the 128-foot honduran freighter brac express with five crew members became mired 30 yards offshore saturday at about 2:30 a.m. est, said coast guard spokesman luis diaz. he said the coast guard was not certain of the cargo
on friday, a 506-foot empty petroleum barge bobbed about 20 yards from the beach most of the day before it was towed off early in the evening. jackson speeches; subs 9th graf pvs, bgng: the latest xxx to update with new milwaukee journal poll; subs 19th graf pvs, bgng: in the xxx with 3 grafs to update with jackson victory in virgin islands caucuses; picks up 20th graf pvs, bgng: the wisconsin...</note>
democratic presidential hopefuls michael dukakis and jesse jackson campaigned saturday for momentum and paul simon fought for survival in this week's wisconsin primary, as the state reclaimed its historic role as a decisive crossroad on the long nomination trail
dukakis and jackson are locked in a close wisconsin contest whose outcome could label one the front-runner in the 1988 race
both men were in wisconsin and colorado on saturday, preparing for colorado's precinct caucuses monday that will set the stage for the wisconsin balloting tuesday
dukakis, delivering a major foreign policy speech saturday at the university of wisconsin at oshkosh, offered strong support for israel while blaming arab leaders for the failure to achieve peace in the middle east
at a news conference later, dukakis said he disagreed with jackson's embrace of plo leader yasser arafat and his position that israel and the palestinians are moral equivalents
jackson, who was campaigning near greeley, colo., kept his attack on the reagan administration, which he said has ``the most indictments, the most corruption, the highest sleaze factor in the history of american government. we deserve better government _ we deserve honorable leaders.''
in wisconsin, both candidates have laid down a clear appeal to the blue-collar workers who are critical to democratic success in the state
i have argued your case. i've stood with you and with the working people of america,'' jackson told a crowd at st. norbert college near green bay late friday. ``and now i want you to stand with me.''
dukakis turned his fire on the coporations
if we're serious about winning the battle for our economic future, we've got to get control of the merger and acquisition binge that's ... leaving the average working men and women of america holding the bag,'' he said in racine
the two other democrats _ sens. simon of illinois and albert gore jr. of tennessee _ ignored colorado in favor of wisconsin
the latest poll, published sunday in the milwaukee journal, showed dukakis with a 43 percent to 35 percent lead over jackson among voters who said they would vote for, or leaned toward, a democratic candidate. gore received 15 percent and simon was fourth with 5 percent. the poll, conducted last wednesday and thursday among 845 likely voters, has a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points
this is the most important primary vote we have had since 1960 because of the closeness of the race.'' said suellen albrecht, chairwoman of the wisconsin democrats. ``this is our moment in the sun.''
simon put the rest of his chips on wisconsin, playing for an upset that would keep his hopes alive. the polls suggested his effort could end next week
not since 1960 has wisconsin had a chance to say in such concrete terms: we want a basic change,'' simon told a crowd in madison last week
in 1960, then-sen. john kennedy upset sen. hubert humphrey in the wisconsin primary and took a big step toward the white house
gore is making a major effort in the state with hard campaigning and a big investment in television ads. a surpising showing in wisconsin could be a big boost for what gore has set as his pivotal contest two weeks hence, in the new york primary
the republican primary in wisconsin is drawing little attention since sen. bob dole dropped his bid last week, leaving the nomination wrapped up for vice president george bush. there are 47 gop delegates at stake
the lack of a republican race adds uncertainty for the democrats, since the wisconsin open primary law allows gop faithful to vote in the still-disputed democratic race
i'd welcome any republican into the democratic party who wants to vote for any candidate we have, if the vote is given sincerely,'' ms. albrecht said. ``this is the very nightmare that we had with the national party four years ago,''
while academic experts say crossover voters have never made the difference between winning and losing, democrats were upset when republican gov. tommy thompson said last week he would vote for jackson if he were a democrat. thompson later said he was not trying to encourage crossover voting
in the delegate race, dukakis held a narrow margin _ 653.55 to 646.55 for jackson. gore held 381.8 votes and simon 169.5. a total of 468.6 votes are uncommitted. at the july convention, 2,082 votes are needed to win the nomination
jackson got a three-delegate boost saturday wehn he swept the party caucuses in the u.s. virgin islands. party vice chairman st. claire williams said jackson got 634 votes while dukakis trailed with only 37 votes. they were the only two candidates on the caucus ballot
six people, who each will cast one-half vote as delegates to the democratic national convention, were chosen in saturday's caucuses in the u.s. territory
the wisconsin primary offers 88 democratic delegates, but that is not the big prize. the winner in wisconsin has the chance to start momentum for a five-week stretch of big-state primaries that could decide the nomination
dukakis is looking for a big-state win to get his campaign back on track after jackson derailed it with a win on march 26 in the michigan precinct caucuses
the massachusetts governor has started to retool his campaign style, unveiling a new speech in milwaukee thursday night. dukakis, sometimes called a cold technocrat, admitted that he will never be the ``great communicator'' in the mold of ronald reagan, but what he called a ``great builder.''
jackson is looking to keep on winning, particularly in a state where his base _ black democrats _ is so small. less than 4 percent of the state's population is black
but jackson has made a major effort to reach out to blue-collar workers and farmers _ and has drawn dramatically large and enthusiastic crowds in that effort
he's one of us, not a washington big-wig,'' said dave dittman from st. croix county as he attended a big farm rally for jackson in the northern dairy country
a poll published in this week's editions of u.s. news &amp; world report said that if jackson became dukakis' vice presidential running mate, the democrats could defeat the gop ticket, regardless of who became bush's running mate. a dukakis-jackson ticket was supported by 47 percent of the 1,004 people contacted last week by telephone for the poll, while a hypothetical gop ticket of bush and illinois gov. jim thompson would win 42 percent
the poll, conducted by the roper organization, has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. ams</note>
flickering lights from thousands of candles illuminated st. peter's basilica late saturday as pope john paul ii followed a procession of cardinals and bishops in ceremonies to usher in easter
a two-hour vigil on the eve of christianity's holiest day of the year culminated with a midnight mass celebrating the resurrection of jesus christ
thousands of people packed into the pews and aisles lit small candles as the silent procession moved through the cavernous church
the pope carried a long white candle as he walked to the main altar under the ``baldacchino,'' the baroque canopy designed by the 17th century sculptor and architect gian lorenzo bernini. the pontiff's candle was lit from a large easter candle in an act that symbolizes the light of christ
the ``lumen christi,'' or light of christ, was chanted three times as the pope reached the main altar. after the third time, the lights of the basilica suddenly came on
during this night of vigil we are baptized in the death of christ. we are buried together with him in death, so that we may walk in a new life, like christ,'' john paul said in his homily delivered in italian
after the homily, john paul baptized and confirmed 27 people from 11 countries. they youngest was a 7-year-old boy from india, asmathy cristofanilli, and the oldest was joana maria evora, 49, from cape verde
the only american in the group was sean lamb, 19, a baskeball player at the university of california at los angeles
via you i send my greeting to your respective countries: korea, germany, japan, india, indonesia, cape verde, italy, peru, the united states of america, hungary and vietnam,'' the pope told them
coming from different parts of the world you symbolize the universality of the church, the universality of redemption.''
in his homily, the pontiff said ``this night of vigil invites us to the greatest joy, the joy of the easter of christ.''
on sunday, during an open-air mass, the pope will give the traditional ``urbi and orbi'' greetings to the pilgrims in st. peter's square and television viewers around the world
that mass caps a week of easter activities. on friday evening, the pope carried a simple black wooden cross in a torchlit procession at the colosseum. tens of thousands watched the ``via crucis'' or way-of-the-cross, as the pope stopped at the 14 stations that symbolize christ's agonizing walk to his crucifixion
on thursday at the basilica of st. john the lateran, the pontiff washed the feet of 12 priests in a service recalling christ's last supper with the apostles
earlier saturday, workers prepared for the outdoor mass by adorning the stairs to st. peter's with thousands of flowers of a multitude of colors. they hung ruby-colored draperies from the columns around the entry to the basilica and from the papal balcony
hundreds of chairs were placed near the stairs and workers installed loudspeakers so the huge crowd expected sunday can hear the pope
a stress test showed the space shuttle's redesigned solid rocket boosters apparently can withstand the weight of the orbiter, launch pressures and then some, a nasa spokesman said saturday
the structural load test was another step in certifying the space shuttle for flight, said ed medal, a spokesman for the national aeronautics and space administration at its marshall space flight center
hydraulic systems were used to apply pressures to a shortened solid rocket booster. the test section was subjected to forces equaling 150 percent of those normally experienced during launch, he said
the booster rocket was not fired
detailed analysis of the load condition will be conducted ... over the next several weeks, but it appears the test was successsful in demonstrating the capability required with reserve for returning the shuttle to flight status,'' said medal
he said the test booster, with included a flared aft skirt like the two that support the shuttle's weight on the launch pad, failed at the predicted weld when subjected to excessive pressures during the friday night procedure
this test demonstrated a capability greater than that tested prior to the first shuttle launch,'' said medal
the shuttle fleet has been grounded since the jan. 28, 1986, explosion of challenger in which seven people died. investigators blamed the disaster on a failed solid rocket booster joint that allowed flames to burn into the vehicle's huge external fuel tank
nasa hopes to resume shuttle flights this summer
the mormon church on saturday reported a record increase in converts during 1987, and leaders warned members against ostracizing non-mormons in the church's utah stronghold
leaders also announced the appointment of two new members of the leadership hierarchy and named a new president to the church's organization for children
mormon missionaries baptized 227,284 new members last year, compared to 216,210 in 1986, according to the annual statistical report of the 6.5-million-member church
the membership report was delivered on the opening day of the 158th annual general conference of the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints
the two-day conference has drawn thousands of mormons from around the world to hear sermons from the church's hierarchy, including president ezra taft benson, 88, who is considered a prophet
robert e. sackley, 65, bow island, canada, and l. lionel kendrick, 56, greenville, n.c., were named new members of the seventy, full-time clergy who assist the governing first presidency in directing the church. sackley is currently president of the church's mission in nigeria, while kendrick is directing missionary efforts in the tampa, fla., area
michaelene packer grassli was named president of the children's program primary. she succeeds dwan j. young, who is leaving the position to accompany her husband, who has been appinted president of the calgary, canada, mission
the church's success in proselytizing has been accompanied by a sharp increase in its missionary force, which has grown to 34,750 men and women, compared to 31,803 during 1986
outside the church, many watch in amazement at this consistent expansion, in spite of popular secularism,'' said david b. haight of the council of the twelve apostles. the twelve are full-time clergy who assist the three-member first presidency in directing the church. the seventy follow the twelve in the hierarchy
but while leaders celebrated the growth, they warned members to avoid religious arrogance, particularly in utah, where non-members often complain that they are excluded from politics and social life
about two-thirds of utah's 1.6 million people are mormon, and church members hold nearly all major political offices. the governor and the congressional delegation are members. more than 80 percent of the legislature is mormon, including the senate president, house speaker, and the majority leaders in both chambers
numerical superiority does not justify disdain for those who are not mormon, said dallin h. oaks, a member of the twelve and former utah supreme court justice
he said he recently received a letter in which the writer complained that newcomers who are not mormon arrive in utah to find themselves ``excluded at best and ostracized at worst.''
that sentiment was demonstrated last week when sacramento, calif., developer john roberts turned down a job as chief of the privately run utah economic development corp., saying the state has an image of being inhospitable to non-mormons. ``i was asked what my religion was more in one afternoon in salt lake city than i have in my entire life,'' roberts said
j.d. ``dull'' stewart, self-proclaimed leader of international dull folks unlimited, crashed the seventh annual national humor conference saturday to panhandle for his mythical presidential candidacy
stewart, a statistical analyst from rochester, n.y., became the champion of dullards everywhere with the creation of densa, an organization whose name stands for nothing except as a send-up of the high-iq society, mensa
talking to a roomful of professors gathered at purdue university for a serious study of humor in american society, stewart made his money pitch: ``i said i'm in room 228 in the union club. you can just leave your $250 checks ouside the door. i haven't seen any yet.''
stewart is actually a registered participant and welcome, said don nilsen, an arizona state university professor
stewart's kind of self-deprecating humor won a nod of appreciation from the professors. ``it's funny because it's a reversal,'' said nilsen. ``it's an opposite of expectations. whatever our frustrations are, we have ways of dealing with those frustrations by using this kind of humor.''
it's more sophisticated than one-liner humor that commonly targets ethnic groups, politicians or sex, he said
it's a coping device,'' he said. ``you have to develop coping devices for the real problems of the world.''
another researcher, rhoda lee fisher of the state university of new york, said stewart's style has lot in common with many successful professional comedians. despite success and the admiration of the audience, genuine self-doubt remains, she explained
in fact, most comedians come across as being down and up at the same time,'' she said. ``they tell us they're silly, but we secretly know they are special and brave and doing something most of us would not have the fortitude to attempt.''
the four-day humor conference, attended by about 70 professors from a variety of disciplines, runs through monday. studies will be presented on humor and business management, the humor of intentional mispronunciation, and a paper titled, ``the continuing saga of arizona's governor: a humorous sequel.''
a 9-year-old california boy landed his father's twin-engine plane in this boston suburb saturday, becoming the youngest pilot to complete a transcontinental journey
tony aliengena of san juan capistrano touched down at 5:45 p.m. at hanscom air field to break the record set last august by 10-year-old christopher lee marshall of oceano, calif., officials said
i like to fly so i wanted to break it,'' the 4-foot-8 pilot said after he was greeted by his parents and friends, who gave him a trophy, an aviator's scarf and a glass of champagne
national aeronautics association observer don taylor, who accompanied tony, verified that the boy was at the controls throughout the transcontinental flight
i'm going to call washington on monday and tell them it's a go,'' taylor said
christopher flew a plane from san luis obispo county, calif., to fort lauderdale, fla., to burbank, calif., the longest trip by the youngest pilot. if tony succeeds in his plan to fly back to calfornia this week taking the long way home he says he will beat the distance record, too
tony, who is known as ``buzz,'' completed the longest leg of his four-day trip saturday after taking off from memphis. he had to land twice _ in bristol, tenn., and cambdridge, md. _ because of a stomach ache and was two and a half hours late in arriving. he spent five hours in the air saturday
when his father, gary, asked why he didn't stay on the ground if he felt sick, tony replied: ``i wanted to make it here.''
i'm very proud of him,'' said his father, who is from palmer
the trip began wednesday when tony took off in his father's twin-engine cessna from john wayne airport in costa mesa, calif. he plans to return to california next saturday, spending four to seven hours aloft each day except easter sunday, when he visits relatives in palmer
with him in the cockpit were taylor and his flight instructor, ed fernett
tony, who uses a booster seat to see over the control panel, is to fly to washington on monday to receive an award from the national aeronautics association for being the world's youngest pilot
the sunday times of london said there is a secret israeli operation under way to sell advanced missile technology to china
it said israel sent a five-man team of military specialists to china in november and a deal was made to supply the chinese armed forces with missile warheads and armor-piercing devices developed by israel
the newspaper identified one of the men it said traveled to china but did not give further attribution
it said there are indications israel has been helping china develop its own multipurpose combat fighter plane using technology derived from the canceled israeli lavi fighter. the united states had helped finance development of the lavi, and the program was dropped after washington complained about delays and rising costs
western intelligence agencies have suspected for some time that there is a link between israeli expertise and the speed china has shown in developing advanced weaponry,'' the sunday times said
according to the newspaper, the arms deal was supervised by reuven merhav, who it said is israel's consul general in hong kong and formerly worked for mossad, israel's secret service
israel and china do not have diplomatic relations
the sunday times said five men flew to the chinese capital of beijing using passports from the philippines. it identified one of the men as israel radomsky and said he was program manager of the state-owned israel military industries _ imi. radomsky ``reluctantly admitted that he and his team traveled to china,'' the report said, adding:
he also said that, far from being a rogue operation, the covert mission to china had been cleared at the highest levels of the israel government.''
the newspaper said the other four members of the delegation were all experts in imi's missile division
lawmaker anthony beaumont-dark of the governing conservative party said saturday night that britain should freeze all technology and information exchanges with israel until it explains the deal with china
he said foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe should tell israel the arrangement is ``totally unacceptable.''
we cannot go on sharing things with people who want to sell it to a potential adversary for mercenary reasons, or with people we cannot trust,'' beaumont-dark said
the sunday times said israel officially denies arms ties with china, but ``jane's defense weekly, the authoritative military affairs magazine, estimates the trade is already worth as much as three billion dollars.''
it claimed china wanted to keep its military links with israel secret ``for fear of harming its position in the middle east.''
israel sought secrecy because a missile deal with china would antagonize the united states, which has expressed concern about china's sale of silkworm missiles to iran, according to the sunday times. 5 grafs to update with campaign appearances in pueblo, aspen, spokeswoman comments on boom in contributions</note>
democrat jesse jackson condemned the reagan administration saturday for corruption and economic suffering, telling striking meat workers, ``reagan is on the way out and we're on the way in.''
jackson began two days of campaigning among colorado democrats who hold caucuses monday night to apportion 45 delegates. wisconsin's important primary follows on tuesday
jackson didn't refer to his democratic rivals, except for ex-candidate gary hart, the former colorado senator. ``since my friend gary is out, i am colorado's favorite son,'' he said
jackson spoke to about 1,000 workers outside the monfort portion foods meatpacking plant, where workers have been on strike for higher wages since nov. 16
jackson said there have been ``seven years of midnight'' under president reagan and vice president george bush. he referred to the easter season in encouraging strikers to continue to have hope
innocent people do suffer _ that's one of the lessons of easter,'' the black preacher and civil rights activist told the mostly white audience
but just because you're suffering, don't surrender,'' he said. ``in the end, faith will not disappoint. ..
they could not stop the government from killing jesus, but the government could not stop new hope, could not stop resurrection, could not stop renewal,'' he said. ``we cannot stop reaganomics, but reaganomics cannot stop us. ... reagan is on the way out and we're on the way in _ we, the people, are on the way in.''
jackson, who with his democratic rivals has called for the resignation of attorney general edwin meese iii, blasted the reagan administration for what he said was corruption and contempt
the iran-contra scam expresses contempt for the law. we must have a president who knows and respects the law, a president who sets the moral tone for our nation,'' he said. ``we have in this administration the most indictments, the most corruption, the highest sleaze factor in the history of american government. we deserve better government. we deserve honorable leaders.''
jackson received an enthusiastic response from about 2,000 people _ mainly white and hispanic _ who gathered later at an outdoor rally in pueblo. he then headed to the mountain resort of aspen _ which had 1{ feet of snow last week _ where he was attending a fund-raising event and speaking to a group of local residents and skiers
jackson's campaign said it had had its best success ever in raising money during the past month
campaign spokeswoman denise lee said the campaign raised $2.1 million during march, including $500,000 in the week since jackson's stunning victory in michigan's caucuses. she said that since super tuesday, the amount of money received by the campaign by mail has increased from about $20,000 a day to $60,000 a day
jackson planned to attend easter services in denver on sunday morning
in greeley, jackson repeated his common themes of attacking corporations for exporting jobs and exploiting cheaper foreign labor. he led the crowd in chanting that they would vote for jackson at caucuses around the state monday night _ meetings called ``get togethers'' rather than by their formal name, which he said was intimidating to average voters
he noted that they fall on april 4, the 20th anniversary of the assassination of martin luther king jr. in memphis, tenn., where jackson was present as a young aide to the civil rights leader
answering questions after his speech, jackson called efforts to require only english to be taught as the main language in schools a ``mean-spirited mistake.''
president alan garcia on saturday extended a state of emergency in an important mining region where leftist guerrillas have repeatedly attacked mines and railroads
a decree in the official gazette, el peruano, said the emergency measures would be extended for another two months across the mountainous eastern half of pasco state. cerro de pasco, the state capital, is 120 miles northeast of lima
pasco is the center of peru's vital mining industry that provides more than 50 percent of the nation's foreign exchange. maoist shining path guerrillas have made hundreds of attacks in the zone in an effort to cripple peru's economy
the government began decreeing states of emergency in november 1980 because of the insurgency. parts of seven states, including lima, currently are under states of emergency
a state of emergency suspends citizens' rights to travel and assemble freely and permits government forces to conduct searches without warrants and hold suspects for lengthy periods without filing charges
the government says more than 10,000 people have been killed in violence related to the shining path's eight-year-old campaign to gain power. in grafs 3, 7 and 10</note>
a 9-year-old girl whose lower legs were amputated after she was found abandoned and freezing has a new foster family and should be leaving the hospital before long, officials say
darlwin carlisle, of gary, ind., has been learning to walk on artificial legs at la rabida children's hospital
the foster parents ``are known to darlwin and will begin discharge training next week,'' said hospital spokeswoman kris bangert
the girl has been at la rabida since the end of january after her frostbitten legs were amputated below the knee. she had been abandoned in an empty, unheated house in gary, and was found jan. 17. gangrene brought on the need for the amputations, doctors say
her mother, darlwin britt, 24, was charged with felony child neglect
the girl's foster parents were appointed by the child and protective services of indiana. their identities were not released
the ``hospital has been her family since the end of january,'' said ms. bangert
but it's still a hospital, not a real home,'' she said
darlwin has made steady progress in her recovery, the spokeswoman said
she walks everywhere with no assistance,'' said ms. bangert. ``and she looks great when she walks, too _ not wobbly or halting.''
the party of former opposition leader joshua nkomo voted saturday to merge with the ruling party of prime minister robert mugabe in a step to unite the nation's most powerful political movements
nkomo, president of the zimbabwe african people's union, opened the party's one-day congress with a plea to more than 5,000 delegates to endorse a unity accord he signed with mugabe on dec. 23
nkomo said, ``this accord opens up broad vistas for the economy of the country through the participation of all the people in development.''
nkomo, 70, needed a simple majority vote to endorse the merger but the congress passed two resolutions by unanimous vote. the resolutions approved the merger and asked nkomo and mugabe to proceed with uniting their parties' structures under one banner, effectively dismantling nkomo's party
this country will owe a lot to your decisions,'' nkomo said after the vote. ``we have a collective vision. we must stand together. we must not deceive each other.''
mugabe's zimbabwe african national union is to vote on the unity accord on april 9
mugabe and nkomo originally were allies in the campaign to bring majority black rule to the country that was the white-ruled british colony of rhodesia
in 1963, mugabe and some other officials left nkomo's party to form their own leftist movement
both parties were outlawed by then-prime minister ian smith's white-dominated government in 1964. nkomo and mugabe, along with hundreds of other black nationalists, were detained for more than a decade
mugabe and nkomo then became leaders in a seven-year guerrilla war that ended when the country became independent on april 18, 1980. the alliance mugabe and nkomo had formed during the war came apart after mugabe's party won zimbabwe's first election after independence
nkomo and mugabe remained political foes until dec. 23, when they signed the unity accord that signaled an end to frequent fighting between their supporters. in january nkomo was appointed one of three senior cabinet ministers in a government shuffle
if both parties approve the merger, mugabe, 64, will have the support of all but one legislator in the 100-seat national assembly and the 40-member senate. he needs the vote of all 140 lawmakers to change the constitution and establish a one-party socialist state that he advocates
the dissident lawmaker is businessman goodson sithole, but political observers say he could join mugabe's party before a vote is taken in parliament later this year
in another development, a gang of men stabbed to death a white zimbabwean farmer at his home and beat his wife unconscious, police reported saturday
they said the body of johannes du toit, 55, was found by the family cook friday in the farmhouse near the town of karoi, 112 miles northwest of harare
police said they had not determined the motive, but neighbors who spoke on condition of anonymity said du toit recently had argued with some of his black employees
pat robertson said saturday he would stay in the race for the republican nomination for president primarily because, ``i want to be a rallying point for conservatives.''
i am the only conservative in the race, because george bush is considered to be a moderate,'' robertson told reporters as he campaigned in colorado before monday's precinct caucuses
there couldn't be anything more deadly than to be taken off the evening news and off the front page of the newspaper, and that is what is going to happen as soon as george bush has it locked up,'' robertson said
at a news conference before a rally at the sheraton denver tech center on saturday afternoon, robertson was asked about his role at the republican national convention in new orleans in august
i want to address the issues _ how we stand on taxes and following the reagan agenda,'' the former television evangelist said, adding he believes the 1984 republican platform should be retained
i like the '84 gop platform very much,'' he said, defining it as a conservative position on strong defense, conservative judges, fighting communism, lowering taxes ``and being less intrusive in the lives of people.''
the rally audience _ estimated by police at 400 people _ received information sheets placed on each seat that instructed them in ways to be important factors monday night at colorado's precinct caucuses, the starting point for sending 36 delegates to the new orleans convention
keep your preference under wraps _ unknown!'' the sheet told the audience members, adding that they should ``be polite'' but should try to find out who people are supporting for president ``carefully.''
robertson's speech at the rally emphasized the importance of the family, the need for winning the war against drugs and aids and bringing god back into public school classrooms
he told the audience: ``i am going to be the champion of the christian and conservative points of view ... if it takes until 1992 to do it.''
robertson planned to give an easter sunday sermon to an estimated 5,000 people in four congregations in the denver area
campaign aides said they had up to 10 phone bank operators trying to persuade at least 10,000 people to show up for caucuses monday night. ``our goal would be to have 15,000,'' said david nelson, a denver businessman who is coordinating robertson's colorado campaign. and survivors.</note>
vernon w. thomson, a former wisconsin governor, member of congress for 14 years and federal election commission chairman, died saturday at george washington university hospital, a spokeswoman said. he was 82
yvonne hiott, the hospital spokeswoman, said the cause of death was respiratory arrest. she said thomson, who lived in the washington suburb of mclean, va., had been in the hospital since march 25
thomson, a republican member of the wisconsin state assembly between 1935-51 and speaker for three consecutive terms, served as wisconsin's governor in 1956 and 1957. he was elected to the u.s. house of representatives in november 1960, and served through 1974
after leaving congress, he joined the fec and remained there until 1979, serving in 1976-77 as its chairman
in 1981, then-president jimmy carter called thomson out of retirement to serve a year as interim member of the commission
carter's request that he rejoin the fec illustrated the government's respect for thomson, said former rep. glenn r. davis, r-wis., who described thomson as a friend ever since they served in the wisconsin legislature together in the 1940s
he served longer than he was supposed to,'' davis said saturday. ``i think he was one of the most respected members who ever served in the house.''
born in richland center, wis., thomson attended carroll college and the university of wisconsin law school before serving as richland county district attorney in the 1930s and as richland center mayor
after serving in the state legislature, he was elected state attorney general in 1950, 1952 and 1954 before being named governor for two years. he lost a re-election bid to the statehouse
davis said thomson's re-election defeat in 1958 was the only serious setback in his political career
unfortunately, 1958 was a bad year for republicans,'' davis said
thomson is survived by three children _ vernon jr. of mclean, patricia thomson of fletcher, va., and susan thomson turner of vienna, va. _ and two grandchildren. his wife, the former helen a. davis, died in 1973
funeral services were scheduled for thursday at pratt funeral home in richland center. burial will be at the richland center cemetery
two robeson county indians charged in the armed takeover of a lumberton newspaper said they have written to soviet general secretary mikhail gorbachev
the letters will be delivered to moscow by attorney william kunstler, who hopes to make indian rights an issue at the may summit between gorbachev and president reagan, said eddie hatcher on saturday
hatcher, 30, and timothy jacobs, 19, both of pembroke, are charged with hostage-taking and the manufacture and possession of illegal weapons in connection with the feb. 1 siege of the robesonian newspaper in lumberton
we raised several issues in our letters regarding the reagan administration and past administrations' treatment of native americans that has been brought about by lies and broken treaties,'' hatcher said in a telephone interview with the fayetteville observer-times. ``we are political prisoners, and we raise the fact that there are many other political prisoners like us.''
hatcher and jacobs, both tuscarora indians, have said that mistreatment of minorities in robeson county led them to take over the newspaper offices
they released their hostages eight hours after the siege began following a commitment by gov. jim martin to appoint a task force to study the indians' claims agains the robeson county government and law enforcement agencies. preparations</head> transition. pickup 4th graf pvs, `i know...' inserts 4 grafs after 12 pvs, `she always' to include new orleans easter live bunny display, incorporating material from a0618. pickup 13th graf `on good...'</note>
greek bakers in detroit worked overtime making easter bread, a small illinois town carried on a russian woman's decorating tradition, and pastors all over fretted saturday that the start of daylight-saving time would make parishioners tardy for services
in eastern texas, where tornadoes ripped through east mountain, mound city, gladewater and union grove friday night, hundreds of people banded together and spent their easter weekend cleaning up debris
pastor dick lindsey of east mountain baptist church pastor dick lindsey said sunday's service will focus on the storm that damaged or destroyed 46 homes
even though we've gone through difficulties and a loss of property there still is hope, and that's what the resurrection is all about _ a new life,'' lindsey said saturday
many pastors shared a less serious worry on easter eve _ whether congregants would remember to set their clocks an hour ahead before going to bed
i know there's been concern,'' said pastor william deheyman of redeemer lutheran church in philadelphia
it was a stuck drawbridge, not an unset clock, that delayed the easter bunny from his appointed round saturday morning in grand haven, mich. the local jaycees held up their egg hunt until the guest of honor could arrive
for sunday's easter egg hunt in terre haute, ind., organizers were plotting how to foil overzealous parents who cheat to help their children win prizes. more than 1,000 children were expected to participate in the event at deming park in one of indiana's biggest annual easter egg hunts
in the past adults have painted winning numbers on eggs, or found the highly coveted gold and silver eggs and passed them off to their kids, said georgeo schoffstall of the american legion, which sponsors the event
sixty monitors will be on hand to keep parents from collecting any of the nearly 2,000 hidden eggs. ``we could use a 150,'' schoffstall said
for more than 50 years, passers-by in bement, ill., marveled at the thousands of colored eggs, plastic rabbits and ducks, and statues of geese and goslings that adorned zenaida drake's yard
although mrs. drake died last fall at age 73, her spirit lives on, thanks to some old-fashioned community spirit and mrs. drake's husband, bill, who donated the decorations to the bement community council
some of the council members went to the drake home on friday, and the bement girl scout troop pitched in to set out the same decorations that the russian woman had displayed for nearly half a century, many of which she had made herself
she always told us that in the old country, they decorated for easter like we do for christmas, so she brought the tradition with her,'' said gary jennings, president of the council
a 60-year tradition in new orleans of showing off live bunnies before easter may be dropped next year, says the florist who sets up the elaborate display
the fenced-in display, in which dozens of adult and baby rabbits hop around a lawn or snuggle in wooden boxes cut to resemble buildings along st. charles ave., opens 10 days before easter and lasts until easter sunday
arthur scheinuk, owner of scheinuk the florist, says thousands come to see and sometimes buy the rabbits, but the display has been picketed by activists charging animal cruelty
it will be determined by the public. if they want us to have the rabbits next year, we suggest that they write in to us,'' he said saturday
on good friday in traverse city, mich., members of a youth group from faith reformed church carried a 120-pound pine cross more than two miles, traversing wayne hill to their church
the rev. ron spence said although the youths may have been embarrassed carrying the cross, christ was embarrassed, too
it's like if you had to carry an electric chair through the streets of your town,'' spence said. ``jesus died in the most humiliating way.''
easter doesn't fall until april 10 for greek orthodox christians, but that hasn't delayed holiday preparations
at the astoria pastry shop in detroit's greektown district, bakers were busy all day saturday making loaves of easter bread, a rich pastry with a red egg in it, symbolizing the blood of christ
it's been crazy,'' said baker dennis oster. ``we can't get it out fast enough.''
owner tasso teftsis said he opened the shop at 6 a.m. and ``there were people waiting in cars outside.'' he said he planned to stay open until 2 a.m
they want six, eight, 10,'' he said. ``we're backed up too much.'' also considered establishing new headquarters in canal zone for delvalle</note>
the reagan administration so far has rejected using military force to oust panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, a white house spokesman said saturday
marlin fitzwater scoffed at reports of a clamoring within the state department for tougher measures to push noriega out, saying the panamanian problem has presented a ``fertile ground for rich imaginations.''
several news reports have said that secretary of state george p. shultz urged in high-level white house meetings that the united states attempt to kidnap noriega, who is under indictment in this country on drug-trafficking charges
the washington post reported in sunday's editions that the administration also considered establishing headquarters in the former canal zone for panamanian president eric arturo delvalle _ who has been in hiding since noriega ousted him in february _ and surrounding the area with u.s. military forces so delvalle could campaign more effectively for noriega's removal
fitzwater on saturday sought to minimize reports indicating the administration was weighing military or covert action moves to get noriega out of power
and shultz, speaking with reporters in rome saturday as he continued a mideast peacemaking mission, sidestepped questions about his advice to reagan
we debate various possible options,'' shultz said. ``but basically, this is a question of a person who no longer is wanted in his country. the position of the united states government is that he should go. everybody agrees about that. he's been indicted.''
shultz steadfastly refused to get into a debate about he options he has proposed, saying that ``i never comment on speculative news articles.''
the los angeles times reported in saturday's editions that shultz and assistant secretary of state elliott abrams also had urged the dispatch of about 3,000 u.s. military forces to panama to further undermine noriega's grip on power
the state department, it said, was displeased with the pentagon's decision to bolster the u.s. military presence in panama by sending about 1,300 troops, many of them military police officers
but fitzwater described the deployment of these forces, beginning early this week, as simply ``a continuation'' of the u.s. effort to strengthen security for americans in the troubled central american country
there have been any number of offensive plans raised, but to this point, they have been rejected,'' he said
fitzwater said ``the united states' intentions in panama is to protect'' u.s. assets and the approximately 40,000 american citizens living there
clearly, the decisions at this point have been limited to defensive (options),'' he said, ``reinforcing security in panama. we want to be sure we have enough troops to protect our 40,000 citizens there.''
deputy white house press secretary leslye arsht said ``the whole range of diplomatic, political and military options have been considered. the kinds of things being reported can be considered in that category.''
she said ``the only decision the president has made is to enhance the security forces, as announced by the pentagon.''
fitzwater declined to be drawn into a discussion of the reported feud between shultz and defense secretary frank c. carlucci over the options to be pursued in panama
but the spokesman did say that the decision to send the additional 1,300 troops to the county was made by carlucci, with reagan's approval
fitzwater had said friday that reagan would be kept abreast of the panamanian situation as he and his wife, nancy, vacation this week at their mountaintop ranch near here. national security adviser colin d. powell accompanied reagan to california, and is staying at a hotel in santa barbara, along with several other presidential aides
the united states so far has mainly applied economic sanctions and diplomatic pressure to oust noriega, but the administration's moves have not succeeded
late last week, the administration said it was considering a plan to seek the withholding of tax payments owed to panama by u.s. corporations that do business there. penultimate graf pvs bgng, `talks on,' with 1 graf to update with contras delaying scheduled wednesday start of negotiations</note>
the guns are silent for the time being in nicaragua and there is even a truce of sorts between republicans and democrats on the contentious issue of aid to the nicaraguan contra rebels
and as nicaragua's leftist government and the u.s.-backed rebels prepare to negotiate a settlement to end their six-year war, the reagan administration has remained uncharacteristically silent, no longer using apocalyptic terms to discuss its perception of the stakes involved
along with its rhetoric, the administration is lowering its expectations of its ability to influence events in the region. but most officials believe the sandinista government is going into the peace talks in a commanding position because of contra military weakness
for now, almost everyone, from the sandinista government to administration and congressional hardliners, believes the peace process should be allowed to go forward without guns ablaze
just a few weeks ago, bipartisanship on the contra aid issue seemed beyond reach. an administration aid proposal was defeated narrowly in the house on feb. 3 and a substitute democratic plan also was rejected by a slim margin a few weeks later
but this past week, both houses of congress overwhelmingly approved a $48 million package providing humanitarian aid for the contras as well as for children on both sides who have been injured in the conflict. the package includes $10 million for independent verification of the cease-fire agreement
following contra acquiescence to a 60-day cease-fire on march 23, both republicans and democrats agreed that this type of aid package was the only option available to them. but the legislation also includes a promise by house speaker jim wright, d-texas, that he will not block ``fair and orderly'' consideration of a new military aid request if the peace talks collapse due to sandinista intransigence
sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., noted that the aid bill did not provide weapons for the rebels, as contra supporters had hoped. and it went too far for contra opponents, who object to sending any aid
this package strikes a balance,'' dodd said during an unusually harmonious floor debate on the proposal last thursday
dodd said the sole purpose of the package is to support the cease-fire agreement: ``if not for that agreement, we wouldn't be doing this today.''
the official administration line is that the temporary cease-fire was a step forward, and it is now up to the disputants to resolve their differences at the bargaining table when peace talks begin
those talks were scheduled to begin wednesday, but the contras said saturday they would delay the talks for one week to provide more time for technical commissions of both sides to work out details of the five zones inside nicaragua where rebel forces are to gather under the provisions of the cease-fire accord
but a government statement signed saturday by deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco stressed it was ``extremely important'' to comply with the cease-fire pact's timetable and stick by the april 6 meeting date
the administration's low-key attitude was symbolized by president reagan's decision on friday to sign the aid legislation in his white house residence, forgoing the ceremonial fanfare that attends some bill-signings
the administration has long contended that the sandinistas will be forced to democratize and demilitarize only through contra military pressure, or at least the threat of it
just last february, reagan said the sandinista government ``will be free to continue the consolidation of their totalitarian regime, the military buildup inside nicaragua and communist subversion of their neighbors'' if military aid to the contras stops
the administration has not renounced reagan's grim prediction but it appears that an informal moratorium has been placed on that type of rhetoric
things have been quiet in nicaragua as well. a formal cease-fire replaced the temporary one on friday, and the nicaraguan defense ministry reported no violations
many nicaraguans marked the long easter weekend by taking vacations at beaches on the pacific coast. banks, government offices, stores and most restaurants were closed until monday
when talks on a permanent truce begin, the contras are expected to issue demands for 17 democratic reforms, abolition of the draft, the repatriation soviet bloc military advisers and other measures
in effect, they will be asking the sandinistas to negotiate the revolution, something the government has said it would never do. the process is not expected to be free of friction
george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968
police arrested 11 protesters who moved into vacant apartments at a public housing project saturday, but did not arrest demonstrators who set up a nearby tent city, officials said
the 11 who were arrested at the chicago housing authority's henry horner homes were charged with criminal trespass and released on $100 bond apiece, said officer richard touhy. he said police were called to the buildings by housing authority security guards
the protesters were members of the chicago-gary area union of the homeless, and moved into the vacant apartments as part of a two-pronged demonstration on behalf of the city's estimated 25,000 homeless
the other half of the demonstration involved setting up a dozen tents on a vacant lot nearby
union members vowed to stay in the tents for a week, saying they wanted to call attention to the housing authority's refusal to allow the homeless to stay in its vacant apartments
several members of the union said they would try to move back into the apartments where the 11 were arrested
dolores thomas, a secretary for the union, said this weekend was chosen for the protest because april 1 is the date that half of the city-run shelters and warming centers for the homeless were closed this year. she estimated that about 500 people had to go back on the streets because of the seasonal move. swap in 1980</head>
the carter administration considered an arms-for-hostages swap in 1980 but scuttled the plan because of doubts about the iranian go-between, newly declassified documents show
president carter considered offering $10 million in military spare parts for 52 americans held hostage at the u.s. embassy in tehran, the miami herald reported in sunday editions
however, the administration backed away from the plan after deciding arms dealer houshang lavi did not have the backing of abolhassan bani-sadr, then president of iran, the newspaper reported
under the reagan administration, the u.s. sold arms to iran in exchange for the release of some american hostages held in lebanon. funds from the sale were diverted to contra rebels at a time when such aid was banned by congress
the declassified documents, mostly carter-era cia and state department memos, provide the first detailed account of carter efforts to extricate the hostages before the 1980 election, which ronald reagan won by a landslide
lavi, an iranian-born resident of new york's long island, became involved with the carter administration after first contacting the campaign of independent presidential candidate john anderson. the documents gave no indication whether the reagan campaign was approached
the documents were turned over to rep. john conyers, d-mich., chairman of the house judiciary criminal justice subcommittee, as part of his investigation into whether reagan's 1980 campaign made a secret arms-for-hostages deal with iran
one of the cia memos, dated oct. 3, 1980, mentioned a conversation between an unidentified agency officer and lavi in which he offered to make the hostage exchange and handed over a a seven-page list of f-14 parts
lavi ``wished to arrange the delivery to iran of $8 (million) to $10 million of f-14 spare parts,'' the memo said, adding he ``would arrange the swap of all the hostages upon the delivery of the spare parts'' and u.s. agreement to unfreeze iranian assets, forgive claims against iran and stay out of internal iranian affairs
the cia officer recommended against pursuing the offer
the memos indicate carter officials ended contacts with lavi on oct. 19, 1980, after a foreign ambassador in tehran reported that bani-sadr had not been aware of lavi's offer
wls-tv in chicago reported oct. 15, 1980, that arms-for-hostages talks were under way, and a 1984 congressional investigation concluded the leak came from a ``highly placed member of the u.s. intelligence community'' associated with the reagan campaign. contras... with letter giving details of government plan for postponed wednesday meeting.</note>
nicaraguan rebels on saturday said they would delay talks with the sandinista government for one week, but the government called on the contras to stick to the original timetable for discussing a lasting peace
the high-level talks between delegations from the government and rebels, known as contras, were scheduled to begin on wednesday in managua
a rebel leader indicated the contras wanted more time for technical commissions of both sides to work out details of the five zones inside nicaragua where rebel forces are to gather under the provisions of a 60-day cease-fire accord
adolfo calero, one of the top contra leaders, said in a telephone interview from miami that the rebel delegation will not meet with the sandinistas until april 12
we feel it's not violating the accord,'' calero said of the postponement
a government statement saturday signed by deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco stressed it was ``extremely important'' to comply with the cease-fire pact's timetable and stick by the april 6 meeting date
the statement said the government considered it ``counterproductive to postpone the april 6th high-level meeting.''
tinoco said the contras showed ``a tendency to systematic lack of compliance with the agreed-upon calendar'' of the accord
the agreement to meet wednesday in managua, which would be the first talks between the two sides in the nicaraguan capital, had been reached in negotiations last month in the village of sapoa beside the border with costa rica
a tinoco letter released saturday night, which apparently had been prepared before the contras insisted on a postponement, disclosed plans for the wednesday meeting
it said arrangements had been made for the talks to be held in managua's hotel las mercedes beginning at 4 p.m. ``as is stipulated in the sapoa accords.''
the letter addressed to rebel leaders said sandinista and costa rican officials were to guarantee the contra delegation's security. it added the government would consider ``counterproductive any type of political activity outside the framework and objective of the managua meeting.''
u.s.-backed rebel and leftist govenment leaders signed an agreement march 23 aimed at ending the more than six-year war. the sandinistas met the first parts of the plan by freeing 100 political prisoners, holding technical talks on the cease-fire and formally enacting the 60-day cease-fire on friday
but the two days of technical talks among military officers from both sides failed to net desired results for the contras. according to the cease-fire agreement, the rebels are to move into zones during the first 15 days of april while talks go on for the duration of the 60-day cease-fire
the two sides agreed to five zones but failed to specify their size or exact locations. nor did they work out operating guidelines while the rebels remained in the zones
the sandinistas reportedly want the contras to lay down their arms, a move the rebels say they will not do
the delay was necessary because the technical commissions ``still are negotiating ... verification of the zones and the modus operandi'' of contra fighters inside the zones, nicaraguan resistance spokesman jorge rosales said in an interview from miami
calero also charged the sandinistas had violated the agreement by not freeing the prisoners they had requested
they played tricks. they released only about 10 of those we requested. the rest were (those) held for a few days,'' he said
the nicaraguan resistance, the contra umbrella group, also said saturday the government has refused to sell necessary printing materials to the opposition la prensa newspaper ``while it continues granting all paper and other materials for publication to the other newspapers,'' in violation of the pact's condition for full press freedom in nicaragua
under the terms of the cease-fire pact, the sandinistas said they would release all 3,300 political prisoners gradually, the last coming after the 60-day cease-fire period ended june 1. the government also pledged full freedom of expression
the contras pledged to accept only humanitarian aid through a neutral organization. that clause, according to the sandinistas, means the rebels can receive only civilian clothes, food and medicine and that it must come through an organization such as the red cross. undated political rdp item, and manila-dated item on honasan escape; subs washington-dated item on meese to correct time element to friday, sted today.</note>
independent counsel james c. mckay said there was insufficient evidence ``developed to date'' to warrant a criminal indictment of attorney general edwin meese iii in connection with the iraq-jordan pipeline plan or his investment in telephone company stock
meese said he was ``gratified by the action and the statement'' issued friday and indicated he would not resign his post
i would urge that there be no rush to judgment,'' meese told a news conference
the reagan administration, expressing concern about the safety of americans in panama, has decided to dispatch another 1,300 military personnel to the troubled central american nation
among the units being ordered south is an army aviation task force that includes helicopter gunships
the pentagon announced the decision to increase the number of troops in panama late friday evening ``in view of the growing unrest and tension'' in that country. the deployments are to begin tuesday and be completed by april 8
soldiers were off the streets as easter weekend began and a jailed opposition leader's wife said her husband was being held hostage in gen. manuel antonio noriega's effort to maintain power
also friday, the pentagon said it was sending 1,300 more military personnel to protect u.s. bases and thousands of american residents, bringing to nearly 12,000 the number of u.s. troops in panama
opposition leaders said they planned to meet today or sunday to decide whether to lift a 12-day-old general strike that has shut down most commercial activity in an effort to oust noriega, panama's de facto leader and heads of its 15,000-member defense forces
with fewer holy week visitors than usual because of the arab uprising in its occupied lands, israel sought to ensure the safety of the thousands of christians who had come for easter sunday observances
friday was stained by bloodshed as christians commemorated good friday, jews began the start of the week-long passover festival and angry moslems rioted as they left mosques after morning prayers
police and troops were reinforced in and around jerusalem's holy sites to protect participants at easter ceremonies by christians celebrating their belief that christ was resurrected two days after dying on a cross
campeau corp., the winner in a bitter two-month battle for federated department stores inc., says it will keep the ``crown jewels'' of the nation's fifth-largest retailer and sell off the rest of the company
the toronto-based developer agreed friday to acquire federated for $73.50 a share, or $6.58 billion, beating out rival suitor r.h. macy &amp; co., which had reached a merger agreement last month
the acquisition would be the fifth-largest corporate takeover in u.s. history, and the largest deal not involving oil companies
overseas brats, a magazine for americans who went to high school half a world away from their homeland, is helping them find classmates they haven't seen for years, says its army brat publisher
the difference between stateside graduates and army brats, air force brats, navy juniors and others is that those in stateside have a hometown to go to for a reunion,'' said publisher and editor joe condrill
but the brats, after they graduate, they leave the military environment and sometimes are lost,'' he said
although the roman catholic church has never formally accepted the shroud of turin as christ's burial cloth, it has kept it wrapped in red silk inside a silver chest on the altar of the cathedral of turin _ on the chance that indeed it might be genuine. modern science may be on the verge of an answer
after centuries of debate, scientists in england, the united states and switzerland may finally determine whether the shroud of turin is a medieval forgery or old enough to have existed at the time of christ's death on the cross
the vatican, for the first time, is allowing radiocarbon-dating of the mysterious linen, which appears to bear the image of a crucified man and is venerated by some as christ's burial cloth
a date from the middle ages will be compelling evidence of what skeptics have argued all along _ that the shroud of turin is a fake
although no one will ever prove the image is christ's, a date anywhere near 2,000 years old could cause a sensation, for it would indicate the shroud existed when christ was crucified
i would be rather awed if it looked extremely probable that it was his burial cloth,'' said oxford university's dr. robert hedges, one of the scientists carrying out the tests
the british museum has agreed to guarantee the scientific validity of the carbon-dating, which is to be done independently on nuclear atom-counters at oxford, the university of arizona and the swiss federal institute of technology at the university of zurich
no timetable has been set, but dr. michael tite, director of the museum's research laboratory, said tests should begin this spring and the results announced possibly by the summer
the triple carbon-dating should reveal the shroud's age within a 200-year range, he said
if you get a medieval date, then clearly it is not the shroud,'' tite said in an interview
if you get a date of the period of christ, then it doesn't tell you anything _ except that it tells you it could be the genuine thing.''
the most extensive investigation was the 1978 shroud of turin research project, in which dozens of scientists subjected the cloth to chemical analysis and took 30,000 photographs of it
they concluded the stains were human blood and the image too thin to be an artist's work
the shroud, 14 feet, 3 inches long and 3 feet, 7 inches wide, bears a faint yellowish image of both the front and back of a man's body. stains, scientifically identified as blood, can be seen around the wrists, forearms and head, corresponding to new testament descriptions of christ's wounds from being whipped, speared, nailed to a cross and crowned with thorns
believers contend the image was left by a supernatural burst of energy accompanying christ's resurrection
skeptics, however, maintain it was painted during the middle ages, when the production of fake religious relics was commonplace
historical records have authoritatively traced the shroud to 1354. references to the shroud before then are sketchy, and scientists have long tried to persuade the roman catholic church to subject it to carbon-dating
the vatican, which owns the shroud, previously argued that carbon-dating would damage the cherished linen. but the development of an atom-counter known as an accelerator mass spectrometer in the 1970s made it possible to date objects with much smaller samples
the old technique would have required a piece of the shroud the size of a paper napkin. the spectrometer can use a sample no bigger than a postage stamp. the vatican refused to say when samples would be cut from the shroud, which is locked away in the cathedral at turin, italy. scientists doing the tests have been barred from witnessing the sample-taking procedure or saying when they received their samples
instead, the sample-cutting was being videotaped and photographed for documentation. tite and the archishop of turin, cardinal anastasio alberto ballestrero, were to witness the cutting to certify the procedure
more controversially, the vatican announced in january that it would allow only three laboratories to take part in the tests, instead of the seven originally planned
the decision outraged, among others, dr. robert otlet, director of one of the rejected labs, the british atomic energy authority's isotope measurements laboratory at harwell. the lab is a world leader in dating archaeological finds
i think it's as much a catastrophe as it would be if you allowed bulldozers to go over an archaeological site before you've examined it,'' he said in an interview
another test center rejected by the archdiocese of turin was the nuclear structure research laboratory at the university of rochester in new york state, which developed the nuclear carbon 14-dating technique chosen for the tests
professor harry gove, the lab director who spearheaded the campaign to carbon-date the shroud, said in a telephone interview that restricting the tests to three labs and thereby eliminating a second carbon-dating technique would make the results ``a lot less believable.''
there are a lot of people who think the shroud is a phony, so if the dating is a number that comes around 2,000 years, they're going to say there's been some kind of conspiracy,'' he said
new scientist, a british journal, accused the vatican of revising the testing protocol to produce an ambiguous result that would allow people to continue believing in the shroud is a genuine relic
professor luigi gonella, scientific adviser to the archdiocese of turin, said the church never claimed the shroud was authentic, only that it might be and ``must be treated with respect and caution.''
the number of testing labs was restricted to minimize damage to the shroud, gonella said, adding that the archdiocese had never agreed to allow more than three labs to participate
critics talk about us reducing the number of labs from seven to three, while we see it as increasing it from one to three,'' he said in an interview
the british museum's tite said there is no reason to think that three labs could not produce a sound result
it is in fact quite unusual to do two or three measurements on a normal archaeological specimen,'' he said. ``one is the normal number, two you're providing a check and three you're providing a doublecheck.''
tite said each test lab will receive a 0.3-square-inch sample of the shroud. they also will get two dummy cloth samples, one carbon-dated and the other dated historically but not scientifically, to see if they get consistent results for all three samples
the labs are not supposed to know which sample is from the shroud, but tite acknowledged that the linen's distinctive herringbone weave would probably give it away under the microscope
hedges, head of the radiocarbon-dating unit at oxford's research laboratory for archaeology and the history of art, said he would not deliberately try to determine which of the three samples is from the shroud
in a sense, it almost puts one under too much pressure,'' he said in an interview. ``it's sort of more relaxed if one doesn't really know.''
either way, he added, it wouldn't affect the findings
hedges said carbon-dating would establish the time at which the flax in the shroud was growing, rather than when the cloth was made, although the two dates presumably are about the same
asked how confident he was of establishing the shroud's age, hedges said: ``i wouldn't put my life on it. but on the other hand, i'd make a pretty hefty bet.''
the history of the shroud of turin goes back only about 800 years, when a crusading knight said he saw it in constantinople. it never has been traced to the holy land
the roman catholic church does not claim it is jesus' burial cloth, and many critics have dismissed the linen cloth and its image as a clever forgery
perhaps the shroud's earliest known debunker was pierre d'arcis, bishop of troyes. in a 1389 letter, he told clement vii, the papal claimant in avignon, that the bishop who preceeded him in troyes knew who painted it
the church is aware there is a big historical gap and it is also aware this historical gap will never be filled satisfactorily,'' professor luigi gonella, the scientific adviser to the archbishop of turin, said in a recent telephone interview
the shroud, bequeathed to the pope by ex-king umberto ii of italy upon his death in 1983, has been kept in the cathedral at turin since 1578
through records, the shroud can be traced to lirey in france in 1354. in 1453, the royal family of savoy got the shroud and kept it at the castle of chambery, where fire damaged it in 1532
there are references to it as early as the 5th or 6th centuries, and coincidences have been found between the shroud and 7th-century byzantine art and liturgy
witnesses including william of tyre in 1171 and robert of clari of the fourth crusade in 1203 reported seeing the shroud in the imperial palace at constantinople. the trail then is lost until the shroud appears in france
gonella said the church doesn't recognize the shroud as a relic but as a ``cherished object'' that must be given the respect due a relic
the church understands it will never know if it is the actual burial cloth of jesus,'' said gonella. ``but it has the probability of being the burial cloth of jesus and must be treated with respect and caution.''
wrapped in red silk under protective glass and an iron grill, the shroud is kept on an altar in a silver chest that has only rarely been opened in the last century
perhaps the most significant occasion was in 1898, when a man named secundo pia was allowed to photograph it
the result was sensational
the image on the shroud is similar to a photographic negative, so the negative on pia's photographic plate gave the world its first positive image of the man on the shroud
pia's work confounded skeptics: why would a medieval forger paint a negative image _ an image that produced a perfect positive visible only centuries later when photography was invented?
here, briefly, is how carbon-dating works:
all living things absorb carbon 14, a radioactive isotope created by rays bombarding the earth's atmosphere from outer space
there is a certain proportion of carbon 14 to nonradioactive carbon 12 in the air and in living things. while plants and animals are alive, this proportion remains the same. when they die, they stop absorbing carbon 14
because it is radioactive, carbon 14 decays at a known rate. it takes 5,730 years for half the carbon 14 to decay
carbon 12 does not decay. so by measuring the proportion of carbon 14 to carbon 12 left in a sample, scientists can tell when the plant or animal it came from died
to count carbon atoms, a sample must first be converted into carbon dioxide. this is done by burning
a technique more advanced from original procedures used in the 1940s, when carbon-dating was first applied, uses a nuclear atom-counting machine called an accelerator mass spectrometer
it propels carbon dioxide through a tube at tremendous speed, causing the various atomic particles to separate and making it possible to detect carbon 12 and carbon 14
