es</head> deukmejian.</note>
vice president george bush, far ahead of sen. bob dole in the race for the republican presidential nomination, said friday he will stick to his game plan in the white house campaign and declared, ``it's too early for me to start thinking about any running mates.''
with the latest associated press tally showing bush with 788 delegates to dole's 178, dole was downbeat as he told the u.s. chamber of commerce in washington, ``i think it's probably a foregone conclusion what's happening on the republican side.''
the kansas senator, telling reporters, ``i can read the numbers and i know probably what's going to happen,'' suggested he was re-evaluating his campaign, but his spokesman said the candidate isn't ready to abandon the race
bush, after a speech at the university of denver, said, ``i don't see any reason to change any game plan that we have.'' the vice president added: ``this doesn't say it's over. so i'm going to just keep going right down to the wire and not speculate on somebody else's campaign or on the democratic side.''
asked whether he would consider dole as a running mate, bush said, ``it's too early for me to start thinking about any running mates. that would project a certain arrogance or presumption that i don't want to do.''
he commented after addressing an estimated 1,000 supporters who went to a fieldhouse to see bush and his family and have a lunch of chili, crackers, brownies, iced tea and lemonade
meanwhile in washington, white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. was asked on cable news network's ``evans &amp; novak'' if he would accept the vice presidency if bush turned to him
it's not just going to happen. that isn't going to occur,'' baker said. ``george bush needs to find someone who will bring strength to the ticket on a regional and political basis, and i think that is not going to be me.''
he mentioned former tennessee gov. lamar alexander, california gov. george deukmejian, and new jersey gov. thomas kean as good choices for the vice presidential slot
despite this, when pressed as to whether he would refuse the position if it was offered, baker said, ``i didn't say that. nobody says that who spent 20 years in politics
you know, most of my adult life i've spent in public service, and if someone asked me to do it, i would have a very difficult time trying to figure out what i was going to say,'' he said
but i do not wish that to happen. i do not think that will happen, and i do not expect it.''
earlier in the day, bush arrived at the colorado springs municipal airport where he spoke briefly to about 300 people before flying to buckley air national guard base in aurora and going by motorcade to denver
bush stopped in colorado in a search for support in the state's april 4 gop caucuses
the democratic and republican presidential nominees will represent the ``difference between night and day,'' bush said at the university. ``the country does not want to swing left to that democratic gloom-and-doom liberal philosophy, and we're not going to do it,'' he said
bush told reporters he is unsure whether the cease-fire agreement in nicaragua will work. ``i am skeptical,'' he said. ``i hope it works. i hope peace can come and with it, democracy and freedom. those two have to be together.''
you can't have a peace that ends up with the soviets ending up with a base in central america. the american people are not as supportive of our initiatives with the contras as i'd like to think the facts dictate. but they are strongly supportive of the concept, overwhelming so, that the soviets should not have another stronghold in this hemisphere,'' he said
in colorado springs, bush pledged strong support for the strategic defense initiative or ``star wars'' space defense program, which is being developed in that city
isn't it better to put weapons at risk rather than human lives at risk?'' he asked. ``we can do it technologically.''
bush also brushed aside questions involving the iran-contra affair and what impact it would have on his political future, saying americans are not concerned about that issue
the democrats are short of real issues, bringing it up over and over again. no one is even suggesting i have done anything wrong,'' bush said
the top american representative at brisbane's expo '88 will be one of the few americans who can claim to be a specialist in both world's fairs and in australia
art linkletter is preparing to travel down under to play his new role of commissioner general of the american pavilion, with the rank of ambassador
i have a background of half a dozen years in world's fairs, which is really very unusual, because it's not what you might call a regular profession,'' the veteran radio and television entertainer said at a news conference thursday
a half century ago, he said, he left a comfortable job at a california radio station to spend ``a very happy seven or eight months'' organizing radio events at the san diego-pacific international exposition. that led to a similar job at the texas centennial in dallas and finally to more than two years at the san francisco world's fair on the eve of world war ii
linkletter started acquiring his australian expertise with a ``great fiasco,'' he said, participating in a rice-growing venture in the bush near darwin that became a kitchen for millions of crop-devouring geese
but he stayed on to operate sheep and cattle stations that took him to australia annually for the past 30 years. ``i know australia quite well,'' he said, ``i am very, very fond of australians and the whole country.''
the april 30-oct. 30 brisbane exposition will ``give a fresh look to world's fairs'' with its theme of leisure and technology, he said. this is especially appropriate, since australians spend the most of any country on sports, equipment ``and the fun of sports,'' linkletter said
the theme of the u.s. pavilion is sports and sports science
linkletter, 75, said his own devotion to fitness and daily exercise further qualifies him for the brisbane post. he said he skis six weeks a year, swims and plays tennis but has not yet taken up golf because ``i'm not old enough.''
in show business he directed or appeared in a series of successful radio and tv programs including ``people are funny,'' ``art linkletter's house party,'' and ``kids say the darndest things.''
he has written several books, including ``linkletter down under,'' about australia, and the most recent, ``old age is not for sissies.'''
in addition to sports industry exhibits, and daily demonstrations of gymnastics and smaller team sports at brisbane, ``we are going to have such things as deaf basketball players and wheelchair'' athletes in demonstrations of sports for the handicapped plus continuous workshops in many areas of amateur and professional sports and recreation, he said
arrangements may be made for some u.s. stars of the seoul olympics to appear at brisbane on their way home from south korea, linkletter said. also there will be a modern health club, along with marching bands and many u.s. groups ``who are raising their own money and paying their way,'' he said
an agriculture department economist says farmers could be forced to accept the squeeze between costs and prices as a permanent way of life if wheat price trends are an indicator of how the farm economy may develop in the future
clark edwards of the department's economic research service says farmers ``make more money when they become more efficient, they expand, or their terms of trade improve.''
advances in technology have boosted yields of crops and livestock. farms have gotten larger because of people leaving the land. but prices farmers get in relation to costs have tended downward over the years
thus, edwards said, two of the three ingredients for profitability have been working for farmers. but the third _ prices _ has worked against them. that results in the ``cost-price squeeze'' that has chewed on the farm economy for generations
edwards, who is economics editor of agricultural outlook magazine, examined the price history of a single commodity _ wheat _ since 1800
rising prices reflected growth in domestic and export demand from the beginning of the 19th century through the civil war, which included inflated prices triggered by shortages during the 1861-65 war years
from then on, for more than a century, u.s. agriculture has shown a capacity to grow faster than its markets, and the trend in real wheat prices has been downward, with cycles from wars and depressions,'' edwards said
in economic parlance, the ``real'' price of a commodity includes an adjustment for inflation. the ``nominal'' price does not include an inflation adjustment
during world war i, wheat prices spiked higher, but still were below the civil war peak. in the 1920s, wheat prices declined as a farm depression took hold. further downward pressure came in the great depression of the 1930s
wheat prices rose again in world war ii but were still below the levels of world war i
the real price (of wheat) fell from its world war ii high throughout most of the 1950s and 1960s,'' edwards said. ``there was a gradual downtrend in the nominal price, and inflation picked up, particularly since 1965.''
but prices received by farmers in the '50s and '60s were steadied by ``massive government programs'' which boosted the u.s. domestic price of wheat above the world price, he said
as fears of global hunger and grain shortages developed in the early 1970s, wheat prices were driven up to record levels and heralded a return to wide annual fluctuations, edwards said. even so, the real price of wheat at its 1973 peak was below the world war ii high point
wheat prices dropped in 1986, reflecting changes in federal supports authorized by the 1985 farm law, he said. that allowed lower market prices to induce more export and domestic use, while maintaining farm income through direct payments to growers
the price is edging up a little this year,'' edwards said. ``even so, the real price of wheat is well below what it was at the depth of the depressed 1930s, and the lowest it has been since revolutionary times. at the same time, wheat yield per acre now is about three times what it was in the 1930s, and the wheat acreage per farm growing wheat is 10 times what it was.''
edwards acknowldged that wheat accounts for ``a small percentage of total food outlays'' by american consumers and that the margin between the farm value of wheat and the final food product has been growing as a result of higher transportation, processing, packaging and other costs
therefore, a stable consumer price is consistent with a decreasing wheat price,'' he said. ``even so, wars, depressions and food crises are reflected in the price of wheat, and the price of wheat may be a useful proxy for long-run farm and food price trends.''
if that is the case, edwards said those who think that farm prices in the coming decades will rise relative to costs ``are calling for a fundamental change in the long-run trend.''
he added: ``it would appear more reasonable to expect farmers (and help them when necessary) to continue to find ways to make a living in the face of prospective long-run cost price squeeze, as they have done for the last century.''
existing organizations and private funds could help the federal government move ahead in rural development, says bob bergland, executive vice president and general manager of the national rural electric cooperative association
a partnership between private and public interests is necessary because rural communities must not be left behind as the u.s. economy continues to change and grow, he told the senate budget committee on thursday
unfortunately, many of these communities have experienced rapid declines during the last several years,'' bergland said in his statement
loss of population, sluggish job growth, high unemployment or underemployment, poverty and an education gap were cited as major problems
bergland, who was secretary of agriculture in the carter administration, said the association he represents is an example of existing networks that can be used to help with rural development. the nreca, he said, provides service to 25 million people in 2,600 counties in 46 states
today, the problems facing many rural communities have spurred electric cooperatives to increase their initiatives and activities in community and economic development,'' he said
bergland recommended that the rural electrification administration in the agriculture department be authorized to make financing available to rea borrowers for rural development of business, industry and public works
rea is the federal government's chief lending agency for the rural electric and telephone cooperatives
the financial assistance could take the form of guarantees, loans, grants and the ability to create private revolving funds, he said. rea borrowers then could be encouraged to put together financial packages that would ``leverage federal funds with private capital.''
a special sweep of railroad traffic is credited with rescuing illegal aliens from possible suffocation in airtight boxcars, border patrol agents say
we feel that at least some of them would not have made it to houston,'' silvestre reyes, chief of the border patrol's mcallen sector, said thursday
the 46 aliens, some of them dehydrated, had been crouched in a four-foot-high space in the boxcar about seven hours when discovered with the aid of dogs, reyes said
many of them were happy that they were finally out of that place, and said they were concerned that they were going to die in there,'' he said
agents this week have been searching nearly every train car at a stop about six miles north of harlingen. by thursday the crackdown had netted 370 undocumented aliens and 120 pounds of marijuana, the patrol said
we identified three particular (smuggling) organizations out of this,'' reyes said
in discovering the dehydrated group in the sealed car, along with 16 more in two other cars, he said agents probably averted a tragedy similar to the incident last summer in the west texas town of sierra blanca
agents there found 18 aliens suffocated to death inside a sealed boxcar
although temperatures in the lower rio grande valley have ranged in the 50s this week, the temperature inside the boxcar with 46 people in it was around 90 degrees, and would have become hotter, reyes said
the group rescued monday was dehydrated, but did not require hospitalization, reyes said
more than 100 aliens escaped during the train raids, agents reported
joe garagiola lost his 1946 world series ring and other jewelry in a break-in at his home two days after the baseball announcer pressed the town council to allow security gates
garagiola, 62, and his family were home at the time wednesday night but heard nothing, they said
the burglar got in by breaking a window in the closet of the master bedroom and took $200,000 in jewelry from a chest in the closet, said police sgt. ron warner
the items stolen included the former st. louis catcher's series ring from 1946, the year the cardinals beat the boston red sox, warner said
on monday night, garagiola pressed officials of this affluent phoenix suburb to amend rules against security gates at subdivision entrances
paradise valley and two unincorporated luxury communities within it have been hit by at least 15 similar burglaries since january, police said
the council agreed to study the proposal
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis, with a widening edge in the delegate race, is working to lay to rest talk of a brokered democratic national convention
as the campaign for the democratic presidential nomination moves into a springtime series of northern and midwestern state contests, aides to the massachusetts governor are laying plans to drive the rest of the democrats out of the race
it's conceivable we could have a nominating majority by the day after california,'' which is among the states to vote on the last day of the primary season june 8, says tad devine, a senior campaign aide. more optimistic aides paint a scenario that would effectively clinch the nomination earlier
dukakis' rivals concede his superior organization, finances, fresh endorsements and other advantages. ``there's no state that's life and death for dukakis,'' says terry michael, a spokesman for sen. paul simon, adding that most of the other contenders face make-or-break elections in the next few weeks
but, they quickly add, dukakis and his message of managerial competence in the massachusetts statehouse have yet to stir the emotions of democrats around the country, and a few bumps might be all it takes to shatter his candidacy
i think his lack of a message of what a dukakis administration would do is catching up with him,'' says mark johnson, spokesman for rep. richard gephardt
they haven't captured the hearts of democrats. all they've been able to do is convince many that they're a safe bet,'' says simon aide michael. ``they have been moving along picking up delegates on tactics, not on message.''
dukakis' aides insist their candidate has a sound campaign message
but they also argue tactics, saying that vice president george bush's apparently secure republican nomination is cooling the enthusiasm for a brokered democratic convention
the fear of giving george bush a head start is eventually going to help somebody, and if we do our job right, that person is going to be michael dukakis,'' says leslie dach, communications director
dukakis' blueprint for the nomination calls for defeating gephardt in saturday's michigan caucuses and driving him from the race. next, aides seek a victory over simon in wisconsin on april 5, driving him from the race. they hope to follow up with victories in new york or pennsylvania that cripple sen. albert gore jr., even if he remains a candidate
that would leave jesse jackson, but dukakis' aides believe he isn't likely to win more than 900 or so delegates, out of 2,082 needed to gain the nomination. they say dukakis is prepared to outline differences over policy issues with jackson later in the year, particularly over the mideast and defense spending
during the period between new york's primary on april 19 and pennsylvania a week later, dukakis' aides hope that many of the 645 ``super delegates'' to the convention _ the party leaders, members of members of congress and governors _ will swing to their side
there is no disputing the strides dukakis has made since he fell to third place in illinois:
_ he has 533.55 delegates according to a count by the associated press, an increase of 69 in the past week. jesse jackson, his nearest pursuer, has 511.55, an increase of 51. but gore, who has 360.8 overall, has added only six in that time, while gephardt, at 154, has added only nine. simon, the illinois winner, has 171.5 delegates, 141 of them from illinois
_ dukakis has been endorsed since the illinois primary by five senators, 10 congressmen and a governor. the biggest prize, sen. bill bradley of new jersey, has been mentioned prominently as a possible compromise candidate in case of a deadlocked convention this summer. dukakis and the other contenders continue to vie for support from new york gov. mario cuomo
_ recent national public opinion polls show dukakis running strongly against bush. a nationwide survey conducted for abc and the washington post showed dukakis leading the vice president 50 percent to 45 percent. bush led jackson, gore and gephardt in similar matchups
_ he won the kansas caucuses a few days after illinois voted, his first triumph in a predominantly agricultural state
however, dukakis' rivals say his finish in illinois _ where he got 17 percent of the vote behind favorite sons simon and jesse jackson, and no delegates _ is symptomatic of a failure to attract widepsread support to his candidacy
they say he has particularly failed to demonstrate appeal among blue collar workers and conservative democrats who will be essential to democratic chances of capturing the white house
dukakis also stands accused of flip-flopping on a key issue, belatedly embracing trade legislation to make himself more appealing to the united autoworkers union members who will participate in saturday's michigan caucuses
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on actual delegate's public statements or binding state laws or party rules. the first column shows the total number of delegates for each candidate; subsequent columns show the delegates gained or lost during the last 30 days
              total  changes
                  friday      7days   30days dukakis      548.55     +15      +67      +504  gephardt     154         0       +9       +115  gore         362.8      +2       +5       +352  jackson      520.55     +9       +51      +511  simon        171.5       0        0       +139  uncommitted  354.6      +7       +82      +81   others         0         0        0       -4
needed to nominate 2,082
total delegate votes 4,163
chosen thus far 2,112
yet to be chosen 2,051
              total  changes
                  friday      7days   30days bush            788      0       +14      +727  dole            178      0        0       +118  robertson        17      0        0       +9    uncommitted      72      0        0       +62   others            0      0        0        0
needed to nominate 1,139
total delegate votes 2,277
chosen thus far 1,055
yet to be chosen 1,222 that only one decree issued, sted of two as sent. picks up 21st graf pvs bgng, it said store...</note>
the armed forces that keep gen. manuel antonio noriega in power went unpaid friday and the broke and beleaguered government ordered businesses closed in the general strike to reopen
in a decree issued under a week-old state of emergency, the civilian government that does noriega's bidding said it would take away the commercial licenses of any businesses ``offering goods and services to the public'' if they remained closed
the decree specifically mentioned grocery stores, pharmacies, transportation companies and gasoline stations
an estimated 90 percent of panama's industry and businesses have shut down in the strike that began monday in an effort to force noriega's removal as the head of the 15,000-member defense forces that includes the military and police
the government's inability to pay the defense forces kindled hopes in the opposition that loyalty for him will wane
several members of the defense forces, including a secretary at military headquarters, said army, navy, police and air force personnel did not receive their semi-monthly paychecks as scheduled friday
we did not receive our wages and we were not told when we would receive them,'' said the secretary, who declined to give her name. soldiers questioned by reporters also said they had not been paid
in mid-march, most of the 130,000 public employees were given partial payment of at least $75 on their salaries. those employees whose monthly salaries are $1,000 or more were not paid. social security checks have been postponed
demonstrators at the roman catholic cathedral protested the church's failure to issue a denunciation of noriega as expected
pilots who guide ships through the panama canal and claimed they had been harassed by soldiers in panama city demanded protection and met with the panama canal commission. some pilots had spoken of a strike, but commission spokesman frank castrellon said the situation was resolved at the meeting. he did not elaborate
john maher, president of the panama canal pilots association, said: ``there is no problem now.''
noriega remained obstinate
he was asked at a military ceremony about president reagan's renewed call for his departure and he replied:
my president is called (manuel) solis palma and my geographic space is called panama. i don't take orders from extra-terrestrials.''
solis palma was named chief executive by the legislature when president eric arturo delvalle was ousted on feb. 26, the day after he tried to fire noriega
two members of the house foreign affairs committee, reps. gary ackerman, d-n.y., and peter h. kostmayer, d-pa., ended a two-day visit friday and told a news conference they thought the reagan administration should increase economic pressure on noriega
noriega is under indictment in the united states on narcotics charges. the reagan administration has cut the flow of money to panama, which uses the u.s. dollar as its currency
the order for businesses to reopen was in decree no. 16 issued under the state of emergency that enables the government to act as it deems necessary ``to secure public order,'' including suspending civil liberties
the decree also said any establishment that had been closed for the past five days and sold food, meats or canned goods ``cannot reopen unless it is first inspected by the health ministry.''
it said store owners who do not comply face ``temporary suspension of their licenses or, in case of repeated violations, the cancellation of their commercial licenses.''
the strike began monday and was called by the national civic crusade, a broad alliance of noriega's opposition. crusade leaders said it would continue until noriega was ousted
panama canal employees have worked throughout protests and general strikes against noriega that began last june. the canal continues to operate normally while the nation around the waterway is at a virtual standstill
most of the canal's 230 pilots are american citizens
soldiers man roadblocks around the capital and they demand identification from drivers, search cars and rummage through personal belongings. some pilots complained about those actions
about 100 people stalked out of the cathedral after archbishop marcos g. mcgrath opened a special mass by telling worshipers and observers the church would not issue the anticipated anti-noriega statement
we don't know how this mistaken rumor originated,'' mcgrath said. ``we are sorry, but it is not our fault.''
civic crusade leaders and ackerman had said they had been assured the church would issue a strong condemnation of noriega
those who walked out stood on the steps of the gray stone cathedral chanting, ``justice! justice!'' and ``noriega must go!''
mcgrath told those remaining inside that he and noriega had a ``preparatory meeting'' thursday. he did not explain and said he could not discuss the conversation. interpretation</head>
democrats and republicans on the senate foreign relations committee are trying to settle the one major dispute left before the panel approves the u.s.-soviet treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear missiles
i think we'll be able to agree on something,'' said sen. richard lugar, r-ind., leader of a group of republicans who are seeking a compromise on the issue of how treaties are legally intepreted
that is the only major question left and i would expect that we can solve it by next week,'' sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the committee, said thursday
the panel spent three days this week rejecting a series of challenges by conservative republicans to the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty and has set tuesday afternoon for a final vote on the pact
pell and other democratic leaders have predicted overwhelming approval, both in the committee next week and by the full senate next month when the democratic-controlled chamber returns from an easter recess. ratification requires the approval of 67 of the 100 senators
the remaining fight centers on the dispute between the legislative and executive branches over the authority to interpret treaties. the disagreement arises from president reagan's assertion that his administration can unilaterally change the intepretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty, a contention the senate disputes
pell and other democrats want some type of condition on the inf treaty that would block a future administration from changing the u.s. interpretation of the pact
lugar said one compromise being considered is attaching an amendment to the ratification resolution which says the inf treaty cannot be reinterpreted by a future administration without prior consent of the senate
that is one ay to solve it and remove the fight from this treaty without coming to a final answer on the intepretation issue,'' said lugar
the treaty was signed dec. 8 by reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. it requires the elimination within three years of all missiles with a range of 300 to 3,400 miles. anti-cheating provisions _ the strictest in arms control history _ include provisions for on-site inspections by each superpower in the other country
in the senate, the treaty has been criticized chiefly by conservative republicans, including sens. jesse helms of north carolina and larry pressler of south dakota
senate officials are preparing for an unusual secret session of the senate early next week to examine sensitive intelligence information about the number of ss-20 medium-range missiles possessed by the soviet union
a total of 650 were declared by the soviets and those will be destroyed after the treaty takes effect. but helms claims there are conflicting estimates by u.s. intelligence agencies about the number of missiles, including one report by the defense intelligence agency that the soviets may have up to 300 more ss-20s than they have declared
the foreign relations panel voted 15-2 thursday to reject helms' amendment requiring new intelligence analyses of the ss-20 question. only helms and pressler supported his proposal which would have required reagan to certify the accuracy of the soviet claims that they only have 650 ss-20s
the closed-door session will take place in the capitol's old senate chamber, according to senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va
the small, historic room is normally maintained as a museum, but byrd said it is better for the meeting than the current senate chamber. the new senate is laced with a variety of cables that make it more difficult to protect security, byrd explained
later, the committee also rejected, 15-2, pressler's plan to block implementation of the treaty until reagan certifies that nato won't be jeopardized by the soviets' advantage in a variety of non-nuclear weapons
helms originally had 36 amendments, but dropped the majority of them after only pressler supported his proposals. pressler also dropped some of his challenges in the face of widespread rejection
the heaviest savings institution losses since the great depression underscore the need for federal regulators to begin cleaning up the mire of insolvent institutions in the southwest, savings and loan lobby groups say
the federal home loan bank board said thursday that the nation's 3,147 savings institutions lost $3.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 1987, pushing red ink for the year to $6.8 billion, the worst loss since the agency began keeping track in 1934
i hope it's the worst we'll ever see,'' said james w. christian, chief economist of the u.s. league of savings insitutions, the industry's largest trade group
the bank board said s&amp;l losses were heavily concentrated in states like texas, oklahoma and louisiana, which are dependent on the ailing oil and gas industry
the worst 20 institutions _ most of them in the southwest _ lost a total of $2.1 billion in the final quarter of last year, accounting for two-thirds of the overall industry loss
the no. 1 item on the agenda is to stop the bleeding in the southwest,'' christian said. ``that's in the bank board's lap. ... and we hope they do it sooner rather than later.''
until recently, the bank board has been forced to keep insolvent institutions open because it lacked the money to pay off depositors or entice a healthier s&amp;l into merging with the sick institution
the bank board said 345 s&amp;ls were insolvent at the end of the year, 109 in texas alone. an s&amp;l is considered insolvent when its loans and other assets are worth less than what it owes to depositors and other creditors
by the tougher accounting standards the bank board will be using next year, 510 would be considered insolvent
yet, regulators closed only 17 institutions in 1987 and provided assistance for the merger of 26 others
now that money has begun flowing from a three-year, $10.8 billion recapitalization enacted in august, bank board chairman m. danny wall has pledged to pick up the pace
last month, he announced a plan to spend $6 billion to $7 billion in texas over the next several years, but the bank board said wednesday it expected no announcements on specific institutions before early april
martin a. regalia, chief economist of the national council of savings institutions, warned that the bank board must move swiftly
on balance, next year will be not quite as bad, but that depends on how quickly you get rid of these institutions'' in the southwest, he said
james barth, chief economist of the bank board, said he believed the industry's problems have ``plateaued out'' and that ``there is some light at the end of the tunnel'' in the southwest
industry losses in 1987 were nearly 50 percent greater than the previous post-depression record of $4.6 billion, set in 1981, when the prime lending rate soared above 20 percent
insured s&amp;ls lost $1.8 billion in the third quarter of last year and $1.9 billion in the spring. they earned $100 million in the first three months of the year and had a modest $132 million profit for all of 1986
in contrast, the federal deposit insurance corp. said earlier this month that the nation's 13,700 federally insured commercial banks earned $3.7 billion in 1987. still, it was their lowest profit since 1933
despite the overall loss for the s&amp;l industry, 66 percent of the s&amp;ls earned money in the fourth quarter. the $1.3 billion earnings of 2,089 s&amp;ls partly offset the $4.5 billion losses of the remaining 1,058 institutions
the percentage of institutions earning a profit has declined steadily for two years, from 81 percent in the first quarter of 1986 to 66 percent at the end of last year
barth said part of the overall industry loss in 1987 can be attributed to a decrease in the corporate tax rate. he said some s&amp;ls decided to push profits into 1988, when the top tax rate is 34 percent, rather than take them in 1987, when the rate was 40 percent
israeli troops stormed a west bank hospital and a mosque and killed two palestinian demonstrators and wounding 18 in a new outbreak of clashes in the occupied lands. most media coverage was barred
prime minister yitzhak shamir met with u.s. ambassador thomas pickering to express his ``dissatisfaction'' about today's scheduled meeting in the united states between secretary of state george p. shultz and two members of the plo's legislative arm
also friday, an arab-american advocate of non-violent resistance to occupation called for the establishment of a ``parallel'' palestinian government in israel's occupied territories
the army closed key areas of the occupied gaza strip and west bank to the media, including the west bank's hebron area, where the most of friday's violent clashes occurred
in washington, meanwhile, the state department urged americans to stay away from the west bank and gaza. easter and passover are approaching, christian and jewish holidays that usually attract tourists to the holy land
about 50 israeli troops fired tear gas and rubber bullets into hebron's alia hospital compound friday to subdue about 100 protesters who were hurling stones and bottles, hospital officials and arab reports said
later, soldiers stormed the hospital to arrest six arab youths who barricaded themselves on the roof, the army said
reporters saw troops surround hebron's al haras mosque after friday's moslem prayers, firing live ammunition and tear gas from the rooftops of nearby houses at several dozen stone-throwing arab youths on the mosque's roof
four palestinians were wounded, hospital officials and israel radio reported
after a two-hour confrontation, soldiers stormed the mosque, yanked down palestinian flags raised by the protesters and lined up dozens of arab teenagers against a wall. the army said 50 arabs were arrested
the army said it was forced to break in when the stone-throwers refused to surrender. television said it was the first time soldiers had stormed a mosque since unrest began dec. 8 in the territories israel seized in the 1967 middle east war
another arab was wounded in the village of idna, israel radio said
in the village of tarqumia near hebron, troops killed two palestinians and wounded 13, witnesses and the radio said. the army said it was checking the reports but could not confirm them because relatives took the bodies
troops entered tarqumia at about 4 a.m. and took over the school, said naim odeh, a 52-year-old teacher. the army has converted a number of schools into military bases since the unrest began and is using about half a dozen as temporary detention centers
then about 500 youths marched out to the school and started throwing rocks and broken bottles,'' odeh said in an interview
khaled hassan ahmed murktan, 18, died of a gunshot wound to the stomach and walid abdul fatatta, 18, was shot in the heart, villagers and alia hospital officials said
friday's fatalities brought to 111 the number of palestinians killed by u.n. count in the anti-occupation unrest since dec. 8. one israeli soldier has been killed
meanwhile, 72 percent of the israelis questioned said they want harsher measures in the occupied territories. the dahaf nstitute poll published in the daily yediot ahronot said 7 percent of the 606 israelis questioned this week supported less severe measures while 21 percent did not want policy changes
also, 49 percent of those questioned said shultz' middle east peace plan _ essentially an exchange of land for piece with the arabs _ should be accepted. forty-three percent were against it and 8 percent had no opinion
israeli officials, however, reacted angrily to shultz' plans to discuss the peace initiative with two american citizens who belong to the palestine national council, the plo's parliament-in-exile
shamir expressed his ``dissatisfaction'' during friday's meeting with pickering, israel tv said
shamir's spokesman avi pazner said shultz's meeting with edward said, a professor at columbia university, and ibrahim abu-lughod, a northwestern university professor, violates a u.s. commitment not to talk to the palestine liberation organization
in another development, mubarak awad, an arab-american advocate of non-violent resistance to israeli occupation, called for forming a ``parallel'' government in the occupied territories
we should start thinking what kind of a palestinian state we are going to have, what to do with jerusalem, where are the borders,'' he told israel tv
israeli authorities confiscated awad's u.s. passport and israeli identity card last year and ordered him expelled last november when his tourist visa expired. awad stayed following strong u.s. pressure
if gen. manuel antonio noriega leaves, it could start a political free-for-all in panama, where 20 years of military rule with a civilian facade have given opposition parties little chance to mature
no dictatorship ever prepared a people for democracy,'' said editor winston robles of la prensa newspaper, which the noriega-controlled government shut down last month
many political observers, including opposition party leaders, predict a ``free-for-all, no holds barred'' if noriega goes
the general, who heads the 15,000-strong defense forces, says he isn't leaving. he has defied a huge opposition campaign and crippling u.s. economic pressure and even indicated he might run for president
the government-controlled news media have started referring to noriega as ``the undisputed leader of the political majorities'' of panama. his predecessor, gen. omar torrijos, abolished political parties in 1968 after taking power in a coup
in 1977, when he and then-president jimmy carter signed the canal treaties, torrijos founded his own party. he let other parties campaign in 1984, but his revolutionary democratic party won in what the opposition called robbery
most parties here revolve around a single personality _ like 87-year-old arnulfo arias madrid of the authentic panamanian party, deposed three times as president by the military, and the leader of the christian democratic party, ricardo arias calderon, who returned thursday from exile
others parties are what panamanians call ``stationery.'' they exist on paper, issuing statements and communiques, but have no popular following
political parties have not been in the forefront of the campaign against noriega. the drive has been led by the national civic crusade, a coalition of business, private organizations and professional groups and some labor unions
we do not have any political leadership. we are being led by businessmen,'' said a young man collecting food for residents of a panama city slum
while the civic crusade was organizing national strikes and issuing calls for noriega to resign, most politicians applauded from the sidelines. arias calderon and some other christian democratic officials have been an exception
last month, the civic crusade and most of the opposition parties formed an alliance and agreed that if noriega goes, they will work under a transitional government with deposed president eric arturo delvalle as its head. the next election is scheduled for may 1989
the authenic panamanian party, however, refused to join the alliance. party leaders say they will never recognize delvalle because the party he represents robbed them of victory in the 1984 election
arias madrid is a populist first elected in 1940 and first deposed late the following year. he was elected again in 1950 and deposed in 1951. he was elected president a third time in 1968 and deposed after 11 days in office
the authentic panamanians see arias calderon _ arias madrid's vice presidential running mate in 1984 _ as a threat
the christian democrats, the nation's largest opposition party, gave arias madrid the top spot on the 1984 coalition ticket because arias calderon was seen as something of an egghead with little popular appeal
but since then, arias calderon's close cooperation with the civic crusade has positioned him for a presidential bid in a post-noriega panama
when arias calderon returned thursday, aurelio barria, the head of the panamanian chamber of commerce, industry and agriculture and a founder of the civic crusade, stood next to him as he greeted cheering well wishers
arias calderon has also been busy building bridges with other political parties, particularly the liberal republican nationalist movement, in what is seen as an attempt to forge a new coalition
some politicians say they do not expect the crusade to survive long after noriega because its leaders are mostly business people without political affiliation
typical of the crusade leaders are ernesto gonzalez de la lastra, general manager of an insurance company, and barria. neither is affiliated with a political party
other politicians, however, say the strong role people like barria and gonzalez de la lastra have assumed in the crusade could make them forces to be reckoned with if they remain active in public life
pat robertson says his lagging campaign for the republican presidential nomination is being revived in caucus states that will strengthen conservatives' hand at the party convention in new orleans
beyond that goal, robertson said thursday night, he is looking not only to lay the groundwork for another presidential campaign in 1992, but to help build gop strength in state houses and congress for the 1990s
although robertson was beaten by george bush in his home state's non-binding primary on super tuesday, he told 700 supporters at falls church high school that they can still capture most of the state's delegates by turning out in force at local precinct meetings
a few days from now we're going to be celebrating the most important event in the entire christian calendar,'' said the former religious broadcaster, referring to easter, which falls on april 3
he said the press wrote his candidacy off as dead after super tuesday, ``but i don't think they're aware of the resurrection.''
he said his campaign swept county convention delegates in wake county, n.c. on tuesday, and had picked up other delegates in charleston, s.c., as well as georgia, washington, nevada, alaska, hawaii, texas and elsewhere
all over this country, when june comes around and it's all over ... our people should be in significant places of responsibility in something like 15 or 20 of the state republican parties,'' he said
we are going to put together a coalition that will go to new orleans strong, speaking with one voice, and having enough political weight to make sure that some of the things we hold very dear ... are embodied in the platform of the republican party,'' he said
in the next few weeks, as these caucuses unfold in virginia, we are going to win the majority in the republican party,'' he predicted
asked as he left the rally if he was giving up in colorado, a caucus state where his campaign pulled the plug on a bank of 32 phones, robertson said, ``we're going from paid phone banks to volunteer phone banks. the operation is still under way. i'm going out there for a series of meetings a week from saturday.''
in his speech, robertson attacked the civil rights restoration act that congress passed tuesday over president reagan's veto, as ``a horrible bill. it was a federal power grab ... a blot on the u.s. congress.''
many of america's worst problems, including crime and drugs, stem from erosion of morals, he said, adding, ``if we're going to restore the greatness of america, we've got to go back to a sense of personal, individual responsibility.''
we must be no. 1 in our ethics, no. 1 in our morals, no. 1 in our lifestyles, no. 1 in our adherence to freedom, no. 1 in our trust and faith in god almighty,'' he said
we cannot allow the radical democrats to institutionalize aberrant behavior which is part of the destruction of america,'' he said
a falls church high school freshman, debbie weisshaar, 14, of annandale, va., said afterwards that she was discomfited by robertson's repeated references to god and christianity
i wasn't sure if he meant freedom for everyone, or freedom for the people who believed in what he believed in,'' said the teen-ager, who is jewish
robertson has just 17 delegates in the latest associated press count to 788 for bush and 178 for dole
in the chaos and intolerance that is lebanon, rmeileh is an oasis of liberty, a haven for people fleeing political and social persecution and assassination
this coastal town, 19 miles south of beirut, is what lebanon used to be before 13 years of civil war, sectarian hatreds and religious fanatacism turned it into a wilderness
leftists and other refugees from beirut and the south have fled to rmeileh following a campaign of assassinations by shiite moslem fundamentalists against communists, pro-iraqi baath socialists and other leftists
one of the things that makes rmeileh different from just about everywhere else in south lebanon is that alcohol is sold openly at the side of the road
alcohol is banned in most areas of the region, dominated by shiite moslem factions, and in beirut's southern slums, the shiite stronghold in the capital
islamic religious laws also ban mixed parties, mixed bathing and the consumption of pork
but in the summer, rmeileh's eight restaurants and three miles of mediterranean beaches and hillside picnic areas are packed with males and females having a good time. pork also is sold
hamza, 35, comes from the staunchly shiite town of nabatiyeh in the south
we can't buy drinks in nabatiyeh any more, so we come to rmeileh,'' he said. ``in summer women have to come here to swim because it's the one of the very few places they can do that.''
because he lives in a shiite area, where such activities are forbidden, hamza declined to disclose his full name
rmeileh was a mainly christian town, with about 5,000 maronite catholics, until 1985, when moslem forces overran the coastal plain. now only about 60 maronite families are left
but rmeileh now is protected by communist party militiamen, most of them christians, who are allied to neighboring druse and sunni moslem forces who help keep the shiites out
the syrian army also has a checkpoint just south of rmeileh on the awali river which also acts as a deterrent for shiite gunmen
abu rim, a leftist official in the town, said 500 refugee families _ moslems, christians and palestinians _ live in rmeileh with the local christians
our aim is to get rid of the sectarian atmosphere and implement co-existence,'' he said
elias tabet, director of the town's government school, said ethnic mix gives rmeileh a non-sectarian nature, where people from different areas and religions ``feel safe and free.''
samih germanos, 57, a christian who fled beirut's shiite-controlled southern slums, said: ``we're very happy and hope things will stay this way.''
acting mayor halim kleib, said the tourist influx last summer was even better than pre-war times
people in the south prefer rmeileh to other places because it's the closest resort to them that provides restaurants and private beaches as well as drinks,'' kleib added
ali hujeiri, 40, a father of nine, who works at a pepsi cola plant in a nearby town, said he sells alcohol on the street to earn extra money and that most of his customers are from the shiite south
i'm the only one to sell pork in this area,'' said abu elie, a 32-year-old shopowner.``i started bringing it from mount lebanon last week and in four days, i sold around 40 kilograms (88 pounds).''
justice minister nabih berri's amal movement and the iranian-backed hezbollah (party of god) have been blamed for many of the assasinations of leftists in south lebanon
but since many of those who have fled to rmeileh _ ``self-deportees,'' amal calls them _ are skilled or professional people, the amal recently asked them to return to their villages
wafiq rihan, a 33-year-old shiite school teacher, didn't sound as though he is ready to return. he said that after he fled nabatiyeh last year the communists and the leftist druse ``helped us find places to stay and in the beginning we relied on red cross supplies.''
i'm teaching at the school now,'' he added. ``i was originally a teacher. but most of the other deportees here are also working in their particular fields, medicine, the law, and so on
one doctor who fled nabatiyeh even has some of his old patients come here to see him for treatment.''
rihan said he wants to go back to his own village but only when it's safe
two palestinians on night guard duty, masked and armed with clubs, sprinted down the main village road passing the word: ``israeli soldiers are coming!''
behind them, about 20 more moved in the dark with the speed of practice to block the road in a half-dozen places. they dragged stockpiled boulders and twisted metal onto the pavement to slow the 12 jeeps in the israeli patrol
palestinians whose faces were hidden by checkered keffiyeh headdresses whistled shrilly to each other across the rocky hills, tracking the army's progress on the narrow road
the overnight citizen patrol was in action, witnessed in this case by a journalist. the patrol at arura was one of dozens organized after the army started nighttime raids, arresting hundreds of alleged agitators in an effort to quell nearly four months of violent anti-israeli protests
jamal, 30, stood watch atop a ridge on the outskirts of arura, a village of 2,200 palestinians that sprawls over hills of the occupied west bank about 20 miles north of jerusalem
because of these patrols, we are ready for an attack from anywhere,'' he said. ``but there is more than that. the guard duty makes us unified as a people. everyone feels he has a part in the uprising.''
arab patrols are clandestine and all those interviewed would agree only to the use of their first names
riots began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel has occupied since capturing them from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. more than 100 palestinians and an israeli soldier have been killed
the patrols are a sign of the changing nature and steady escalation of the ``intefadeh,'' arabic for uprising. they illustrate growing sophistication in a rebellion that began spontaneously and, for that reason, worry israeli officials
illegal local organization could lead to illegal regional organization, all of it directed against us,'' a military man said privately
on this night the army jeeps stopped short of arura, parked for about half an hour, then drove away
why the soldiers approached and left in the latest cat-and-mouse game was not clear, but the villagers viewed called it a retreat by the enemy and a victory for themselves
residents said soldiers had approached arura on three occasions since the patrols began, but stopped each time when guards alerted villagers and about 1,000 people gathered in the streets, chanting and throwing stones
patrolling in arura, as witnessed on two evenings, is a methodical and sometimes tense business
men carrying clubs and rocks, their faces covered, stop each passing car. strangers are ordered out of their vehicles until they are determined to be friends and not israeli soldiers in plainclothes or jews from the nearby ateret settlement
between cars and sightings of soldiers, the sentinels often engage in mutual pep-talk. they encourage each other to continue the fight against israel, make optimistic predictions about the uprising and sometimes ward off the night cold with a shared glass of sweet herb tea
tahir, 23, said he would stand guard until 5 a.m. then leave for his job in an israeli factory, where he packs oranges
i'm one person at night and another in the day,'' he said. ``in israel, they have no idea that i am taking my turn, once a week, on patrol.''
nightly patrols were organized in arura about a month ago after the army had made four raids in a six-week period, arresting 21 young men
israeli soldiers have rounded up more than 700 palestinians in the past week in an effort to end the rebellion, and about 3,000 have been detained since the violence began
soldiers are ordered to make arrests overnight, when most people are sleeping, to avoid causing violent protests
they won't catch us sleeping here and they won't be able to arrest us. we are watching for them every night,'' said salah, 22, one of 250 men of arura aged 16 to 45 who take turns on guard duty from about 8 p.m. until dawn
boys under 16 are not taken for the patrols, but many children are eager to do their part
four boys huddled for warmth over smoldering embers in a small, smoky cave beside the road to the village
they said they would remain until 2 a.m., and if a man came running with word of approaching soldiers they would race through the rocky hills helping wake the villagers
i feel like a man because i am doing something to resist the israelis,'' yassin told a reporter with a solemnity far beyond his 11 years. ``this is in the interest of our homeland. it is the duty of everyone to help.'' crisis</head>
fund-raisers for lyndon larouche were ordered to tell people they owed the political extremist money because he was preventing soviet aggression and global economic collapse, a former larouche aide testified
the fund-raisers also were told that larouche needed the money to pay for security to protect him from assassins, former aide charles tate testified thursday at the federal trial of larouche, six aides and five larouche political groups
tate said larouche followers were treated as soliders and warned repeatedly that falling short of daily quotas was ``the moral equivalent of treason'' and would result in the immediate collapse of western civilization
tate testified that larouche's top fund-raising operative, will wirtz, said prospective donors should be told larouche prevented a soviet takeover, was the only democratic presidential candidate not under kgb influence and the only man on earth who could prevent global economic disaster
the warnings were given in late 1983 and 1984, when larouche followers were under stringent fund-raising quotas because of his campaign and the pending move of organization headquarters from new york to leesburg, va., tate said
larouche, a candidate for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination, is charged with conspiring to obstruct a federal grand jury investigation into allegations that his followers raised more than $2 million through credit card and loan fraud
four larouche organizations, including his two 1984 campaign committees, are charged with fraud. those organizations and a fifth larouche group are charged in the alleged obstruction, as are the six aides
prosecutors, through tate, are attempting to show that intense pressure from larouche led followers to solicit loans by falsely promising they would be repaid and by submitting unauthorized charges to the credit card accounts of past donors to larouche causes
larouche and defense lawyers have conceded some boston fund-raisers might have committed credit card fraud but contend larouche and top aides relieved those fund-raisers of their duties when allegations of impropriety surfaced
larouche contends the allegations of nationwide fraud were concocted as part of a reagan administration plot to ruin him because he opposed contra aid and because his fund-raising competed with former white house aide oliver north's private effort to resupply the nicaraguan rebels at a time when congress had halted government aid
the 125-count indictment against larouche and the other defendants, however, charges that three boston fund-raisers were ordered by larouche to destroy records and flee the country to avoid being called before the grand jury. the three were indicted but are fugitives
the slaughter of kurdish civilians in iraqi poison gas attacks and iranian warnings of retaliation underscore the growth of the chemical warfare arsenals of major middle east powers
despite efforts to curb such weapons, their spread has added a dangerous new dimension to conflicts in the volatile middle east. their use, but not their production, is banned under a 1925 geneva agreement
the london-based jane's defense weekly noted in a recent study that the use of poison and nerve gases since 1984 in the 7{-year-old iran-iraq war has ``changed the rules of war in the middle east.''
tehran charges that iraqi warplanes have dropped chemical bombs on several villages in northwestern iraq after iranian forces overran the kurdish area in a round offensive
western correspondents in iran have reported evidence to substantiate iranian claims that 5,000 iraqi kurds were killed and another 5,000 injured when iraqi warplanes dropped chemical bombs on towns captured by the iranians in northeast iraq last week
nicholas beeston of the times of london reported from halabja, one of the towns, that ``hundreds and possibly thousands'' of the kurds, who have been rebelling against baghdad for years, were killed
hashemi rafsanjani, speaker of iran's parliament and ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's representative on the supreme defense council, warned thursday that iran will be forced to use chemical weapons in retaliation if the iraqi attacks continue
the intensity of tehran's accusations against iraq in recent days has heightened fears that the iranians may be seeking to justify using chemical weapons of their own
u.s. state department spokesman charles redman said wednesday there was evidence iran may already have fired chemical artillery shells into iraq. he declined to elaborate
it's entirely likely that the iranians could do so,'' said don kerr of the international institute for strategic studies in london in a telephone interview
they've had these weapons used against them for a long time.''
iraq, a signatory to the 1925 agreement, has been condemned by the united nation four times since 1984 for using chemical weapons
the iranians claim the iraqis have launched around 100 chemical attacks in that period, mainly against iranian troops
iranian-backed kurdish guerrillas fighting the baghdad regime for autonomy have claimed scores of such attacks on their villages in the last year. but last week's bombing appears to have been the worst chemical attack in the persian gulf conflict
germ warfare dates back to the 14th century, when the tartars catapulted the rotting corpses of plague victims into the besieged crimean city of kaffa in a bid to spread disease
modern chemical warfare began at on april 22, 1915, at 5 p.m. when the germans released 180 tons of chlorine gas at ypres on the western front in world war i
within an hour, 5,000 french soldiers were dead or dying from the wind-blown gas rolling a few fet above their trenches
by the end of the war, gas had killed 100,000 men and affected more than 900,000 others. modern nerve gases are far more lethal
iraq has the biggest chemical weapons armory in the region, with sizable stocks of poison and nerve gases produced at three top-secret plants, western military analysts told the associated press
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymnity, said iraq is now producing sarin, a highly lethal nerve gas that can kill in less than 10 minutes
they said there are indications that the iraqis are also working on germ warfare weapons
the sources estimated that iraq can now produce 60 tons of mustard gas a month and four tons each of sarin and tabun, another highly lethal nerve agent
tabun, first developed by nazi germany before world war ii but never used, is a colorless gas that attacks the body's muscular centers and causes asphyxiation within 15 minutes
the sources said the iraqis' main production plant is at samarra, a heavily guarded 10-square-mile complex ringed by soviet-supplied sa-2 anti-aircraft missiles 70 miles north of baghdad
on the other side, iran's chief military spokesman, kamal kharrazi, has said his country is producing chemical weapons
the analysts and diplomatic sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said iranian chemical weapons are believed to be mainly mustard and phosgene gases
kerr noted: ``these are relatively simple to manufacture from readily available industrial components, as is hydrogen cyanide. only the more complex nerve gases are likely to pose a chemical challenge to the iranians.''
the syrians, moscow's main arab ally, also have developed their own chemical weapons industry over the last few years, intelligence and diplomatic sources said
the israelis allege the syrian chemical warfare capability is a serious threat and say syria has the means to deliver nerve agents with soviet-supplied ss-1 scud-b missiles and combat aircraft
in the uphill climb to the moscow summit, the united states this week made a couple of proposals to the soviet union on a new treaty to sharply reduce long-range nuclear weapons
one was the exemption of spy satellites from treaty restrictions. the other was that u.s. and soviet negotiators make a supreme effort to define space-based testing and deployment
the soviets seemed taken with the satellite proposal, but sharpening definitions of space tests and space deployments could be very difficult. there's always been a question whether technology sent into space is part of a permissible test or is a tricky step toward an illicit anti-missile deployment
in any event, with the moscow summit meeting only nine weeks away, the outlook for completing the new u.s.-soviet treaty is not bright
the biggest problem is verification _ making sure cutbacks are carried out
two types of long-range weapons are especially hard to monitor. one is the land-based mobile missile. the other is the sea-launched cruise
experts assisting secretary of state george p. shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze were unable to resolve the problem during three days of talks here
and yet, the two sides apparently still intend to try to include the weapons in the accord with all bombers, submarines and missiles having a range in excess of 3,000 miles
the soviets proposed a joint experiment next month to see whether monitors could determine if an american ship was carrying nuclear-tipped cruise missiles
the united states rejected the proposal as unlikely to solve the detection problem
on another front, a little headway was made
the u.s. strategic defense initiative, probably the biggest obstacle to the treaty, and the soviet space defense program will be dealt with separately by the negotiators
the soviets claim the u.s. program, known popularly as star wars, violates the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. they have threatened at various times to hold up a new accord to reduce strategic nuclear weapons unless the u.s. program to develop a defense against ballistic missile were curbed
that ``linkage'' has not been removed
shultz told reporters wednesday night ``the two things move in parallel.'' in other words, the soviets are retaining the right suddenly to halt progress on arms reductions unless the united states slows down sdi
both sides have worked hard and some progress has been realized in a number of areas, but much more needs to be done,'' the two sides said in a communique winding up three days of talks
shultz and shevardnadze will meet again in moscow on april 21. meanwhile, u.s. and soviet negotiators will keep trying to agree on three drafts for the treaty. one deals with the elimination of weapons, another with verifying the cutbacks and the third with the size and location of u.s. and soviet strategic arsenals
before flying home, shevardnadze called the rejected soviet proposal to verify sea-launched cruise missiles a breakthrough in verification. he said the soviets had similar ideas for monitoring mobile intercontinental ballistic missiles and air-launched cruises
i hope that at the april round we will find solutions for a number of these problems,'' the soviet foreign minister said
but he was not all that optimistic about concluding a treaty before the june 29 summit meeting
i can't guarantee that a treaty will be signed in moscow, but it is a possibility, given enough effort,'' he said
barry schweid has covered six u.s.-soviet summits for the associated press
for 58 hours after a toddler tumbled into an abandoned well, hundreds of rescuers worked together to free her, but now an effort to bring their heroism to television has divided them
two groups _ one mostly volunteer rescuers and the other city officials _ are negotiating separately with different tv producers for a movie of the story that captured the nation's attention as it unfolded live on television
both groups are awaiting the endorsement of chip and cissy mcclure, whose 23-month-old daughter jessica became stuck in a 22-foot-deep well for 58 hours in october
one volunteer rescuer, bruce peeler, said he is remaining neutral in the dispute. but he said he wonders whether the story could be told properly in any case
i am wondering if a unified group got together ... if a really true, accurate picture of what took place could ever be put on the screen,'' said peeler, president of midland's airmaster equipment corp., which contributed drilling materials for the rescue
the effort brought praise and a spotlight to midland, an oil town of 97,400 people in western texas
it was a special event. there was so much effort, and everyone had their own story. maybe it should be kept special like that,'' he said thursday
the jessica mcclure rescuer's association, a group of about 30 volunteers, is committed to a movie deal with los angeles producer larry spivey, president of highland communications group inc. the group has asked all rescuers to join them
the association's president, kragg robinson, said 33 members have signed a contract that includes an initial $200,000, plus future payments, to be divided among the membership
the other group, the mcclure rescue association, has narrowed its selection to an unidentified producer but has not signed any commitments. the association, comprising 11 municipal officials including police chief richard czech, fire chief james roberts and paramedic robert o'donnell, wants nothing to do with spivey
we found that he was going around to individual members of our association offering each member side deals that the others didn't know about,'' said martin allday, a lawyer representing the group
spivey says everyone was offered the same deal _ a chance to consult in the production or to act in it
either group or neither group could end up actually making a film. spivey still needs a commitment from a network for his project
my advice to anyone is if they have not signed with the producer to not do so until the mcclures say who they want the movie to be made by,'' said allday
the mcclures have said they don't want to profit by their daughter's story, but do not want to stand in the way of the story being told
peeler said thursday he is concerned that the group of municipal workers will not allow others to help negotiate a movie deal
he said he and other neutral volunteers are working to bring the groups together ``so that the same type of unity and spirit as depicted last october can return.''
i'm sad about this problem,'' he said. ``my concern is that there were several hundred people out there and it is not right that maybe the lady that brought us hamburgers at three in the morning, or the guy who brought the sanitary privvies down _ how do you say they should not be in the movie, too?''
the department of health and human services is trying to determine whether a couple employed by the agency and earning more than $100,000 a year improperly billed it for more than $3,600 in personal expenses
hhs spokesman chuck kline said thursday that department general counsel ron robertson is heading the ethics board inquiry, which is not expected to take more than a few days
the review was started after a washington newsletter _ the child protection report _ obtained copies of travel vouchers for paget w. and terry a. hinch under a freedom of information act request
paget hinch is associate commissioner of the family youth services bureau of hhs. her husband, terry, is director of the social security office of communications technology. both are political appointees who began working at hhs in 1985
the newsletter said the couple flew to the san francisco area, near the hayward, calif., home of terry hinch's family for a one-week stay over thanksgiving 1985, apparently taking their child with them
they billed the government a total of $2,224 for that trip. paget hinch's voucher said her purpose was to visit shelters for runaway youth in the area. terry hinch said he attended a conference and met with a video company in connection with a film on the government's disability insurance program
the newsletter said paget hinch charged the government $1,410 for a 1987 thanksgiving trip to the same area
neither of the two people under investigation could be reached. officials in the branches where they work said it would be inappropriate for them to comment while the matter was under review
paget hinch is paid about $57,000 a year and her husband about $55,000
brochures besmirching the legend of robin hood were ordered publicly burned by an unlikely defender of the medieval hero, the sheriff of nottingham
sheriff royce young told councilman brian marshal, chairman of the city's tourism committee, to get rid of the glossy color leaflets that took a skeptical view of the hero of sherwood forest
a pile of the brochures, which had been on display at the nottingham information center, were burned publicly on thursday
royce, whose medieval predecessor was robin's enemy, said earlier this month that he would like to see the researchers who wrote it ``locked in the dungeons of nottingham castle.''
the brochure caused a storm by claiming robin hood and maid marian never met, friar tuck did not exist and robin never robbed the rich to feed the poor but was a highwayman in business for himself
comedian bob hope, buoyed by best wishes from president reagan, went home four days after prostate surgery
hope, who will be 85 on may 29, was released from the university of southern california kenneth norris jr. cancer hospital on thursday morning, said hospital spokesman gordon cohn
hope spokesman frank liberman wasn't available thursday and it was unclear whether the comedian would continue recuperation at his desert home near palm springs or at his toluca lake estate 10 miles northwest of downtown
among well-wishers was reagan, who telephoned hope at the hospital wednesday, said cohn
hope had the scheduled surgery monday. doctors said he was referred to a physician who practices at the cancer hospital, adding that the entertainer doesn't have cancer
comic actress tracey ullman says she enjoys being called a social satirist
i like that. it makes me sound intelligent,'' ms. ullman said wednesday
ms. ullman, touring six cities to promote her fox broadcasting skit-oriented variety show, said she gets inspiration for her characters by studying real people and listening to national public radio daily
when you get a character right, get a great character, it's like being on drugs, or what i guess drugs to be like,'' she said
the legal battle between playboy publisher hugh hefner and ex-girlfriend carrie leigh escalated when she and famed ``palimony'' attorney marvin mitchelson filed a slander suit seeking $15 million each
the suit, filed thursday in superior court, alleges that hefner damaged the reputations of mitchelson and miss leigh when he called a news conference to denounce a ``palimony'' suit they had filed as a ``criminal misuse of the judicial system.''
hefner made the statement march 9 in response to the $35-million suit filed by miss leigh, 24, a former model who alleged that the 61-year-old bachelor had reneged on a promise to marry her, father her child and support her
i'm not going to sit still for it, that's all,'' said mitchelson, who gained fame representing the women friends of celebrities in suits seeking divorce-style settlements from their former live-in lovers
i think mitchelson needs to go back to law school,'' hefner responded in a statement. ``what he is calling slander are the charges in our legal response and countersuit _ and we fully intend to prove them in court.''
hefner filed a cross-complaint to miss leigh's original suit, denying he made promises to her and seeking $1 million _ the value, he said, of jewels, furs and other gifts he gave her
frankie avalon returned to his hometown to do a little sidewalk sweeping, but found out after he had moved a fair amount of dirt that he was cleaning the wrong spot
the star of ``beach blanket bingo'' and other surf and sun movies appeared thursday at the academy of music to plug the philadelphia music foundation's ``hall of fame'' ceremonies next week
avalon and 10 other native philadelphian entertainers will be honored at the $150-a-plate dinner. brass plaques engraved with their names also will be installed in the foundation's ``walk of fame.''
after ceremoniously sweeping a section of the sidewalk in front of the academy, the actor and singer learned his plaque would be placed down the street
the discovery failed to dampen avalon's enthusiasm
this city is what i am. philadelphia has been home forever,'' he said
avalon said he looked forward to being immortalized in cement along with such music legends as pearl bailey, chubby checker, bobby rydell, dizzy gillepsie and dick clark
avalon, 48, was born francis thomas avallone in south philadelphia. he now lives in hidden hills, calif
jazz vocalist ethel ennis says she and her husband have sold their struggling nightclub, bowing to another club owner in the effort to book top jazz performers in her native baltimore
we just didn't have deep enough pockets to keep it going,'' earl arnett, mrs. ennis' husband, said at a news conference thursday
mrs. ennis and arnett have tentatively agreed to sell the club to blues alley inc., which runs a similar nightclub in washington
four years in the planning, ethel's place was an ambitious, first-class restaurant and nightclub, booking top jazz acts at its downtown location. it also served as a home base for ennis, famed in the jazz world for her silky vocal stylings
singer dean martin was released from the hospital thursday, but his doctor ordered him to stay off the rest of the spring leg of the ``rat pack'' reunion tour with pals frank sinatra and sammy davis jr
cedars-sinai spokesman ron wise said martin left the hospital around 10 a.m. thursday to continue his recuperation at home
the entertainer was hospitalized monday for treatment of what cedars-sinai medical center officials said was an old kidney ailment that flared up shortly after he, sinatra and davis had embarked on a reunion concert tour
wise said martin's physician, dr. charles kivowitz, wants the entertainer to remain at home for three to four weeks before going back to work, however
the tour of the so-called ``rat pack'' buddies, who appeared in las vegas and films together during their careers, will continue this month and next without martin, but resumes july 7 in los angeles
every week or so, patty ludwin lugs a rifle out to the back yard, casually aims at a pile of jeans on the ground, then fires once, twice, so many times she loses count
it's putting bullets to a good use, rather than going around killing people with them,'' the fashion designer said, blasting holes into a pair of blue denims
the 33-year-old entrepreneur sells her bullet-riddled calamity jeans for $45 a pair. her trademark is a leather bull's eye stitched to the right hip pocket and a spent .357-caliber magnum cartridge that dangles from the patch
she also creates calamity jewels: earrings, necklaces, belts, boot bracelets, key chains and just about anything else she can make with dull, lead bullets and the shinier brass and nickel casings
her jewelry, which ranges in price from $4 to $65, triggered intense interest at specialty stories from pittsburgh to hawaii
you couldn't wear it with a business suit or a nice dress. that would be kind of strange,'' said debbie bragle of pittsburgh's trendy j. destefino cosmetique shop. ``but with the right outfit, it's great.''
there are those who wouldn't be caught dead packing the ``loaded'' look
i wish i were there. i'd picket her. i think it's sick. i honestly think it's sick,'' said mr. blackwell, a los angeles fashion designer and creator of the annual 10 worst dressed list
still, the acerbic arbiter of haute couture isn't surprised by the appeal
there's a certain amount of fashion madness that will be bought,'' he says. ``if seventh avenue would come out with greasy paper bags, you'd have every woman (in manhattan) wearing a greasy paper bag.''
in a townhouse in a quiet, woodsy complex 350 miles from new york city, ms. ludwin is taking her best shot at breaking into the fickle fashion market
she took up designer jeans in 1986 after a friend invited her over for target practice on a roving boyfriend's treasured possession
she said he was cheating on her and she was going to take his favorite pair of blue jeans and shoot holes in them,'' ms. ludwin recalled, laughing
afterward, when the women pulled the tattered trousers down from the tree, ms. ludwin liked what she saw
so did the boyfriend
and a style was born
the next step was to stock up on bullets
i had to go to these gun shops and these guys looked at me like i was a space alien,'' ms. ludwin says. ``i'd say, `do you have anything in silver?' and they're like, `what? what do you mean silver?'
i was looking at them appearance-wise. they were looking at them as functional.''
once she got the ammunition home, ms. ludwin carefully pried open the .22-caliber cartridges and dumped out the gunpowder. she then faced the problem of detonating the primer in the shell that explodes and ignites the gunpowder
being rather gun-shy, she fried the casings in a skillet. ``i covered it, then i ran because i didn't know what was going to happen,'' she said. it was ``like popcorn,'' and it worked
she forged the de-activated casings with bullets into jewelry, then peddled her wares from store to store and at craft shows. the jewelry eventually made its way into shops around the country
buoyed by her success, ms. ludwin borrowed a friend's .22-caliber rifle and branched into jeans last year, using her back yard or occasionally a friend's farm as her shooting range
so far, she has shot and sold more than 200 pairs of jeans, mostly to folks in their teens, 20s and 30s
she has orders for dozens more as well as for skirts, vests and jackets peppered with small, frayed holes
requests come from as far away as europe, where people have read about her efforts
demand is so great she's begun ordering generic clothes in bulk
a lot of hunters like them because they're into their guns,'' ms. ludwin said. ``the teen-agers want to be different.''
although she's sold more than $21,000 worth of merchandise, the divorced mother of one barely is breaking even, due largely to business start-up costs. still, she believes hers will be a genuine ``rags to riches'' story
i totally think this is a great idea and it's going to go,'' she says.``and if it doesn't, i'm sure one day, i will think of something.''
a west hollywood nail salon may refuse an aids victim a pedicure because there is no conclusive evidence on how the deadly disease is spread, a judge ruled
a west hollywood ordinance banning aids discrimination ``fails to respect the right not to be involuntarily exposed to a risk of personal harm,'' superior court judge lawrence waddington said wednesday
paul jasperson, 36, had sued jessica's nail salon for canceling his 1986 appointment after employees overheard him telling an acquaintance he had aids. the suit didn't seek damages, only a court-ordered pedicure
it is a health issue, not a civil rights issue,'' paul geragos, an attorney for jessica's, said thursday. ``the ordinance is still in place, but the city of west hollywood took the shotgun approach and made the ordinance so broad it has to be interpreted case-by-case.''
jasperson's attorney, gloria allred, called the decision ``a slap in the face for the city of west hollywood, which led the way in the country with this ordinance.''
this decision leads us into days of darkness and years of fear,'' she said. she said there isn't ``one documented case in the united states of anyone getting aids from a manicure or pedicure.''
lawyers for jessica's salon had argued that refusal was justified because experts aren't positive how aids is transmitted
is it necessary to maintain your livelihood to expose yourself to the danger of death?'' geragos asked during the non-jury trial. ``we're talking about self-protection and self-defense.''
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,626.71 points, down 154.57 points, on the tokyo stock exchange friday. ^by filadelfo aleman</byline>
the mother of two soldiers was relieved, a shoe store owner was hopeful and opposition leaders welcomed the contra-sandinista cease-fire agreement, but all were skeptical about whether it will bring peace
every mother, even though she doesn't have sons in service, should be happy about peace,'' said auxiliadora del carmen acevedo, whose two sons had been drafted into the army. ``nicaraguans must not continue dying.''
we urgently need peace in nicaragua,'' said mrs. del carmen acevedo, who sells cosmetics in the roberto huembes market. ``all these eight years have been ones of horror.''
more than 40,000 people have died since the fighting began in november 1981, two years after the sandinistas overthrew the rightist regime of the late president anastasio somoza. the economy is a shambles
representatives of the leftist sandinista government and contra rebels signed a 60-day cease-fire agreement wednesday night that promises the contras a role in nicaragua's political process
talks beginning april 6 in managua will seek a permanent peace
alonso moreno, a 57-year-old shoe store owner, said he hoped the accord ``improves the economy and business and that everyone dedicates themselves to producing to put this country back on its feet.''
this is the most important thing that has happened since 1979 when the somoza dictatorship was overthrown,'' said moreno, who has three nephews in military service
i believe that those who are most happy with these announced measures are the thousands of mothers who have sons in the war, the thousands of prisoners in the country and thousands of exiled nicaraguans,'' said ramiro gurdian, an opposition leader and president of the nicaraguan agricultural and livestock producers' union
but gurdian said it should not create false hopes
the people should not believe that the problem is totally resolved,'' he said. ``it's not that way. i would like to see in the short term an adequate solution to the political-military problem to bring the economy out of bankruptcy.''
one hopes this will occur before may, when land is prepared for next year's crops _ 87 percent of the country's exports come from agriculture,'' he added
the war and a u.s. trade embargo have cost the country $3.8 billion in lost income, according to government figures
the last surviving commander of the warsaw ghetto uprising said he was not invited and had no plans to take part in government observances marking the 45th anniversary of the jewish anti-nazi revolt
dr. marek edelman, 66, a former commander of the jewish fighters, said thursday he will organize a ceremony at warsaw's jewish cemetery april 17 to dedicate a monument to two polish jewish socialist leaders executed by the soviets during world war ii
edelman, a staunch supporter of the outlawed solidarity free trade union, said he has invited lane kirkland, chairman of the afl-cio, and western europe leaders
several thousand jews from the united states, israel and other countries are expected to come for the weeklong official observances that culminate april 19 with a ceremony at the warsaw monument to heroes of the uprising
edelman said he was not invited to attend the official celebrations
they didn't invite me, but i wouldn't have taken part in it anyway,'' said edelman, a cardiologist in the central city of lodz
i have never taken part in it because i think this government, which is a totalitarian government, has no right to act in such matters,'' edelman said in a telephone interview
he had refused an invitation from authorities to participate in the april 1983 observances of the 40th anniversary of the uprising
in the uprising, several hundred poorly armed jewish fighters fought a desperate battle resisting the final nazi drive to liquidate the ghetto's 60,000 remaining jews. about 360,000 jews had already been deported from the ghetto to nazi death camps
this year, edelman has invited poles and foreign guests to join him at the ceremony at the jewish cemetery. he said solidarity leader lech walesa was expected to attend
edelman plans to unveil a stone monument honoring henryk erlich and wiktor alter, two leaders of the bund, a jewish socialist labor organization in poland, who were sentenced to death and executed in the soviet union in december 1941
it is important for me personally because i was connected with those people,'' said edelman, who as a leader of the bund's youth organization in the warsaw ghetto was given a command post in the uprising led by mordechai anielewicz
edelman escaped through the sewers when the nazis finally crushed the uprising
in addition to kirkland, edelman says he has invited members of the socialist international including its chairman, former west german chancellor willy brandt, and officials of the european parliament
edelman said the invitations were sent a week ago and he had not yet received any responses
in his letter to kirkland, edelman recalled that u.s. labor leaders had unsuccessfully intervened with soviet authorities to seek the release of the two bund leaders
your presence shall be an expression of solidarity with all unionists and workers fighting for their rights and freedom,'' edelman wrote to kirkland
edelman invited the socialist international members to show by their presence that ``the struggle for freedom, equality and brotherhood has not ceased, that you solidarize with all those who are repressed, and that this remains the superior ideal of socialism.'' up 4th graf pvs, `the dollar ...</note>
the dollar closed slightly lower against the japanese yen on the tokyo foreign exchange market friday, while stock prices also fell during the day's trading
after opening at 125.68 yen, down 0.62 yen from its close thursday, the dollar edged up marginally in midday trading before closing the week at 125.74 yen, down 0.56 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, a 113.95-point loser thursday, closed at 25,626.71 points, down 154.57 points, or 0.59 percent
the dollar declined after the overnight setback in new york
profit-taking dollar buying stopped the dollar from falling further,'' said an official of a major commercial bank, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
there were also reports the bank of japan bought an estimated $200-300 million to prop up the sagging currency
commenting on stock exchange dealings, tadaaki uehara of wako securities said ``the decline mirrors setbacks of both the dollar and stock markets overseas.''
he said, however, trends on the overseas markets did little to affect tokyo as investors remained confident about the condition of the tokyo market
on wall street thursday, the dow jones industrial stock average lost 43.77 points, closing at 2,023.87
institutional investors were sidestepping the market to watch for movements, uehara said
tokyo shares on the first section plunged over 250 points early in the session as the dollar's declined below the 126 yen-level and following sharp losses in new york stock trading overnight
trading volume on the first section at the close of the morning was estimated at a light 370 million shares. correct typo in ``regulations'' and graf 13 to adjust spacing.</note>
the transportation department is taking steps that could exempt farmers and their families from a new law requiring special licenses to drive trucks
much to the relief of the agricultural community, the agency said thursday it will consider excluding farmers and firemen from proposed truck licensing regulations scheduled to take effect in july
unless changed, the rules will require a commercial license for anyone to drive a truck weighing more than 26,000 pounds or any vehicle with a hazardous cargo
the regulations are to implement provisions of a 1986 law to improve highway safety by establishing a uniform system of truck and bus driver licensing
farmers have complained that the law could cover some large trucks used to transport grain and hay or even pickups carrying bulk fuel tanks and some fertilizers
sen. john danforth, r-mo., chief sponsor of the licensing law, welcomed the department's announcement, calling it ``an important step toward ensuring that the 1986 act ... does not necessarily burden farm families that operate trucks in the course of daily business.''
congressmen have also been deluged with mail from associations representing many of the nation's 225,000 paid and 900,000 volunteer firefighters who see costly new rules being imposed on their members
the law gives the secretary of transportation the power to exempt categories of vehicles from the licensing provisions, which in general would require an extensive written and road test for a commercial driver
the department, which has not issued its final licensing regulations spelling out those standards, said it would open a special proceeding to consider waivers for some classes of farm vehicles and some firefighting trucks. this regulatory step is necessary before the agency can grant an exemption
i can't imagine opening up a comment period ... and then not granting an exemption for farmers and firemen,'' said rep. pat roberts, r-kan., ``it's my interpretation that they will be exempted.''
contending that the regulations would burden these drivers, rural lawmakers like roberts have introduced legislation to exclude locally used farm trucks and firefighting vehicles from the new regulations
transportation secretary james h. burnley iv has indicated that the federal highway administration would move ``as expeditiously as possible towards resolution of this issue'' after it receives comments
the law, which takes effect this year, is being phased in to give the states time to adjust their licensing systems to meet federal minimum standards of large commercial trucks
truck drivers generally will have until april 1992 to obtain a commercial license which complies with the federal standards although states may set earlier deadlines
after more than a year and a half perched atop two 43-foot poles to raise money for cancer research, mellissa l. sanders came down to earth to a place in the record books and the fiance she has never dated
everything looks so small, so different from here,'' miss sanders, 19, said thursday after a fire truck's bucket brought her down from the three-story-high shack where she spent 517 days with her feline companion, pole cat
my knees are wobbly but i feel great,'' said miss sanders, who was embraced by her mother, mauri rose sanders
without the cat, i would never have made it,'' she said. ``it was pretty cramped quarters, but it wasn't so bad. i'll miss it.''
miss sanders' shack in the sky measured 6-by-7-by-9 feet. it had a plastic kiddie pool for bathing, a chemical toilet, television and a telephone that resulted in regular $300 phone bills
among the 1,000 people waiting on the ground for miss sanders was her fiance, 25-year-old keith seal of monterey, calif
she's kind of hesitant,'' seal said. ``she's wondering what's going to happen and knows she'll miss all the attention.''
the pole sitter thanked her sponsors, and accepted bouquets and contributions. then she climbed into a stretch limousine for a drive around town. miss sanders said she was looking forward to ``a good long walk and a real shower.''
she raised $10,000 for cancer research, but had hoped her effort would bring $100,000. her sister, rebecca, has cancer and has been in remission for four years
the tucson, ariz., native broke the world pole sitting record feb. 26 when she overtook the 488-day mark set by mark sutton of victoria, british columbia, winning her a place in the guinness book of world records
pole sitting runs in the family. her mother set a record in 1959 by spending 211 days in the air
i'm sure she'll look back on this with fond memories,'' said miss sanders' aunt, tanya bowles of indianapolis. ``maybe she saved a life by doing this. and that's about all you can ask for.''
firefighters were on hand to make sure miss sanders got down safely
she's going to look up and be lonely when she passes by here next,'' said perry township fire chief david betzner. ``it's been her home and when you take someone out of their home _ no matter how much they want to go _ they're going to look back with longing.''
however, seal said miss sanders was not coming down a moment too soon. ``i've been waiting a year for this,'' he said
mrs. sanders agreed it was time for her daughter to return to earth
all this doesn't seem real,'' said mrs. sanders. ``we want her back with us, but honestly it seems like only yesterday that she went up there.''
before coming down, miss sanders said there ``were some real sad times, times that were real hard.''
but i always knew i would make it, even when i was scared or going through hard times,'' said miss sanders, who rode out 70 mph winds during a february snowstorm
miss sanders plans to return to arizona in may, and hopes to go to a trade school there
seal first contacted miss sanders after reading a newspaper story about her in november 1986. they communicated, but did not meet in person until november 1987
now that she's getting down, we have to start dating,'' said seal. ``i mean we're already engaged and we haven't even gone on a date.''
he predicted that the next time the couple passed by the intersection where they first met, ``i'll probably look up, then over to her and say she was crazy for spending a year and a half of her life up there.''
trumpeter al hirt missed a charity concert after being hospitalized with an infection in his playing hand, but doctors said his prognosis was excellent
i'm ok,'' hirt said thursday. ``i had this infection or something in my hand. it's like blood poisoning. it looks like it's from a bite or something. it's all swollen and has red streaks.''
hirt, 65, flew from his home in new orleans thursday and was admitted to houston methodist hospital after consulting with his longtime friend, famed heart surgeon michael debakey
doctors said the infection spread throughout his right hand and arm. hirt was being given antibiotics intravenously
hirt said doctors think the problem may be related to his trumpet playing and a growth that has developed on one of the fingers of his right hand
i've never had anything like this before in my life,'' he said. ``i've been playing for 59 years and i want to keep playing ... i'm going to be ok as long as i can keep blowing the trumpet.''
hirt missed a charity concert thurday night to benefit new orleans' symphony. he also said he would miss a weekend appearance in fairfield, conn
the americans for robertson campaign has folded in colorado just when the organization's telephone bank was beginning to build momentum for the april 4 precinct caucuses, says one of the candidate's supporters
former campaign coordinator clarence ``arch'' decker said thursday the directive to close the operation came more than a week ago from robertson officials in chesapeake, va
decker said the order surprised him, adding: ``we were on a course to take more than half the caucuses in the state.''
he said the action was ``probably a decision that colorado doesn't rank high on the priority scale. we had a bank account, but they ordered it closed and directed that the records be sent to them.''
barbara bush says she shuns watching television coverage of the presidential campaign so she can avoid the criticism her husband, vice president george bush, attracts as a candidate
i don't watch it on television; i don't read about it,'' mrs. bush said. ``in order to be able to survive what a campaign does to you, you have to sometimes stick your head in the sand like an ostrich and block it out.''
mrs. bush, campaigning wednesday in cincinnati, said she spends her spare time on the campaign trail reading novels or watching movies. mrs. bush said she reads ``about a book a day, more than i've ever read in my life.''
a group of south florida homosexuals hopes to attend the democratic national convention in atlanta this summer to push for expanded gay rights and increased funding for aids patients
key west lawyer fred butner is on a slate of 10 gay democrats running as delegates and alternates in monroe, dade, broward and palm beach counties
lynda russell, the state democratic party's deputy director, said she was hopeful ``this participation wouldn't be a negative to the voters.''
we developed this system to open up the party, allowing everybody to participate. we want to be the party for everybody,'' she said
butner predicted: ``if the convention is close, we'll have a real chance to get our views across.''
former federal reserve board chairman paul volcker says candidates don't seem to be ``running against washington'' in this year's presidential race and he wants it to stay that way
volcker, testifying thursday before a house subcommittee in his capacity as chairman of the national commission on the public service, said candidates should avoid ``the washington bashing syndrome.''
we're never very far from the telephone,'' volcker said. ``we will try to keep after those candidates. ... we will urge them to stay on the high road.''
he suggested attacks by candidates on washington institutions have hurt the image of public service. volcker's commission is working on commendations for making civil service more attractive to talented individuals
an aide to new york gov. mario cuomo says albert gore jr. made a ``big score'' by signing up political consultant david garth to run his campaign for the state's april 19 presidential primary
cuomo press secretary gary fryer's gave his assessment on thursday after garth said he was joining the gore camp because ``i like the odds.''
i think he's the candidate who can win in november,'' garth said of the tennessee senator. ``i think the others are not winners in november.''
garth helped engineer former vice president walter mondale's key new york primary victory in 1984 over gary hart
new orleans police are threatening to strike during the republican national convention in august unless they get a pay raise
sgt. ron cannatella, president of the police association of new orleans, said efforts to win a raise have gotten nowhere thus far
we are the lowest-paid police department in the country,'' he said. he offered no figures to support that claim
cannatella said wednesday the union _ with a membership of 900 officers or 80 percent of the force _ favors some kind of work stoppage
unless something happens, this city will see some kind of job action and the target date is the gop convention,'' he said
a potent anti-rejection drug can safely be administered orally to severe burn patients, and appears to help skin grafts from cadavers last longer, says a leading burn specialist
i think it's a good first step, but it needs a lot more work,'' dr. a. richard grossman, who used the immunosuppressant drug cyclosporine on 13 patients, said in an interview thursday
grossman, a plastic surgeon and director of the southern california burn center at sherman oaks community hospital in los angeles, was to report his findings today at the american burn association's annual meeting here
cyclosporine has been used in injection and oral form to prevent rejection by the body's immune system of newly transplanted hearts and other organs
grossman said his work over the past year and a half showed that oral doses of the drug are also safe for skin transplants
he said it also appears that cyclosporine enables cadaver skin to ``take'' to the body's skin longer, reducing the need for several expensive cadaver skin grafts and providing a more attractive appearance than laboratory-grown skin
without cyclosporine, cadaver skin is rejected within a week to 10 days, he said. cadaver skin is mainly used to buy time for a few weeks until the patient has enough skin of his or her own to be transplanted. repeated cadaver skin grafts are made until that time
dr. david herndon, chief of staff at the shriners burn institute in galveston, texas, has not seen grossman's study, but said the prolongation effect appears to represent ``tremendous potential.''
grossman said more studies comparing cadaver skin transplants with and without the drug need to be done
grossman is not the first burn specialist to use cyclosporine on severe burn patients. dr. bruce achauer of the university of california at irvine used injections of the drug with poor results, and later used an oral dose on one patient, who survived, grossman said
grossman said he decided to try lower, oral doses
because of concern over kidney failure in burn patients, the grossman study on nine patients referred to in his paper and on four subsequent patients used increasingly lower doses
our original purpose was to let the cadaver skin stay on a while until we could reharvest the patient's own skin,'' grossman said. ``but we found after about three or four weeks that it was staying on for good.''
the first patient in the study was kept on cyclosporine for two months after his discharge from the hospital, grossman said. ``but with each successive patient we found they needed less and less'' cyclosporine
with the last patients in the study, the medication was discontinued before discharge, within six weeks of the injury
i don't believe that using cadaver skin with a possibly dangerous drug is the be-all and end-all,'' grossman said. ``i think we're plugging a dike until the right thing comes along.'' that, he said, would be improvements in the use of laboratory-grown skin
corrupt city health inspectors doubled and tripled their annual salaries by extorting hundreds of thousands of dollars from restaurants, federal officials said after the arrest of more than two dozen employees
the restaurant owners would dread seeing these inspectors pull up in their cadillacs and rolex watches,'' said james fox, assistant director in charge of the fbi's new york office. ``they turned the department of health into their own department of wealth.''
city health-code inspections of restaurants will be temporarily suspended while the department of health reorganizes
the revelations of widespread and longstanding corruption among restaurant inspectors are particularly repellent and painful because of the importance'' of public health, health commissioner stephen joseph said
twenty-eight people, including health inspectors, their supervisors and former health department employees who acted as middlemen, were charged thursday with extorting money from restaurateurs. the health department employees earned annual salaries of $25,000 to $30,000
if convicted, each could face a maximum penalty of 20 years in jail and a fine of $250,000
the charges contained in the complaint represent about one-third of the employees responsible for enforcing the city's health code, u.s. attorney andrew maloney said
inspectors allegedly secured the extortion money by threatening to cite restaurants for health-code violations
about 300 of the city's 15,000 restaurants were victimized, ranging from fast-food establishments to little ethnic places to some tony manhattan spots. a chart released by the fbi showed that the restaurants were in all five boroughs, with the largest concentration on manhattan's upper east side
the names of the restaurants were withheld because the owners are considered victims and because the information could hinder a grand jury investigation, maloney said
the city's department of investigations and the fbi combined separate investigations, dubbed ``kitchen net'' and ``operation sanisweep'' respectively, in 1986. they used a combination of confidential informants, undercover agents and physical and electronic surveillance
fox said if a restaurant owner refused to give an inspector a payoff during a regular inspection, the inspector would claim to find mouse droppings or dead flies in the restaurant and threaten to issue violations or, in some cases, close the restaurant
in one case, on-site inspectors demanded $1,400 from a restaurant owner to prevent the establishment from being closed for serious health violations, authorities said. in another, inspectors charged a queens restaurant $1,200 to allow it to reopen despite serious code violations
a confidential informant told authorities that he and another inspector made up to six stops a day and collected $500 to $1,000 in payoffs from owners at each restaurant, according to fox
the extortion payoffs were shared with inspectors' supervisors, authorities said. one senior inspector was called ``hungry joe'' by his fellow inspectors because he made so many demands
in addition, he said, former health department inspectors and others established ``consulting'' companies that would advise restaurants on how to pass inspections and would act as middlemen for the extortions
supervisors allegedly would recommend these consulting services to restaurants and then take a percentage of the consultation fee, authorities said
before his arrest on fraud charges, a high-living 23-year-old investment adviser lured customers by falsely telling them that his other clients included the rockefeller family and bill cosby, authorities say
those allegations were contained in criminal charges against david bloom filed thursday in u.s. district court. bloom is expected to plead guilty at a court appearance next week, according to his lawyer, peter morrison
bloom, who was not licensed as an investment adviser, allegedly lied to clients by telling them their funds were invested in the stock market when he was actually pouring the money _ more than $10 million worth _ into private purchases
among his purchases were works of art totaling $5.5 million; an $830,000 manhattan apartment; a beach house in east hampton worth $1.9 million; two cars _ an aston-martin convertible and a mercedes-benz _ worth $200,000; and home furnishings that cost $800,000
bloom also bought ``numerous items of expensive jewelry; and deluxe trips to europe and the caribbean for himself, his family and friends,'' according to the federal charges of mail fraud and securities fraud
the charges say that bloom ``falsely told investors that he managed money for prominent individuals and investors, including the rockefeller family, the sultan of brunei (and) bill cosby.''
in a brief appearance before u.s. magistrate barbara lee, bloom waived his right to have his case heard by a grand jury. after he entered a plea of innocent, ms. lee assigned the case to u.s. district judge david edelstein
bloom apparently was ready to plead guilty before edelstein, but the judge was unavailable and the case was scheduled for next thursday
if found guilty of the two charges against him, bloom faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison on each count and a maximum fine of twice the amount lost by investors
bloom was arrested jan. 14 on a federal complaint charging him with fraud. he had begun investing money for friends while at duke university and had 130 clients at his greater sutton investors group inc. in manhattan at the time of his arrest
morrison has said many of the items bloom purchased would be sold and his clients could recover their money and a profit. the assets were turned over to a court-appointed receiver
a former wedtech corp. executive says the scandal-plagued defense contractor contributed to numerous political campaigns, not because of ideology but ``for favors we expected to get.''
former wedtech vice chairman mario moreno also testified thursday that he gave under different names, about $30,000 to sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., to evade election law contribution limits
federal election law limits individual campaign contributions to $1,000 per election and bars corporate contributions
a d'amato spokesman branded moreno's testimony ``ridiculous.''
moreno's claims came during defense cross-examination at the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi, d-n.y., and six others
prosecutors have said d'amato will testify for the government
the prosecution contends biaggi enlisted the help of d'amato and other politicians to help secure no-bid contracts for wedtech, then extorted millions of dollars in wedtech stock as a payoff
he and his co-defendants are accused of turning wedtech into a racketeering enterprise that paid out millions of dollars in bribes for government contracts and other favors
moreno is among four former wedtech executives cooperating with the government in return for leniency on state and federal charges to which they pleaded guilty
defense attorney maurice nessen got moreno, who was on the witness stand for the eighth day thursday, to admit he and other wedtech executives contributed to d'amato and other public officials who have not been charged with wrongdoing
now d'amato, sen. d'amato. there were contributions to his campaign that you in fact hid and put under different names so you could violate the limits on campaign contributions. isn't that correct,'' nessen asked
`yes,'' said moreno
when nessen asked moreno if he had given d'amato close to $30,000, the witness said it might have been more than that
and all the while, the senator from new york was helping you get contracts with the government?'' nessen asked later
yes,'' said moreno, later saying that d'amato ``was one of the most important people'' in helping wedtech secure a multimillion-dollar navy contract without competitive bidding
ed martin, the d'amato spokesman in washington, said, ``we have no knowledge of any secret contributions.''
he said prosecutors told d'amato staffers there was ``a lot of false name-dropping going on'' at the trial. ``this is an example.''
moreno said he and wedtech officials contributed to the campaigns of mayor edward i. koch, gov. mario cuomo, city comptroller harrison j. goldin and state sen. john marchi, none of whom has been charged with wrongdoing
he said contributions were made to the democratic, republican and conservative parties, not because of political ideology but ``in exchange for favors we expected to get.''
asked what favors wedtech expected from the republican state committee, moreno said, ``we expected to get the republican party in our pocket.''
by giving a check for $2,500?'' nessen asked incredulously
by giving a lot of checks,'' moreno said without elaborating
what he refers to, i have no idea,'' ed lurie, executive director of the gop state committee, said in a telephone interview from his albany office
if their (wedtech officials') purpose was to get some sort of hook into us, god, we didn't know it,'' lurie said. ``i didn't know certain people gave to us until i saw it in the newspapers.''
general motors corp. is being ordered to recall nearly 500,000 1985 vehicles for failure to meet federal air pollution standards, but the automaker and the government are at odds over how to fix the problem
the environmental protection agency, which announced the recall order thursday, said a faulty thermal vacuum switch was part of the reason the vehicles' exhaust contains excess carbon monoxide and evaporated gasoline
gm spokeswoman jane mott said the automaker told the epa it believed replacing the switch on the vehicles would be sufficient to bring emissions into compliance with federal standards
the epa, however, said its tests showed that ``replacement of the (switch) alone will not completely remedy the problem and that additional repairs may be necessary.''
gm has 45 days either to request a public hearing to contest the order, or to submit a repair plan for epa's approval before notices are mailed to owners
the vehicles affected by the recall are equipped with 5.0 liter (305 cubic inches) and 5.7 liter (350 cubic inches) engines, the epa said
they were sold as the chevrolet impala, caprice classic, camaro, monte carlo and el camino; the pontiac firebird, bonneville, grand prix and parisienne; and the gmc caballero, epa said. models sold in california, which are built to stricter standards, are also included
two education groups that say children are being subjected to tests too early in life are calling on schools not to subject kindergarten children to standardized exams that determine advancement to first grade
our children are being tested too early and failed too soon, and parents should ask for what purpose,'' said sue bredekamp, accreditation director of the national association for the education of young children
her group was joined thursday by the national association of early childhood specialists in state departments of education calling for an end to mass standardized testing of children before the third grade
the groups said the same tests are being used to determine whether a youngster is admitted to kindergarten or advised to spend another year in preschool
advocates for people who are hearing impaired say a federal communications commission proposal to require that more telephones be hearing-aid compatible does not go far enough
the fcc on thursday proposed to extend compatibility requirements to all credit-card operated phones and phones in common areas of a hearing-impaired employee's workplace. the agency said extending the requirement to all phones with existing technology would be unwise
karen peltz strauss, an attorney for the national center for law and the deaf at gallaudet university in washington said the fcc action was not tough enough and that legislation still is needed to extend compatibility to all phones
i just don't see those two areas (where the fcc extended compatibility requirements) as nearly sufficient to meet the needs of equal access for the hearing impaired,'' she said
an estimated 400,000 americans are expected to participate in a may 4 national program offering blood cholesterol tests
hundreds of hospitals will offer free tests, while a few will charge $3
the program, organized by the voluntary hospitals of america, was outlined thursday at a news conference. officials said they were announcing the national program well in advance to give people plenty of time to learn where they can go for testing for the fatty substance that is a leading contributor to heart disease and strokes
about 400 not-for-profit hospitals that are members of the association have agreed to participate. a public service television spot promoting the program, called ``countdown usa,'' will begin airing next week
it includes a toll-free telephone number _ 800-634-9541 _ for people to call weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. (est) to find out which hospitals in their areas will offer the testing. victory</head>
thousands of people marched in memory of a slain archbishop while the man accused of ordering the clergyman's assassination defended his far-rightist party's nationwide election victory
about 10,000 people joined in thursday's march, which was called by student, labor, rights and church groups on the eighth anniversary of monsignor oscar romero's death. the bishop was shot through the heart by a sniper as he celebrated mass at a chapel in san salvador
the marchers carried flowers, large portraits of the bespectacled bishop and banners saying ``monsignor romero did not die in vain.'' they chanted calls for the prosecution an punishment of those responsible
in the weeks prior to his assassination, romero called on members of the security forces to disobey orders to torture, kidnap and murder their countrymen
the late 1970s and early 1980s were a time of intense activity of salvadoran death squads. in 1980, when romero was killed, the squads of soldiers, police and extremist anti-leftist civilians were blamed for killing more than 500 suspected leftists a month
no one was indicted in romero's slaying, but president jose napoleon duarte late last year publicly accused roberto d'aubuisson, a right-wing legislator and former army major, of masterminding the slaying
the case is solved. we know who did it, who ordered it, who drove the getaway car,'' duarte told the country on nationwide television in november
he accused d'aubuisson of issuing the order, and said testimony from the driver of the killer's car backed up his claim
d'aubuisson, the founder and a legislator for the far-rightist republican nationalist alliance, or arena, denies the charge. he says it is politically motivated slander
duarte's government has asked the united states for extradition of a salvadoran army captain, alvaro saravia, who allegedly hired the sniper. saravia, arrested for a traffic violation, is in jail in miami pending resolution of the extradition request
local authorities say it could be granted in the coming months
but whether the case will ever reach court is not clear. as a legislator, d'aubuisson enjoys broad immunity from prosecution. his party was the big victor in sunday's elections for all 60 members of the unicameral national assembly and municipal officials across this nation of 5 million
it is unlikely an assembly controlled by d'aubuisson's party would strip him of immunity to allow him to stand trial as an alleged conspiritor in romero's assassination
early returns indicated arena would hold an outright majority in the assembly and most town and city posts nationwide
but on wednesday, arena leaders charged the governing christian democrats with manipulating returns in an effort ``to steal'' the right's parliamentary majority. d'aubuisson and other arena chiefs said violence could erupt if the vote count was flawed
the christian democrats, who had 33 seats in the outgoing assembly but are expected to have fewer than 25 in the new one, deny the charge
arena had 13 seats in the old legislature
talking with reporters thursday, d'aubuisson was calmer than the previous day. but he insisted his party would not permit maneuvers to erode its electoral result
the people's will cannot be subverted,'' he said. ``by tomorrow (friday) afternoon we believe the central elections council will be in a position to announce definitive official results that will confirm the triumph of our party.''
but there was no promise from the council that final results would be ready today
council president mario samayoa told reporters: ``we will take as long as is necessary to make sure the electoral law is fulfilled, whether certain parties or individuals like it or not.'' companion</head>
an 18-year-old anti-nuclear activist charged today he was tortured for two days at the headquarters of president corazon aquino's security force and his companion was murdered
a spokesman for mrs. aquino said he was unaware of the allegations. military chief of staff gen. renato de villa said he was willing to have authorities investigate the charge
hilario bustamante recounted his ordeal to reporters who interviewed him at a government hospital. he was recovering from a deep wound in the back of his neck doctors said must have been inflicted with a machete or an ax
the injury was similar to that which killed bustamante's companion, rey francisco, whose body was found by police monday night in a field on the outskirts of the capital. the field is near where a private security guard found bustamante's near-dead body hours earlier
speaking in a low voice and unable to move his body, bustamante said an unidentified woman was also hacked that same night. police have not reported finding any female body in the field
bustamante said he, francisco and five other members of the leftist youth for democracy and nationalism were pasting up posters against nuclear arms and u.s. military bases saturday when about six armed men in a jeep chased them
he said the men, in civilian clothes, claimed they were police ``authorized by malacanang (presidential palace)'' to arrest the youths. the men caught bustamante and francisco a few blocks away, but the others escaped
bustamante claimed he and francisco were taken to a military compound behind the presidential palace, where he said they where they were handcuffed, blindfolded, interrogated and tortured
the compound houses the headquarters of the presidential security group
they wanted us to admit we were members of the sparrow unit, that we were npa,'' bustamante said, referring to the communist new people's army and its assassination unit. ``they kept asking us whether we killed such and such policeman or soldier.''
they beat us with iron rods and burned us with cigarettes,'' he said
late monday, bustamente said three men drove him, francisco and the woman to the field and hacked them
deputy presidential spokesman danilo gozo said he was unaware of bustamante's charges
we will ask the presidential security group, but it sounds odd,'' gozo said. ``we will have to check if it is a fact.''
de villa called on bustamante to provide evidence to back up his charge
i'm willing to have all these kinds of incidents investigated,'' he told reporters. ``we do not tolerate, we do not condone the use of torture. we are willing to subject our people to genuine investigation.''
earlier this month, amnesty international charged in a report released in london that the philippine military was using torture and murder to fight the 19-year communist insurgency. mrs. aquino called the report one-sided
thunderstorms pelted parts of texas and arkansas early today with large hail and destructive winds, while a tornado damaged houses and injured a man in missouri
showers and thunderstorms lined a cold front that extended from eastern wisconsin through the middle mississippi valley into louisiana. the strongest thunderstorms were scattered from arkansas into louisiana
the tornado tore through texas county, mo., thursday evening, damaging 10 houses and injuring a man when the side of his home blew out. he was treated for cuts in texas county memorial hospital, an ambulance official said
officials said the tornado cut a 12-mile path through the south-central missouri county, trapping a family in their home until rescue workers freed them unharmed
jim and barbara maples of rural nixa, mo., said they jumped out of their mobile home just minutes before winds tore off the top. ``i just hung on to the pickup and (jim) said, `there goes the roof,''' said mrs. maples
thunderstorms produced large hail and damaging winds across arkansas and northeast texas late thursday and early today. hail 1} inches in diameter pelted clarksville and fannin county, texas, while 1-inch diameter hail hit mena, ariz., near checotah, okla., and near desoto, sherman and dallas, texas
dierks, ark., was pounded by wind gusts to 60 mph along with 1-inch hail, and hail of a similar size covered the ground at tom, okla. texarkana, ark., had 1-inch hail, heavy rain and winds gusting to 50 mph
strong thunderstorm winds destroyed a barn and damaged several houses thursday night west of fayetteville, ark., while a porch blew off a house near murray, ark. wind damage was also reported in west-central illinois
rain fell across much of minnesota and wisconsin on thursday evening, flooding streets in some sections
rainshowers were scattered thursday evening across the pacific northwest. snowshowers were reported at kalispell, mont
today's national forecast predicted scattered showers and thunderstorms from the great lakes across the ohio and tennessee valleys, the central and southern appalachians and the central gulf coast to the southern tip of texas; light snow from upper michigan to northern minnesota; mixed rain and snowshowers in eastern north dakota and southern minnesota; and light rain in coastal sections of washington and oregon
highs temperatures were expected to be in the 30s in northern minnesota; in the 40s or 50s in new england, northeast new york, from michigan across the upper mississippi valley, the northern half of the great plains and northern and central rockies to the pacific northwest; in the 80s in central and southern florida and southern texas; and in the 80s and 90s from the desert southwest to the coastal valleys of southern california. elsewhere, highs were predicted in the 60s or 70s
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 15 degrees at yellowstone lake, wyo., to 75 degrees at los angeles
other reports:
_east: atlanta 59 cloudy; boston 47 foggy; buffalo 47 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 60 cloudy; cincinnati 65 cloudy; cleveland 61 windy; detroit 53 partly cloudy; miami 72 fair; new york 45 foggy; philadelphia 52 fair; pittsburgh 53 partly cloudy; portland, maine 40 fair; washington 56 fair
_central: bismarck 38 fair; chicago 53 showery; dallas-fort worth 64 partly cloudy; denver 37 fair; des moines 41 fair; indianapolis 62 thunderstorms; kansas city 44 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 40 fair; nashville 66 windy; new orleans 68 foggy; st. louis 51 cloudy
_west: albuquerque 48 windy; anchorage 30 snow; las vegas 54 fair; los angeles 72 fair; phoenix 67 fair; salt lake city 46 cloudy; san diego 62 fair; san francisco 53 fair; seattle 43 cloudy
_canada: montreal 30 fair; toronto 39 foggy
when ``the gospel at colonus'' sings, it soars, raising the roof of broadway's cavernous lunt-fontanne theater and the spirits of everyone within shouting distance
there isn't a more joyous expression of song on broadway, and that may be enough for some people. it's when the production stops to tell its tale that the show sags, marking time until the next musical explosion
this overlong gospel celebration, which opened thursday, offers a sketchy and an often confusing version of sophocles' ``oedipus at colonus,'' set within the framework of a rousing black pentecostal church service. what little is left of the greek tragedy in lee breuer's adaptation is overwhelmed by religious fervor
oedipus, in this version, comes to colonus seeking redemption but is rejected at first by its citizens. when his prayers for forgiveness are heard by theseus, king of athens, oedipus and his two daughters antigone and ismene are welcomed back to the holy city
the daughters are seized by creon, king of thebes, but then released after the intercession of theseus. oedipus then prepares for a happy death
breuer, according to program notes, sees the show as a sermon or series of parables on fate, and much of the story is delivered between songs by a minister, played by morgan freeman. he's a commanding figure on stage but must muddle through the rudimentary narrative that rarely clarifies its characters
the real passion comes from the singers, many of them gospel music veterans, led by clarence fountain and the five blind boys of alabama. they all sing different facets of the role of oedipus
fountain has an ingratiating, swivel-hipped stage presence, a booming voice and sass to spare. he gets ample support from several other soloists and gospel groups including jevetta steele and the j.d. steele singers and j.j. farley and the soul stirrers
the entire production is backed up by the institutional radio choir, a brooklyn-based church group. its 30 members, dressed in colorful african robes, sit on bleachers that climb high above the stage. large greek columns, designed by alison yerxa, rise behind them
the choir shouts its affirmation to much of freeman's preaching, and their enthusiasm is infectious. the choir is the focal point of the evening's two show-stopping numbers _ ``no never,'' a rousing hymn of welcome, and ``lift him up,'' a song of redemption after oedipus has gone peacefully to his death
the music by bob telson is melodic, just right for hand-clapping and toe-tapping, while breuer's lyrics are simple without being simplistic
breuer also directed the musical, and he could have trimmed the show without diluting its impact. as it stands, ``the gospel at colonus'' is often a long wait between the hosannas
in other reviews:
this is a show that never stops advertising its high-mindedness, whether in its program notes or on stage,'' writes frank rich in the new york times
but happily, there is the music, too, and it is so rousing ... that the considerable spoken text ... can never completely upstage it. ... even a cynic may feel that the tidal wave of music is lifting him to some higher, ecstatic plane.''
in the daily news, don nelson called the conception ``innovative and brilliant,'' although the show itself ``seemed somewhat longer than it should be ...''
but, he said, ``the power of this production cannot be denied. there is no broadway musical _ none _ that attains the rarefied heights that `gospel' does at its best.''
leslie anne monk of england won the less-than-coveted ``red lantern'' award, finishing last in the iditarod trail sled dog race and eight days after winner susan butcher
the rookie musher crossed the finish line in the 1,150-mile anchorage-to-nome race at 10:22 p.m. thursday, in 45th place at 19 days, 13 hours, 22 minutes and 55 seconds. fifty-two teams started the 16th annual iditarod on march 5
butcher crossed the finish line on march 16 to claim her third straight iditarod victory
monk said she walked 11 of the last 22 miles until a lead dog that had run in a previous iditarod recognized the trail and got the other six moving again
the iditarod, named after an old supply route to the gold mining districts of interior alaska, draws its inspiration from a 1925 relay of diphtheria serum to nome, which was hit hard by an outbreak of the disease
elliott ``pete'' estes, an engineer who rose through the ranks at general motor corp. to retire as president, has died after apparently suffering a heart attack, officials said. he was 72
estes, who lived in paradise valley, ariz., served as gm's 15th president and chief operating officer from 1974 until his retirement in 1981
he collapsed thursday outside o'hare international airport while waiting for a ride, police said. he was on his way to a meeting of the kellogg co. board of directors. he was pronounced dead on arrival at resurrection hospital
pete estes was one of gm's brightest stars. in whatever role he assumed for the corporation, he performed at peak capacity,'' gm chairman roger b. smith said in a statement
a native of mendon, mich., estes began a lifetime relationship with gm in 1934 when he enrolled at general motors institute in flint, mich. he joined gm research laboratories as a cooperative student while at the institute
in 1939 he became a research engineer and later worked in the company's oldsmobile, pontiac and chevolet divisions
estes was named executive vice president for operations staff in 1972 and was elected president by the company's board of directors in 1974
estes is survived by his wife, connie, and three sons, thomas, edward and william
we will opt for a political solution. the camp of intimidation rejects any political solution. the camp of hope believes in such a solution.'' _ israeli foreign minister shimon peres, commenting on his support of a u.s.-sponsored middle east peace plan that calls for israel to yield part of its occupied territories
this is a sterling example of corporate environmental leadership.'' _ dan dudek, an economist with the environmental defense fund, on the decision by du pont co. to end producution of ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons
we urgently need peace in nicaragua. all these eight years have been ones of horror.'' _ auxiliadora del carmen acevedo, a nicaraguan womon whose two sons were drafted into the army
women who let sexually transmitted diseases go untreated run the risk of dangerous pregnancies, researchers say
medical investigators at the national centers for disease control in atlanta explored 22 possible problems they thought might lead to ectopic or tubal pregnancies, in which the fetus develops outside the womb
their study is reported in today's journal of the american medical association
ectopic pregnancies occur tens of thousands of times annually, and account for 10 percent of all u.s. maternal deaths and are a major cause of infertility, the researchers said
they examined 274 cases of ectopic pregnancy diagnosed from 1935 to 1982 in rochester, minn., and compared the cases with 548 live-birth deliveries during the same period among similar women
one of four problems researchers identified more often among women with ectopic pregnancies was previous pelvic inflammatory disease, an infection of the upper genital tract that can result from untreated diseases of the lower tract
the study's lead authors, polly a. marchbanks of the cdc, said a history of venereal disease alone does not appear to increase ectopic pregnancy risk, but appears to increase risk if it advances to the upper genital tract
that means women have another good reason to seek medical help if they think they have a sexually transmitted disease, she said
other problems in women with ectopic pregnancies were previous infertility for at least one year and having undergone reproductive surgery of the fallopian tubes, the researchers said
and they found a strong association between conception while using an intrauterine birth control device and ectopic pregnancies. women who had an ectopic pregnancy were 13.7 times more likely to have been using iuds at the time of conception than women in the comparison group, the study said
a cdc researcher not involved in the study, dr. nancy lee, said that figure is inaccurate because it compares two groups that shouldn't be compared: women using birth control and women using no birth control
in an ectopic pregnancy, the fertilized egg lodges somewhere in the abdomen besides the womb. in 97 percent of cases, the site is in the fallopian tubes, where as the fetus enlarges, it can rupture the tubes or cause severe bleeding
though ectopic pregnancy is dangerous, it can now be detected early and the pregnancy ended surgically before damage makes a woman infertile, wrote dr. robert n. taylor, in an editorial accompanying the study
softball players would break considerably fewer bones if breakaway bases replaced anchored bags on recreational league diamonds, says a study published today
no system is foolproof, because poor technique can defeat a lot of safety measures,'' dr. david janda, one of the study's four authors, said thursday. ``but this is one place where we can do something almost immediately.''
breakway bags could reduce injuries by more than 90 percent, according to the study published in the journal of the american medical association
the study even contains some good news for baseball purists worried that using breakaway bases would detract from the game's tradition
we did not have a single problem about an out call from either a player or an umpire in the more than 600 games we looked at,'' said janda
not only was there not one complaint, but we had a meeting of managers after the season, and virtually everybody said we had to have breakaway bases on the rest of the fields,'' he added
janda, two colleagues from the orthopedic surgery section at the university of michigan at ann arbor, and a director of the city's softball league gathered data from 633 softball games on diamonds that used breakaway bases and 627 games on stationary-base fields
stationary bases usually are anchored with a nut-and-bolt type arrangement in a tube driven into the ground. a set of three breakaway bases costs $295 vs. $150 for stationary bases
the breakaway bases used in the study had two parts: a rubber plate mounted flush with the ground and a base secured on top with suction and small rubber grommets that can pop loose
there were 45 sliding injuries, or about 7.2 per 100 games, on the stationary-base fields compared to two, or about 0.3 per 100 games, on the breakaway field _ a ratio of nearly 23-to-1
medical costs for the 45 injuries totaled more than $55,000
dr. jeffrey sacks of the atlanta-based federal centers for disease control, took the numbers from the study and extrapolated them nationwide
if all games were played on stationary bases _ and we know they're not _ we could expect 1.7 million sliding injuries and medical costs over $2 billion,'' sacks said
put those same people on fields with breakaway bases and the numbers are just over 70,000 injuries and $24 million in medical costs,'' he said
janda said his study revealed that most of the injuries resulted from ``things like not knowing how to slide, poor conditioning, late decision-making on when to slide, and even alcohol consumption.''
janda, who described himself as ``a no-hit, no-field'' second baseman, declined to say how frequently alcohol figured into the equation
nobody on our team drinks,'' he said, ``but we've played teams where everybody does.''
delays in illinois medicaid payments could force private residential-care facilities to evict hundreds of mentally retarded patients in the coming months, officials say
if nothing changes, we will see 50 to 1,500 people discharged from community residential centers throughout the state,'' said peter mule, director of the riverside oundation, a home for retarded adults in lincolnshire
earlier this week riverside received a reimbursement check from the state department of public aid for december, but is still owed at least $250,000 for care provided since then, mule said
another non-profit agency, clearbrook center in suburban rolling meadows, will have to close within three months if $446,000 owed by the state can't be found elsewhere, center president guerin fischer said
reimbursements are slow now, and they're bound to get worse, said edward duffy, state public aid director. ``i'm not choosing to do this, i'm running out of money,'' he said
duffy said because the general assembly underfunded the medicaid program by $159 million last year, reimbursement money will run out
requests received after april 15 won't be paid until july, duffy said
we're working along with banks to help these agencies get credit lines,'' duffy said. ``but the only real solution is more money.''
if the private homes are forced to evict their residents, the state would have to make room for them in already crowded facilities
we would have to put these people up on cots in gymnasiums,'' said david devane, a spokesman for the department of mental health. ``they would be without programs, without any treatment that is not life sustaining.''
gov. james r. thompson's proposed $22.2 billion budget for fiscal 1989 includes a $342 million increase for the public aid department to pay past-due bills and reduce the delays in medicaid reimbursements
what do you get when you take a jacket and combine it with batteries, loudspeakers and a cassette or compact disc player?
the sonic jacket, which toshiba america inc. sees as the logical next step from portable cassette and cd players
people are taking their music with them, so forward-thinking designers thought, `why not build them into our clothing to keep the hands free?''' said david shoults, toshiba's national sales promotion manager
the sonic jacket, developed at toshiba's wayne offices, is made of cotton and twill and has pockets in the front that house four c-size batteries and a cassette or cd player
five feet of wires sealed by velcro into the jacket's lining are connected to four speakers _ two low-frequency speakers in the lining of chest pockets and two ``tweeter-type'' speakers on the shoulders, shoults said
the jacket, currently available in limited supplies, has detachable sleeves, comes in three sizes in white and black, and sells for $199.95
as clothing goes, the sonic jacket is not loud, shoults said
this is intended to be personal electronics,'' he said. ``you can't really turn these things up so loud. they just don't play that loud.''
shoults said that if the sonic jackets prove to be a success, sound systems could turn up in a variety of clothing
what's next? sonic shorts? 
a burglar who stole a computer from a tax preparer's office turned out to be a user-friendly thief _ he mailed tax return information on 150 clients back to his victim
he also called elizabeth savano to apologize, she said thursday
the $9,000 computer and a printer were taken from her office in this city near oakland on march 5
when savano opened her office the same day, she found a note from the thief saying he would return the hard disk containing the program for calculating taxes and other information. he also called that day
i'm still haunted by it,'' savano said
four days later, savano received a package in the mail. it didn't contain the hard disk, but there were 20 floppy disks and a note from the burglar explaining how he had transferred the information onto the floppies
it's just weird,'' savano said
the tax preparer said she was glad the information was returned. ``that helped, but i'm still out the computer.''
subway gunman bernhard goetz and his girlfriend attended the opening of a murder trial of a woman who claims she stabbed her abusive boyfriend to death in self-defense
this trial should not be happening,'' goetz said after opening arguments in state supreme court, the state's trial-level court, in manhattan on thursday
damian pizarro is accused of killing her boyfriend, emerson gaylor, on aug. 19, 1986. her attorney, peter neufeld, said gaylor began abusing ms. pizarro after she became pregnant with his child in 1984
goetz' girlfriend, lisbeth theisen, said the couple decided to attend ``to show support'' for ms. pizarro
goetz is free on bail while appealing his conviction in the shooting of four teen-agers on a subway train in december 1986. goetz, who maintained he fired because he felt threatened, was convicted last june on a weapons charge
more americans are learning about the causes of aids and discussing it with their kids, according to a new federal report
the national center for health statistics, which launched its aids awareness interviews in august, reports that children are getting more education about aids at school and at home
the most notable changes between the november survey results _ the latest available _ and those from one month earlier ``were in the proportion of adults who reported having discussed aids with their children and who stated that their children had received aids education at school,'' the center reported
in november, 68 percent of those surveyed said they had discussed aids with their children ages 10-17. that was up 5 percent from october, and up 8 percent from august, according to the report, released thursday by the center's parent agency, the federal centers for disease control
also in november, 51 percent of the adults surveyed said their kids had received aids instruction in school; that was up 6 percent from october, and 15 percent from august
throughout the surveys, about one-third of the adults questioned did not know if their children had learned about acquired immune deficiency syndrome in school
the center also reported that public awareness about aids increased noticeably over the first four months of surveys
for example, in august, only 61 percent of the americans surveyed by the center believed it very unlikely or impossible to get aids from shaking hands with a patient; in november, the percentage had risen to 70
and only 53 percent of those surveyed in august believed it very unlikely or impossible to get aids from working near someone who has it; by november, it was up to 61 percent
aids experts say the disease is not spread through such casual contact. aids, which had struck 57,024 americans and killed 31,836 as of march 21, is spread most often through sex or shared drug needles
the 3,333 adults questioned in november were not the same group interviewed in previous months. the survey is designed with a margin of error no more than 1 percent
a new non-profit group is saving old computers from the scrap heap and shipping them to third world countries
equipment which is outdated here is often state-of-the-art in africa, asia and latin america,'' said phillip friedman, executive director of global technology foundation
the group based in boulder hopes to improve the quality of life in the third world, create new markets for advanced equipment and provide tax breaks for donors of old computers
it has filed for tax-exempt status with the internal revenue service so corporations would be able to claim the book value of donated equipment, while individuals could deduct fair market value, friedman said
the philippines is targeted for a pilot project because a distribution system is already established there through another non-profit group, he said
we will focus on sending equipment into communities, rather than government bureaucracies,'' friedman said
more than $80,000 in equipment already has been donated, officials said
the research nuclear reactor at the center of a debate over whether taiwan has an atomic weapons program has been closed temporarily, but not because of u.s. pressure, a top government official said today
liu kuang-chi, secretary general of the government atomic energy council, told the associated press the reactor is being converted to a system that no longer requires heavy water, which is used to control the splitting of atomic nuclei
local newspapers have reported the military-run chungshan institute of science and technology shut down the reactor at lung tan, 25 miles southwest of taipei, after the u.s. government suspended delivery of heavy water
the new york times reported wednesday that the reagan administration pressured taiwan to close the reactor and stop work on a secret installation that could have processed the reactor's spent fuel to extract plutonium, a key component of nuclear weapons
the reactor was not closed because of u.s. pressure,'' liu said during a brief interview as he left a meeting with lawmakers. he declined comment on the report of a secret installation to process spent fuel
liu said plans to convert the reactor are four years old and designed to make the facility compatible with the island's three nuclear power plants. he refused to elaborate
the reactor was closed in january for the remodification, according to liu, who would not say when the facility will restart
he said taiwan reported the plans to the vienna-based atomic energy agency last week. he refused to explain why the notification was made two months after the closure
chang kuo-lung, professor of physics of the national taiwan university, said the remodification plan was uneconomical
this is like buying a car and replacing its engine with one from another car,'' he said
local newspapers, without disclosing their sources, have said the u.s. government learned from col. chang hsien-yi, former deputy director of the institute's nucleary energy research center, that taiwan had plans to make nuclear weapons
chang has been missing since january, and local newspapers have claimed he is working for the cia and living in the united states. taiwan officials say they do not know his whereabouts but are investigating the case
government officials have reiterated taiwan's position that it has not developed any nuclear weapons. communist china has said taiwanese production of atomic weapons would be a reason for invading the island, which beijing views as a renegade province
lawmaker jaw shau-kong of the ruling nationalist party today asked the government to lodge the ``strongest protest'' to washington if the united states is found to be involved in col. chang's disappearance
the united states can have nuclear weapons. many other countries have their nuclear weapons,'' jaw said at the legislative yuan, taiwan's highest lawmaking body. ``we may not want to develop nuclear weapons, but we cannot give up our high-technology research work because of this.''
jaw said taiwan ``can never tolerate the central intelligence agency to recruit one of our colonels and then get him to the united states.''
a day earlier, jaw urged the government to ask the united states to resume supplying heavy water so the lung tan reactor could continue production of isotopes used in certain x-ray techniques, cancer treatments and scientific research
police arrested 23 people in connection with a mob-controlled betting operation that netted $75 million a year from wagers on college basketball, a spokesman said
authorities seized two satellite dishes, 33 telephones, four shotguns, a stolen handgun, ammunition and $25,000 in cash while making arrests thursday night in manhattan, the bronx and queens, said police sgt. raymond o'donnell
the betting ring was controlled by the genovese crime family, o'donnell said. he said police were not sure how long it had been in operation
all 23 people arrested were charged with promoting gambling, possession of gambling records and possession of gambling devices, all felonies, the spokesman said
the arrests and seizures followed a six-week investigation involving city police and state police from new york and new jersey, o'donnell said
a philadelphia teen-ager whose parents and brothers were found slain in a bathtub was arrested by tennessee state troopers at a truck stop
jose enrique hernandez, 17, was scheduled to appear today in a detention and extradition hearing in charlotte. philadelphia police were in tennessee to escort him back to pennsylvania to face four counts of murder
hernandez was arrested early thursday at reed's truck stop near interstate 40 after he had bought a cup of coffee
when he got out of the car, he looked real surprised to see us. then he looked like he made every attempt to act like he didn't notice us. he kept his head down,'' trooper joel deal said
deal and trooper richard austin checked the honda's pennsylvania license plate number with the national crime information center
it was kind of shocking,'' deal said
the troopers found hernandez was wanted in connection with the deaths of his 4-year-old stepbrother, frankie; 9-month-old stepbrother, jonathon; his father, catalino hernandez, 34; and pregnant stepmother, carmen hernandez, 23
the bodies had been dead six days when hernandez's aunt found them in the family's apartment monday. the bodies were stacked and covered in a bathtub
hernandez did not resist arrest and said nothing to the troopers, deal said. the youth slept as he was driven to the davidson county juvenile detention center in nashville
there was really no emotion from him at all,'' deal said
investigators searched the honda for clues to the killings, but nothing was found, deal said
officers have failed to find the .22-caliber handgun that killed hernandez's father and stepmother. frankie was strangled with a bandage and jonathon was beaten to death with a blunt object, possibly a baseball bat, police said
the killings followed an argument between hernandez and his father, police said
police fears that a movie about southern california gangs might spark new violence when it is released next month show how out of control the problem is, its director says
i live in a gang area. i live in venice (beach),'' dennis hopper, director of ``colors,'' said recently
the film, starring robert duvall and sean penn as policemen fighting gang drug dealing and street crime, drew fire from real law enforcement officers who were given a preview
the movie, scheduled for release in mid-april, features graphic depictions of gang violence, including a gang drive-by shooting and the killing of a police character by gang members
several detectives said the film glamorizes the gang lifestyle and could trigger violence among gang audiences. assistant police chief robert vernon suggested it be banned
hopper, best known for his acting in such films as ``easy rider,'' ``apocalypse now,'' ``hoosiers,'' and ``blue velvet,'' said the official reaction shocked him
he said banning the movie would be ``like burning books ... and they wanted to burn it before it could even be seen or read.''
what they're basically saying is that they have a police problem and they can't handle it,'' hooper said. ``the gang thing is out of control.''
hopper defended his use of real gang members as extras and the realistic presentation of gang dominance in many los angeles neighborhoods, using some statistics in the film to show what police are up against
at the beginning we point out that there are 250 men and women in law enforcement working against 600 gangs with over 70,000 members,'' he said. ``how can they possibly handle it?'' graf pvs, gephardt is.</note>
rep. richard gephardt predicted today that his struggling presidential bid would be revitalized by a michigan victory and dismissed reports that he would opt to run for re-election to the house if he loses here
i think we're going to turn this race back around here in michigan,'' gephardt said on cbs-tv's ``this morning'' show. ``we're going to get back in the middle of this thing and i'm going to go ahead and win.''
asked why he was planning to file for re-election to his house seat by missouri's tuesday deadline, gephardt replied: ``no decision on that at all. ... i'm going to be the nominee. i'm going to be the next president.''
but before a crowd of laid-off auto workers, enthusiastic about his call for tough foreign trade policies, gephardt on thursday acknowledged his presidential candidacy is in need of extraordinary help from michigan democrats
this saturday we're going to have a miracle in michigan _ the michigan miracle,'' gephardt said, mimicking michael dukakis and his description of massachusetts' economic turnaround during his three interrupted terms as governor
gephardt is running third in the polls in michigan, behind dukakis and jesse jackson. after suffering major losses across the south and elsewhere on super tuesday two weeks ago, gephardt launched a major effort to climb back into contention with the michigan contest
aside from winning his home state of missouri on super tuesday, his only other victories have been in the south dakota primary and iowa's lead-off caucus
aides, speaking on condition of anonymity, said gephardt was making plans to file for re-election to his house seat in missouri by the deadline tuesday if michigan does not give him the victory he seeks
that's right. he will be out if doesn't win in michigan,'' said a campaign aide who would not be quoted by name
asked about the aide's comment, gephardt said: ``no. i'm running for president and i've doing very well here in michigan. ... i'm going to win in michigan. i'm going to continue and do well
my mother always told me to cross one bridge at a time. that's what i'm trying to do,'' he said
his wife jane reinforced the notion that michigan was a do-or-die state for gephardt
i think dick has to come in first or a real strong second to remain in the race, because at some point if you don't do well here, it becomes difficult to raise money,''' she said. ``dick's message will be very popular in the industrial states, but if we don't do well here, we will not be able to continue.''
in flint, gephardt spoke in a roped-off street between a union hall and the general motors' fisher body assembly plant that gm shut down last december, leaving an already reduced work force of 3,500 workers without jobs. the plant manufactured large, rear-wheel drive gm autos
many of the several hundred people present carried signs saying they were unemployed auto workers. a billboard above the union hall said, ``there is hope,'' and was signed by the uaw 581 bible group
while it may be cloudy and a little gloomy here today, what we're going to do in 1988 is we're going to win an election for the presidency and we're going to bring the sun back out in the american economy,'' gephardt said
he repeated his familiar call for tough trade sanctions against countries that do not open markets to u.s. products, and resumed his attack on dukakis for changing positions on trade policy
he said he welcomed dukakis' recently announced support for senate legislation that would toughen trade policies, and then added: ``i just hope he doesn't change his trade policy again after leaving michigan.''
a motorist whose car was mistakenly towed from a service station searched frantically for three days before he found his prized chevy _ in a junkyard pile
it was squished, just like a little metal cube,'' john geraca said thursday. ``all the wheels and the doors were gone. it was about 20 inches high.''
geraca took his last ride in the 1975 chevrolet monte carlo on march 11, when he went to the service station to pick up the cadillac he had dropped off for a tuneup, police said
after paying the bill for the work, geraca drove away in the cadillac and left his red chevy behind in the parking lot, intending to pick it up later, police said
but it was gone when he returned after two hours. another red chevy, this one a 1976 impala, was still in the parking lot, however
the owner of that car had asked that it be junked, and no one at the station noticed when the tow truck picked up the wrong car
i guess he just pulled up, hooked up on a chevy and away he went,'' said station attendant richard logan. ``he didn't ask anybody about it.''
sam parisi, owner of southern auto parts junkyard, said it was an honest mistake because the description of the two red chevys was identical
right about now, they're probably making toyotas out of it,'' said parisi, one of four people arrested on racketeering and theft charges last week at the culmination of a fort lauderdale and pompano beach police investigation of suspected chop shops
we're completely honest here, and all we're trying to do is make an honest buck,'' parisi said. ``we don't steal cars.''
scrap cars fetch about $25 at a junkyard. police said geraca's car was worth about $1,000
investigators have told geraca, who says the car held $16,000 worth of marine electronics equipment, that the case is a civil matter, coral springs police sgt. jim hanrahan said
rescue workers struggled through the night to free victims trapped in the crushed cars of two passenger trains that crashed head-on outside shanghai, killing at least 28 people and injuring 109
chinese officials said today that 27 japanese high school students and one chinese passenger died in thursday's accident
a spokesman for the shanghai foreign affairs office said by telephone that 37 students from gakugei high school in southern japan's kochi prefecture and 72 chinese passengers remained hospitalized
ten other japanese from the 193-member school tour group were treated for injuries and released, said fu yatao, a foreign affairs spokesman
it was china's fourth fatal train collision this year, bringing the total death toll to 169
fu said the cause of the crash was still under investigation
bundo takagi, deputy director of the foreign ministry's second consular division, said a team of three japanese doctors will leave for shanghai saturday morning to assist in the treatment of injured students
the school group arrived in china on march 21 for a tour of the shanghai area and the nearby city of hangzhou
the crash occurred at 2 p.m. thursday when train no. 311, carrying the japanese group, ignored a stop signal as it left shanghai station for hangzhou and smashed into the southbound train no. 208 arriving from changsha, in the shanghai suburb of fengban
the japanese group was traveling in the first-class cars in the front of no. 311. the cars were knocked off the track along with the baggage car of no. 208
fu said the trains were not traveling at high speeds at the time of the crash
chinese officials responded last month to the string of transportation disasters by demanding greater attention to safety. china's railway minister was forced to resign to take responsibility for three fatal train accidents in january
efforts to educate minorities about aids have failed to stop the deadly disease because they have largely ignored differing customs and languages, witnesses told a presidential commission
most black men with acquired immune deficiency syndrome in san francisco are homosexual or bisexual, yet have been nearly untouched by efforts to halt the spread of the disease among white gay men, said amanda houston-hamilton, chairwoman of san francisco's black coalition on aids
we believe these men have fallen through the cracks,'' houston-hamilton told members of the presidential commission on the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic
they are dying alone, frequently coming for medical services when they are too sick to walk, incontinent, demented,'' said houston-hamilton, one of a panel of asian, hispanic, native american and hemophiliac leaders who testified thursday as the commission began a three-day visit here
there are 32 distinct asian ethnic groups, with different languages, cultures, traditions and customs. these differences have been been largely overlooked by aids education programs,'' said davis y. ja, of the san francisco-based asian aids project
the group represents the filipino, chinese, japanese, korean and vietnamese communities and runs the only asian aids education program in the nation with $230,000 in federal funds and a staff of six
lillis stephens, of the sacramento-based hemophilia council of california, told the panel that of the state's 2,300 hemophiliacs, at least 1,600 are infected with the virus, an infection level exceeding that of gay and bisexual people in the state
an estimated 10 to 20 percent of sexual partners of infected hemophiliac men infected are also infected with the aids virus, according to surveys by the organization
although the centers for disease control estimate 53 cases of aids among native americans nationally, phil tinsley, a community leader, contended the number is much higher and will mushroom as a result of a 20.8 percent teen-age pregnancy rate and the nation's highest levels of drug abuse
john wahl, a san francisco gay activist and former co-chair of the national mobilization against aids, told the commission it should use its influence against those who claim the virus justifies discrimination against homosexuals
the aids epidemic will not destroy our liberation movement, but attempts to misuse the fear of aids to suppress us will be very destructive to social peace,'' he said
the testimony will be considered by the full 14-member commission, which is about two-thirds of the way through its national tour. the commission will deliver its recommendations for a national strategy to stop aids to the white house by june 24, said spokesman tom brandt
acting premier li peng today told delegates to the annual session of the national people's congress that china must emphasize reform as it continues on its path of economic development
li's report to the 2,970 delegates of china's legislature also said that in the next five years, china will maintain its policies of market-oriented reforms, opening itself to the outside world and making its political system more democratic
li, 59, is expected to be confirmed as head of government at the legislative session, which will last 20 days. with his report, li displayed his full support, at least publicly, for the reforms set in motion by his protege, senior leader deng xiaoping
in the next five years, li said, china must ``put reform at the center of all our undertakings and integrate it more closely with economic development so that the two are coordinated and promote each other.''
veteran military leader yang shangkun, 81, an ally of deng, is likely to replace li xiannian, 79, in the largely ceremonial post of president
deng, 83, who entered semi-retirement last fall at a major communist party meeting, sat on the podium between li and zhao ziyang, the former premier who now heads the communist party
the delegates also are expected to pass laws giving greater authority to factory managers
li, a soviet-trained technocrat regarded as being cautious toward reforms, also sounded several conservative themes on economic problems in his speech, the keynote address of the congress
among those problems, he said, are rising prices, ``the outstanding problem in our economic and social life today,'' inadequate investment on agriculture, and economic crimes committed by those seeking personal gains
in the past five years, reforms have brought china an annual growth rate of 11.1 percent, provided jobs for 37 million people, substantially raised living standards and opened china to foreign investment and trade, he said
li outlined 10 objectives for the next five years, led by the need for further reforms in agriculture. chinese leaders have been concerned about stagnating grain production as farmers switch to more lucrative cash crops, and li stressed that more money and effort must be spent to ``mobilize the peasants' enthusiasm for agricultural production.''
li also stressed that china must revitalize its enterprises by instituting contract systems for managers and reducing government interference in factories. heading the legislation to be passed at the congress is an industrial enterprise law to guarantee the rights of managers to operate their factories without interference
he hit hard on the problem of rising prices and said inflation must be fought by reforming the irrational, heavily subsidized pricing system and expanding supplies while controlling some prices
officially, inflation was 7.3 percent last year, but prices in most larger cities rose at double-digit rates
li mentioned march 5 anti-chinese riots in the tibetan capital of lhasa, saying the buddhist monk-led demonstrators ``violated the law and undermined the unity of the motherland. the rioters must be severely punished.''
congress officials have promised that the session will be the most open ever, with foreign journalists allowed to attend some of the legislature's discussion groups as well as the opening and closing sessions
access to the discussions is part of the government attempt to show the outside world that the congress, long belittled as a rubber-stamp body for policies set by the party, has become more democratic and influential
all major decisions are still made by the party politburo and its standing committee, but under outgoing congress chairman peng zhen, 86, the body has gained some stature as a forum to debate, and sometimes revise, policies handed down by the party
a federal prosecutor has alleged that former mayor lee alexander, sentenced 10 years in prison for running a $1.5 million extortion-kickback scheme, did not surrender all of his illegal profits
alexander, one of the most visible u.s. mayors of the 1970s, also was ordered to repay the city $100,000 in lieu of a $100,000 fine recommended by prosecutors
we're satisfied. it's what we requested and recommended and what we felt was appropriate,'' u.s. attorney frederick j. scullin said after the sentencing thursday
but scullin said he still doesn't think alexander has been truthful about surrendering all his assets, as stipulated in the plea bargain the former mayor made with the government jan. 6
alexander has turned over $1.4 million to the government, but scullin alleged during thursday's hearing that alexander is hiding $200,000 and has lied about other kickbacks
alexander, 60, who spent 16 years as mayor of new york's fifth-largest city, had faced up to 30 years in prison for his admission to charges of racketeering, conspiracy to obstruct a government investigation and tax evasion. but u.s. district judge thomas j. mcavoy followed the sentencing recommendation made by prosecutors
i've brought great pain to my loved ones and the people of my city and stand here now ready for my punishment,'' alexander said at the close of a 10-minute statement he gave before his sentence was pronounced
the punishment you are about to impose on me ... pales against the pain and remorse i feel.''
alexander was indicted july 16, 1987, by a special grand jury empaneled 18 months earlier to investigate public corruption in syracuse
alexander initially denied the charges. but he sought a plea bargain after being faced with evidence the government had gathered, including testimony from alexander's bagmen and other co-conspirators
he admitted running the extortion-kickback scheme during his four terms as syracuse mayor between 1970 and 1986. a 40-count federal grand jury indictment charged that alexander extorted kickbacks of up to 25 percent from businessmen, professionals and consultants doing work in the city
alexander will be eligible for parole after about 40 months, but scullin said he believes alexander will serve at least five years. he must surrender by april 14
also thursday, seven co-conspirators were sentenced to terms ranging up to 2{ years
president hosni mubarak has warned that an israeli attack on saudi arabia's new intermediate-range missile launchers would ``blow up the entire peace process'' in the middle east
mubarak said thursday he had sent an urgent message to president reagan urging him to ``use his influence with israel and urge it to stop threatening arab states in this irresponsible way.''
he said he also sent a verbal message to israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir via egypt's ambassador to israel, mohammed bassiouny. the egyptian president said other senior israeli officials also had been contacted
mubarak's remarks to local reporters was egypt's second sharp response to israeli warnings about saudi arabia's chinese-supplied css-2 missiles
on wednesday, an unidentified egyptian official said cairo would consider any israeli attack on the installations an attack on egypt itself
mubarak's comments were distributed by the state-owned middle east news agency
i warn against any attack on ... saudi arabia, which is a sister and friendly country,'' mubarak said. ``this is a grave, grave matter. if an attack on saudi arabia occurred, it would blow up the entire peace process.''
jordan and syria also have said they would regard an israeli attack on saudi arabia as aggression against them
the egyptian warning, however, appeared to carry greater weight because of its 1979 peace treaty with israel, the only one between an arab country and the jewish state. egypt also is the arab world's strongest military power
saudi arabia recently acquired the missiles, which have a range of 2,200 miles, enough to reach iran and israel. the missiles are capable of carrying nuclear warheads, but both china and saudi arabia have given assurances they will be fitted only with conventional warheads
after disclosure of the missile deal, shamir was reported to have told u.s. officials that the saudis must get rid of them
on sunday, israeli radio quoted close shamir aide yossi ben aharon as referring to israel's reputation not to let potential dangers become actual ones, an apparent reference to israel's 1981 air raid on a nuclear reactor being built in iraq
shamir said later that ben aharon denied making the statement, but the premier said tuesday that israel and the united states were ``making efforts to deal with ... the grave development.'' data</head>
two defense contractors and five executives are facing charges of defrauding the pentagon, one by faking test results on electronics for a missile system, the other by selling reconditioned aircraft parts as new
consolidated aeronautics corp. of north hollywood and its top two officers were charged thursday with one count of conspiracy and four of submitting false claims about hydraulic parts provided under a $1 million contract beginning in 1984
another indictment accused genisco technology corp. of rancho dominguez and one current and two former executives of conspiracy and falsely certifying that sensing devices used in air-to-ground missiles and helicopters had been tested
fraud in defense procurement and in the production of strategic and military hardware is the no. 1 `white collar' crime priority of the u.s. attorney's office,'' said gary feess, chief assistant u.s. attorney
the parts in the consolidated contract were destined for use in the steering systems of a-7, f-4 and f-104 jet fighters, the b-52 bomber and the c-141 transport plane
the hydraulic parts were certified by the company as new but actually had been refurbished, the indictment alleged. all the parts that have been tested failed, and flight crews could have been endangered had the parts been used, officials said
consolidated could be fined $3.5 million if convicted
also charged were gordon strube, 65, of beverly hills, consolidated president and chief executive officer, and ronald guy, 42, of granada hills, vice president of sales
telephone calls to the company went unanswered thursday
if convicted, strube could be sentenced to up to 7{ years in prison and fined up to $1.25 million; guy faces up to 15 years in prison and a $750,000 fine
the genisco contract was worth several hundred thousand dollars a year, feess said. genisco faces a maximum $7.5 million fine
genisco attorney tom holliday suggested that any wrongdoing was the fault of officers and former officers of the company's transducer products division in simi valley, and he called indictment of the company unwarranted
also charged were werner brinkschulte, 50, of simi valley, former general manager of the division; danny k. evans, 34, of simi valley, former division supervisor, and robert l. kersnick, 51, of sepulveda, quality assurance manager of the division
the three face up to five years in prison and fines of up to $250,000 on each count
the transducers, the size and shape of small cigars, measure pressure in liquid or gas. they are used to help guide the high-speed anti-radar missile, which is fired from planes; to measure oil pressure in the coast guard's hh-65a dolphin search-and-rescue helicopter, and to operate a navy torpedo test device
a year ago today, police discovered three half-naked women chained in a north philadelphia basement and limbs of another in the house's freezer
a grisly tale unfolded of how they were kept prisoners, one for four months. the trail led to a new jersey forest where the naked body of another woman was found
the man who lived in the house, gary michael heidnik, 41, faces trial april 4 on rape and murder charges in a case that has already attracted the attention of authors and could lead to a movie
any profits from such a venture cannot go to heidnik if he is convicted, and at a federal bankruptcy court hearing wednesday, attorneys debated what should be done with the money
heidnik's attorney, a. charles peruto jr., said two-thirds of the profits should be assigned to the estates of heidnik and a sect he started, united church of the ministers of god. if heidnik were convicted, the money would then go to his victims
both heidnik and the church are in bankruptcy
if i bring in money to enhance the estates, i get one-third of what i enhance,'' peruto said. ``the estates would get two-thirds.'' as part of the agreement, the lawyer would not get any legal fees for defending heidnik
assistant district attorney harriet brumberg argued the state's victim compensation law provides that 100 percent of such book or movie profits goes to the victims
if anything in the book contains any thoughts, feelings, impressions of mr. heidnik, that belongs to the victims,'' she said
at least two of the women are undergoing psychiatric treatment
josephine rivera, 27, a prostitute who police say was held by heidnik the longest _ four months _ and who escaped to notify police, still is undergoing periodic counseling
lisa thomas, 20, another captive, continues to undergo weekly psychiatric counseling
cyril ``tony'' brown, heidnik's retarded friend who is charged with assisting him in the house, recently got married. brown, 32, who is free on bail and has been cooperating with police, on nov. 13 married gail lincow, 37, a mildly retarded woman who had been a friend and, police say, a temporary prisoner of heidnik's
this u.s. navy frigate found and retrieved an armed power launch apparently abandoned by the iranians in the strait of hormuz
the craft, with a twin-barrel 25mm anti-aircraft gun mounted on its bow and protected by a canvas, was brought alongside the uss reuben james in a tense, three-hour operation hampered by high seas thursday
the find could advance american knowledge of how the iranians operate in the persian gulf, navy officials said. ``i'm not sure what all this is going to lead to in the way of intelligence,'' said cmdr. john j. kieley iii, skipper of the reuben james. ``but i think it will go a long way in helping us to understand the kind of thing that goes on out here.''
the captain repeatedly tried to approach the boat late thursday with his 443-foot frigate when it was found about 12 miles off the coast of oman at the entrance to the strait of hormuz. but seas up to 10 feet and strong winds made maneuvering difficult, and the irananian boat disappeared into the darkness until it was relocated two hours later
two seamen was finally lowered onto the deck of the iranian boat from a helicopter hovering overhead
i was scared,'' said eight-year navy veteran tony santos, 24, of bozeman, mont., one of the lowered seamen. ``i didn't know what to expect, whether it was booby trapped or whether to look for someone lying down on the boat or what.''
lines were attached, and the iranian craft was tied to the frigate's stern for towing
its rusty but functioning anti-aircraft gun had ammunition boxes attached and was ready for firing. spent shells littered the floor of the boat, along with several sealed boxes of ammunition, cans of diesel fuel and other items
the area where the ship was found is close to main shipping lanes where tankers and other commercial vessels are frequently attacked by iran's naval frigates and armed patrol boats
the suicides of three teen-age boys in two weeks have shocked students and faculty at a high school here, but they are trying to avert further tragedies with a vigorous counseling program, including teen advisers
it's a scary situation,'' said patty l. kelly, 18, one of several students receiving training as a peer group counselor at reitz high school after the suicides. ``even people who didn't know them are affected by it.''
more than 600 parents and students attended a meeting at the school auditorium thursday night to talk about the deaths, the latest of which occurred wednesday morning
we're concerned about the families it happened to,'' said judy g. elfreich, whose daughter is a freshman at reitz. ``i'm not really worried about more (suicides), but you just can't predict things like that.''
along with the peer counseling groups, reitz principal christine settle said the school would begin a ``buddy system'' to pair newcomers with older students
in addition, six school psychologists and two counselors were sent to the school of 1,350 students on wednesday to assist the four counselors normally assigned to reitz
i hope all this helps,'' miss kelley said. ``people have come to me to talk, but they're afraid to tell their parents because they know they'll get sent to get help. and then they'll have to come back (to school) and have people tell them, `well, we know you're crazy now.' so it's a lot easier for them to talk to us.''
vanderburgh county sheriff clarence c. shepard told the audience that an investigation had turned up no connection between the deaths and satanism or cults, despite rumors to that effect
shepard said before the meeting that ``all three were immediate, personal, emotional problems with the young men. one was a boyfriend-girlfriend problem, and the others were family problems.''
the three victims were boys who knew each other and were in the same year in high school, the sheriff said. two were reitz sophomores, and the third was a former student who transferred to another school
the latest victim, larry e. ``j.j.'' orth, 15, was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound at 6:30 a.m. wednesday. orth left a note indicating he was having family problems
eric g. sanders, 16 and also a reitz student, died march 10; and steven r. schaefer, 15, who left last year, died march 13. both sanders and schaefer also shot themselves
the school system began a weeklong spring vacation today, and school officials hoped the break would help settle the students
they will still see their friends, but they won't be together in one building and rumors won't be spreading as much,'' said susan g. mcdowell, head of psychological services for the evansville-vanderburgh school corporation
we think that will help,'' she added
the suicide rate for those ages 15 to 24 more than doubled, from 5.2 per 100,000 in 1960 to 12.5 in 1984, according to the national center for health statistics. banned, soviet troops in yerevan, armenian committee disbanded, picks up graf 4 pvs, ``armenians, who are...' minor editing throughout to conform and to tighten</note>
red army troops patrolled the tense armenian capital today to enforce a ban on public demonstrations by armenians locked in a violent territorial dispute with neighboring azerbaijan
the kremlin took a series of decisive steps to quell the ethnic violence, which has claimed more than 30 lives and posed a serious challenge to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
soldiers and helicopters were deployed to yerevan, the armenian capital, to prevent the kind of massive demonstrations staged by armenians to demand the return of the disputed nagorno-karabakh region that is now part of azerbaijan
demonstrations had been planned for saturday, but armenian activists reported they had been called off
armenian activists reported that authorities have ordered disbanded an armenian committee that spearheaded the drive to annex nagorno-karabakh to armenia
the government on thursday announced an eight-year plan to build more housing, roads, schools and social services in the disputed region, where nearly 75 percent of the population of 160,000 is armenian
the kremlin has accused the demonstrators of being extremists and demanded an end to the armenian protest actions as ``intolerable.'' the demonstrations led to retaliation aganst armenians in azerbaijan, where at least 32 people were killed and nearly 200 injured
sources in armenia told the associated press by telephone that the atmosphere was tense, but they reported no outbreaks of violence. western reporters have not been allowed to visit the area
hovik vassilian, an activist in the protest, said the armenian literary gazette newspaper announced today that the committee to annex nagorno-karabakh was being disbanded ``because it was working against the people's interests.''
vassilian said the planned demonstrations saturday ``won't happen.'' he said they have been called off ``considering the situation.''
armenians, who are predominantly christian, have been demanding that the nagorno-karabkh region, which is smaller than delaware, be annexed to the neighboring armenian republic, though there is no common border. azerbaijan is overwhelmingly moslem
the kremlin plan for nagorno-karabkh also assures the local population that television transmission will be upgraded so they can receive broadcasts in armenian as well as the national network and azeri programming
other assurances, such as better supplies of armenian-language books and preservation of historical and cultural monuments, address issues that incited armenians to demand annexation for the mountainous region, which has been part of azerbaijan since 1923
in azerbaijan, radio baku reported today that public assemblies, meetings and street demonstrations will be allowed only by permits, which must be applied for at least 10 days in advance. those violating the order face criminal penalties, according to the broadcast monitored in london
armenia instituted a similar ban on unsanctioned demonstrations earlier in the week, according to radio yerevan
it was not immediately clear whether the government plan would succeed in pacifying armenians worried that nagorno-karabakh is losing its ethnic identity. but one official source in armenia reported a generally quiet, though tense, atmosphere today
a duty officer at the republic's ministry of internal affairs, responsible for police operations, told the associated press by telephone from yerevan that the city was ``fairly quiet.''
the officer, who declined to give his name or detailed information, confirmed red army helicopters and security troops were patrolling the capital to keep order
calls to azerbaijan did not go through today
moscow-based dissidents reported thursday that the atmosphere in armenia was ``filled with tension.''
on wednesday, the soviet government rejected as ``intolerable'' the armenian campaign for annexation, indicating it would not bend to pressure brought on by mass demonstrations and strikes in the republic last month
the unrest brought an unusual personal appeal from soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev for calm and reason in dealing with the ethnic dispute. gorbachev also promised the leadership would review armenia's claims to nagorno-karabakh
gorbachev's address calmed the demonstrators in yerevan. but on feb. 28, ethnic extremists went on a rampage of murder, rape, robbery and other crimes in the azeri city of sumgait. study</head>
this small, ohio river town has been chosen as the focus of a $4 million, two-year, privately funded study aimed at reducing heart attacks, strokes and high blood pressure, officials said
sponsors of the pilot program said they chose wellsburg because of its small population _ 4,000 _ and because west virginia registered the highest obesity rate in the country at 24 percent in a 1986 federal study that also found 31 percent of west virginians smoke cigarettes
west virginia trails only iowa in the annual death rate from heart disease, according to state health director dr. david heydinger
education, especially health education, is lacking in west virginia,'' said john w. bertram, administrator for the brooke county health department and a member of the program's advisory board
the program, one of the first privately funded public health education programs aimed at rural areas, is sponsored by the bayer co., an aspirin and over-the-counter drug manufacturer, and glenbrook laboratories, bayer's new york-based parent
however, aspirin, recently linked to the prevention of heart attacks and strokes, will not be part of the program, said robin d. mills, president of the bayer co
we already have ongoing research into that,'' mills said. ``what we want to develop is a health program that we can offer to rural americans.''
the program will begin in may when 1,000 volunteers will be checked for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, obesity and other cardiovascular risk factors
participants must be at least 21 years old and willing to return for checkups every three months over a two-year period
health professionals will attempt to lower the weight, cholesterol and blood pressure of participants and eliminate other risk factors through education and behavior modification
some aspects of the study, including nutrition seminars, weight reduction techniques and smoking clinics will be available to all of the town's 4,000 people, mills said
the company will also sponsor walks, runs and other exercise activities for the town, which is about 40 miles southwest of pittsburgh
if people listen, it will be a good thing,'' said nora hartley, 46, owner of nora's novelty nook, as she smothered a cigarette in a full ashtray
i'd go crazy if i had to quit smoking and i don't have to lose weight, but i'll probably check it out,'' she said
cardiovascular disease _ the leading cause of death in the united states _ kills nearly a million americans each year, according to the national center for health statistics. nearly one-fifth of those deaths occur in people under the age of 65. killed, army saying it is investigating, not denying. other details. changes byline. no pickup.</note>
israeli soldiers fired on palestinian demonstrators who hurled rocks and broken bottles in the occupied west bank today, killing two and wounding six, hospital officials and witnesses said
the army said five protesters were wounded in the attack on a makeshift army headquarters in tarqumia and in a clash in the nearby city of hebron. it said it was investigating the reports that two were killed
officials close to prime minister yitzhak shamir protested a meeting planned saturday between secretary of state george p. shultz and two palestinian-americans tied to the plo
as part of a campaign to crack down on leaders of recent unrest, the army arrested a prominent gaza lawyer under special laws allowing detention for up to six months without trial
israel radio quoted an unidentified military source as saying the military had evidence that the attorney, raji sourani, was linked to the organization of the uprising. the army has not commented
more than 4,000 palestinians have been detained since the unrest began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, and 3,000 remain in jail. but unlike previous roundups, which focused on stone-throwers, the current one has zeroed in on the underground leadership
in tarqumia, a village of 9,000 near hebron, hundreds of stone-throwing youths set out before dawn to attack a school that troops had turned into makeshift headquarters, said naim odeh, a 52-year-old schoolteacher
the troops came into the village at 4 a.m. and took over the school,'' odeh said. ``then about 500 youths marched out to the school and started throwing rocks and broken bottles.''
troops responded by opening fire, odeh said, and the confrontation lasted several hours. he said two youths were shot and killed
villagers and an official at hebron's alia hospital identified the dead as khaled hassan ahmed murktan, 18, who was shot in the stomach, and walid abdul fatatta, 18, who was shot in the chest
odeh said the bodies were buried in the town's cemetery. there, villagers pointed out to a journalist two freshly dug mounds of earth, with an inscribed rock beside them
in hebron, soldiers surrounded al haras mosque following noon prayers on the moslem sabbath when 20 youths took up positions on the roof and began throwing stones and waving a palestinian flag, which is outlawed in israel
as a reporter watched from a nearby vantage point, troops fired tear gas and the sound of shots also could be heard
three protesters were shot and critically wounded, the arab-owned palestine press service said
later, three arab teen-agers were seen sitting on the ground with their hands tied behind their backs. a soldier was seen kicking one of the young men, who was wearing a blue sweater
the army said an empty passenger bus headed for the jewish settlement of qiryat arba near hebron was surrounded by residents of an arab village, who beat the driver and set the vehicle on fire
israel radio said the driver was hospitalized with two broken arms
israeli officials reacted angrily to shultz's plans to meet with two palestinian-american members of the palestine national council, the plo's parliament-in-exile
the officials said the meeting violated a u.s. commitment not to talk to the palestine liberation organizaton
edward said, a professor at columbia university in new york, and ibrahim abu lughod, a professor at northwestern university in chicago, were to discuss the latest american peace initiative with shultz
avi pazner, a spokesman for shamir, said the prime minister planned to raise the issue today with u.s. ambassdor thomas pickering
ehud olmert, a senior legislator from shamir's right-wing likud bloc, said he was ``very upset about this because they are not just americans; they are members of a group the u.s. government has promised not to talk to.''
israel refuses to deal with the plo, which it views as a terrorist group. the palestinian death toll in the violence is 109, according to u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has been killed
in the heady days following his southern victories, democratic presidential candidate albert gore jr. depicted rival michael dukakis as having the electoral appeal of george mcgovern and walter mondale
two weeks later, the harsh rhetoric is gone. with recent polls showing dukakis _ not gore _ as the only democrat running even nationwide with gop front-runner george bush, gore is having a more difficult time pinning his rival with the image of the democrats' landslide losers of 1972 and 1984
gore, the tennessee senator who needs a victory in the north to remain a top contender, has hardly mentioned dukakis, jesse jackson or his other rivals for the democratic presidential nomination as he campaigns in michigan and wisconsin. instead, he is focusing on bush and the reagan administration in a slight retooling of his new populist message
his silence on dukakis has caused some to speculate about gore's intentions _ whether he is holding his fire against a candidate who could, as nominee, offer him the second spot on the ticket. gore maintains he has ``no interest'' in the vice presidential nomination _ a statement that stops short of ruling it out
there are also suggestions gore may be awaiting a better opportunity to engage dukakis, when the field has narrowed and gore can find a state where he does not speak from a position so far behind dukakis that his remarks seem born of desperation
gore catapulted to the top tier of democratic presidential contenders through his victories in the south and west on super tuesday, march 8. two days after that, campaigning in chicago toward illinois' primary, gore delivered a strong assault on dukakis as representing the democrats' past losing formula
for those who want another election blow-out, and see the democratic party losing 49 out of 50 states, vote for michael dukakis,'' gore said then
how long will it take for us to learn the approach that michael dukakis represents does not sell to the american people?'' he asked
campaigning this week across michigan's sparsely populated upper peninsula, gore was asked why he is not continuing that language, and did he no longer think dukakis would be a ``blow-out'' loser
i said that the approach he represents runs that risk,'' gore responded. ``i'm not going to say any of my opponents are not electable
i think the recent history suggests there are only two kinds of elections in modern history _ republican landslides or democratic squeakers. this is going to be a democratic squeaker.''
when he was pinning his hopes on appeal among the south's independent and conservative-minded democrats, gore argued that he is the most electable democrat
two polls this week _ one by cbs news and the new york times, the other by the washington post and abc _ both showed dukakis and bush in a virtual dead heat. gore, meanwhile, was far behind bush when paired against the likely gop nominee
gore now refers to the ``electability'' issue as one of importance primarily to the democratic ``super delegates,'' the nearly 650 elected officials who will get delegate berths and be free agents at the convention, unbound by primary or caucus results in their states
he still contends he has demonstrated an appeal to swing voters that dukakis and jackson have not. but he usually couples it with an acknowledgement that it is more an issue for party insiders than average voters
many democrats, particularly the so-called super delegates, are interested in finding a candidate who has the best chance of winning in the fall, the best chance of appealing to the independently thinking voters who hold the balance of power, the best chance of carrying areas like the south, west and midwest, where we have lost overwhelmingly these last several elections,'' gore said
i think it's a legitimate question to ask _ who can best win.''
gore disputed the answer presented in the recent polls, saying it is too early to measure such sentiment accurately
hypothetical matchups of that kind ... are entirely meaningless,'' he said
socialist labor leader joe bossano, a staunch defender of independence for this british colony, was declared the victor today in local elections
bossano, who rejects a competing spanish claim of sovereignty over the fortress colony at its southern tip, received 8,128 votes, or 58 percent of the votes cast thursday
incumbent chief minister adolfo canepa was next with 4,442 votes, or 29 percent, in the most lopsided victory ever by a gibraltar party
the incumbent leads the advancement of civil rights party, which had long dominated gibraltar politics
the party of bossano, branch officer of the 7,000-member transport workers general union, won eight seats in the 15-seat house of assembly. canepa's party won the other seven
the conservative independent democratic party led by former civil servant joe pitaluga got 13 percent of the vote, but none of its candidates won enough votes to gain a seat
in his first comments to reporters after the victory, bossano asserted that most of gibraltar's 29,000 residents reject a 1984 british-spanish accord known as the brussels agreement. under that accord, britain for the first time said it would discuss the question of sovereignty with spain
spain ceded gibraltar to britain in the 1713 treaty of utrecht following its defeat in the war of succession. the treaty stipulates that spain recover sovereignty over the territory if britain relinquishes it
canepa is a protege of longtime party leader and gibraltar chief minister joshua hassan, who governed the colony for 40 of the last 43 years
in campaigning for canepa, hassan accused bossano of being a radical who would harm gibraltar's relations with britain and spain. but bossano said he intended to better relations with both countries
presiding senior election officer eugene howes said 13,473 votes were cast, representing just over 76 percent of the colony's 17,500 registered voters. the highest previous turnout had been 74 percent in 1984 elections. graf: ``it said...'' to correct iranian troops to iraqi troops. pick up 9th graf pvs: ``baghdad's al-thawra...''</note>
iran said today it hammered iraq's southern port of basra with missiles and shellfire and repulsed an iraqi counterattack in the northern kurdistan mountains, killing or wounding 500 men
both sides claimed to have shot down four jets, and iraq claimed it attacked two ships off iran's coast in the persian gulf
iran's official islamic republic news agency said revolutionary guards in northeast iraq pushed back four infantry battalions and a brigade _ about 7,200 troops _ that iraq moved up from its southern 7th army corps to reinforce the northern front
the agency, monitored in nicosia, said the fighting centered around the rishan mountains east of the town of sayyid sadiq
iranian forces, estimated at around 30,000 men, were reported thursday to be five miles east of the town, a strategic transport hub, after punching 10 miles into iraq in an offensive launched march 16
tehran radio reported four iraqi fighter-bombers were shot down by ground fire today and the pilots killed
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said four u.s.-built iranian f-5 jets were shot down by iraqi anti-aircraft fire over the battle zone
it said iraqi fighters destroyed four iranian helicopters on the ground. irna, quoting military communiques, said iranian jets carried out 14 attacks on iraqi troop concentrations in the northeastern battle zone and around al-amarah in the south. it said all the planes returned safely to their bases
baghdad's al-thawra daily, the mouthpiece of the ruling arab baath socialist party, said iraq's air force flew 224 combat missions thursday
that was one of the highest one-day totals in the last year and underlined the growing intensity of the current fighting. the newspaper said the planes dropped nearly 200 tons of bombs and destroyed three iranian jets and two helicopters
irna said six missiles were fired during the night into the strategically important city of basra and the border town of mandali, 80 miles east of the iraqi capital of baghdad
the agency said long-range artillery also pounded ``military, economic and industrial centers'' in basra and the border town of al-gharbi farther north
there was no immediate word on casualties. in recent weeks, hundreds of civilians on both sides have been killed or wounded in missile, air and artillery attacks in the so-called ``war of the cities.''
the iraqi news agency said iraqi fighter-bombers attacked two ``large maritime targets,'' which usually means tankers, off the iranian coast during the night. it reported ``accurate and effective hits.''
there was no immediate independent confirmation of the ship attacks
iraq said 13 people were killed and 68 wounded thursday when two iranian missile crashed into downtown baghdad
among the victims was a woman, killed in a hospital bed while breast-feeding her newborn baby, ina reported. the infant was found alive in his mother's arms several hours later
iraq said it fired six long-range missiles into tehran, a city of 6 million. irna said 10 civilians were killed and 100 wounded when the missiles hit two schools, two mosques and two hospitals as well as shops and houses
both sides have fired more than 250 missiles into each other's cities since feb. 29, when tehran was hit by long-range iraqi missiles for the first time in the war
iran said thursday that its troops advanced further into iraq's northeastern kurdistan province. it claims to have killed or wounded 11,000 iraqis, captured 4,500 and destroyed 200 tanks and armored vehicles in the 10-day offensive. iraq claims it has killed thousands of the invaders but has admitted losing several towns
iranian president ali khamenei, meanwhile, intensified a propaganda campaign against iraq for allegedly dropping chemical bombs on three towns captured by the iranians
irna quoted khamenei thursday night as calling on international organizations, including the united nations, to expel iraq for using chemical weapons, outlawed under a 1925 geneva agreement
parliament speaker hashemi rafsanjani earlier in the day that iran may use chemical weapons itself unless the united nations takes action against iraq
an american soldier has been convicted of smuggling more than 37 pounds of cocaine into puerto rico from panama aboard a military transport plane
the soldier, pvt. 1st class bruce maurice mack, 20, of gary, ind., was arrested jan. 30 along with three others upon arrival at the roosevelt roads naval station on the east coast of this u.s. commonwealth
a 12-member jury deliberated 2{ hours before convicting mack on thursday of three counts of importing and possessing cocaine with the intent to distribute
u.s. district court judge hector laffitte set sentencing for june 16. mack faces terms ranging from 10 years to life
mack testifed wednesday he had nothing to do with the others arrested on drug charges and denied two drug-filled duffel bags were his
the others detained jan. 30 were u.s. soldiers darrin taylor, 19, of chicago, ill., and franklyn milton browne, 19, of the new york city borough of queens, and rafael a. valladares, 29, a panamanian civilian dressed as a u.s. soldier who was carrying false military documents
officials said mack and valladares were working independently of each other and of the others. partially sealed indictments alleged taylor and browne were working together with four other people, including two arrested in ft. worth, texas, who were to receive the drugs
another u.s. soldier working with the group, richard mark williams, was brought to puerto rico from panama last month and charged with smuggling and possession with intent to distribute 17 pounds of cocaine
the cocaine was found in a routine customs check during a refueling stop on a flight from howard air force base in panama. risk</head> stadel's comments on tv show.</note>
women who began taking birth-control pills as teen-agers and used oral contraceptives over several years do not face an increased, long-term risk of breast cancer, according to a study published today
previous studies have disagreed over whether the use of birth-control pills increases the risk of breast cancer for women through middle age. some researchers have suggested the conflicting conclusions might be the result of a long-term latent effect from early use
but we found no direct human evidence for such a latent effect,'' said dr. bruce stadel, one of four authors reporting on the study of more than 9,000 women in today's journal of the american medical association
early and prolonged use of birth-control pills was defined as using oral contraceptives for at least six years before the age of 25, according to stadel and his colleagues, who were from the uniformed services university of the health sciences at bethesda, md
researchers collected case histories and interviewed 4,714 women through age 54 who developed breast cancer, then matched them with a control group of 4,540, breaking the subjects into comparable sub-groups depending on how long they had used oral contraceptives
this was a very, very large study ... and these data are immensely reassuring,'' said stadel who was at the national institutes of health when the study was conducted and now is with the u.s. food and drug administration in bethesda, md
the study also gave reassurances about different dosages in birth-control pills, stadel said today on cbs' ``this morning'' show
the work you're seeing in this paper reflects the experience of birth control pill use during the 1960s up through the mid '70s, when doses tended to be higher than they are now,'' he said. ``the fact that we find no increased risk from that type of pill use, has implications that the lower dose should not be even that much concern.''
despite the results of the study, stadel said researchers believe additional large studies should be conducted in the 1990s, ``when the women we interviewed will be in their mid-60s.''
more than 50 million women around the world are on the pill and the cumulative lifetime risk for breast cancer is about one in 10. when you consider those two things together, you can understand why we'd want someone to take another look,'' stadel said. builds</head>
striking unions representing people who perform in commercials have agreed to meet with a federal mediator in two weeks, while fallout from the scriptwriters' walkout builds in the television industry
television production companies said they have laid off more than 1,000 people because of the writers' strike, costing workers more than $4 million in salaries and benefits
union actors who appear in radio or television commercials walked off the sets march 21 in a dispute over payments from ads run on cable television
but thursday, negotiators for the screen actors guild and the american federation of television and radio artists agreed to meet with advertisers and a federal mediator in new york city on april 6
performers' unions and representatives for the american association of advertising agencies and the association of national advertisers said no preconditions were attached to the planned talks
the writers guild of america went on strike march 7 when talks broke down with producers over rerun payments and creative control on the set. no new talks are scheduled, and representatives from both sides expect a long strike
about 125 writers and producers have had to suspend tv development deals at a cost to them of about $1.5 million a week, according to the alliance of movie and television producers
some prime-time tv shows ended production early when scripts ran out, and several projects in the works had to be shelved. talk shows like johnny carson's ``tonight show'' and ``late night with david letterman'' are broadcasting reruns until the strike is settled
sag and aftra represent more than 100,000 actors and announcers working on commercials, while the wga represents more than 9,000 script writers coast to coast
an investigating magistrate has released a lebanese man held in a series of paris bombings because of insufficient evidence, a well-informed source said today
mohamed mouhajer, who was arrested last march in a police sweep, was freed thursday by magistrate gilles boulouque, according to a source in the magistrate's office. seven tunisians also were arrested in the sweep
mouhajer was released ``because there was not sufficient evidence to keep him in temporary detention'' any longer, according to the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity
boulouque has been in charge of investigating a series of paris bombings in 1985 and 1986 that left 13 people dead and 250 injured
french authorities have said mouhajer, a former philosophy student at the sorbonne, was an ideologist for the committee for solidarity with arab and middle east political prisoners, a group which claimed responsiblity for five of the violent attacks
the source said mouhajer was held while police investigated his relationship with fouad ali saleh, a tunisian immigrant described by authorities at the time of his arrest as the leader of a pro-iranian terrorist network. saleh has been charged in several of the bombings, including a sept. 17, 1986, attack at the tati department store that killed six people and injured 51 others
mouhajer still faces charges of criminal association and illegal possession of arms and has been forbidden to leave the country. neither charge is related to the terrorist bombings, the source said
a french newspaper today implied that mouhajer's release might be connected to conservative premier jacques chirac's hopes for the upcoming presidential election. four frenchmen are missing and believed to be held captive in lebanon
the daily liberation said, ``in this electoral period, jacques chirac would not be displeased with the release of some french hostages in lebanon.''
earlier this week, jacques kosciusko-morizet, national secretary of chirac's party, the rally for the republic, visited damascus where he met with a number of syrian officials
syria is the main powerbroker in lebanon and maintains troops in west beirut
on his return to paris, kosciusko-morizet told the french news agency agence france-presse that the meetings were not related to the french hostages in lebanon
in all 22 foreigners are missing and believed to be held captive in lebanon. the longest held hostage is terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, who was kidnapped march 16, 1985
a robbery suspect who lived in a cave was lured into custody with promises of cigarettes and a hot meal, police said
the man who allegedly put the suspect in a cave was later arrested as well, and apparently tried to commit suicide, police said
joseph e. steffani, 24, had long, dirty hair and apparently had not shaved for at least a week when he was arrested wednesday night for investigation of robbery, according to sgt. dan mercado
he said steffani was addicted to tranquilizers and was put in the cave by kenneth hawtin, 37, of el cerrito, who was arrested thursday
in what police say may have been a suicide attempt, hawtin jammed a key into an electrical outlet at a police station and was knocked unconscious. he was taken to a hospital and booked for investigation of robbery
steffani was held at the oakland city jail
steffani, who told officers he had been addicted to tranquilizers since he was was 14, admitted at least 15 robberies in alameda and contra costa counties, mercado said
police said steffani had lived with hawtin until last week, when hawtin took him to the cave in the hills above the community of canyon
steffani has a history of emotional problems and ``was afraid to be around people,'' mercado said
hawtin and a few other friends knew of steffani's hiding place, mercado said. they would drive to the area with food and other supplies, and honk to let steffani know they were there
when the two undercover officers following a tip drove to the area wednesday night and honked, all they could see at first was ``eyes in the bushes,'' mercado said
nasa, in conjunction with the italian and west german space agencies, arranged to launch a highly advanced scientific satellite today from a site off the coast of africa, an agency spokesman said
the satellite, carrying five payloads, was to be launched from the italian-owned san marco platform off the coast of kenya, said spokesman duane brown. three of the payloads are american, one is italian and the other is german, he said
the 521-pound spacecraft will be launched with an american scout rocket. its mission is to study the earth's atmosphere, brown said
the launch was postponed from last week because of mechanical problems
two teen-agers were killed in separate street-gang attacks and five others were wounded, police said
one 19-year-old man died after being shot thursday night in monrovia, while another 19-year-old was killed later in los angeles, sheriff's deputy bill wehner said today. the victim of the second killing was identified as ronnie c. easley
deaths due to gang violence have been reported at a record pace this year, with more than 50 people killed to date. nearly 350 people, including gang members and bystanders, died from gang-related attacks in 1987
three others, including two teen-agers, were wounded in the second attack, wehner said. troy foreman, 18, was in critical condition and aaron patton, 15, was in fair condition at martin luther king jr.-drew medical center, wehner said
another victim, gary steptor, 25, was treated for a gunshot wound and released, he said
in a third shooting, two 17-year-olds were wounded by gunfire, said police sgt. tony rosa. study says</head>
more than 1,000 vietnam veterans involved in the spraying of the herbicide agent orange show no unusual health problems to date, according to updated results of a government study
in a statement thursday, u.s. air force medical officials called ``reassuring'' the findings that the chemical defoliant hasn't caused disease in vietnam veterans, but warned that the results weren't conclusive
this is the definitive study on agent orange in vietnam veterans, and so far it shows that disease is not related to apparent exposure, that there is no increased incidence of major long-term health effects,'' dr. william wolfe, senior investigator in the government's 20-year agent orange probe, was quoted as saying in the statement
these results are reassuring,'' said wolfe, chief of epidemiology at the u.s. air force school of aerospace medicine at brooks air force base in texas
the findings reflect the latest tests of 2,309 veterans in the government's investigation into agent orange and its impact on soldiers who handled the dioxin-containing herbicide. the study will conclude in 2002
some vietnam veterans are seeking compensation for ailments they say are tied to exposure to the toxic chemical
no matter how good this study is, it will never lay to rest the issue for people who argue they were hurt,'' said dr. arnold gass, head of the agent orange registry operation at the la jolla veterans administration medical center
he said the study is scientifically sound but handicapped by its focus on operation ranch hand, air force servicemen involved in handling and dropping the herbicide from aircraft
it doesn't answer the question about what happened to the man in the field,'' he said. ``the ranch handers flew in, flew out. the men in the field were there for days. they didn't take showers.''
ranch handers are used because they are assumed by the government to have had the greatest amount of exposure to the chemical
the study, begun in 1982 and conducted for the past four years at scripps clinic and research foundation in la jolla, examined 1,016 men involved in operation ranch hand and 1,293 air force veterans not involved in the operation
scripps clinic physicians assessed each participant for general health, malignancy, and the neurological, psychological, gastrointestinal, dermatological, cardiovascular, hematological, renal, endocrine, immunological, pulmonary and nervous systems
these examinations found no evidence of a relationship between agent orange exposure and adverse health,'' the statement said
a number of minor medical differences were seen but they appear to be unrelated to exposure to dioxin. they will be monitored and re-evaluated during the next scheduled examinations in 1992.''
last year, a veterans administration study found increased deaths due to lung cancer and certain lymph cancers among vietnam veteran marines, providing what veterans' groups called the first clear scientific data implicating agent orange
the scripps clinic statement cautioned that the latest results are not conclusive because the study used estimated levels of herbicide exposure based roughly on amount of contact, not by actual bloodstream dioxin levels
scientists have recently discovered a way to detect dioxin levels in blood even years after exposure. analysis of blood samples from 2,010 veterans is expected to be completed within two years
thursday's findings were released three days after an air force report admitted that an often-cited 1984 government study had been flawed because it didn't make clear that it couldn't exonerate the chemical from veterans' health problems. be linked to abu nidal's group and assault aimed at french crew; gives age as 35. picks up 9th graf pvs, `hundreds of...</note>
an attacker shot and wounded the captain of an italian jetliner today after the plane landed at bombay's airport and tossed two grenades at pursuers before he was captured, authorities said
the assailant fired four shots from an automatic pistol at vittorino sanataniello, who had landed the alitalia airliner a few minutes earlier after a flight from australia. police said sanataniello and 12 other crew members were climbing onto an airport bus bound for a city hotel when they were attacked
police sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the attacker, identified as abbas mohammed ali shahadi, was believed to be a member of the abu nidal palestinian terrorist group. they said he apparently had intended to attack a french airline crew
an air france flight was due to land at bombay about 40 minutes after the alitalia plane set down. the sources said police had received warnings of a possible attack on air france targets
abu nidal is the pseudonym of sabri al-banna, who broke with yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization in 1974. his group has since claimed responsibility for terrorist attacks around the world aimed at israel and other targets
the attacker was overpowered by two off-duty policemen who chased him as he fled the bus, said police commissioner vasant saraf. the two grenades he lobbed failed to explode
sharaf said a second attacker may have escaped in the confusion
the captain was hurt in the thigh and waist, but his life wasn't in danger, said an alitalia official in bombay
the police sources discounted early reports that shahadi, 35, was iranian. they said he claimed to be a lebanese national but carried no travel documents. he appeared in court today and was being held in a bombay jail
initial reports described the attack as an attempted hijacking, but police later discounted that theory because the crew had already left the airplane and passed through the airport terminal
police were investigating whether the attack was linked to the discovery of unexploded grenades in the visitors' lounge of the saudi arabian consulate wednesday in bombay
hundreds of police converged on the airport and saraf ordered a red alert throughout bombay, sealing city exits. foreign consulates and airline offices in bombay were asked to increase security
at the airport, visitors were banned and security strengthened with the deployment of reserve police
shahadi was being interrogated by police for motives in the attack, the police commissioner said. police seized a handbag, which contained clothes and two loaded magazines
the airplane had landed at bombay after a flight from sydney with stops at melbourne and singapore. it left bombay about two hours after the shooting and was bound for rome
a u.n. relief agency today appealed to the kidnappers of british journalist alec collett to free him on the third anniversary of his abduction
collett, a new york-based journalist, was kidnapped in beirut's moslem sector on march 25, 1985 while on assignment for the united nations relief and works agency
a group calling itself the revolutionary organization of socialist moslems claimed responsibility. the group is believed to be linked to the fatah-revolutionary council, a radical palestinian faction led by abu nidal
we call on those who unjustifiably kidnapped the innocent alec collett to let him return to his family immediately,'' said per olof hallqvist of sweden, director of unrwa in lebanon
our recent experience of the kidnapping of william jorgensen and jan stening has reminded us about the inhuman horrors and anxieties which the families of the kidnap victims have to go through,'' hallqvist said in the english-language statement
stening, 44, a swede, and jorgensen, 58, a norwegian, were kidnapped by palestinians near the southern port city of sidon on feb. 5. both worked for unrwa. they were released march 1 after unrwa, which takes care of palestinian refugees, threatened to cut its services in lebanon
collett's kidnappers have demanded the release of three fatah revolutionary council members imprisoned in britain for the attempted 1985 assassination of israel's ambassador to london at that time, shlomo argov
the kidnappers claimed april 23, 1986, that they had killed collett,66, in retaliation for british support for u.s. air raids on libya several days earlier
the group later issued a videotape showing a body it said was collett's hanging from a makeshift scaffold. but collett's body has never been found
in all, 22 foreigners are missing in lebanon, including nine americans. the longest-held foreign captive is terry anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped in west beirut march 16, 1985. the pro-iranian islamic jihad, or islamic holy war, claims to hold him. sted 16, and other details. no pickup.</note>
a passenger train today struck a bus carrying nursery school pupils home for the easter holidays, killing 15 people, including 10 children, a government spokesman said
the victims included six boys and four girls, said francisco castillo, a spokesman for lerida province. the bus driver and four teachers also were killed, he said
eighteen children were injured, four of them seriously. the children, who attended the los angeles nursery school in juneda, were between the ages of 1 and 6
the accident occurred at a rail crossing between the towns of juneda and puigvert, 11 miles southeast of the city of lerida in northeastern spain
the state-owned railway renfe said the bus driver apparently ignored a clearly marked stop sign and moved to go over the rail crossing at the same time a renfe passenger train passed by
railway officials said no injuries were reported among passengers of the train, which was headed for the coastal city of tarragona from lerida
it was the second fatal train accident in spain in a month. on march 3, eight people died when one renfe train rammed into a second standing in a railway yard in a station in the northern city of valladolid
affidavits released today show that authorities found a skeleton buried in the police chief's yard after being told the man died during a fight with the chief, who is now married to the victim's ex-wife
authorities on march 14 found the skeleton of russell bean about 20 feet down after they were told to dig in police chief robert chambers' front yard
chambers, who has since resigned as the part-time chief, has not been charged in connection with the death. his lawyer has said chambers had nothing to do with it
an autopsy showed that bean, 25, died 10 years ago of severe blows to the head and chest
affidavits unsealed in district court today paint a picture of wife swapping, brutality and alcohol abuse by bean and chambers, who was a logger at the time
the statements allege that chambers told his father 10 years ago that he had accidentally killed a man in a fight and that father and son buried the body
the affidavits allege that chambers, now 36, and bean, who were considered close friends, had been drinking together in marlow and got into a fight, and that bean fell and hit his head and died
the affidavits, used to obtain a search warrant to excavate the yard, contained statements by melissa chambers, lorrie chambers and louis lacourse. melissa is chambers' sister, lorrie is her daughter, and lacourse is married to chambers' sister susan
melissa said her father, clifton, 61, told her about the incident twice, but made her promise not to say anything until after his death
the elder chambers died march 9 of natural causes. melissa went to police the next day
lorrie's affidavit confirmed melissa's story
state police sgt. clayton young was quoted as saying that he learned from the family that bean's wife, sylvia, telephoned bean's mother in september 1978 to say he had disappeared. sylvia told bean's mother that she had learned from chambers that bean had borrowed money, and chambers had given him a ride to the vermont state line and dropped him off
mrs. bean won a divorce in june 1979, and she and chambers were married in september 1979
lacourse's affidavit said chambers initiated a conversation about bean shortly after the man was last seen
lacourse said chambers told him that ``he hit him so hard, no one would ever see him again
robert chambers told russ to hit the road and russ did.''
lacourse said chambers also told him that he, bean, sylvia and chambers' then-wife, debbie, were swapping partners for sex
melissa's statement was similar. she said the relationship between the two couples ``was weird. ... i know robert always beat debbie, that was why she ran off. (she) couldn't take it any longer.''
in addition to his marlow job, chambers has taken a leave of absence as part-time chief in nearby gilsum and has been suspended as a trainee with the winchester police department
dr. frank calabro glanced out a window just in time to see his beach house trundling down the street on a truck
i looked out the window and my house went by with a police escort. i ran onto the street and said `where are you going with my house?''' calabro said today
calabro already had planned to move the two-bedroom, 960-square-foot beach house, which he valued at $12,000
i guess he (the thief) walked by, saw a house he liked on moving stilts and decided he was going to take it,'' said calabro
calabro was visiting a real estate office thursday when he saw the traveling house and ran out and told the police escort it was his house
he thought i was crazy,'' said calabro. ``how often do you stop a police escort and say, `this is my house'? he stopped the truck. we were standing out there laughing hysterically. i had the contract in my car for the house.''
the thief, who was in a separate car behind the convoy, fled
had i not seen it go by, we would have never found it. how do you report a stolen house?'' said calabro
john williams, spokesman for suffolk county district attorney patrick henry, said an arrest was expected
calabro, a physician with a family practice in mastic beach, said he already had accepted a deposit to sell the house to someone else. ``they didn't know they were going to get a famous house,'' he said
about 40 minutes after willie brown walked out of prison, he married the woman who fought for five years to get him off death row
i search for words to describe what i'm feeling. so far the proper words to describe it haven't surfaced,'' brown said thursday after he and esther lichtenfels exchanged vows on the lawn of the clay county courthouse
i feel like i'm getting out of prison myself,'' his bride said before they left for their new home in springfield, mass. ``i feel wonderful. i'm so happy i can't tell you.''
brown, 37, was on parole from a massachusetts prison when a pinellas county judge sentenced him to 20 years for armed robbery in 1976. on july 7, 1981, while he was serving the time at union correctional institution, fellow inmate earl owens was stabbed to death
brown and another prisoner were charged with the slaying after a third inmate, frank wise, said he saw them leaving owens' cell shortly before the murder was discovered. the two were convicted and condemned
ms. lichtenfels met brown on christmas 1983 when she was with a group visiting condemned prisoners who had no holiday visitors
he was the saddest face i'd ever seen when i met him. it was a spiritual love right from the start,'' recalled ms. lichtenfels, 54, a divorcee with three grown children
it was at her prompting that defense lawyers pursued and won an appeal on technical grounds in november that overturned the convictions of brown and co-defendant larry troy
ms. lichtenfels then she hired a private investigator and tracked down wise. they agreed to meet and she was given a hidden microphone, with which wise was recorded admitting that brown was innocent and asking for $2,000 to recant his testimony
wise was arrested on bribery charges in december and assistant state attorney harris tobin said in february that he would not to prosecute brown and troy again because wise's credibility was damaged
brown said that while ms. lichtenfels was fighting for the appeal, he considered her optimism unrealistic. he tried to talk her out of it, he said
but ``i didn't know what kind of person she was,'' he said. ``she believes in action.''
brown must complete his parole term in massachusetts
two armed men handcuffed a guard in an armored truck today and made off with $1 million, police said
police officer joe gallagher said two employees of rapid armor had stopped for breakfast and left a third guard in the back of the truck
gallagher said a man carrying a gun entered the back of the truck and handcuffed the guard. another man got into the truck and drove it away
according to witnesses, police said, the men later stopped the truck and fled in a van, taking with them bags containing $1 million
authorities said they did not know how the holdup man got into the back of the truck
about 100 firefighters from western states were sent to the smoky mountains of eastern tennessee today to fight fires which have broken out there, authorities said
fires, abetted by strong shifting winds and dry weather, have burned more than 1,300 acres in tennessee since wednesday. five separate fires were burning today
even if it does rain it will probably be less than an inch,'' said wilma marine, a spokeswoman at cherokee national forest, where a 300-acre fire had been contained
the u.s. forest service crews of about 200 firefighters from colorado, new mexico and arizona arrived thursday
the largest blaze in the great smoky mountains national park has grown to 500-plus acres about two miles west of chilhowee lake
a colony of red cockaded woodpeckers, an endangered species, was threatened by that fire, said misty seagle, a clerk in the park superintendent's office
no homes have been damaged by any of the fires
president reagan intends to nominate david o'neal to be assistant secretary of labor for mine safety and health, the white house announced today
if confirmed by the senate, o'neal would succeed david a. zegeer
since 1985, o'neal has served as deputy director of the bureau of land management at the interior department. before that he was president of o'neal inns ltd from 1984-86, president of o'neal printing, 1982-84, and executive vice president of aviation systems international from 1981-82
o'neal, a native of belleville, ill., graduated from st. louis college of pharmacy in 1962. he served in the u.s. marine corps from 1956-59. release sharp denunciation soon. adds background on arias calderon. picks up 14th graf pvs, `his return...</note>
an opposition leader returned to panama vowing to rid the nation of gen. manuel antonio noriega, and sources today said the roman catholic church would issue its harshest denunciation yet of the military strongman
it was the fifth day of a general strike that has paralyzed the economy
ricardo arias calderon, head of the christian democratic party, arrived thursday to find panama in the midst of the anti-noriega general strike, which has shut down more than 90 percent of business and industry
the government refused to allow arias calderon into the country when he tried to return from a business trip to the united states on feb. 25, the day president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire noriega. delvalle was in turn ousted by noriega supporters
there was no reason given for blocking arias calderon's return, and there was no reason given for his being allowed back. a spokesman for the christian democratic party, william cochez, said without elaborating that ``the government backed down.''
rep. gary ackerman, d-n.y., said local u.s. officials warned arias calderon to be prepared for a ``longer haul'' before noriega is forced from power. ``nobody's talking about hours, nobody's talking about days,'' said ackerman, who is on a fact-finding tour with rep. pete kostmayer, d-pa
noriega is the country's de facto leader by virtue of his influence as chief of the defense forces
ackerman said he had been assured that the church soon would release a statement carrying a ``strong message'' against noriega
sources from the opposition national civic crusade, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the message would be the church's strongest statement yet against noriega
panama's episcopal conference of bishops, led by archbishop marcos g. mcgrath, has sharply criticized noriega in the past but fallen short of calling for his ouster
mcgrath met with noriega on thursday. mcgrath had refused to discuss the talks, saying only that he was not negotiating noriega's departure
today was payday for the 15,000-strong defense forces. on monday, noriega must come up with money for retirees already forced to wait an extra week for their pensions
a banking source who spoke on condition of anonymity said thursday the government had pleaded with local banks to hand over an estimated $70 million in their vaults. but the banks said the money belonged to their depositors and they could not legally give it up
in an attempt to force noriega into exile, the united states has frozen panamanian deposits in u.s. banks and withheld payments for use of the panama canal. the u.s. dollar is panama's currency
the country has been in an increasingly chaotic state since noriega was indicted on u.s. drug traffickng charges last month
arias calderon arrived on a commercial flight from miami and told a cheering crowd that noriega must go
his return had ``but one objective _ to get rid of noriega,'' arias calderon said. he was accompanied by christian democratic leaders from venezuela, costa rica and west germany
arias calderon, a likely presidential candidate in scheduled may 1989 elections, said he would meet with other opposition leaders to plan a strategy for ousting noriega
the government stepped up its propaganda attacks thursday against the united states and its military presence along the panama canal. the state radio station again urged panamanians _ particularly soldiers and youth _ to be on guard against ``any aggression by the united states.''
the foreign relations ministry denounced a background briefing for journalists at the u.s. southern command headquarters on saturday. the ministry accused the u.s. military of ``instructing'' reporters that they ``must help remove'' noriega
the last of 670 military police and support personnel arrived thursday at u.s. bases to beef up security
southern command officials had said earlier the reinforcements were ``simply good planning in view of the current unrest in panama.''
president reagan told high school students in vienna, va., thursday he had no plans to take military action to get rid of noriega
we're not going to be the big colossus of the north once again, coming in to ... our smaller neighbors' places of living and business and trying to guide and direct them,'' reagan said. success</head> newspaper reaction, other developments. pick up 3rd graf pvs: ``both sides...''</note>
a temporary cease-fire between the sandinistas and contra rebels held today, and the army pulled out of jungle war zones across the country to avoid clashes that would imperil a new peace accord
radio liberacion, the contras' radio station, has reported no combat since monday, the first day of cease-fire talks between the government and contras at the border town of sapoa
an international verification commission was in its second day of an inspection of the northern border with honduras. the group was asked by the sandinista government to prove that its troops were not across the border
the cease-fire talks ended wednesday with the peace accord between the government and the u.s.-supported contras
the sandinista newspaper barricada today ran a special edition about the pact. a front page editorial said, ``the yankee warmongers fail to give the final blow.''
the four-page extra said the reaction of nicaraguans was that ``reagan and the contras should comply.''
the editorial called on the united states to open talks with the nicaraguan government. with the end of american aid to the contras, the ``reagan administration has been disarmed, without pretexts to ask for more funds for its warriors.''
both sides had called the sapoa talks nicaragua's last chance for peace, and civilians greeted word of the pact with hope. one critic of the leftist sandinista government called it a miracle
vice president sergio ramirez, in mexico city to brief mexican president miguel de la madrid, called thursday night for direct talks with the reagan administration to ensure the truce holds
the white house has rejected previous sandinista calls for such talks, saying the sandinistas had first to negotiate with the rebels
in nicaragua, sandinista troops withdrew thursday from a jungle war zone in central chontales province, said a state security official who spoke on condition of anonymity. the province has been a hot spot in the 6-year-old war that has cost more than 40,000 lives
to celebrate the accord, dozens of women gathered in the main square of the chontales city of juigalpa and ``lit candles to the virgin mary,'' a defense ministry spokesman said
as part of the agreement, contra and sandinista leaders extended the informal cease-fire to april 1, when a 60-day truce takes effect and they will meet in managua to seek a permanent peace
provisions of the agreement meet requirements of the regional peace plan signed aug. 7 by five central american presidents _ ending the fighting, granting political amnesty and restoring democratic freedoms
the opposition says the sandinistas promised democracy when they overthrew rightist president anastasio somoza in july 1979, but instead established a marxist regime
enrique bolanos, president of the private enterprise council and staunch critic of the government, called the pact ``a miracle.''
in costa rica, president oscar arias said it offers ``a new and firm hope that all central americans can live in peace.'' arias won the 1987 nobel peace prize for authoring the regional peace plan
on monday, sandinista and contra negotiators will meet to designate areas inside nicaragua to which rebels will go during the first two weeks of april
nothing is said in the agreement about the contras laying down their weapons, so that may be taken up in next week's meetings. in past negotiations, the rebels insisted on keeping their weapons until provisions of any accord were carried out
the pact provides a gradual amnesty for nicaragua's 3,300 political prisoners that starts on sunday. it also also guarantees ``unrestricted freedom of expression,'' a condition demanded by the rebels, and permits all exiles to return home and participate in the political process
once rebel fighters have moved into the truce zones, the contra leadership can send up to eight delegates to participate in national reconciliation talks under way as part of the regional peace plan, the agreement says. picking up 3rd graf pvs, `chambers, 21 ....'</note>
jurors in the case of a man accused of strangling a young woman during a central park tryst began their ninth day of deliberations today after a tumultuous day during which one juror reportedly asked to be dismissed
jurors were expected today to begin rehearing medical testimony that state supreme court justice howard e. bell estimated would take a day and a half to two days to complete
but shortly before noon, the jury had yet to hear a single word of testimony and had not appeared in the courtroom. it was not clear if the panel was deliberating the fate of robert e. chambers jr. as they awaited the readback of testimony
on thursday, a juror asked supreme court justice howard e. bell to be dismissed because of an argument over the meaning of medical testimony in the case, said a source, speaking on condition of anonymity
chambers, 21, is accused of second-degree murder in the death of 18-year-old jennifer levin on aug. 26, 1986. he could be convicted of the lesser crimes of first- or second-degree manslaughter or criminally negligent homicide
bell, defense attorney jack litman and prosecutor linda fairstein met in the judge's robing room. despite requests from lawyers for the new york post and newsday, the judge refused to divulge what was discussed
litman and fairstein referred to ``that matter discussed in your honor's robing room'' without providing details
one of the 12 jurors _ who have heard eight weeks of testimony _ could be replaced by an alternate at this point only with the consent of both sides, and a mistrial could result if a juror wanted to leave
jurors were expected back in the courtroom today to begin rehearing medical testimony that bell estimated would take 1{ to two days to complete
the prosecution contends chambers strangled miss levin in a rage. the defense has argued he killed her accidentally when he yanked her backward to stop her from hurting him during rough sex in central park
at jurors' request, bell on thursday instructed them on several points of law, including burden of proof, circumstantial evidence, reasonable doubt and presumption of innocence
the jury's request for a rereading of most of the medical testimony by key defense and prosecution witnesses means lawyers must go through about 1,500 pages of transcripts
the jury asked to hear testimony that bears only on the facts on miss levin's injuries, not experts' theories on how they occurred. pvs, shultz said</note>
president reagan said today he welcomes the cease-fire in nicaragua but ``there is reason to have caution'' as to whether the couantry's leftist government will observe it
of course we look forward to this and hope it continues, but i think we should keep in mind that, just as in some other meetings that have gone on in which i have been involved, i think that we should keep in mind that both parties must be dedicated to the things that are said and agreed to in those meetings,'' the president said
when a reporter said that it sounded as though he were suspicious that this would not be the case with the sandinistas, reagan replied, ``i think there is reason to have caution; they have a past record that indicates that we should be.''
the president did not say who he was talking about, but he supports the contra rebels and has often said that he considers the sandinista government unreliable
the exchange with reporters took place as reagan was preparing to meet with visiting president joaquin belaguer of the dominican republic
earlier, secretary of state george p. shultz raised the possibility that the administration will seek legislative authority for a quick vote on military aid to the nicaraguan rebels if the cease-fire there breaks down
shultz said thursday night that the prospect of additional military assistance to the rebels would be added insurance that nicaragua's leftist government will abide by promises it makes under its cease-fire agreement with the contra rebels
but house speaker jim wright, d-tex., indicated that he would oppose any effort by the administration to have an ``expedited procedures'' provision for military aid included in a contra humanitarian assistance package the congress will take up next week
i want to emphasize positive things, and not anticipate failure,'' said wright, who was interviewed with shultz on pbs' macneil@lehrer ``newshour.''
the reaction of both the administration and the congress was generally positive to the agreement reached by the sandinistas and the contras, which calls for a 60-day cease fire during which talks on a final settlement will take place
there is agreement among the administration and the lawmakers that the united states should provide humanitarian aid to the contras _ permitted under the agreement _ but the comments of shultz and wright indicate the military aid issue is not dead
i do think there is great merit ... to have in it (the humanitarian aid package) a mechanism for a fast track vote,'' shultz said. he said there should be a guaranteed early vote on ``whatever the president might ask for.''
wright said such a provision in the humanitarian aid package is tantamount to having a discussion of terms for divorce during a wedding ceremony
i think it's inappropriate at this time to be anticipating failure,'' he added
sen. john mccain, r-ariz., a longtime contra aid supporter, said he thought that any differences over an expedited procedure provision could be ironed out
the agreement ``reduces the requirement, in our view, for lethal aid,'' mccain said, adding that he believes real compromise is now possible with wright on that issue. ``our differences of opinion are not major,'' he said
rep. david bonior, d-mich., a critic of administration policy, said he hopes the agreement will encourage the administration to turn its attention away from ``a military approach, and will begin to work in the context of this agreement for a lasting peace in nicaragua.''
senate majority whip alan cranston, d-calif., said: ``the u.s. government now has a profound responsibility not to do anything except what is in strict conformity with the precise terms of the cease-fire, neither more nor less. we must not tinker with what the nicaraguans themselves have agreed to.''
shultz said he welcomes the agreement but that the sandinistas have a ``history of broken promises.''
we have to maintain strength to go with negotiating efforts,'' he said
he added that the real issue in nicaragua is democracy and not whether the sandinistas are in or out of power
if there is an open system and an election that's truly a democratic election, and the people now in the government get elected, we have no objection to that,'' he said. ``it's the process that's the key.''
the democratic presidential candidates could have stifled all that derisive early campaign talk about being ``the seven dwarfs'' by simply playing along with the gag, says professor joseph boskin
if they were smart they would have labeled themselves _ `i'm grumpy, i'm doc' _ and that would have undercut it. whatever happened to play in america?'' said boskin, who is writing a book about the connection between humor and social change
the boston university history professor is disturbed that this year's presidential candidates generally seem about as funny as a doorknob
he labels vice president george bush the most sanctimonious in a field full of self-righteousness and calls former candidate gary hart ``a clear example of a dour approach to life.''
the other men who would be president are no better when it comes to humor, he said. ``they're basically a sterling bunch but i don't hear the humanity of humor in them.''
boskin, 58, believes candidates need humor to prove they are human, quick-thinking and slightly self-effacing _ ``not humor as a form of oppression or a weapon but as a means of liberation or perspective.''
he links a demise of lightness with the rise of electronic media, starting with radio. until the 1930s, storytelling was an art form, and public figures could rise a long way with a knack for spinning good yarns
now, with television time so precious and expensive, boskin said, ``politicians think they have to get everything in in a minute instead of seeing things in a larger contextual way.''
the candidates do manage an occasional jab, an occasional jibe, he admits. bushy-browed massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis recently joked that rep. richard gephardt had ``eyebrow envy'' _ a line fed to him by an aide
you don't hear them spontaneously making things up as they go along,'' boskin said. ``what i've often argued is dukakis needs a levity adviser. the story about him is he's so straight he even lines up his socks in his top drawer.''
so who among recent u.s. leaders had a light touch? boskin admired john f. kennedy and hubert humphrey
asked why he appointed his brother attorney general, kennedy once replied ``because he needs the experience.'' boskin said humphrey ``would poke fun at himself for talking too long. he would say `i should shut up now, but i can't.'''
and which of this year's candidates are featured in the jokes that criss-cross the nation and sometimes connect with pop culture via television comedians?
i hear jokes about bush and hart and nobody else,'' boskin said. ``and a continuance of ronald reagan jokes and how ridiculous he is. he's fallen in prestige. you can tell through the humor.''
according to boskin, president reagan is a ``throwback'' because he tells stories. reagan displayed an ability to laugh at himself after he was shot in 1981, quipping that he hoped the doctors were republicans and quoting winston churchill about being shot at ``with no apparent effect.''
if you can't laugh at youself and laugh at a situation it bespeaks an inflexibility,'' boskin said
i think one of the problems in america is we separate humor out from seriousness. politicians who are obviously concerned about getting elected are more hypersensitive to this than others. they think if they use humor they can't be taken seriously.''
on the contrary, boskin argues, if candidates show a sense of humor the public is more likely to warm to them when talk turns to weightier issues
to counter the seven dwarfs talk, the democrats ``should have gone to the five and dime and bought masks and gone before the cameras,'' boskin said, in all seriousness
surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould has asked for twice-a-week visitation with baby m, while the child's father wants to block all visitation, according to court briefs
... only a suspension of visitation will ensure that melissa is provided with a loving, supportive, nurturing and peaceful environment, free from interference, at the critical stages of her development,'' said gary skoloff, a lawyer for the girl's father, william stern
in legal papers released today by superior court judge birger m. sween, skoloff said he will present testimony at a visitation hearing monday that will show the child's psychological welfare is at stake
indeed it is contended that the proofs will indicate that the emotional and psychological burden which melissa will have to sustain in establishing a relationship with mrs. whitehead will be significantly more damaging than any benefit which might occur to her as a result of visitation at this time,'' skoloff said in the 25-page brief
the visitation hearing was ordered by the state supreme court in its landmark ruling feb. 3 that restored mrs. whitehead-gould's parental rights while awarding custody of the baby, now known as melissa, to stern and his wife, elizabeth
mrs. whitehead-gould has been allowed to see melissa once a week, for two hours, under supervision at a youth center here. court papers released thursday by mrs. whitehead-gould's attorney called that schedule ``insufficient.''
the east brunswick housewife, who gained notoriety by refusing to turn over the child she agreed to bear under a $10,000 contract, says in court papers that she wants her visits with the child to be expanded eventually to half the summer and some holidays
mrs. whitehead-gould also rejected a request by stern to terminate contact between mother and child for at least six years. she contends that a break in visitation could be harmful to the child
mrs. whitehead-gould has fashioned an excellent relationship with melissa and is devoted to promoting an even more flourishing and productive relationship,'' her attorney argued
legal briefs from both sides were filed with sween earlier this week. the judge released them today after he had time to review them. however, harold cassidy, an attorney for mrs. whitehead-gould, released his brief thursday
the warm, satisfying relationship which has come into existence over the past two years would be lost to melissa if visitation were suspended,'' mrs. whitehead-gould's attorneys said
mrs. whitehead-gould requested that the visits be expanded immediately to two days a week, eight hours each time, at her home for the next six months
she also requested the scheduled be expanded to allow her to see melissa overnight every other week, alternate weekends when melissa is 3, and half the summer and one week of christmas vacation when the child is 5
the court papers say that when melissa is 12 she may ``voice a desire for more or less visitation.''
skoloff has said the sterns want to delay visitations ``as long as possible.''
about 142,200 individuals or their families will be eligible for a new military medal honoring american prisoners of war, the defense department said friday
the medal will be issued at no cost to any person who was taken prisoner of war and held captive after april 5, 1917,'' the pentagon said in announcing it was ready to begin issuing the award, which congress authorized two years ago
to qualify, an individual must have been taken prisoner during an armed conflict; i.e., world war i, world war ii, korea and vietnam, and must have rendered honorable service during the period of captivity,'' the pentagon statement said
the medal can be awarded posthumously to legal next-of-kin, but the pentagon said the criteria established by congress would not allow relatives of servicemen ``who are listed as missing in action, but for whom there is no evidence of captivity as a pow,'' to receive the medal
the defense department estimated that 142,200 individuals or their next-of-kin were eligible for the medal, which features an eagle surrounded by barbed wire and bayonet points and includes the inscription, ``for honorable service while a prisoner of war.''
the public law establishing the pow medal specifies that it will be displayed immediately following decorations awarded for individual heroism, meritorious achievement or meritorious service, and before any other service medal, campaign medal or service ribbon,'' the pentagon said
a toll-free 800 telephone number has been set up for qualified individuals to request an application form for the medal, the pentagon said. the application forms will also be distributed by a number of veterans organizations and public service agencies
using the form, an applicant will be expected to provide his full name, service number, social security number, veterans administration claim number, date and place of birth, branch of service, unit of assignment when captured and dates of confinement and release
processing of the applications will take anywhere from 45 days to 90 days because of the need to verify military records, the pentagon said
the pentagon said it would prefer individuals to use the application form, but would accept a personal letter mailed to the proper military records center providing the same information as that sought on the form
applicants may also submit their requests through a third party, such as a veterans organization or public official, who will agree to receive the medal and present it to the requestor,'' the pentagon said
the phone number for requesting an application form is 800-873-3768
personal letters requesting award of the medal or more information should be sent to one of these three addresses:
_for former army prisoners of war: u.s. army reserve personnel center, attn.: darp-pas-eaw, 9700 page blvd., st. louis, mo. 63132-5200
_for former navy, marine corps and coast guard prisoners of war: u.s. navy liaison office, national personnel records center, 9700 page blvd., st. louis, mo. 63132-5199
_for former air force and army air corps prisoners of war: air force reference branch, national personnel records center, 9700 page blvd., st. louis, mo. 63132-5199
yugoslav workers cheated west germany of up to $60 million in unemployment funds, authorities said friday
bavarian police spokesman gerhard hoppe said 74 yugoslavs had been arrested in the past two weeks in the case. he said more arrests were possible
those arrested were suspected of fraudulently obtaining jobless compensation worth $303,000. but he said other yugoslavs apparently bilked the west germany government of $30 million to $60 million
the suspects had formerly worked in west germany and applied for unemployment compensation after losing their jobs, according to hoppe. they later moved back to yugoslavia but made regular trips to west germany to continue collecting unemployment funds, he said
west german law stipulates only residents of the country are eligible for unemployment payments
about 590,000 yugoslavs live in west germany. most are employed as ``guest workers'' who remain citizens of their home countries
a man linked to a leftist opposition group probably died from police torture, but no one can be charged because the authorities' own inquiry was substandard, a judge ruled friday
njenga karanja, 42, was held without charge and incommunicado for three weeks before he died in february 1987 with injuries consistent with beatings, according to testimony at the high court inquest
government special branch officers, who are responsible for internal security, arrested karanja at a coffee shop he owns in nakuru, 100 miles northwest of nairobi, on feb. 7, 1987. they accused him of links with mwakenya, a clandestine marxist group
the group opposes the one-party state run by the western-leaning, capitalist government of president daniel arap moi's kenya african national union
ooki ooko-ombaka, a lawyer for karanja's family, told the inquest karanja's death was the result of officials ``gone crazy with unchecked power.''
amnesty international, a london-based human rights group, said in a july report on kenya that karanja reportedly was tortured by special branch officers
chief magistrate joseph mango said he suspected the prisoner had indeed been tortured. however, he said the special branch's own investigation into karanja's death was ``not up to standard'' and conducted ``with some kind of fear.''
he recommended that attorney general matthew muli's office further investigate the case, but muli wasn't bound by mango's ruling
karanja, also a well-known road rally driver, is one of six people who have died in police custody in kenya in the last 14 months
angry palestinians on friday buried six of the eight women guerrillas killed in an israeli air raid, and they vowed to avenge their death by continuing the fight against the jewish state
allahu akbar (god is great), we shall avenge your death!'' chanted the mourners, many with their eyes brimming with tears
we shall kill all those who killed you! your blood will not go cheap!'' shrieked the mother of one of the dead women
the coffins, draped in palestinian flags, were driven to beirut in ambulances from the southen port city of sidon, where the eight were killed wednesday in an israeli air strike on bases manned by guerrillas of abu nidal's fatah-revolutionary council
about 3,000 palestinians, men, women and children, carrying palestinian and lebanese flags marched in the funeral procession from west beirut's mar elias refugee camp to the cemetery
children carried wreaths from various palesitnian and lebanese leftist factions. a wreath, signed fatah-rc, led the procession ahead of a contingent of armed palestinian guerrillas
many mourners carried placards proclaiming the palestinians' determination to continue the fight to liberate palestine
women ululated as the procession marched slowly to the accompaniment of palestinian revolutionary songs blared from loudspeakers
only six of the women were buried in beirut's martyrs' cemetery. the bodies of the other two were buried in refugee camps elsewhere in lebanon
helmeted syrian soldiers in charge of security in west beirut fired their soviet-made kalashnikov rifles in a final salute as the six coffins were lowered into the ground
the fatah revolutionary council group is led by convicted terrorist abu nidal, who broke away from yasser arafat's mainstream palestine liberation organization in 1974
abu nidal, whose real name is sabri al-banna, tops the wanted lists in the united states and europe
in addition to the eight girls killed in wednesday's raid, another 15 people were wounded
an israeli air raid thursday against fatah-rc bases in the same three villages of bekesta, majdelyoun and salhiyeh south of the port city of sidon left nine people dead and five wounded
members of a condominium association say they were mistaken in refusing to let a blind man rent an apartment
we're hoping he's going to move in and be a neighbor. if he moves in, he's going to be two doors from me. we're hoping this can end up a positive thing from a negative thing,'' said morris barnett, director of the keswick b condominium association at century village
larry tomecek, 35, whose lawyer filed a discrimination complaint march 4, said thursday he didn't know if would accept the offer
he said he wanted to be sure ``all hostilities have cooled, calmed down, that i feel comfortable and everybody feels comfortable.''
i think it looks optimistic,'' said tomecek, a part-time musician who says he has lived on his own the last four years in pennsylvania. ``it's probably the first time they met a blind person.''
if tomecek accepts, his discrimination claim would be dropped, said his attorney, larry corman
the president of the condominium in a letter to the owner of the unit tomecek was planning to rent said he was rejected because he ``unfortunately is blind.''
four san diego zoo employees tested positive for tuberculosis after being exposed to infected monkeys, and a state health official blamed improper quarantine procedures
three of six endangered tibetan macaques have died of tuberculosis since arriving last march from the chengdu zoo in china, officials said thursday. the other macaques remain quarantined although they tested negative for the disease
none of the four workers has tuberculosis so far, though one is under medication, the san diego union quoted an unidentified source as saying
a veterinarian who inspected the zoo for the state last spring said thursday he found several deficiencies that could have led to the infection
edmond bayer, a consultant with the state department of health services, said employees did not regularly wear masks or gloves while around the infectious macaques and were not told to wash their hands before leaving the quarantine area
don janssen, the zoo's director of veterinary medicine, said those safety procedures weren't in effect at that time. a memo shows janssen implemented changes last may to comply with bayer's findings
among those infected with tuberculosis was debbie hewitt, 27, a senior hospital keeper
i was upset and i'm still upset because we didn't have any policy about quarantine procedures at the time,'' hewitt said. ``i'm working there and i expect my employer to protect me about things i don't know about and that wasn't being done.''
in another incident, the federal occupational safety and health administration recently fined the zoo $1,060 for two violations stemming from improper animal and keeper contact
zoo officials say the facility is contesting the citations and declined comment
osha officials said their inspection was prompted by a complaint and not related to the tuberculosis infection or the state inspector's findings
osha cited the zoo for failing to protect its employees from the possibility of contracting infectious diseases from animals, and because keepers failed to use such protective equipment as boots, gloves, aprons, pants, and protective eye wear or face shields
tuberculosis, a bacterial disease, once was a leading cause of death in the united states. it now is rarely fatal. those who test positive for the disease don't necessarily develop active cases, said nancy bowen, tb control officer for the county
two prisoners escaped from the concordia parish jail and left a note thanking deputies for the tools they used, officials said
george hunter iii, 28, and ronnie batteaste, 28, escaped late wednesday or early thursday, authorities said
deputies said the men used a hammer, srewdriver and hacksaw to dismantle a light fixture in their cell block and crawl through a ventilation shaft
thank you for leaving the escape route and a box of tools,'' the note said. ``see you later, suckers.''
batteaste was being held on charges of burglary and escape stemming from earlier incident. hunter escaped the same jail in 1984 while he was being held on armed robbery charges. he was caught more than a year later in california
hunter was convicted on the armed robbery charges wednesday in district court and was to have been sentenced friday. he faced a possible maximum of 99 years in prison for each of two counts. surrender'</head>
conservative republican members of congress are wary of the cease-fire pact in nicaragua _ one calls it a ``disguised surrender'' _ and say the united states will have to continue pressuring the sandinistas until they install a truly democratic system
at the same time, the congressmen _ attending a gop retreat here _ say it was american pressure and american aid to the contras that forced the sandinistas to deal with the contras
the result was this week's dramatic turn of events: a 60-day cease-fire agreement signed by representatives of the nicaraguan government and the guerrilla leaders, and a sandinista promise to institute democratic reforms
the goal has never been just a cease-fire,'' said rep. dick cheney, r-wyo., one of six dozen gop lawmakers at the retreat
the provisions on democratic reforms in the cease-fire pact are ``weak,'' he said, and the united states should try to keep the contras alive as a fighting force ``as a spur to continued good faith on the part of the sandinistas.''
rep. newt gingrich, r-ga., said it was ``reasonably implausible'' that the sandinistas would live up to their promises for reforms. but if they do, it would have made the years of supporting the contras a successful policy
the values of the west will have won,'' he said. ``our goal was to have freedom, not to have a war.''
gingrich said one of the reasons he had doubts about the pact was because the contras were negotiating from a weakened state, their u.s. aid having been cut off by congress a month ago
it's too early to tell, he said, ``to what degree this is a true negotiation and to what degree this is a disguised surrender'' by the contras
cheney acknowledged that the contras were ``in difficult straits'' but said they ``still have some potential.''
rep. rod chandler, r-wash., who has co-sponsored a plan to renew military aid to the contras, said the sandinistas had ``failed miserably'' when they crossed over into honduras recently in what he said was an attempt to ``deal a knockout blow to the contras.''
chandler said the sandinistas were under pressure not only because of the contras but because of their war-torn economy that has resulted from the insurgency. ``if we had never supported the contras, they'd have never been a factor,'' he said
but if the contras fold their tents and it is ``back to the usual sandinista behavior'' of totalitarian rule, he said, the united states will have to ``take some action with external forces ... external, including the united states.''
it's down to that,'' he said. ``it's definitely a new era.''
in the meantime, chandler said, he expected congress to rapidly approve some new humanitarian support for the contras with the option of adding military aid if things turn sour
democratic leaders have been discussing with the white house and with congressional republicans a $48 million, year long package of non-lethal aid. the plan would allow expedited consideration of arms shipments if president reagan requested them
rep. mike dewine, r-ohio, said that he felt the contras ``were not put in a very good bargaining position by the united states congress.'' he said he hopes that democracy takes root, but added: ``i'm a cynic.''
dewine said he feared ``this is just the beginning of the end for the contras.'' he said he wouldn't be surprised if the sandinistas over the next six to nine months tightened up their authoritarian rule and at that point the united states is left with ``very little leverage.''
it's a containment policy at that point'' with the u.s. trying to help neighboring countries such as el salvador and costa rica maintain democracy
dewine said he supported peace but, he added, ``is it the peace of slavery? is it the peace of eastern europe? is it the peace of north korea? is it the peace of cuba?''
rep. bill mccollum, r-fla., said he was more optimistic
if they really live up to their commitments, then it really is a good deal,'' he said. if not, however, ``then we've got really big problems.''
the reagan administration today launched its final effort before leaving office to remove four-decade-old prohibitions on industrial homework in five industries
the labor department said it will publish proposed regulations next week that would allow employers to contract work from people in their homes in producing gloves and mittens, embroideries, buttons and buckles, handkerchiefs and some jewelry
unlike the administration's two earlier attempts to deregulate industrial homework, officials said this time they will not try to remove the ban on women's apparel
assistant labor secretary fred alvarez acknowledged that the exclusion of women's apparel, an area in which investigators have found about half of the violations of the current law, was aimed at defusing opposition from the 210,000-member international ladies garment workers union
the proposed revisions also do not attempt to overturn state bans on the same type of work at home in hawaii, california, pennsylvania, massachusetts, connecticut, new york, rhode island and new jersey
the ilgwu, other unions and employer associations in california and new york led a firestorm of attacks on the administration's last two efforts to repeal the bans in 1981 and 1986
as a result, only the ban on knitted outerwear was lifted in 1984
alvarez said the latest proposal will be open for 30 days of public comment after it is published in the federal register next week
despite expected challenges from unions and anticipated court appeals, he said the administration hopes to have the prohibitions removed before reagan leaves office next january
it seems to me we ought to be able to get a final rule sometime this summer,'' he said
all of the current prohibitions were adopted from 1941 to 1943 under the fair labor standards act in response to what then was perceived as rampant exploitation of mostly immigrant home workers paid on a piecework basis
the recommendations of this administration demonstrate that it has learned nothing from history,'' said the afl-cio. ``the record shows that industrial homework has brought nothing but unfair competition, long hours and low wages for our poorest and most disadvantaged workers.''
alvarez, however, said unions have not yet had a chance to study the latest proposal, which includes what he called a new set of ``enforcement teeth'' such as requiring bonds from employers with records of paying less than minimum wages or other labor law violations. today, picking up 11th graf pvs, `mecham agreed ....'</note>
gov. evan mecham's son testified today that the family auto dealership was in ``very strong'' shape and that an $80,000 loan from the governor's protocol fund was intended to provide higher interest for the fund
dennis mecham, general manager of mecham pontiac, testified at the governor's impeachment trial that his father called him in mid-july 1987 and ``asked if i could use $80,000 in the dealership operations.''
the governor was expected to take the stand later today
dennis mecham said his father told him ``they were looking to generate additional interest'' for the protocol fund
the prosecution has contended that the dealership was in dire financial straits and needed the loan to meet its payroll
however, dennis mecham, asked by defense attorney jerris leonard to describe the dealership's general financial condition at the time, said, ``it was very strong.''
about $6,000 of the loan was repaid to the protocol fund in early october, and the governor's son said he was asked oct. 22 by mecham then-chief of staff jim colter to repay the balance ``since there was a political question.'' the repayment was financed by family members, he said
on thursday, former mecham special assistant sam steiger said he did not consider the protocol fund to be public money and thus the loan was legal
i think we have a politically stupid thing that was done, but not an illegal thing,'' steiger said. ``i think it's a very clear demonstration that here was a man, governor mecham, who had total confidence that he was going to be able to repay this
he did not sense the public perception of what that might appear to look like to other people because he was so convinced of the correctness of his own approach,'' steiger said. ``now that's the man that i knew as governor.''
steiger is scheduled to go on trial monday on a charge of theft by extortion for allegedly trying to influence the vote of a state parole board member
mecham is accused of misusing the protocol fund, which was created with inaugural proceeds and intended to pay for gifts for visiting dignitaries
prosecutors claim the money became public funds when it was turned over to the governor's office and that mecham tried to cover up the loan
however, the defense contends the protocol fund was private money and that the loan was a good business deal because it earned a higher interest rate for the fund
mecham agreed thursday in tucson that borrowing from the protocol fund ``was a dumb thing to do politically,'' but he insisted it ``wasn't illegal.''
he accused house prosecutors of having ``to make some kind of a devious program out of this in order to have any fabric to say anything about us.''
they would be laughed out of any court in the country, really,'' mecham said. ``the only place they've got any standing is because this is a political issue; it's really kind of a tragedy, but i think our case will take care of that very easily.''
the senate already has heard testimony on the first impeachment allegation that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official against former top mecham aide donna carlson
the third allegation charges him with concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
a conviction would remove mecham from office, although the trial could continue on whether to bar him from holding any future office
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham. he is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona
mecham is scheduled to go on criminal trial april 21 on six felony charges of hiding the $350,000 loan and faces a may 17 recall election. chryst is a former member of the joffrey</note>
choreographer robert joffrey, who founded a dance troupe on a shoestring and built the joffrey ballet into one of the nation's top companies, died this morning. he was 57
joffrey, who had curtailed his duties at the company because of illness, died at 6 a.m. at new york university hospital, said pennie curry, a spokeswoman for the company
he had suffered from a liver ailment caused by medication he was receiving for asthma and a muscle condition, and had been in intensive care for two weeks, she said
a lifelong asthmatic, joffrey suffered severe asthma attacks in august and had been working from his home since then, she said
joffrey became ill in april 1986 and was diagnosed as having severe myositis, which causes deterioration of the muscles, enlarged liver and asthma. earlier this month, he announced a three-person advisory group to help gerald arpino, the company's associate director, run the company
he had a passion and a love for dance. he respected dancers so much. he loved to bring dance to parts of thew world that had never seen it,'' said gary chryst, a former member of the joffrey who dance with the company for 11 years
in 1956, joffrey borrowed a station wagon and sent his fledgling dance company _ six dancers, one of whom could double on piano _ out to tour the united states. he stayed in new york, where he held a job to pay for the tour
today, the joffrey ballet ranks with the new york city ballet and american ballet theater as one of america's big three ballet companies
joffrey built by far the most far-ranging repertory. nobody had ever tried to recreate vaslov nijinsky's 1913 ``the rite of spring,'' but joffrey engaged two dance historians to see whether they could recreate the ballet. the joffrey version opened last september in los angeles
joffrey brought into the company ballets of strong classical base and flowing quality by the british royal ballet's frederick ashton; the 1932 stylized anti-war masterpiece, ``the green table,'' by kurt jooss; a group of ballets created for serge diaghilev; john cranko's full-length ``romeo and juliet,'' dances by american choreographers from agnes de mille to the avant-garde. his own ballets include ``the nutcracker'' in 1987 and his striking 1967 ``astarte,'' where a couple dance in front of a billowing white silk curtain on which a movie of them dancing is projected
joffrey was the first artistic director to invite experimental modern-dance choreographers to work with a major ballet company. he brought twyla tharp to ballet in 1973. arpino, one of the original six dancers, is resident choreographer
money was always a problem for the company, and joffrey was innovative in solving it. he decided that two bases were better than one and announced a bi-coastal company, with boards and fund-raising in both new york and los angeles
last summer, he worked on his $1.5 million production of ``the nutcracker'' in iowa city, iowa, with one-third of the money coming from new york, los angeles and the university of iowa, where it premiered
joffrey was born abdullah jaffa anver bey khan, in seattle, dec. 24, 1930. his father was a native of afghanistan and his mother was italian. he had asthma as a child and a doctor suggested that he take dance classes, for the breathing exercises
he started dance classes in seattle, studied at the school of american ballet in new york and later with two modern-dance teachers. his short performance career began with a solo concert of his own works in seattle. he danced with roland petit's ballets de paris in 1949 and from 1950-52 danced sometimes in the concert group of one of his modern-dance teachers, may o'donnell
the robert joffrey ballet concert performed at new york's ymha in 1954 but joffrey dated the founding of his company from 1956, when he taught six dancers four pieces he had choreographed and sent them out in a station wagon to 23 cities. tours were annual through 1964
joffrey taught at the high school of peforming arts and choreographed for the new york city opera and other opera companies, including choreographing ``alcina'' in dallas in which joan sutherland made her american debut
by the spring of 1962, the company had 38 dancers and 21 ballets. that fall, the government sent the joffrey ballet on a 15-week tour of the middle east. it was co-sponsored by the rebekah harkness foundation. the foundation sponsored the joffrey ballet until march 1964 when rebekah harkness kean decided to use the money for a new harkness ballet, keeping dancers, costumes, sets, scores and choreography from the previous two years
the ford foundation made a grant to get the joffrey ballet going again. joffrey did intense fund-raising and re-established the company,which became the resident dance company at the city center in new york
joffrey did not do much choreography in recent years. he choreographed part of a new production of ``the nutcracker suite'' that was performed this year; his last full production, ``postcards,'' was performed during the 1970s
he left no immediate survivors
ms. curry said a memorial service would be scheduled at a later date. a viewing was planned for frank b. campbell's funeral home on sunday and monday. from boyfriend.</note>
a young irish woman, who came here to visit a sweetheart but found him jailed on murder charges, was struck by a car on st. patrick's day and lapsed into a coma, say her family and friends
the girl is a beautiful looking girl. when i first saw her lying there in the hospital, i thought to myself, `it's snow white in a trance,''' said gerry archbold, a director of the city's irish-american heritage center
margaret hanley, 22, was listed in critical condition today at weiss memorial hospital, where her parents are keeping a vigil at her bedside
stephen and ann hanley left their 13 younger children behind in coolock, a suburb of dublin, and flew to chicago to be with her. neighbors collected money to help pay for their trip
miss hanley's father said he was against his daughter's trip to the united states earlier this month. ``but she wanted to travel the world, you know,'' he said. and she had a special reason for her trip
last year she met a man named danny stokes, the brother of a girlfriend, who'd returned to ireland for a visit. she was attracted to him
he took her out, and they must have communicated (when he returned to chicago),'' archbold said. ``she was infatuated with him.''
so miss hanley, an aspiring actress who dreamed of traveling the world, left her home for a three-week vacation and a visit to stokes
when she arrived in chicago, she learned that stokes was in jail, charged with murder, archbold said. he said he did not know the details of the case against stokes, but officials at the cook county jail confirmed thursday night that a daniel stokes was held there on murder charges
stokes said today in a telephone interview from jail that miss hanley knew he was in custody before she came and wanted to help him
it was very hard to accept, the emotional stress of seeing me behind bars,'' he said
a disillusioned miss hanley called her family, telling them she'd decided to return home and was planning to leave last friday. ``she said she'd explain it all to us later,'' her father said
but the day before she was to leave, miss hanley was struck by a car as she crossed a street on the north side
her leg and hip were broken, but she was conscious as she was taken to a hospital emergency room, where she slipped into a coma apparently induced by a blood clot, doctors said
her parents spend their days at their daughter's bedside and their nights at a room given to them by priests at the st. patrick fathers home
all we can do is wait,'' hanley said. ``there is nothing we can do for her. where there is life, there is hope.''
sales of existing homes, after declining for three straight months, posted a modest increase of 3.8 percent in february, a real estate trade group reported friday
the national association of realtors said that existing single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.29 million units in february. while this was 11.3 percent below the sales level of a year ago, it was the first advance since a 1.2 percent rise in october
sales fell 2.9 percent in november, 1.2 percent in december and 4.8 percent in january as the housing market was rocked by volatile mortgage rates and consumer worries sparked by the october stock market collapse
the february increase in sales was credited to better economic news, falling interest rates and renewed consumer confidence. fixed-rate mortgages, which stood at 10.61 percent at the beginning of the year, have fallen into single-digits, standing at 9.92 percent currently
lower interest rates have brought the consumer back into the market,'' said john tuccillo, chief economist for the association. ``february's existing home sales numbers indicate good health on the part of the housing sector, which, in the sixth year of expansion, is far from dead.''
tuccillo predicted the lower mortgage rates would help boost sales even further in the months ahead
the rise in home sales was accompanied by a slight increase in home prices. the median or mid-point price of a home increased to $88,300, up from $87,400 in january
the increase in sales was led by a 12.8 percent jump in sales in the south, which rose to an annual rate of 1.23 million units, still 4.7 percent below the level of activity a year ago. this region has been hard hit by depressed conditions in the oil industry
sales were also up in the northeast, climbing 8.2 percent to an annual rate of 660,000 units
sales fell 5.4 percent in the midwest to an annual rate of 870,000 units, but analysts blamed this decline on unusually severe weather in the region during february. sales dipped a small 1.9 percent in the west to an annual rate of 520,000 units. belaguer elected.</note>
president joaquin balaguer of the dominican republic met with president reagan today, declaring that his island nation is ``as peaceful and tranquil as it can possibly be in today's world.''
balaguer was expected to seek increases in aid and sugar quotas during the meeting, according to a senior administration official who spoke on condition he not be identified
the official said the united states was ``looking for ways to be helpful.''
as the two leaders posed for photographers before their meeting, balaguer was asked if everything was calm and peaceful in his country, which has seen violent uprisings in the past
yes, everything is calm and peaceful,'' he said. ``as peaceful and tranquil as it can possibly be in today's world.''
reagan, asked if the same could be said of the united states, replied, ``i would say that the situation is normal.''
balaguer, elected to his fifth term as president of the caribbean island nation in 1986, arrived in washington on thursday and was meeting with secretary of state george p. shultz and secretary of defense frank c. carlucci as well as reagan today
reagan's meeting with balaguer follows a visit thursday to a high school in the washington suburb of vienna. appearing with education secretary william j. bennett, reagan praised a trend toward ``free-market principles'' in education that provide incentives for teachers who achieve superior performance
the united states has sharply reduced aid to the dominican republic in recent years and has lowered its quotas on imports of sugar, a major dominican crop
their economic difficulties, and they have economic difficulties, are largely the product of our sugar policy,'' said the senior official, who spoke on condition that he not be identified
our imposition of lower and lower sugar quotas every year has diminished their ability to sell sugar to the united states and that has been a really crippling blow to the dominican economy,'' the official said
the reagan administration has pressed congress unsuccessfully for changes in u.s. sugar policy
inflation is running at around 30 percent and unemployment at close to that figure in the dominican republic, the official said
we are very appreciative of the efforts of president balaguer to keep the economy of his country on an even keel,'' the official said. ``i don't think there is anybody in the dominican republic who is appreciative of our aid cuts or cuts in the sugar quota.''
although the dominican republic has received substantial u.s. aid in the past, it is down for nothing in either economic support funds or military assistance in the fiscal 1988 budget. the figure for development assistance is a relatively modest $18.7 million
the sugar quota declined about 27 per cent this year and is ``on a downward trend,'' the official said
in 1983 the united states bought 500,000 tons, or $188 million worth, of dominican sugar. this year the total was 125,000 tons, valued at about $50 million
they will ask for additional aid, either direct financial aid or other forms of assistance,'' the official said
we are looking for ways to be helpful,'' he added.  
soviet armenia's government ordered the dissolution friday of a committee agitating for annexation of a region in neighboring azerbaijan. soldiers and helicopters patrolled tense yerevan, the capital, in case of trouble
the kremlin declared this week that the campaign for annexation of the nagorno-karabakh region was ``intolerable.''
public protests had been called for saturday in yerevan, but radio broadcasts in armenia and azerbaijan warned citizens of both caucasus republics friday against illegal demonstrations
the broadcasts announced new regulations requiring permits 10 days in advance of all public gatherings
hovik vassilian, an armenian activist reached by telephone, said the saturday demonstrations ``won't happen.'' vassilian said they were called off, ``considering the situation.''
he also said activists had learned that armenian nationalist paruyr arikyan was arrested thursday night. he said they did not know the charges, but arikyan had provided information about the protests to foreign reporters in moscow
an armenian communist party newspaper reaching moscow on friday said the republic ``remains tense and explosive.'' it spoke of ``unpredictable consequences'' if the demonstrations were held
activists and official sources in yerevan most armenians appeared to be wary of illegal protest because of the crackdown
a duty officer at the police ministry described the security precautions by telephone and said yerevan was ``fairly calm.'' he would not give his nam
vassilian said groups of three to five soldiers of the internal security forces were patrolling with police and that helicopters had been circling over the city for three days
repeated attempts to telephone azerbaijan on friday were unsuccessful
on thursday, the national party's governing politburo issued an eight-year plan for dealing with complaints about discrimination against ethnic armenians in nagorno-karabakh, where they are more than 75 percent of the population
pravda and izvestia, the party and government newspapers, gave prominent display friday to letters from readers urging reason and patience in resolving the territorial dispute between armenians, most of whom are christians, and the predominently shiite moslem population of azerbaijan
the letters, and official commentaries, had the apparent purpose of portraying the leadership's approach to the sensitive ethnic issue as a wiser course than strikes and demonstrations
tass, the official news agency, said the politburo's eight-year plan provides for more housing, roads, schools and social services in the disputed region, and more armenian television programming and literature
concern that nagorno-karabakh was losing its traditional armenian character was among the reasons prompting calls for annexation
armenian residents of the area began protests in mid-february after the national party central committee rejected a request from the the nagorno-karabakh government for union with armenia. the region, slightly smaller than delaware, was part of armenia until 1923
official media described the annexation drive as an extremist action, and hundreds of thousands of armenians demonstrated in the streets of yerevan. the mass unrest abated only after soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed for calm and reason
on feb. 28, extremists in sumgait, azerbaijan, went on a rampage to protest the armenian demands, and officials said at least 32 people were killed. the official reports said 197 were injured and about 400 arrested for murder, rape, robbery or other crimes in the industrial city
armenian supporters of the annexation proposal, including some prominent officials in the southern republic, formed a committee to press the nagorno-karabakh issue and called the protests for saturday
the committee withdrew the appeal for protests, but nonetheless became a target of authorities
wednesday's issue of kommunist, the armenian party daily that reached moscow on friday, accused the committee of blackmail, threats and anti-party attacks
it said officials were ordered to ``take measures necessary to avert meetings on march 26'' and party organizations were told to ``neutralize activities of nagorno-karabakh `committees' because at present their actions are politically harmful.''
vassilian, the activist, also said the committee was ordered ``closed'' friday
prominent officials and literary figures appealed on radio and television for patience and an end to protests and strikes, he said
pravda said it was suspending an armenian journalist who contributed to a report on the nagorno-karabakh dispute but denounced it after publication monday
the party newspaper said it had handwritten copies of the information submitted by the journalist, identified as y. arakelyan, and his report conformed with the published article. it did not give details of his original material. pvs, each state</note>
the head of the nation's largest teachers' union today proposed that every state designate a school district as a ``living laboratory'' for experiments aimed at producing better educated students
national education association president mary hatwood futrell said she will ask her state affiliates to work with governors, state legislators and state school officials to bring about such experiments on a broad scale
she told a news conference that teachers, parents and others in the experimental districts would have the union's blessings to ``turn their school systems upside down or inside out'' in pursuit of improvements
in response, secretary of education william j. bennett said in a statement:
it's rather ironic to hear a call for reform from the organization that has done the most to resist meaningful education reforms in recent years. but if they are serious, it will be a welcome and refreshing change to have nea begin supporting real education reform.''
each state should have at least one district operating ``as an experimental, living laboratory for education reform,'' futrell said
in these 50 school districts, school employees, working through their local association, would join with school boards, parents, civic leaders and business to develop whatever innovative or creative program they deem appropriate to improve education,'' she said
those 50 local communities would be free to turn their school systems upside down or inside out,'' she said
they would be free to open their school doors to 4-year-olds, or end the arbitrary division of class periods into 50-minute chunks, or experiment with alternatives to student tracking,'' she said
futrell said the idea must still be approved by delegates to the nea's annual convention in new orleans in july
futrell told the news conference that if a laboratory school district decided to adopt a merit pay plan, the national union would not object
she also said the nea was prepared to provide some financial support for the experiments and said that bold action is needed to revive what she called lagging efforts to improve america's schools
five years after `a nation at risk,' lack of funding is strangling education reform in state after state,'' she said, referring to the landmark report on the state of education
she said secretary of education william j. bennett ``wants america to believe that excellence costs nothing, that just talking about reform _ and blaming people _ will substitute for money. it won't.''
state and local governments have poured more money into public schools, she said, ``but they can't do the job without help from the federal government.''
the federal share of the public school budget has slipped from 9.2 percent in fiscal 1980 to 6.2 percent in fiscal 1988, she said, and education's share of the overall federal budget has dropped from 2.5 percent in fiscal 1979 to 1.8 percent in fiscal 1987. people injured, picking up 3rd graf pvs, `the men ....'</note>
an oil rig explosion unleashed a ``big ball of fire'' that injured 12 people, including several women and children, who were celebrating a new well, authorities said
ten people were still hospitalized today, including a 5-year-old boy and a 32-year-old man reported in critical condition with burns, hospital officials here and in wichita said. one man was listed in serious condition, and the others were in fair condition
the men, women and children were gathered in front of the oil rig shortly before 10 p.m. thursday and were ``supposedly bringing in a new well'' when it exploded, ness county sheriff gary o'brien said
flames engulfed the building before firefighters could control the fire, o'brien said. crews extinguished most of the fire by 11:30 p.m. the cause of the fire and explosion has not been determined
o'brien said he did not know the name of the company that owned the well, about 3{ miles northwest of ness city in western kansas
king birendra of nepal called for solidarity among the globe's 650 million hindus friday as he opened the world hindu conference
about 1,200 participants from 19 countries attended the opening ceremony of the four-day meeting in katmandu
representatives from bangladesh, canada, fiji, guyana, indonesia, india, kenya, mauritius, nepal, netherlands, new zealand, norway, pakistan, sri lanka, singapore, spain, the united kingdom, the soviet union and west germany paraded through the conference venue at national stadium
king birendra, in his inaugural speech, said the conference would ``succeed in establishing unity and solidarity among hindus wherever they be showing the ideal way of life.''
hindus live in significant numbers in at least 80 countries worldwide, with the vast majority in india. their religion grew from a synthesis of indigenous beliefs with culture brought to india by the aryan people around 1500 b.c
japanese monopolies on trade in tobacco and beef must be eliminated because they are barriers to u.s. exports, a former agriculture department official said friday during his confirmation hearing for the post of top u.s. negotiator on farm trade
the monopolies must go,'' daniel g. amstutz, a former undersecretary of agriculture, told the senate foreign relations committee. ``they are barriers to trade just as sure as import quotas are. ... they are a kind of marriage between industry and government.''
he said the u.s. government is insisting on elimination of japanese quotas on beef imports
i think we'll be successful,'' he added
amstutz agreed with sen. mitch mcconnell, r-ky., who urged u.s. negotiators to push international sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products
this is not the place to make moral judgments,'' amstutz said after the hearing
the official u.s. campaign against smoking was not discussed at the session itself. mcconnell said moral judgments about practises in other countries are ``not up to us.''
mcconnell estimated that the u.s. share of japan's cigarette market rose from 2 percent to 11 percent in two months after u.s. pressure succeeded in easing restrictions on japanese imports. he urged amstutz to be aggressive in getting restrictions eased in south korea too
he said that despite the popularity of turkish tobacco, many turkish workers acquired a taste for american tobacco as ``guest workers'' in west germany and created a demand for it when they returned home. smoking in turkey is on the increase and the united states should take advantage of the opportunity, he said
amstutz declined to say what priority he would give to pressing cigarette sales
everything is first,'' he said
he explained that at the big international trade discussions in geneva, switzerland, known as the ``uruguay round,'' an effort is being made to keep the negotiations away from particular products
on farm products, the emphasis has been on reducing government subsidies. the reagan administration has proposed that all government farm subsidies be phased out by the year 2000. other governments have called the goal unrealistic
the committee is expected to approve amstutz's nomination next week
a judge sentenced 20 taxi drivers to jail friday after they defied the city's new anti-smog ban
the new rules, which allows taxis and private cars in a 5-square-mile area of downtown only on alternate weekdays and on weekends, are aimed at dispelling the acrid cloud that hovers over the city in still weather. the cabbies say they are not at fault and the ban hurts their business
the 20 taxi drivers were sentenced to five weeks in jail. another 35 cabbies were fined $150 each, said a judiciary spokesman requesting anonymity
the 55 cabbies drove into the banned area on monday and tuesday during protests organized by their union, which seeks daily access for all the city's 15,000 taxis
the spokesman said all 20 cabbies were freed after appealing the sentences
the chancellor of fayetteville state university is so sure he can raise the quality of the school's education students that he will offer a warranty on every teacher graduating after 1993
if a teacher fresh from fsu, or the school district where he or she is employed, can identify weaknesses in the teacher's preparation, a team of fsu specialists ``will make their product good,'' chancellor lloyd hackley said
the specialists will make recommendations on course work, consultation or counseling, and establish a baseline to document the teacher's improvement
hackley announced the warranty thursday as part of a sweeping plan for improvements
hackley said the school's development has been retarded by a lack of adequate state and federal funding during most of its existence, plus low financial support from alumni
three boys removed from a religious commune by court order and returned to their fathers, at least temporarily, had been physically and emotionally abused by cult leaders, the fathers say
deputies surprised devotees of the tony and susan alamo foundation communes in saugus on thursday, reuniting the children with their fathers before a custody hearing in orange county superior court
there was a lot of confusion and cries of anguish from the adults,'' los angeles county sheriff's sgt. larry brakebush said. ``there were people everywhere, people running around the grounds shouting.''
the boys' mothers weren't at the alamo holy christian church commune when the raid took place
alamo gained notoriety when he vowed that his wife susan, who died of cancer in 1982, would be resurrected. he kept her embalmed body on display for six months while followers prayed
the custody dispute involves brothers carey and robert miller of orange, who were banished from the commune after 15 years as members following a disagreement over control of a trucking firm they operated in arkansas
my wife is absolutely and completely brainwashed by tony alamo to the extent that she has now consented to live with another man as husband and wife,'' carey miller, 34, said in a sworn statement. ``i am given to understand that i was now an outsider and would be prevented from seeing my wife and children.''
the men filed court statements contending the children were abused, physically and emotionally, by their mothers and cult leaders, and that they feared their sons would soon be taken to canada if they didn't act to regain custody. both have begun divorce proceedings
they also said they were wrongly separated from their families after a business dispute with church leaders, contentions the commune's founder denied
they abandoned their wives and children, embezzled money from the church and lied in court about it,'' alamo said thursday in a telephone interview from new york
the foundation has sued the brothers for allegedly emptying the trucking company's bank accounts when they left the commune. alamo said commune members agree to sign over all property to the church, something the brothers balked at doing with their trucking company
judge ronald owen granted the millers temporary custody of the boys, ages 11, 9 and 4, until an informal mediation session april 6 and a court hearing five days later to hear arguments about permanent custody
attorneys for the two mothers, carol ann and susan miller, and the church said the women were in new york city selling clothes made at the commmune northwest of los angeles
the miller brothers said they fled the commune in fear of their lives in september after an altercation with alamo and church officers
i never threatened anybody,'' said alamo
alamo and his wife started preaching on hollywood's sunset strip in 1966. they attracted numerous young followers and formed a commune in saugus, later moving it to arkansas. recently they moved their headquarters back to california but still have centers in chicago, miami, arizona and arkansas
health authorities have warned that eggs from two farms near the site of a chemical fire last year contain toxic dioxin at levels 100 times greater than in normal eggs
officials of the state health services department said thursday they advised about about 45 familes living near the koppers wood treatment plant not to eat eggs or chicken from the two family farms
koppers was the site last april of a fire and explosion that left residues of a toxic wood preservative used at the plant
dioxins are a class of toxic chemicals found in a variety of chemical compounds, including some preservatives. minute levels are also generally found in all animal products
while there is no proof that dioxin has ever killed anyone, a 1980 report by the environmental protection agency said immediate effects of exposure to dioxin can include burning in the eyes, nose, and throat; headaches; itching, swelling and redness of the face; dizziness; nausea and vomiting
there is also increasing evidence of an association between occupational exposure to dioxins and a rare form of tumor called soft tissue sarcoma, according to the national centers for disease control
the eggs and chickens may have been contaminated as a result of the koppers accident, but an investigation is continuing to pin down the source, said state health services director ken kizer
if we knew the cause of the contamination, we would say so,'' said bob borzelleri of the department's toxics division
samples taken from the two affected farms last may showed dioxin levels of 10 parts per trillion, compared with levels of 0.1 parts per trillion found in eggs a few miles away
samples taken this month show dioxin levels ranging from 15 to 30 parts per trillion
eating one contaminated egg a day over a 70-year lifetime would increase a person's chances of developing cancer from 250-in-1,000 to 253-in-1,000, the department's scientists estimate
herb lightle, who owns one of the farms, said he was angry that the state testing took so long
one of my daughters loves to eat eggs. ... i'm worried for my kids,'' lightle said. ``the state told us after the fire it was ok to eat our eggs and stuff out of the garden. they should have issued an advisory from the very start. i would rather have buried the eggs or thrown them out.''
acting premier li peng declared friday that economic reform was irreversible but cautioned against hasty change as he opened the national people's congress
the 59-year-old technocrat is expected to be confirmed as premier during the legislature's 20-day session
in the 2{-hour speech, li resoundingly endorsed the nation's reform goals. but he stayed true to form by sounding repeated notes of caution against expecting rapid prosperity or making changes faster than people can accept them
we must not rush headlong into mass action, issue arbitrary orders and spoil things by excessive enthusiasm,'' li warned. ``we cannot succeed if we are too impatient for quick results.''
the new national people's congress, which sits for five years, is expected to approve key measures giving legal underpinning to the market-style economic reforms that have doubled chinese incomes over the past decade
the congress itself is intended to be a showpiece of the reforms. its 2,970 delegates were elected by provincial legislatures and the military using multiple candidate balloting for the first time
several working meetings are being opened for the first time to foreign reporters, in addition to the ceremonial opening and closing sessions. before the start of friday's session, reporters were allowed to mix freely with delegates as they drank tea at small tables in the cavernous entry room of the great hall of the people and watched ``tom and jerry'' cartoons on a small tv at one end
in his speech, li applauded the achievements of china's economic decentralization and said the state's role in the economy gradually will be reduced from that of planner to indirect market regulator
li generally is regarded as more cautious than his predecessor, communist party chief zhao ziyang, who has become the leading architect of all-out economic and political decentralization
however, he echoed zhao's words by declaring that increased productivity must be ``the criterion for judging all our work.''
at a major party congress in october at which he was named party general secretary, zhao said development must take precedence over ideology if china is to end its chronic poverty
we should continue to put reform at the center of all our undertakings,'' li said in agreement. ``it has become an irreversible trend for the masses and cadres alike to take an active part in the reform.''
zhao, who sat behind li on the stage, appeared restless during the long speech. on his left, senior leader deng xiaoping, 83, the initiator of the reforms, followed the text closely while chain-smoking
he said price increases were china's no. 1 economic and social problem, but for the first time in public endorsed continuing the gradual decontrol of prices long distorted by stae subsidies
however, he said workers will be given direct subsidies for some staple foods, on which price ceilings will be imposed. inflation was 7.3 percent nationwide last year but hit 19 percent in some cities during the summer
li said that in the next five years, china must increase grain production, encourage scientific development, revitalize the bureaucracy and reduce controls on enterprises
one of the few specific goals he set was to raise grain production by about 8 million tons, or 2 percent, per year. grain production hit a record of 407 million tons in 1984 but since has declined, causing shortages of livestock feed and pork rationing
delegates interrupted li's speech with applause 17 times, generally at natural pauses in the text. when he finished, applause was brief and perfunctory and the huge hall emptied within five minutes as top officials rushed to their chauffeur-driven mercedes benzes and ordinary delegates to their buses
li, grinning widely, was congratulated by his colleagues in the party and government leadership as he walked back to his seat and gulped tea
the congress will hold four more plenary sessions to hear reports from top officials before gathering april 13 to vote on proposed legislation and elect top officials
the congress also is expected to name gen. yang shangkun as successor to outgoing president li xiannian
although the congress long has served as a rubber-stamp body for communist party decisions, in the past few years it has taken a more active role in debating and even amending party proposals. picking up in 2nd graf pvs, all five; deletes 25th graf pvs, kansas sen.; cuts last 5 grafs pvs</note>
bob dole conceded today that george bush was almost certain to win the republican presidential nomination, saying, ``i can read the numbers.'' on the democratic side, richard gephardt denied reports that his candidacy was near an end and declared ``we're going to turn this race back around'' in michigan's caucuses
dole, the senate republican leader, indicated he was in the process of re-evaluating his presidential campaign and would likely ``have something to say about that'' before the april 5 wisconsin primary
i've been saying now for some time as a candidate all the things i thought we should focus on and nobody really seems to care,'' dole told his audience. ``i think it's probably a foregone conclusion what's happening on the republican side.''
but i still have some things to say,'' he added. ``lo and behold, as your candidacy weakens, you find more people willing to listen.''
still, he said, ``i can read the numbers and i probably know what's happening.'' bush has won a huge lead in delegates in the past month
all five democratic presidential candidates were in michigan today, scouring the state for votes on the eve of saturday's caucuses with 138 delegates up for grabs
gephardt clearly had the most at stake in michigan, a state his own aides described as a do-or-die situation for his once vital presidential campaign. the missouri congressman mimicked rival michael dukakis' claim of an economic miracle in massachusetts, saying he looked forward to a ``michigan miracle'' to revive his candidacy
i think we're going to turn this race back around here in michigan,'' he said on cbs' ``this morning'' program. ``we're going to get back in the middle of this thing.''
his aides said thursday that without a win this weekend, the missouri congressman would end his presidential bid and run for re-election to his house seat. the filing deadline for the house seat is tuesday
sen. paul simon of illinois, a democratic rival, said today at a lansing airport news conference, ``my hope is that dick can stay in the race.''
as for the possibility that he himself would win no delegates in michigan, simon said, ``i recognize that's a possibility but it's not fatal to my campaign.''
fellow democrat jesse jackson campaigned in detroit's county jail today, telling inmates they must take control of their lives and shun the ``short-term thrill, long-term chill'' of drugs. he urged the inmates at the wayne county jail to ask for absentee ballots and vote in saturday's caucuses
bush campaigned thursday in connecticut, where he was expected to cruise to an easy win in tuesday's primary. he grew up in the state, and his father was a u.s. senator from connecticut
bush has been under fire in recent days for supporting president reagan's veto of a sweeping civil rights bill. congress overrode the veto this week
the vice president said he favored the basic premise of the bill, but didn't want to go against the president on the matter. besides, he said, the legislation was flawed. jackson has scoffed at that, saying bush lacks leadership
perhaps rev. jackson was talking when he should have been listening,'' bush retorted thursday. ``if he's the nominee, we'll have a chance to discuss civil rights records and i'll lay my record on the ground with anybody.''
bush suggested jackson's democratic rivals were too timid about criticizing him. ``it's not that i'm afraid to do what some democrats are afraid to do _ go after him,'' he said
at a news conference, the vice president also expressed admiration for former white house aide oliver north, who pleaded innocent thursday in washington to criminal charges in connection with the iran-contra affair
i think anybody who sheds his blood for his country and wins a purple heart _ three of them _ and a silver star deserves whatever accolades one gets for that kind of stellar heroic performance,'' he said
bush said he did not expect the arms-for-hostages affair to hurt his campaign
the democrats will be trying to raise it and make an issue out of it,'' he said, but added: ``i don't think anyone has ever implicated me or suggested any wrongdoing.''
for the second time this week, a poll suggested bush would have a tough fight on his hands if he were running against democrat michael dukakis. a cbs-new york times poll indicated 46 percent of all registered voters polled favored bush and 45 percent backed dukakis. the margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage points
a survey by abc news and the washington post also put the two neck and neck, with dukakis polling the best against bush among the democrats
dukakis had a round of appearances today in michigan. on thursday, he was replenishing an already impressive campaign treasury with fundraisers in california
in los angeles, the massachusetts governor fielded questions in english and spanish. asked whether he would consider a hispanic running mate, he answered ``vamos a ver'' _ we'll see
republican pat robertson, who was crushed in the big round of super tuesday contests earlier this month, said no matter what the press or anyone else says, his candidacy isn't dead
i don't think they are aware of the resurrection,'' the former television evangelist told supporters in falls church, va
at recent appearances, however, robertson has acknowledged he has little chance to win the nomination and is concentrating on his role at the convention and his impact on the party
president reagan said friday the record of nicaragua's marxist-led government indicates ``there is reason to have caution'' that it may not live up to the cease-fire agreement reached with the u.s.-backed contra rebels
it was the first time reagan had commented in any detail on the 60-day nationwide cease-fire, effective april 1, that was announced wednesday after negotiations in sapoa, nicaragua
of course we look forward to this and hope it continues, but ... just as in some other meetings that have gone on in which i have been involved, i think that we should keep in mind that both parties must be dedicated to the things that are said and agreed to in those meetings,'' the president said
when a reporter said that it sounded as though he were suspicious that this would not be the case with the sandinistas, reagan replied, ``i think there is reason to have caution _ they have a past record that indicates that we should be.''
the exchange with reporters took place as reagan was preparing to meet with visiting president joaquin balaguer of the dominican republic
during his daily white house news briefing earlier, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters ``we are having discussions with the resistance leadership'' about the new cease-fire plan
we're very hopeful that it works,'' fitzwater said. ``we want to do whatever we can to see that it works.''
but at the same time, the spokesman said the administration is ``very hopeful'' that a package of humanitarian assistance to the contras can be approved by the house and senate before congress' easter recess
he said that while the administration remained somewhat skeptical of the sandinista intentions, a mutually agreed cease-fire between the marxist regime and the contra rebels ``was the no. 1 item on the agenda'' in the joint peace plan that reagan offered last august in coordination with house speaker jim wright, d-texas
fitzwater also said friday the united states had no intention of entering into direct discussions with the sandinistas _ as suggested by nicaraguan president daniel ortega
we have never envisioned bilateral talks. ... we have said that once a cease-fire was reached ... we would be willing to talk on a multilateral, regional basis'' involving the leaders of central american democracies
fitzwater declined to speculate on what motivated the resistance fighters to enter into a cease-fire agreement, although he did say ``it's certainly understandable that they would find the congress less than supportive,'' given the defeat of new aid packages on capitol hill
the spokesman reiterated administration statements urging the soviet union to lower the level of military assistance it has been sending to nicaragua
we have talked to the soviets. we have made our views, publicly as well as privately,'' fitzwater said. but he also said ``we believe it's very important to have an (u.s.) aid package (for the contras) ... as a means of keeping pressure on the sandinistas'' to institute democratic reforms
senate conservatives were voicing some muted criticism of the agreement, but appeared willing to put the sandinistas to the test and wait to see whether pledges of amnesty and political pluralism are fulfilled
they've gained something,'' sen. james mcclure, r-idaho, said of the rebels, but added: ``it's an agreement that's shaded on the bad side... what they're after is a pluralistic government with human rights, and they have none of that.''
sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., said ``a sense of euphoria is not in order. the sandinistas promised all of this (the pledges in the agreement) at the time they took power. i don't believe i've ever heard of a leopard changing his spots.''
helms said the agreement removes the united states, at least for the moment, from any influential role in nicaragua. ``we are in a position of wait and see,'' he said. ``the only improvement is that the heat will really now be on the sandinistas to put up or shut up.''
sen. ted stevens, r-alaska, said ``i don't have any real problems with this agreement if it's kept,'' but he was skeptical about whether that could occcur
it's incumbent on us now to find out what other pressure we can keep on the sandinistas. we can't afford not to be players. the end product of what they've agreed to still leaves a soviet puppet state in central america,'' receiving large amounts of weaponry
that worries me in terms of our relationships with the nations that surround nicaragua. i view nicaragua as being more worrisome for our future than cuba.'' edit to conform, picking up 13th graf pvs, `gardner, appearing ....'</note>
police and firefighters today agreed to end their day-and-a-half bout of ``blue flu'' and return to work after city officials promised to set up a committee to discuss their salary complaints, a police representative said
apparently, the mayor is appointing a committee this afternoon comprised of members of the city council,'' said cpl. dave dickens, adding that the committee would meet with police officers monday
he said police and firefighters would return to work this afternoon as part of an agreement that included creation of the committee
mayor chuck gardner this morning ordered police and firefighters to end their sick-out, saying there's a strong possibility those who refused to return to work would be fired
on thursday, officers ignored similar back-to-work orders from a circuit judge and the city council, forcing city officials to call in state police, shut down two fire stations and declare a civil emergency
this morning, 119 of 144 police officers remained off the job for the second consecutive day to protest a 2 percent pay raise, but 30 of 44 firefighters reported for work, said ed esposito, a city hall aide
they seem to be recognizing the concern that firefighters who had been on duty since 8 a.m. wednesday were exhausted,'' he said, adding there was no indication the firefighters were ending their sick-out. most of the firefighters held over when the job action began were sent home this morning to rest
at a press conference today, gardner said that thursday was ``a grace period, allowing cooler heads to review this situation.''
i believe the last 24 hours have given police and firefighters enough time to obey the court order and return to work, and in keeping with uniformed services policy i am ordering all police personnel to report for duty by 2 p.m. this afternoon, and all fire personnel to report for duty by 6 p.m.''
when asked what would happen if the officers remained defiant, he said there was a ``strong possibility'' that those who ignored his order would be fired
the job action in this state capital of 63,000 people, west virginia's largest city, began after city officials announced a 2 percent pay raise for city employees effective july 1. police and firefighters say the raise is inadequate
gardner said today he will not meet with police and firefighters until they return to work, and that there is no money for larger raises
let them come forward and show me where the money is,'' he said
firefighters and police who return to work today face no punishment, gardner said, but must have a doctor's excuse
gardner, appearing on television thursday night, read a statement announcing that two fire stations in outlying areas of the city were being closed temporarily because of manpower shortages
at this time i am again asking the police and the firefighters to return to duty at the earliest time or on their next shift,'' gardner said on wsaz-tv
earlier in the day, gardner _ after declaring a state of emergency _ warned absent workers that ``if you don't come back to work, you are in contempt of court.''
less than an hour before an emergency city council meeting thursday, kanawha county circuit judge patrick casey issued a temporary injunction ordering police and firefighters to return to duty
the order was ignored, with 42 of 44 firefighters not reporting and about a dozen policemen out on a shift that normally has 16 or 17 officers, gardner said
at most, three patrol cars cruised the city thursday, police chief ed garnett said. ``we're at skeleton now,'' garnett said, but the public was ``helping out quite a bit'' by not making unnecessary calls to dispatchers
in addition, two state police cruisers patrolled charleston because of the sick-out, state police sgt. don cook said
two fire trucks were taken out of service thursday evening because of a manpower shortage and officials said an additional fire station could be shut down today if the protest continued
the city council thursday unanimously suspended the city's sick-leave policy, meaning those who called in sick would have to have a doctor's excuse to get paid for any additional absences
the sick-out had the ``potential effect of rendering the city unable to maintain public order,'' gardner told the 26 council members
about 20 police officers' wives picketed city hall on thursday. passing motorists honked their horns in support, and some _ aware that patrols were down _ took the opportunity to run red lights
many of the wives denied their husbands were striking. ``mine is sick. i don't know about everybody else,'' vicki robinson said. ``there's no strike.''
the 2 percent raise averages $438 per employee annually, mayoral aide ed esposito said. he said the uniformed services got a 3 percent raise in the last fiscal year and raises totaling 8 percent over the past five years, he said
the city budget, approved monday night, includes appropriations for 165 policemen, 147 firefighters and 10 paramedics
police salaries range from $18,589 for a patrol officer at three years to $27,673 for a captain with 20 years' experience. firefighters pay ranges from $18,409 for a first-year firefighter to $27,673 for an assistant fire chief with 20 years' experience
cabin crews went on strike friday against cyprus airways, the island's national airline, forcing it to cancel all flights
the strike stranded scores of passengers at larnaca airport
it came after the state-owned company placed a ban on overtime pay for cabin attendants
secretary of state george p. shultz today arranged to meet with two members of the palestine national council and discouraged americans from traveling to the israeli-held west bank and gaza
the travel advisory cited ``continuing disturbances'' in the areas. in nearly three months of palestinian protests, 111 palestinian arabs and an israeli soldier have been killed
we are not issuing am advisory for israel itself,'' phyllis oakley, the state department's deputy spokeswoman, said. ``israel is safe for american travel.''
shultz will hold the meeting with edward said, a professor at columbia university, and ibrahim abu-lughud, a professor at northwestern university, on saturday ``to discuss our approach to the middle east peace process,'' the announcement said
mrs. oakley stressed that said and abu-lughud are u.s. citizens. she said the 13-year-old u.s. policy of not dealing with the palestine liberation organization remained intact
there is no change in u.s. policy on negotiating with or recognizing the plo,'' she said. ``that policy remains as it has been since 1975.''
the council is the legislative arm of the plo. the brief announcement identified said and abu-lughud only as ``prominent americans with an intimate knowledge of contemporary middle eastern politics.''
the united states, in persuading israel to relinquish territory to egypt and syria, promised in 1975 it would not deal with the plo, which is committed to dismantling the jewish state. the pledge subsequently was incorporated into u.s. law
asked if the plo had given said and abu-lughud permission to meet with shultz, the u.s. official said, ``i have nothing on that.''
mrs. oakley said shultz initiated the meeting. ``he will discuss the palestinian point of view,'' she said. ``they have an intimate knowledge of middle eastern politics.''
the travel advisory cautioned americans to avoid going to the west bank and gaza ``until further notice.'' it said americans living there ``should exercise particular caution.''
the situation in east jerusalem, which was held by jordan until 1967 and is now part of israel's capital, was described as ``unpredictable.'' the advisory said americans should check with u.s. diplomats in the city before entering the area
under all circumstances, americans should avoid demonstrations and other situations that have the potential to lead to violence,'' the advisory said. ``american travelers should carry their u.s. passports at all times.''
moshe arad, the israeli ambassador, telephoned m. charles hill, an assistant to shultz, on thursday to protest the meeting as a violation of the pledge
said and abu-lughud could not be reached immediately to be asked what they intended to take up with shultz and whether they had sought plo approval for the meeting
earlier this year, shultz met here with two palestinians from the west bank and gaza. their visit was arranged with israel's cooperation
shultz had excluded the plo from his proposal to open arab-israeli negotiations on may 1. his plan calls for palestinians approved by the plo to participate in a joint delegation with jordan
during a mideast shuttle last month, shultz tried to arrange a meeting in jerusalem with 15 palestinian arabs. apparently under plo orders, none of them showed up
shultz went to a hotel in east jerusalem, stood in the floodlit courtyard and read a statement suggesting the palestinians were fearful of working with the united states
opportunity knocks loudly on your door,'' he said then. ``now is the time to get to work. we have a workable plan, and we are ready to commit our efforts to it. the time is right, together, to make decisions of historic proportions.''
some 1.5 million palestinian arabs live on the west bank of the jordan river and in gaza, along the mediterranean. the lands were held by jordan and egypt until they were lost to israel in the 1967 six-day war
the chief of libya's forces in chad has joined a group opposed to col. moammar gadhafi, the opposition group said friday
the national front for the salavation of libya reported the defection of col. khalifah abu el-kassem haftar, a participant in gadhafi's 1969 revolution against the libyan monarchy, in a statement distributed to cairo news agency offices
considered the strongest libyan exile opposition group, the national front's headquarters are in the egyptian capital
telephone calls to mohamed yusef al-magariaf, the front's secretary general and gadhafi's former libyan ambassador to india, went unanswered
the front statement quoted haftar as saying that hundreds of libyan officers in chad agree on ``the necessity to struggle together with their brothers in the nfsl ... to save the country from gadhafi's terrorist and dictatorial rule.''
the statement did not indicate where haftar is or say when he was supposed to have defected. a national front spokesman known by the nom de guerre abu el-nour said the man was a prisoner of war in chad before his defection
libyan claims to a large zone of northern chad along their border have been the object of a long-running war between the two north african nations. gadhafi backs rebel forces against the current central government in n'djamena
if the national front statements were true, haftar's defection apparently would be the first of such a high-ranking officer among libyan forces in chad. colonel, gadhafi's rank, is the highest attainable in the libyan armed forces
brake failure caused two passenger trains to collide head-on outside shanghai, killing 28 people and injuring 99, officials said friday
among the dead were 27 members of a japanese high school tour group
the two trains crashed head-on thursday in a shanghai suburb, crushing and derailing several front cars. about 400 rescue workers were dispatched to the scene
the crash injured 99 people, 17 of them seriously, the state-run xinhua news agency quoted officials as saying at a shanghai news conference
most of the survivors from the 193-member japanese tour group boarded a chartered plane in shanghai on friday night to return home. dozens of relatives of the japanese dead and injured, meanwhile, arrived in shanghai
xinhua quoted mu kaixiang, deputy director of the shanghai railway administration, as saying the no. 311 train from nanjing to hangzhou tried to halt at a station as scheduled
but its brakes failed and it continued 460 feet into the path of train no. 208 arriving from changsha. the driver of no. 208 applied his emergency brakes but was unable to prevent the collision, xinhua quoted mu as saying
both trains were moving slower than 25 mph, he said
the japanese students and teachers were in the two first-class cars of train no. 311, which were derailed and badly crushed
acting premier li peng sent a telegram to japanese prime minister noboru takeshita on friday expressing ``deep sympathy'' to the families of the japanese victims
japan's vice minister of foreign affairs, hamada takujiro, also arrived to take charge of arrangements for the japanese involved, xinhua said
the school group, which included 11 teachers and 182 students, had arrived in china on monday to visit shanghai and nearby hangzhou
the nationally televised evening news said rescue workers labored until 3 a.m. friday to free passengers trapped in the crushed cars
it showed the baggage car of one train resting partially on top of the other train's engine and passengers being passed out of train windows on stretchers
the collision, china's fourth fatal train accident this year, came one day before li convened a session of the legislature, the national people's congress, at which the railways ministry is expected to be reorganized
a derailment jan. 24 killed 88 people, a train collision on jan. 17 killed 19 and a train fire jan. 7 killed 34
railways minister ding guangen resigned this month in disgrace because of the earlier train crashes, and no replacement has been appointed
a jury awarded two nurseries $1.5 million to cover losses to their citrus stock during the 1984 canker scare in a case that could set precedent
a circuit jury returned its verdict thursday night in a trial to set damages
mallory horne, representing the state department of agriculture and consumer services, had argued that $600,000 would be a fair settlement for the loss of 280,000 trees at mid-florida growers inc. and himrod &amp; himrod citrus nurseries
the nurseries had received $248,000 from the state and federal governments as compensation after their stock was destroyed. that amount will be deducted from the $1.5 million judgment
richard polk has a similar suit pending for the destruction of 510,000 trees
statewide, more than 20 million nursery-stock or newly planted trees were burned after inspectors discovered what they thought was a virulent strain of incurable citrus canker in august 1984. it later was found to be a much less threatening form of disease and some nursery owners sued, claiming the burning unnecessary
the florida supreme court determined that state officials acted properly to protect the state's multibillion-dollar industry, but ruled that owners should receive full compensation for destroyed propery
pete packett, spokesman for the florida department of agriculture, said friday he expected the state to appeal
police seized 880 pounds of cocaine worth about $45 million and arrested 12 people friday in what they described as the largest seizure of the drug in european history
authorities believe the find could be linked to the ``cartel de medellin'' ring of colombia, the alleged supplier of 80 percent of the cocaine to the u.s. market, according to madrid drug enforcement chief florentino gomez
among the suspects arrested in madrid were four colombians, three ecuadorians and a spanish woman. the others were not identified
police on friday were still gathering the drug hidden inside prefabricated housing panels inside a warehouse in the madrid suburb of fuenlabrada. the total weight of the seizure could eventually surpass 880 pounds, gomez said
gomez said the seizure capped an eight-month investigation. authorities made a breakthrough when they tracked a container sent from ecuador to the port of barcelona, which was later trucked east to the fuenlabrada warehouse, he said
the chief of the national plan to combat drugs, miguel solans, said the drug haul represented a major blow to international drug traffickers. mainly south americans dealers have converted spain into a gateway to the european drug market
on nov. 11, british and dutch drug agents claimed the previous largest seizure in europe after they found 550 pounds of cocaine aboard a colombian freighter in britain
an attempt by townspeople to protect mating salamanders from being killed by cars was thwarted when all but one of the amphibians ignored tunnels installed for them beneath a busy street
the 50 people who turned out in drizzle thursday night to watch the first salamander crossing of the year ended up barricading the street and carrying about 40 of the yellow-spotted salamanders across to a breeding pond
the animals spend the winter hibernating in woods and try to reach the pond every spring with the first warm rain
shouts went up when one salamander was discovered crawling along a fence leading to one of the tunnels under henry street. the salamander made it through in five minutes, 20 seconds, said shutesbury teacher ken lindsay
it was an historic event,'' lindsay said friday. ``it was the first salamander to go through a tunnel all on its own.''
the world's first salamander tunnels were installed after a public outcry over the amphibians' plight
many salamanders faced certain death when they slithered across the road. local naturalist robert winston persuaded town selectmen to close the street last year until all the salamanders, members of the mole salamander family, made the trek, which usually takes a week
the salamanders are not on the state's endangered species list, although the henry street population is the last in town
the three 19-inch-high tunnels were donated by aco polymer products of cleveland and installed in november for about $2,000. volunteers erected fences in january to guide the salamanders to the tunnels
the fences failed their first test, but townspeople said it was too early to tell how the whole experiment would fare
lindsay said there were very few salamanders out thursday night
winston's wife, janet, said the salamanders may have changed their usual migration pattern to start at a spot beyond the fence
lindsay said they might have been hibernating between the fence and the road. richard minear, chairman of the board of selectmen, said the tunnels might not be wet enough for the discriminating amphibians
in any event, the salamanders took townspeople by surprise, said mrs. winston, one of the flashlight-toting helpers at the crossing. ``they came a little sooner than we were quite prepared for,'' she said
the town's superintendent of public works said he hadn't yet hung the ``salamander crossing'' signs designed by shutesbury fourth-grader rachel mackintosh. c.</note>
faced with a financial crisis, legislators are on the verge of handing gov. buddy roemer more power than any louisiana chief executive has had since the days of huey long
bills nearing passage in a special session would give roemer authority to slash spending and close state institutions, and state agencies would be free to hike fees without public hearing or legislative review
another bill would permit the state to float bonds to pay off an operating debt that has grown to $1.3 billion since 1982
all of them just say `give it to the governor and ' we may as well have passed just one bill and said the legislature is hereby abolished,'' said c.w. ``bill'' rlet him decide.oberts, a top aide to former gov. edwin w. edwards
roemer took office march 15. edwards decided to retire after three terms rather than contest a runoff election against the former congressman
at the beginning of a 10-day special session on monday, roemer said the state was in a ``terrifying financial crisis'' and asked for temporary authority to slash spending until the legislature meets in regular session april 18
roemer said the state faces a $210 mia much less threatening form of disease and some nursery owners sued, claiming the burning unnecessary
the florida supreme court determined that state officials acted properly to protect the state's multibillion-dollar industry, but ruled that owners should receive full compensation for destroyed propery
pete packett, spokesman for the florida department of agriculture, said friday he expected the state to appeal
the ogden ywca has been warned that its national charter may be revoked and a reprimand issued over its decision to allow men as full members, the organization's director says
however, director gaye littleton said no sanctions by the national ywca in new york would force her organization to reverse its decision
we're holding fast on this,'' littleton said. ``we're not going to rescind our action.''
i became the first woman member of the ogden rotary club recently,'' littleton said. ``wouldn't it be tacky of me to become the first woman member of rotary, then tell members of rotary they could not belong to the ywca because they're men?''
the chapter's members voted unanimously feb. 23 to extend full memberships to men. littleton said she knows of no other among several thousand ywcas to admit men
since then, littleton has been contacted by national officials and told ``as soon as they receive the official notice of what we've done, they will begin official action against us.''
the national executive director of ther ywca, gwendoline baker, was the only person at the group's headquarters who could comment but she was out of the office friday, said her assistant, lorraine papasavas
the pending battle comes nearly a year after a u.s. supreme court ruling that rotary clubs international could not revoke the charter of local clubs that complied with state laws by extending memberships to women
since the ogden ywca extended full membership to males, about 30 men have joined, bringing total membership to about 400, littleton said
the private, non-profit agency has numerous community programs, including literacy classes, a crisis center for battered women, treatment centers for abused children and pregnant teens and support groups for divorced or widowed people
we have about 300 volunteers in this organization and about 75 of them are men,'' littleton said. ``we couldn't run this organization without men.''
the opposition to male membership is based ``on old fears that men dominate women, that women will defer to men, and that we will lose control,'' she said. ``but that's old stuff. nobody dominates anybody anymore. we're all working together much better _ men and women _ and the sexes don't have to be afraid of each other anymore.''
the head of the national education association proposed friday creating at least one experimental district in each state with no holds barred on school reforms
teachers, parents, school boards, local businesses and others involved in these 50 districts would have the union's blessings to ``turn their school systems upside down or inside out'' in pursuit of improvements, said nea president mary hatwood futrell
what we're proposing will say, `let's look at everything,''' she told a news conference
asked if that would extend to merit pay plans, which her 1.85 million-member union has bitterly opposed, futrell said, ``i can't imagine that they would do that, but if they decide that's an experiment that they would like to try and they bring us a reasonable proposal, we would certainly consider that.''
futrell said she will ask her state affiliates to work with governors, legislators and state education officials to reach a consensus on designating ``at least one entire school district in every state as an experimental, living laboratory to fundamentally restructure america's schools.''
bold action is needed to revive a school reform movement that has started to flag from insufficient funding, she said
her proposal drew qualified praise from a persistent critic of the nea, william j. bennett, the u.s. secretary of education
bennett issued a statement from houston saying: ``it's rather ironic to hear a call for reform from the organization that has done the most to resist meaningful education reforms in recent years. but if they are serious, it will be a welcome and refreshing change to have nea begin supporting real education reform.''
futrell's counterpart at the american federation of teachers, albert shanker, has already scheduled a speech at the national press club on thursday to unveil what his union calls ``a new and practical plan for teachers to begin radically restructuring america's public schools.''
the aft said shanker will outline ``a proposal that teachers be able to `opt out' of traditional responsibilities to create, run and administer innovative `mini-schools' within schools.''
bella rosenberg, an assistant to shanker, said futrell's idea sounded like ``more of the same old thing'' and ``an example of the top-down kind of reform we and others are trying desperately to get away from.''
aft affiliates in rochester, n.y.; dade county, fla.; hammond, ind., and toledo, ohio, are already embarked on experiments giving local teachers more say in running schools. toledo has a peer review system to improve poor teachers or get them out of the classroom
futrell also announced the nea will decide april 28 which democratic presidential candidate to endorse, if any. like most other unions, it has stayed on the political fence until the crowded field of candidates sorted itself out
futrell said her experimental school district idea must still be approved at the nea's annual convention in new orleans this july. but she already got a green light from the nea's powerful board of directors and has created a union committee on restructuring
in these 50 school districts, school employees, working through their local association, would join with school boards, parents, civic leaders and business to develop whatever innovative or creative program they deem appropriate to improve education,'' she said
those 50 local communities would be free to turn their school systems upside down or inside out. they would be free to open their school doors to 4-year-olds, or end the arbitrary division of class periods into 50-minute chunks, or experiment with alternatives to student tracking,'' she said
seven bandits burst into a hospital friday, disarmed four guards and took about $565,000 in cash from the payroll office, police said
no injuries were reported in the holdup at the centro traumatologico hospital
police said they did not exclude the possibility that the bandits, who were armed with pistols and a submachine gun, were terrorists seeking cash to finance their activities
it was the second holdup at a rome hospital in two days
on thursday, five gunmen disguised as doctors held up a bank inside the santo spirito hospital and fled with about $685,000 that had just arrived by armored car to pay employees' salaries
wearing white doctor's jackets, the bandits pistol-whipped a guard and a radiologist before fleeing on motorscooters, police said
government distribution of surplus milk to needy families will resume on a temporary basis in june following a one-month suspension, the department of agriculture announced friday
at this time, we do not know if distribution of non-fat dry milk can be continued beyond june,'' assistant secretary for food and consumer services john bode said in a statement
usda announced last month it would suspend milk and cheese distributions under the temporary emergency food assistance program. usda officials said the suspension was necessary because of dwindling inventories of the goods. the program began on orders from president reagan in 1981 when surpluses were piling up
the suspension announcement had drawn immediate fire from capitol hill
bode said friday that a new upturn in usda inventories prompted the june distribution of 8 million pounds of non-fat dry milk through local food banks. he said the department would monitor its inventories ``and keep states informed of availability.''
the same is true for cheese,'' he said. ``if we get more, we'll give it away.''
sen. patrick leahy, d-vt., chairman of the senate agriculture committee, said he was ``pleased that there's an additional temporary supply for the month, but this does not address the long-term problem.''
leahy has been calling for renewal of the tefap program, and he scheduled a grocery-bagging session in a downtown washington food bank on monday morning in an effort to focus the spotlight on the hunger issue
the food giveaway program has distributed more than 5 billion pounds of surplus food worth more than $5 billion since 1981, the department said
seven types of food have been provided: cheese, butter, non-fat dry milk, honey corn meal, flour and rice
the spoils of the drug business went up for auction, with everything from sweat socks to a white fur coat available for bidding
hundreds of people showed up thursday looking for a steal among about 300 items, worth an estimated $50,000. up for sale were gold chains, a motor scooter, a vacuum cleaner and something no one quite recognized
whatever it is, let's go for it,'' said a police department auctioneer, holding up a metal box with a bunch of long wires hanging down from the sides
it brought $50
proceeds go to the police forfeiture fund, used by the narcotics division, said lt. martin rosenau
nick rubino of east detroit plunked down $905 for a heavy gold necklace
it's a big silly gold chain,'' he said, adding he hopes to have it melted down. ``i hope it's worth more than $905.'' rages</head>
the toddler who was trapped for 58 hours in an abandoned well celebrates her second birthday saturday without the cameras and reporters that greeted her rescue last fall
jessica mcclure and her parents, reba and chip, plan a quiet observance at home, said a spokesman, pete snelson of midland
but a controversy between rival associations of rescuers over telling the tale for televison is far from quiet
the rescuers were among more than 200 firefighters, law enforcement officers, cave explorers, construction workers, drillers, welders and others who worked for three days to free jessica from the 8-inch well shaft
personally, i hope it doesn't get to the point where you're embarrassed to say you were involved in the rescue,'' said richard galle, a caver who assisted at the well site
galle, odessa's recreation superintendent, handled climbing harnesses for dusty workers who repeatedly descended a newly dug parallel shaft and bored horizontally through solid rock to reach the girl, 22 feet down
the two rescuers' groups _ one mostly volunteers and the other city officials and employees _ are negotiating separately with producers for a television movie
the jessica mcclure rescuer's association, a group of more than 30 volunteers, is committed to a movie deal with los angeles producer larry spivey, president of highland communications group inc. the group has asked all rescuers to join them
kragg robinson, the association's president, said members have signed a contract that includes an initial $200,000, plus future payments, to be divided among the members. spivey has yet to negotiate a deal with a network
the other group, the mcclure rescue association, comprises 11 municipal officials and has not yet committed to work with a producer
the rescuers' gatherings started calmly enough. some, in the spirit of solidarity and friendship, agreed to meet regularly for reunions and an informal group was created, said david lilly, a new mexico mining expert
jessica's parents have not yet signed any movie agreements, said snelson
it's a beautiful, heart-warming story'' that needs to be told in the right way, he said. the mcclures are ``appreciative of everyone and haven't measured one group against the other.''
police cpl. jim white, a member of the municipal workers' group, said its members harbor no animosity toward the volunteers' association
we just don't agree on movie producers,'' said white
ashland oil inc. says it will dismantle a 3.4 million-gallon petroleum storage tank it was building with 18-year-old steel at an ohio river terminal
ashland stopped construction on the tank jan. 6, just four days after a 4 million-gallon tank built with 40-year-old steel collapsed at its terminal in jefferson, 27 miles south of pittsburgh on the monongahela river. about 730,000 gallons of diesel fuel spilled into the monongahela and ohio rivers
ashland spokesman roger schrum said the company decided to tear down the tank, which was 90 percent completed, because ``we decided we didn't want to use a used tank at that location.''
dismantling will begin within a week, he said
skinner tank co. of yale, okla., which erected the failed tank in jefferson, was reassembling the tank in midland. the partially erected tank, 56.5 feet tall and 100 feet in diameter, is about 1,000 yards from the ohio river in a tank farm purchased from pennzoil inc. about a year ago, the company said
the tank was being constructed with steel from a shell oil co. tank built in cincinnati in 1970. it was one of 11 tanks, and one of two that were to be reconstructed from used steel, ashland planned to build at the midland terminal. schrum said construction had not begun on the other tanks
we still have plans to build a good, first-class terminal in midland, but we still haven't totally decided how many tanks we will build up there,'' he said thursday
schrum said the company's report on the jefferson tank collapse, and one being done at ashland's expense by the battelle institute, won't be completed for several more weeks
a judge ruled that 80 children held by a masked gunman last month at a private school will not have to testify at a preliminary hearing next week
an attorney for james harvey jr., charged with 84 counts of kidnapping in the daylong ordeal, had sought to subpoena the west end christian school pupils for tuesday's preliminary hearing
at a brief hearing thursday, district attorney charles freeman accused defense attorney michael cornwell of trying to ``create a circus atmosphere.''
cornwell said the prosecutor ``is trying to create a lynch-mob atmosphere.''
i think some people have concluded that mr. harvey is guilty and all this is a waste of time,'' cornwell said. ``thelevision and read the papers. everybody knows he's guilty.''
harvey is expected to be bound over to a tuscaloosa county grand jury at next week's hearing.y saw him on te
harvey and another man, both wearing ski masks, allegedly entered the tuscaloosa school feb. 2 and took the 80 pupils and four teachers hostage
the other man, john rhodes, gave up a few hours later and charges eventually were dropped against him when authorities determined he had been tricked into the abduction
twelve hours after the ordeal began, harvey laid down his weapons and was arrested after watching a videotape of gov. guy hunt signing a phony pcouch-potato economy'' that will be marked by low unemployment, more savings and rising productivity, economists and population experts say
the dawning of a couch-potato economy is the best thing that could happen to the united states after years of yuppie splurging, says edward yardeni, the economist who coined the term
yuppies are slowing down. we're all getting older, a little less frivolous,'' yardeni, 38, director of economics and fixed-income research for prudential-bache securities inc., said this past week
exhibit no. 1 in yardeni's case is the shift noted last year in consumer-spending priorities after the go-go years of 1985 and 1986
in 1985, the two fastest-growing segments were brokerage and investment fees and audio and video equipment
in 1986, the leaders were boats and recreational vehicles
in 1987, america seemed to turn suddenly sedentary. books and maps finished first, followed closely by funeral and burial expenses
the numbers from the commerce department may be misleading because the biggest percentage risers are small segments that fluctuate widely, but yardeni is convinced that they tell a story
i'm not promising you that the transformation definitely happened in '87,'' but something is afoot, yardeni said
he said the shift could point to an increased savings rate. ``and that should leave room for a boom in exports and a boom in capital spending. which is not a bad mix at all.''
one reason for japan's extraordinary success is its high savings rate, which creates a pool of money for investment
trailing behind the american baby boomers is the ``baby-bust'' generation _ the smaller complement of workers that is entering the work force now
there are too few qualified baby busters to fill all the entry-level jobs. but yardeni optimistically sees a positive side to that: it will force business to find ways to automate more, he says, increasing the nation's productivity
yardeni's ideas are supported by others, including cheryl russell, editor-in-chief of american demographics magazine in ithaca, n.y
as baby boomers settle down, they are beginning to put aside money for their children's education and their own retirement, ms. russell said
but baby boomers will still be spending, too, something that is good news for producers of consumer goods
baby boomers are entering their peak earnings years, so they will be able to spend more and save more at the same time,'' ms. russell said
in spite of the free-spending reputation of the young, ms. russell said, households headed by people aged 35 and over lead their juniors in every broad category of spending except two: alcohol and rented dwellings
the mix of spending is what is changing. couch potatoes spend less money on movie tickets, more on things like vcrs. and, of course, couches
the changing habits of the nation are more than a myth. the roper organization last year reported a poll finding that more than half of people over 30 prefer doing things at home, while more than half of people under 30 prefer doing things outside the home
the median age in the united states is rising, ms. russell notes, and it has just passed 30
everyone's tired,'' said thomas miller, 30, editor of the public pulse, a roper newsletter. ``some peole call it the cocooning phenomenon. some people call it the couch-potato economy. we think it's mainly exhaustion.'' report says</head>
thirty-six states have established ``rainy day'' funds as a hedge against economic downturns, although seven states have put no money in them and most of the rest haven't put in enough to deal with serious financial troubles, a report issued friday said
two of the states, alaska and wyoming, both suffering from the drop in energy prices, actually have drawn upon those reserves to avoid deep spending cuts and to keep their budgets balanced, the report said
that proves the funds are working,'' said raymond scheppach, executive director of the national governors' association
the association, along with the national association of state budget officers, put together the report on the financial condition of the 50 states, ``fiscal survey of the states.''
in general, the report found that most states tightened their budget belts last year and are reluctant to start major new programs this year because of uncertainty about the economy
states such as louisiana and west virgina are facing tough financial times because of their reliance on the troubled energy industry. but the majority of states are in sound health, the report said
still, that figure belies the fact that most states are close to the financial edge. the report found that the majority of states will end the year with only small budget balances. those balances are expected to fall to 1.5 percent of total expenditures at the end of next fiscal year, the lowest level since the recession of 1983, when it was 1.3 percent
california and new jersey, both with booming economies, are among the handful of states expecting to end the next fiscal year with large balances. california is projecting a $1.1 billion balance and new jersey, $231 million
louisiana, on the other hand, is the only state forecasting a deficit at the end of next fiscal year _ an estimated $731 million
the report also found that some states are putting money aside into contingency funds instead of counting unspent dollars as end-of-the-year balances. such reserves are a relatively recent phenomenon, formed to buffer state finances from the disruptions of an uneven economy, the report said
but the funds, overall, are small. at the end of last fiscal year, the reserves totaled $2 billion, or just under 1 percent of expenditures, the report said. the amount of money in the reserves is expected to increase slightly to $2.3 billion at the end of this fiscal year, but that still will equal just 1 percent of expenditures
clearly,'' the report said, ``small reserves can help relieve less serious fiscal conditions, but states will still be unprepared for an extended economic downturn.''
seven of the states have yet to put money into their reserves: alaska, idaho, iowa, utah, virginia, washington and wisconsin, the report said
the other 29 states that have established such reserves are california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, indiana, kentucky, louisiana (which refers to its program as a deficit elimination fund), maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new mexico, new york, ohio, oklahoma, pennsylvania, rhode island, south carolina, tennessee, vermont and wyoming
new jersey and hawaii are considering creating a ``rainy day'' fund
most states expect little fallout from last october's stock market collapse, although florida, washington, tennessee and new york are planning for revenue losses
the report found that the economic picture generally differs by region, with new england in a strong financial position. one measure of its strength was its unemployment rate, which averaged 3.4 percent in 1987, far below the national rate of 6.2 percent
the mideast also boasts a strong economy, while recessions in the midwestern farm states and western energy states seem to have bottomed out, the report said. in the south, the economic picture is mixed, with some states, like florida, north carolina and virginia, experiencing strong growth and louisiana, west virginia and kentucky facing economic hard times
rep. james howard, d-n.j., chairman of the house public works committee, died today, a day after suffering a heart attack while playing golf, his office said
howard, 60, a 22-year house veteran, collapsed thursday on a suburban maryland golf course, according to his office. his staff said he suffered a heart attack and cardiac arest
doctors labored for nearly two hours to start the spring lake heights, n.j., lawmaker breathing on his own after the attack . howard had not regained consciousness since he was stricken
howard, who had suffered two previous heart attacks, was revived by doctors at montgomery general hospital in olney, md. he was then rushed by helicopter to the sophisticated cardiac unit at the hospital center here
a former wall township schoolteacher and principal, howard has been in congress since 1965. he is the second most senior member of the new jersey congressional delegation after rep. peter rodino, who has announced he will not run for re-election this year
pope john paul ii stressed the value of celibacy in a letter sent to priests worldwide and released by the vatican on friday
the analogy between the church and the virgin mother has a special eloquence for us, who link our priestly vocation to celibacy, that is, to making ourselves eunuchs for the sake of heaven,'' the pope said in his annual holy week message to priests
in the past, the pope has washed the feet of 12 men in a holy thursday service to re-enact christ's last supper with his apostles, who are considered the first priests of the roman catholic church
telling priests that their lives are the ``equivalent'' of ``spiritual fatherhood'' because the church has a special relationship with the virgin mary, the mother of jesus, the pope wrote: ``on holy thursday we need to deepen once again this mysterious truth of our vocation....''
the pope urged priests to turn to mary for guidance in keeping their vocation, saying, ``it is necessary that our priestly choice of celibacy for the whole of our lives should also be placed within her heart.''
john paul encouraged priests to ``seek also a proper relationship with women.'' as examples, he cited how jesus showed compassion to an adultress who was on the verge of being stoned by a crowd. he asked the spectators, according to the gospel of john, ``let him who is without sin ... be the first to cast a stone upon her.''
he noted also that jesus first conveyed the ``easter good news of his resurrection'' to women who had come to his tomb
by reason of his vocation and service, the priest must discover in a new way the question of the dignity and vocation of women both in the church and in today's world.''
the pope did not elaborate on what a church vocation could mean for women, who are barred from the priesthood. `desecration''</head>
edgar m. bronfman, president of the world jewish congress, on friday condemned the payment voted by austria's parliament to compensate victims of nazism as ``a desecration.''
the decision to grant between $200 and $400 to each victim ``represents a desecration of the memory of the victims of the holocaust at the very moment of austria's reflection on the 50th anniversary of its union with nazi germany,'' bronfman said
the parliament in vienna voted overwhelmingly wednesday to pay a one-time sum of $4 million to victims of nazism
some 68,000 austrian jews died in nazi concentration camps during world war ii, and more than 120,000 others were incarcerated in camps or fled the country. in all, the nazis exterminated some 6 million jews
bronfman's statement noted that the austrian decision was in marked contrast to west germany's 1952 agreement to compensate the victims of nazism for life with monthly reparation payments
the world jewish congress, based in new york, has been at the forefront of a two-year campaign to expose the nazi past of austrian president kurt waldheim. ``the recent attention focused on kurt waldheim's nazi past has exploded the long-held myth that austria was a victim of nazi persecution rather than its very willing collaborator,'' bronfman said
a team of international historians found that waldheim was implicated in nazi persecution while serving as an officer in the german army during world war ii. that some facing death penalty. no pickup.</note>
twenty-nine leftist inmates tunneled their way out of a military prison, istanbul's deputy governor said friday
ihsan yalcin told the associated press by telephone that the inmates escaped from the metris military prison thursday night through a 60-yard long tunnel they had dug earlier
the anatolia news agency said nine of the inmates faced the death penalty and eight were serving life sentences
yalcin said 19 of the escapees were members of the outlawed turkish workers' and peasants' liberation army and that the rest belonged to other outlawed leftist organizations
president reagan said today he still thinks fired national security council aide oliver l. north is a hero and he does not believe any of the iran-contra criminal defendants committed a crime
fielding questions after making a speech to young people representing the center for the study of the presidency, reagan said he thought that north, along with former national security adviser john m. poindexter and other defendants, will be acquitted of charges brought against them in a federal grand jury indictment
reagan said he could not understand why the arms-to-iran initiative had become his administration's worst political scandal
i still think ollie north is a hero,'' reagan said when asked if he was considering a pardon for his former aide, who retired last week from the u.s. marine corps
earlier this week, north and poindexter, along with arms dealers richard secord and albert hakim, pleaded innocent to federal conspiracy and theft charges in connection with the iran-contra affair
former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane had earlier pleaded guilty to reduced charges stemming from the arms-to-iran deal
after telling his audience that the subject of pardons is ``something i can't discuss now,'' reagan added:
i just have to believe that they're going to be found innocent because i don't believe they're guilty of law-breaking of any kind.''
reagan has said on past occasions that he did not believe any laws were broken in the affair, which came to public light in early november 1986
on nov. 25, 1986, reagan appeared in the white house press room to announce that north had been fired and that poindexter had resigned
attorney general edwin meese iii came onto the podium a few moments later to announce that the administration had uncovered information indicating that proceeds from the arms sales to tehran had been diverted to the iran-contra rebels
the government has yet to enact guidelines ensuring that manufacturers of new drugs test their medications on the elderly, a senate panel was told friday
medical experts appearing before the senate special committee on aging said the guidelines, along with better labeling, were keys in curbing a ``disturbing frequency'' of harmful drug reactions among people over 60
on june 28, 1983, mark novitch, then food and drug administration deputy commissioner, told the committee on aging that the agency was developing standards to make sure elderly patients were included in tests of new drugs for ailments common to senior citizens
but the guidelines remain unpublished, fda commissioner frank e. young said in a statement the senate panel released friday
five years later, the fda is still dragging its feet,'' said sen. john heinz, r-pa., the committee's ranking republican
young said the fda had not ignored the standards, but rather had been circulating them among drug companies in draft form for comments and fine-tuning
the guidelines are already being implemented in that the pharmaceutical industry is using them,'' young said
but physician jerry avorn of the harvard medical school told the panel that without final guidelines, there has been ``great variabiity in the eagerness with which drug companies have sought out the elderly in the investigational stages of a new drug.''
avorn said there was a ``disturbing frequency'' of adverse drug reactions among senior citizens
young did not appear in person for questioning, saying in a letter to committee chairman john melcher, d-mont., that he was notified two weeks ago and did not have had adequate time to prepare
in 1986, people 60 and over accounted for at least 39 percent of 4,481 hospitalizations due to adverse reactions from medication, according to fda figures
but researchers have estimated the number of such hospitalizations might actually be much higher. stereotypes of the elderly as confused, depressed, weak or diarrheic often cause health professionals to miss drug-related ailments, said william simonson, associate professor of pharmacy at oregon state university
since the most common manifestations of adverse drug reactions in the elderly are precisely the same symptoms of this unfair stereotype, professionals who believe that aging is synonymous with deterioration of physical and mental function often overlook medications as the cause of their patients' deterioration,'' simonson said
simonson said the fda was not being tough enough in ensuring that geriatric-specific information appeared on labels
fda spokesman bill grigg said in an interview that labeling would improve as better information became available about specific medications
two other witnesses, wilda henry of golden gate, fla., and ann little of cray, tenn., said their mothers had suffered needlessly because physicians had prescribed drugs that produced harmful reactions
little said doctors had recommended over-the-counter antacids, laxatives and painkillers for her mother, donnis ware. more importantly, she said, her mother's medicine cabinet was a ``mini-drug store'' of 14 prescription drugs, including medication to strengthen the heartbeat and regulate rhythm, control blood pressure and increase urine flow
she testified that her mother had been hospitalized after a january 1986 overdose left her ``sprawled and lifeless,'' and later confused
ms. henry said her mother, whom she declined to name, had become ``a vegetable'' from legal drug use
indiana's dublin may not be on the travel itinerary of many foreign visitors, but it's a must stop for six irish firefighters touring the united states in a motor home
dublin, which has about 1,000 residents, is one of eight dublins on the firefighters' itinerary. so far, they've been to dublins in north carolina, maryland, pennsylvania, virginia, georgia and kentucky
after leaving dublin, ind., they planned to head east to dublin, ohio
rex a. snyder, president of the dublin fire department, said the irishmen were expected to arrive saturday, exchange gifts and then attend a reception
the locals hope the irishmen won't be too disappointed, however, when they learn that the naming of dublin had nothing to do with the irish city of the same name
clarence bryant, 71, the unofficial historian of dublin, ind., said there are two stories about the town's name
one school believes the town was called dublin because travelers along the national road, the nation's first interstate, had to ``double'' their teams to get through a swampy area and up a hill near dublin
the other story was that so many pioneers used the national road to head west that it was necessary to have a two-room inn _ a double inn _ to accommodate them all, bryant said
a giant quilt hand-sewn into the shape of north dakota in honor of the state's 100th birthday received rave reviews from about 500 people who inspected it in stocking feet
i'm proud of how it turned out,'' said leona tennyson, 73, who coordinated the quilt's construction. ``a lot of people put a lot of time and effort into it. i think it's a good, clean way to celebrate our centennial.''
the quilt, which covered the entire floor of the civic memorial auditorium, was measured thursday night at 123 feet, 10 inches at its widest point and 75 feet, 9 inches deep
the measurements were taken by members of the north dakota centennial commission, which hopes the quilt will be confirmed as the world's largest by the guinness book of world records
guinness lists a belgian quilt sewn in 1982 and measuring 69 feet, 6 inches by 99 feet, 5 inches and sewn as its current record
the centennial quilt contains 1,360 four-inch-square township blocks, many with carefully crafted symbols of the local landscape, natural resources and history
it's hard to imagine putting this all together with some of the detail that went into the work,'' said fargo mayor jon lindgren, who joined some 500 other spectators in viewing the quilt
most of the spectators walked on the quilt in stocking feet to locate familiar landmarks or family farmsteads. some knelt on all fours to get a closer look
more than 7,000 volunteers around the state worked on the project, which took 23 months to complete, according to ms. tennyson, who teaches arts and crafts in antler, along the north dakota-canada border
the herbert hoover presidential library-museum is having a casting call for people with a presidential look
amateur and professional actors from around the midwest may attend the april 12 audition and take a crack at impersonating any of the 39 presidents
the winner will receive $200 for two hours' work during the april 23 opening of a ``39 men'' exhibit of presidential memorabilia
the collection includes more than 200 articles associated with the presidents, including george washington's saber, abraham lincoln's shawl, john kennedy's rocking chair and millard fillmore's handwritten will
auditions are sponsored by the hoover library association, which is helping to finance the exhibit, considered the most extensive ever undertaken at the presidential library
the leftist sandinista government and the contra rebels each claimed on friday that its own military pressure helped force the other to yield to a cease-fire plan
the sandinistas, in their newspaper barricada, called on citizens to prepare for ideological warfare to defend the ruling party against the contras. the contras hinted that if peaceful measures don't bring about democratic reforms, they are prepared take up arms again
a defense ministry spokesman said there were no reports of combat on friday, five days after the two sides agreed to suspend offensive operations
the temporary truce began at the start of three days of talks that ended with the signing of the plan wednesday night. under the pact, guns will remain silent until june 1, when a permanent cease-fire is to take effect
in addition to its regular edition, barricada distributed a special four-page edition friday praising the pact that outlines steps to end the war, which has lasted more than six years
barricada's regular edition said that with the agreement, the war will take on a new phase
on an internal political level, this means the incorporation of pressure groups, that even though disarmed, continue to be armed ideologically against the popular power and its conquests,'' it said in an editorial
this implies that while the warlike battles lessen or stop, the fight enters a new phase of political-ideological battles
the people should be ready for the new step to reach total peace, the continuation and the strengthening of the revolution and the power of the sandinistas,'' it added
it ran a front-page caricature of president reagan dressed as a magician and reaching into an empty high-top hat. the magician's rabbit, with the word ``sapoa'' written on its chest, sat on reagan's head
the cease-fire talks were held at the customs post outside the border village of sapoa, 90 miles south of the capital
jorge rosales, a contra spokesman in miami, said the sandinistas signed the cease-fire agreement ``because of the pressure _ military and political _ put on them by the (nicaraguan) resistance,'' as the rebels are formally known
the resistance has been proposing this type of agreement since 1983 but the only response we had from them was insults,'' he said
but rosales indicated that if democracy is not reached with the cease-ire agreement that the contras would renew their armed fight
if we can't do it peacefully, if the sandinsitas do not want to achieve democracy, then the reasons nicaraguans took up arms will still be there,'' he said
the rebels' radio liberacion quoted contra leader adolfo calero as saying ``the signed truce doesn't mean we have abandoned our fight (for democracy) in nicaragua.''
our first way is peaceful, but this does not exclude other means if we are obligated to do so,'' he said
contra sources have indicated that congress' rejection of new aid to them in february was the major reason for signing the agreement. the other was that the sandinistas reportedly told the rebels the talks were the last chance to end the war
the sandinistas are banking on the reagan administration's lame duck status continuing to thwart its efforts to get new contra aid
at the same time, they made some concessions to reach the agreement, which could ease severe internal problems that revolve around the draft, economic policies and the chronic shortages of food and basics
the contras have been backed by the united states since 1981 in their fight to oust the sandinistas, who came to power in a popular revolutionary war. government opponents say they promised democracy and delivered marxism
under the cease-fire agreement, the government will grant a gradual political amnesty and full press freedoms. the contras may receive only non-lethal aid and it must be distributed by a neutral organization. all political exiles can return
a united nations delegation went to the border with nicaragua for a second day friday. it was invited by the sandinistas to prove its troops had not crossed into honduran territory during an eight-day offensive that ended march 16 to rout contras from base camps
defense sources said thursday the sandinista army has pulled patrols from mountainous jungle regions in war zones to places where there are less likely to be clashes with the contras
the reagan administration and the honduran government have cited an incursion by 2,000 sandinista as the reason for sending u.s. troops into honduras last week
nicaraguan soldiers in the border region of thick jungle, mountains and a maze of rivers indicated they had crossed the coco river dividing the two nations
the sandinista offensive pushed about 1,800 rebels back into honduras, according to the government. military sources indicated that the low number of battlefield deaths, put at 92 by the sandinista army, did not mark a victory for government troops
jesse upchurch knew little about apocalyptic imagery in the bible and cared less about satanic symbols until the new owners of her lakefront luxury building said it was no longer 666 north lake shore drive
i never knew it had satanic connotations until one night when i was watching `the omen' on television,'' ms. upchurch said, referring to the 1976 movie in which a boy named damien has the numbers ``666'' on his scalp
when i saw that,'' she continued, ``i said to myself, `isn't that amazing? he has our address on his head.' it actually made me feel kind of proud.''
the building's new owners and management felt differently. in a march 1 letter, they notified commercial leaseholders and occupants of the nearly 400 residential units that as of may 1, the building will be known as lake shore place at 680 north lake shore drive
spokesmen for the owner, a chemical bank of new york subsidiary, and the local management company, golub &amp; co., say the address change had nothing to do with the devil
they say their intent was to disassociate the building from a spate of financial problems that befell its previous owner, a new york real estate developer who bought the building in 1979 and lost a mortgage foreclosure battle with the bank last year
it certainly wasn't us who raised this devil thing,'' said michael schramm, executive vice president of golub &amp; co
some chicagoans have taken to calling the building the mark-of-the-beast building or the devil's building, apparently in light-hearted reference to passages from the book of revelation in the new testament
the book tells of a beast with two horns like a lamb that arose from the earth and caused every person to receive its mark on the right hand or the forehead. ``let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is six hundred threescore and six,'' according to revelation 13:18
ms. upchurch said a supervisor in the city department that approved the address change told her the owners specifically mentioned that ``666 refers to the devil.''
if the owner's motive is open to debate, the inconvenience the name change will cause many tenants is not
they're fighting mad and ... we're talking about wealthy people, not the kind of people you'd expect to pick this kind of fight,'' said ms. upchurch, 36, who makes her living writing and recording commercial jingles with her husband
i'd just bought a year's supply of client forms and checks: 10,000 envelopes with the wrong address were delivered four days before we were notified,'' said sharon cooper wottrich, owner and president of a-plus talent agency in the building
the tenants have collected $1,600 thus far and retained an attorney about making a legal challenge, ms. upchurch said
the final blow to some tenants isn't even the name change. it's the new _ some say stuffy _ moniker of lake shore place
it's absolutely pretentious,'' said zacharias rosner, another leader of the tenant uprising. ``it's like painting a rolls-royce orange.''
a u.s.-built rocket carrying a satellite with italian, west german and u.s. scientific experiments was launched from an indian ocean platform off the coast of east africa on friday night
the satellite will orbit the earth on a yearlong mission to study the lower atmosphere
the scout rocket, a four-stage, solid-fuel booster, rose in a plume of fire and smoke into a cloudless sky beneath a quarter moon
the launch at 10:55 p.m. came 12 hours after an original daylight launch was postponed. weather forecasters had predicted a thunderstorm, which did not materialize
aboard the 522-pound satellite was equipment from nasa's goddard space flight center in maryland to measure the electric field outside the craft
another experiment from the university of texas will measure hot gases and ion winds surrounding the spacecraft
the italian space agency sent a device designed to measure drag forces on the orbiting satellite, and the west german space agency sent equipment to measure solar ultraviolet radiation and radiation of interplanetary and intergalactic origin
the satellite, which will be monitored from a control room in rome, will make a complete loop around the earth, above the equator, every 100 minutes
friday night's launch was the first from the italian-run san marco equatorial range since 1974
the range, 90 miles north of the port city of mombasa, was established in 1965 and has been the site of eight previous launches, all of them involving scout rockets
the university of rome operates the range. friday's launch was conducted in collaboration with the national aeronautics and space administration
the san marco platform, named for the patron saint of navigators, is three miles offshore and similar to those used in offshore drilling
the scout rocket is one of the most reliable ones used by nasa. friday night's launch was the 53rd success out of 54 attempts in the past 20 years, nasa officials said
the launch had been postponed from last week because of mechanical problems
soldiers opened fire friday when a mob attacked a school they had occupied, killing two arabs, and others stormed a mosque to pursue youths throwing stones, according to arab and army reports
witnesses and israel radio said 13 palestinians were wounded at the school in tarqumia, which was being converted into a temporary army headquarters
in nearby hebron, soldiers shot at young arabs on the roof of al haras mosque who pelted them with rocks and raised the outlawed palestinian flag after midday prayers. hospital officials said four arabs were wounded
about 30 soldiers stormed the mosque, yanked down the flags and lined up dozens of teen-agers against a wall. the army said 50 were arrested
troopers stormed hebron's alia hospital later and arrested six young arabs who barricaded themselves on the roof, flinging stones at soldiers and passing cars, the army reported
according to u.n. figures, 111 palestinians have been killed since violence began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel has occupied since capturing them from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. one israeli soldier has been killed
in washington, secretary of state george p. shultz arranged to meet with two members of the palestine national council,4.47  244.47 colombia      .0035  .0035 284.62  284.00 denmark      .1555  .1555 6.4287  6.4290 c-egypt      .4474  .4474 2.2350  2.2350 f-ecudr     .002777 .002777 360.00  360.00 finland      .2482  .2484 4.0290  4.0250 france       .1757  .1754 5.6890  5.7000 greece       .0074  .0075 134.00  133.60 hong kong    .1282  .1281 7.8020  7.8065 y-india       .0765  .0766 13.0700 13.0400 indnsia      .000601 .000602 1662.00 1662.00 ireland      1.5940  1.5940  .6274  .6273 israel        .6348  .6345 1.5752  1.5760 italy       .000805 .000805 1241.00 1242.50 japan      .007981 .007962 125.29  125.60  30-day ft   .007996 .007978 125.00  125.35  60-day ft   .008016 .007997 124.75  125.04  90-day ft   .008033 .008074 124.48  123.85 jordan      2.9830  2.9830 .33520  .33520 kuwait      3.6480  3.6470 .27412  .27420 lebanon     .00274  .00273 364.00  366.00 z-mexico    .000436 .000439 2290.00 2280.00 nethrlnds     .5313  .5281 1.8820  1.8935 n. zealand    .6425  .6570 1.5560  1.5220 norway      .1586  .1587 6.3035  6.3025 pakistan     .0570  .0570  17.55  17.55 y-peru       .0303  .0303  33.00  33.00 z-philpins     .0474  .0476 21.0800 21.0000 portugal    .007246 .007220 138.00  138.50 saudi arab   .2666  .2666 3.7510  3.7510 singapore     .4976  .4973 2.0098  2.0110 so. korea   .001342 .001340 745.00  746.50 so. africa     .4700  .4700 2.1280  2.1280 spain      .008925 .008929 112.05  112.00 sweden      .1688  .1687 5.9237  5.9280 switzerlnd    .7212  .7212 1.3866  1.3865  30-day fut    .7245  .7246 1.3803  1.3801  60-day fut    .7277  .7280 1.3741  1.3737  90-day fut    .7289  .7306 1.3720  1.3687 taiwan       .0349  .0349  28.64  28.64 turkey     .000822 .000822 1215.99 1216.50 u.a.e.       .2723  .2723 3.6730  3.6730 z-uruguay    .0032  .0032 316.50  316.50 z-venzuel     .0339  .0339 29.5000 29.5000 w. grmny    .5965  .5965 1.6765  1.6765  30-day fut    .5982  .5982 1.6716  1.6716  60-day fut    .6001  .6002 1.6665  1.6662  90-day fut    .6017  .6018 1.6619  1.6617 yugslvia    .000735 .000735 1360.00 1360.00
the federal reserve board's index measuring the value of the dollar against 10 other currencies weighted on the basis of trade was 89.37 friday, off 0.10 points or off 0.11 percent from thursday's 89.47. a year ago the index was 98.31
late closing prices as of 3:00 p.m. eastern time as gathered by first american bank of new york
c-commercial rate, f-financial rate, y-official rate, z-floating rate, r-revised
varryl thomas says her family had two choices: ``it was either come here to st. tammany and live in a tent or stay in new orleans and live in the streets.''
st. tammany gave the family an unexpected third choice _ to move the tent because it was violating sanitation and building codes
however, the deputy who ordered them to move put them in touch with a church, which is helping them find a home
we have no relatives around here and didn't know anybody,'' mrs. thomas said. ``we had no place to go. my husband's disabled and i don't have a job. if it wasn't for the churches, we would be some pitiful people.''
the thomases' problems began in new orleans about a month ago, when the house they were living in was sold. they'd been living rent-free in exchange for watching the property, mrs. thomas said
we didn't have enough money to rent a new house,'' she said. ``rent there is about $175. plus you have to have that much more for a damage deposit and more money for utility deposits.''
they took their $277 monthly welfare check and every penny they could scrape up and made a $200 down payment on a 75-by-125-foot lot in a subdivision near madisonville
last weekend, they loaded their belongings in plastic garbage bags, put them on a small pickup truck and drove across the causeway to their new lot. several of the bags blew into lake pontchartrain on the way over
that didn't help matters,'' larry thomas said
their 9-by-12-foot tent made it, however. the family improvised an outhouse from a blue tarpaulin over a hole in the ground
the couple and their children _ benjamin, 4, alaster, 5, and luwana, 6 _ planned to live there until they could afford to build a small house
we didn't know we weren't supposed to put up a tent on the lot,'' mrs. thomas said. ``we were told the only thing you couldn't put on the lot was a trailer.''
after learning the family's plight, the st. tammany parish sheriff's deputy who ordered them to move called st. anselm catholic church in madisonville. deacon philip baham put the family up in a motel for the rest of the weekend and found them a house in covington, mrs. thomas said
the church paid $100 for a month's rent and the covington food bank and the vincentian center in covington gave the family food, said food bank manager beverly sharp
mrs. thomas said the family paid $200 down and $125 in closing costs for the $9,500 lot. the 17-year mortgage was to be paid at $95 a month
we were going to try to pay it out of our welfare check, i guess. and i was hoping to find a job,'' mrs. thomas said
sharp said the vincentian center is trying to find a job for mrs. thomas, who has worked as an auto mechanic
but i'll do anything at all,'' mrs. thomas said. ``i'm not choosy about a job. i went to three places today, but they didn't have any openings.''
a shy ``caveman'' with a toy gun and a man who allegedly drove him to stickups and ordered him to hide in the cave are suspected of at least 16 robberies, police said friday
joseph e. steffani, 24, of oakland, was lured from his cave by undercover officers who promised him cigarettes and a hot meal, then arrested him, said sgt. robert chenault
he looked like grizzly adams without the long beard,'' said chenault. ``he wore an old ragged jacket, dirty pants and sneakers and he smelled pretty bad.''
kenneth hawtin, 37, of el cerrito, who steffani claims took him to the robberies and told him to stay in the cave, also was arrested for the robberies that netted a total of about $1,500 since march 7, chenault said
hawtin would drive steffani to the places they would rob, convenience stores, florist shops, ice cream parlors and liquor stores, easy places to hit,'' chenault said. ``steffani would walk in, throw a bag on the counter, say `this is a stickup,' show the gun in his belt and tell them to fill the bag.''
no one was hurt in any of the holdups
we didn't believe it at first when we heard a caveman was pulling these robberies,'' chenault said. ``but it turned out to be true.''
in an apparent suicide attempt, hawtin stuck a key into an electrical outlet in a police interview room thursday after admitting his involvement in the robberies, chenault said. he was knocked unconscious and was hospitalized overnight for observation
steffani and hawtin also were being treated for heroin and cocaine addiction, chenault said. steffani told police he's been addicted to the tranquilizer valium since he was 14 and was afraid to be around people without the drug
hawtin and steffani split the money from the robberies, chenault said, and apparently used it to buy drugs
police said hawtin befriended steffani last christmas and lived with him in el cerrito until last week, when he took steffani to the cave above the tiny town of canyon
only a few friends knew of steffani's hiding place, said sgt. dan mercado. they and hawtin would drive to the area with food and supplies and honk their horns
steffani would come out of his hiding place, see who it was and either ``get the things or run back into the bushes and hide,'' mercado said
mercado said police were tipped off by an informant. undercover officers went to arrest steffani late wednesday night and honked their horn. at first, mercado said, all the officers could see was ``eyes in the bushes.''
steffani eventually gave up without a struggle. hawtin was arrested the next day, and a plastic replica handgun allegedly used in the robberies was found in his car, chenault said. subs pvs 3rd graf from end, ``a senior,'' with 2 grafs to update with reagan, balaguer comments</note>
the senate, voting 92-0, urged president reagan on friday to increase u.s. economic pressure against panamanian military strongman manuel antonio noriega as part of a campaign to drive him from office
the unanimous vote was intended to demonstrate noreiga has lost all u.s. support
the non-binding resolution also urged the white house to consider ``a comprehensive package of emergency financial and other economic assistance'' to help a democratic successor government rebuild panama's economy
an administration official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said, ``we have been aware of the senate resolution for days and consider it to be completely complementary to u.s. policy in panama.''
the impression in all our minds is that noriega must go,'' said sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the senate foreign relations committee
he will go, and this will help him down the slippery slope,'' pell said
to gen. noriega, we say step aside now, while you still have the chance _ for your own sake and for your family''s future,'' said sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., a principal sponsor of the resolution
the resolution declared that noriega's military rule and his alleged involvement in large-scale international drug running and money laundering represent ``an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy and economy of the united states.''
but senators stressed that any action the united states takes against noreiga is in response to the direct request of president eric arturo devalle, who was ousted as panama's chief executive on feb. 25 after trying unsuccessfully to remove noriega as head of the panamanian defense force
this battle is going to be won or lost by the panamanian people,'' kennedy said. ``but i think it is important that in this struggle they know where the united states stands.''
several senators urged noriega to reconsider his refusal of a justice department offer not to seek his extradition for trial on u.s. narcotics-trafficking charges if he gives up power and goes into exile in spain
noriega needs to know that offer is not good forever _ and that he will not be free to pursue his sordid activities without fear of paying the consequences,'' said sen. david durenberger, r-minn
if he thinks this is the end of it _ if he feels this is all we are going to do _ he'd better think again,'' said sen. jesse helms, r-n.c. ``this is a man who is a symbol for destroying liberty.''
among the options available to the united states is the imposition of a total trade embargo against panama, a step the administration has resisted in favor of a more measured, incremental approach
many members of congress originally called for such action before joining forces behind the resolution approved friday
after two federal grand juries in florida charged noriega with multimillion-dollar drug trafficking and money laundering, president reagan cut off the flow of u.s. dollars to panama
panama uses dollars as its own currency and the move paralyzed the panamanian banking system
before meeting in the oval office with dominican president joaquin balaguer on friday, reagan was asked whether noriega might seek exile in the dominican republic
no,'' he replied. ``that's not far enough.''
reagan, asked about the senate resolution at a departure ceremony for balaguer, said, ``we're considering everything, but i can't take any questions.''
balaguer said in an interview with the voice of america that he would grant asylum to noriega if asked
meanwhile, the federal agency for international development has agreed to release $250,000 in emergency funds to buy food for the poor in panama
the food will be purchased in panama if it is available and distributed through caritas, a roman catholic relief agency, said aid spokesman jim kunder
there will be no organized union boost behind a single candidate in saturday's democratic caucuses in michigan, a state where union members can wield more clout than almost anywhere else
while national labor leaders are assuming michael dukakis will be the eventual nominee, they are prevented from endorsing him by what appears to be growing rank-and-file support for jesse jackson, who has gotten more union votes than any of the other candidates in primaries so far. richard gephardt also has considerable union support
none of the democratic candidates appears to have won the hearts _ or votes _ of a majority of the state's 750,000 rank-and-file union workers, nearly half of them members of the united auto workers
afl-cio president lane kirkland has held out the possibility of an endorsement before the democratic national convention in july if it appears that two-thirds of the labor federation's 14.2 million members have agreed on a favorite
so far they haven't. exit polls from the march 8 southern primaries showed jackson holding the greatest support among union members at 37 percent, followed by dukakis at 25 percent
there's not going to be an endorsement before the covention,'' communications workers of america president morton bahr, who also is an afl-cio vice president, said this week
despite uaw president owen bieber's known affection for gephardt, the union itself has carefully maintained an official position of neutrality in accord with afl-cio guidelines
so have the other big unions in michigan _ the teamsters with 72,000 members, the american federation of state, county and municipal employees with 60,000, the service employees with 27,000 and the united steel workers with 24,000
but that ``neutrality'' by the international unions hasn't prevented their former leaders and the hundreds of local union officers in michigan from taking sides
bill marshall, former president of the michigan state labor federation, endorsed gephardt on friday. former uaw president doug fraser endorsed dukakis earlier this month
it's kind of schizophrenic, said jon ogar, a spokeman for the michigan state labor federation. ``most of the unions here have people in everybody's camp.''
afscme, for example, is running separate sets of get-out-the-vote phone banks on behalf of both dukakis, the clear favorite of their national leaders, and jackson, who has the endorsement of the union's top officials in detroit and michigan
half the presidents of the 40 locals representing about 85 percent of the communications workers of america's 20,000 members in the state have endorsed dukakis. but the other 20 locals appear equally divided between jackson and gephardt
i personally came out for gephardt but i've taken a lot of heat for it because he supported president reagan's tax law,'' said robert shukwit, president of cwa local 4008 in detroit
but i don't think we've seen the candidate yet,'' shukwit added, indicating a lingering dream among many trade unionists that new york gov. mario cuomo might emerge as an alternative
meanwhile, the uaw remains the most important labor voice in michigan. and it has taken several steps to dissociate itself from the endorsement its 10,000 members in iowa gave gephardt in february
for example, the union is running tv commercials in michigan stressing a need for an activist government. prior to the iowa caucuses, it ran ads in that state focusing on the trade issue gephardt has championed
one uaw official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said bieber, the union's president, probably believes dukakis is going to be the nominee and doesn't want to stir trouble with him
at the same time, endorsing dukakis would infuriate jackson loyalists among blacks, about 25 percent of the uaw's membership, and arabs, a large contingent of its ford workers in dearborn, the official said
nonetheless, another union official predicted that gephardt will fare much better in saturday's caucuses than he has in polls over the past two weeks in the state, which has lost 400,000 union jobs to imports since 1982. that official mentioned an internal poll showing gephardt holding a narrow lead over jackson with dukakis a distant third among union members
a high-ranking official indicated friday that israel might take action if the united states fails to deal with long-range chinese missiles sold to saudi arabia
other officials, however, denied that israel was considering an attack on the arab kingdom
israel has a tradition of not standing by quietly when there is a real threat against it,'' said yossi ben-aharon, a senior aide to prime minister yitzhak shamir. ``the question is if this is a threat or not. there are people to deal with it, the cabinet, the government.''
saudi arabia recently acquired the css-2 missiles, which have a range of 2,200 miles, enough to strike anywhere in the middle east. they also are capable of carrying nuclear warheads
both the chinese and the saudis said the missiles won't be armed with such warheads, and saudi arabia has said it purchased the weapons to deter attacks on its territory during the iran-iraq war
but israel radio reported friday that saudi arabia issued a warning through the united states that it would use any remaining missiles to strike at the jewish state if israel attempted a pre-emptive strike
ben-aharon said the issue should be left for u.s. officials, ``who told us they are going to deal with the matter the best they can, both in china and in saudi arabia.''
the washington post quoted u.s. intelligence sources as saying the israeli air force has been conducting unusually intensive low-lewel bombing practice. it said such runs could be preparation for a strike on saudi arabia, though there was no hard evidence to support that interpretation
the paper also noted that such exercises could help israel prepare for raids on palestinian targets in lebanon
shamir's spokesman, avi pazner, denied that israel had made any threats. ``we did take up our concern with the united states. but we never made any threat against saudi arabia,'' he said
earlier reports of a similar ben-aharon statement sparked strong warnings from egypt and syria, and the u.s. state department expressed concern
the syrian government said monday that ``any agression against the sister saudi arabian kingdom would obviously be an attack against syria.''
egypt's president hosni mubarak said he sent an urgent message to president reagan asking him to ``use his influence with israel and urge it to stop threatening arab states in such irresponsible way.''
egypt is the only arab country to have peace treaty with israel
an israeli official who demanded anonymity said syria and egypt were ``overreacting to a report that has been denied.''
the official said israel was going to mount a diplomatic campaign to ``take the missiles out,'' but stressed that ``we never made any threat to take them out militarily.''
the united states will stage its biannual ``ocean venture'' exercise during april with more than 40,000 servicemen participating, the pentagon said friday
the exercise will be staged in the atlantic ocean, gulf of mexico and caribbean sea as well as at selected bases in florida and puerto rico, the pentagon said. it will begin on april 1 and extend through april 22
ocean venture exercises are held every two years and are designed to demonstrate the joint forces capability of the u.s. atlantic command to rapidly project military power,'' the pentagon said
ocean venture 88 will exercise command-and-control of participating forces; their rapid deployment and employment, as well as the integration of military reserve units into the active force.''
the exercise will include aircraft carrier operations; airborne, amphibious and infantry assaults; live-fire exercises, and port security, harbor defense and combat search and rescue drills, the pentagon said
it added that ``members of the dutch royal marines from the netherlands antilles will also participate in this exercise.''
moslem countries ended an international conference friday by denouncing an absent iran for riots last year in mecca and for refusing to sign a cease-fire in its war with iraq
iran's delegation to the organization of islamic conference in amman had stormed out of the five-day meeting thursday. it complained that the 46-member conference was only serving the interests of iraq, its enemy in the 7{-year-old persian gulf war
the foreign ministers and other officials of moslem nations worldwide, in their final communique, lamented what they called ``terrorism'' by iranian rioters in saudi arabia in july, according to jordanian foreign minister taher masri. they also praised saudi measures, announced thursday, to control future disorders
the rioting occurred as saudis tried to stop iranian pilgrims at the holy city of mecca from marching in a political demonstration. the violence left 402 people dead, including 275 iranians and 80 saudi security men
the moslem nations specifically approved the saudis' decision to set limits on the number of pilgrims traveling to mecca and medina this year
masri, who chaired the final session of the gathering, said the conference also agreed to ``make extensive efforts to force the united nations to take the necessary measures to force iran to accept'' u.n. security council resolution 598. that document calls for a cease-fire in the iran-iraq war and a return to international borders
iraq has agreed, but iran says it first wants its enemy branded as the aggressor
iran, a mainly persian nation, has often been the target of criticisms from arab lands
the conference also:
_ declared its support for palestinian protests in the israeli-occupied territories. however, no specific action was given
_ welcomed soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's offer to pull troops out of afghanistan and called for it to be put into effect immediately
_ asked non-islamic countries with moslem populations, such as bulgaria, to take steps to guarantee the rights of the minorities
_ withheld full recognition of moslem rebels from the philippines who are fighting the manila government
sen. bob dole, saying ``i can read the numbers and i know probably what's going to happen,'' conceded friday that his uphill race against vice president george bush for the republican presidential nomination appears doomed
in downbeat comments that departed from his prepared text, the senator from kansas, who has 178 delegates to bush's 788 in the latest associated press tally, told the u.s. chamber of commerce: ``i think it's probably a foregone conclusion what's happening on the republican side.''
however, a dole spokesman later said the candidate isn't ready to abandon the race
dole himself suggested he was re-evaluating his campaign
whatever happens in the next few days or the next few weeks, i still have some things i want to say,'' dole told the business group, which gave him a standing ovation
i intend to be a leader in my party. whatever the role may be, it will be a role of leadership, constructive leadership, keeping the white house republican,'' dole added
speaking with reporters afterward, dole gave a clear indication that, at the very least, he would scale back his campaign appearances
i said i had a different strategy, and i think you're seeing some of it,'' he said
asked about his change in tone and comments that bush's gop victory seemed a ``foregone conclusion,'' dole told reporters:
i can read the numbers and i know probably what's going to happen.''
after finishing first in the iowa republican caucuses feb. 8, dole lost a series of gop events to bush, including a defeat in the new hampshire primary feb. 16 and losses in the big round of primaries and caucuses on super tuesday march 8
despite his poor showings, dole had vowed to press ahead with his campaign
but on friday he told reporters:
my view is that there's some things i want to say in this campaign and i think sometimes if you're not out there making four or five stops a day, people are more apt to listen.''
asked if these were things he planned to say on his way out of the race, dole said, ``no. i'm not going out. i'm just going out of here,'' meaning the building where he had been speaking
walt riker, a dole spokesman, later said that despite dole's comments, ``we haven't made any official announcements'' on a dole withdrawal from the race
his hallmark is his candor, and today's statement reflects that,'' riker said. ``we're the underdog, the big underdog. we've never said anything different about that. we know the numbers and we know what the score is.''
but that doesn't mean we have to give up. we have to re-evaluate the campaign day by day,'' riker said
when dole was asked by reporters whether he planned to push on at least to the wisconsin primary on april 5, he replied: ``i may tell you that later this week, probably next week.''
in his remarks to the chamber of commerce, dole opened on a pessimistic note. ``i've been saying now for some time as a candidate all the things i thought we should focus on and nobody really seems to care,'' he said
but i still have some things to say,'' he added. ``lo and behold, as your candidacy weakens, you find more people willing to listen.''
dole told the business audience that ``it's going to be a tough race'' for republicans this year and it was time for the party to pull together
we need to keep a republican in the white house. that's where i'm coming from. and if it can't be me, it will be george bush,'' he said
i'm not here in a partisan sense. i'm not going to attack any republican,'' he added
turning to congressional races, dole said: ``if i can count, the next president of the united states will be dealing with a democratic congress.''
he told his audience that the federal budget deficit, $150 billion last year, was ``public enemy no. 1'' and reiterated his proposal for a one-year across-the-board freeze on all federal spending
a strong earthquake occurred in canada's northwest territories friday and was felt over a wide area of canada, the u.s. geological survey said
the tremor was recorded at a preliminary magnitude of 6.2 on the richter scale and occurred at 12:37 p.m. mst. usgs earthquake monitors in golden, colo., said seismographs placed the center of the earthquake about 320 miles west of yellowknife, the capital of the northwest territories
early reports said the tremor was felt over a wide area, including at yellowknife; at whitehorse, the capital of the yukon territory; and at edmonton, the capital of alberta province
usgs scientists said two other strong earthquakes occurred in the same general area late in 1985: a magnitude 6.6 tremor oct. 5 and a magnitude 6.9 earthquake two days before christmas on dec. 23
the richter scale is an open-ended gauge of energy released by an earthquake as measured by ground motion recorded on a seismograph. every increase of one number means that the ground motion is 10 times greater
a quake with a magnitude of 4 can cause moderate damage in a populated area, a quake of magnitude 5 considerable damage, a magnitude 6 quake severe damage, one of magnitude 7 widespread, heavy damage and a magnitude 8 quake, a ``great'' earthquake capable of tremendous damage
a quake of magnitude 2 is the smallest normally felt by humans
the reagan administration launched a final attempt friday to overturn a 46-year-old law that prohibits manufacturers from hiring people to produce apparel in their homes
the labor department said it will publish proposed regulations next week that would allow employers to contract work from people in their homes in five industries: gloves and mittens, embroideries, buttons and buckles, hankerchiefs and some jewelry
however, unlike its two previous attempts to deregulate so-called industrial homework, officials said this time they will not try to remove the ban on women's apparel. also, any allowed jewelry work would be limited to stringing beads and packaging
assistant labor secretary fred alvarez said excluding women's apparel, where investigators have found about half of the violations of the current law, was aimed at defusing opposition from the 210,000-member international ladies garment workers union
however, the president of that union, jay mazur, said it will vigorously oppose any relaxation of the current ban, calling the administration's latest proposal ``a betrayal of the rights and protections held by american workers for generations.''
we will take legal action as we have in the past,'' he said, indicating that the union will likely seek to overturn any changes in the courts if the administration tries to implement them
officials for the amalgamated clothing and textile workers union and the service employees international union indicated said they also anticipate filing court challenges to any attempt to lift the current bans
mazur said he also has asked the house and senate labor committees to launch investigations of what he called the administration's ``unwillingness'' durig the past seven years to enforce the current prohibitions on industrial homework
the proposed new regulations do not attempt to overturn state bans on the same type of work at home in hawaii, california, pennsylvania, massachusetts, connecticut, new york, rhode island and new jersey
the ilgwu, other unions and employer associations in california and new york led a firestorm of attacks on the administration's last two efforts in 1981 and 1986 to repeal the industrial homework bans
as a result, only the ban on knitted outerwear was lifted in december 1984
mazur said his union's review of government records show that since then only 72 knitted outwear employers have been granted licenses to contract out work to a total of less than 1,000 home workers ``in a universe that is 10 to 15 times that size.''
we recognize what's happening; we're not fooled,'' he said. ``if they get these bans, they'll come after us next. they've had this licensing program in outerwear for 40 months now and they've found violations in 80 percent of the cases they've looked at. it hasn't worked.''
alvarez said the government does not know how many people in the five industries that employers have illegally contracted to work at home, citing estimates by others ranging from 10,000 to 100,000
what we've got is a balance of more enforcment techniques and increased flexibility in attempting to open up new opportunities,'' he said. ``the underlying policy is that people ought to have the freedom to work at home.''
the latest proposal will be open for 30 days of public comment after it is published in the federal register next week
despite expected challenges from unions and anticipated court appeals, alvarez said the administration hopes to have the prohibitions removed before reagan leaves office next january
it seems to me we ought to be able to get a final rule sometime this summer,'' he said
the current prohibitions were adopted between 1941 and 1943 under the fair labor standards act in response to what then was preceived as rampant exploitation of mostly immigrant home workers paid on a piecework basis
removing them was a cornerstone of president reagan's campaigns in 1980 and 1984. and business groups such as the u.s. chamber of commerce have won repeated promises from adminstration officials that it is the one thing that will be accomplished before he leaves office
the recommendations of this administration demonstrate it has learned nothing from history,'' the afl-cio said. ``the record shows that industrial homework has brought nothing but unfair competition, long hours and low wages for our poorest and most disadvantaged workers.''
alvarez, however, said unions have not yet had a chance to study the latest proposal, which includes what he called a new set of ``enforcement teeth'' such as requiring bonds from employers with past records of paying less than minimum wages or other labor law violations
the socialist labor party sailed to a record victory friday in local elections, marking stiff local opposition to spanish claims of sovereignty over the british colony
in his first comments to reporters after his win, joe bossano, who rejects spanish demands for a return of sovereignty over the enclave at its southernmost tip, restated his objection to a 1984 brussels accord. in that document, britain for the first time agreed to discuss sovereignty with spain
spain ceded control over the 2-square-mile limestone rock to britain in 1713 following its defeat in the war of succession
bossano also said he intended to start his four-year term as new chief minister with objections to a british-spanish accord in december allowing spain access to the colony's commercial airport and partial control of its administration
a conservative spanish party leader publicly expressed worry about the election results. christian democrat party leader javier ruperez said bossano's position ``makes it evident we're headed for stormy times.''
final election results showed bossano received 8,128 votes or 58 percent of votes cast thursday to unseat incumbent chief minister adolfo canepa of the long dominant centrist association for the advancement of civil rights
canepa, a protege of longtime party leader sir joshua hassan, received 4,442 votes or 29 percent of the total
also reacting to final results friday in madrid, juan lena, a spokesman for the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez, said the election results would have no effect on spain's claims on the colony and its ongoing dialogue with britain
the elections are of great importance for the colony itself, but they will not affect the nature of the british-spanish negotiating process and discussions on cooperation on gibraltar, including the question of sovereignty,'' he said
bossano told reporters friday he was prepared to meet with gonzalez in madrid to discuss bilateral issues. but such a meeting appeared unlikely because spain accepts britain as its only legitimate negotiating partner on the matter
bossano heads the 7,000-member transport workers general union, the sole industrial union in the colony. he won fame for gaining parity in pay with britain for workers at the colony's shipyard
his party won eight votes in the 15-seat house of assembly, and canepa's party gained the other seven
democratic presidential candidate michael dukakis, a longtime opponent of u.s. aid to the nicaraguan contras, said friday he would support aid to the rebels to support the new ceasefire and the regional peace plan of costa rican president oscar arias
in a final day of campaigning for saturday's michigan caucuses, dukakis praised the ceasefire agreement reached this week in nicaragua and called on the reagan administration to support it
after seven years of a failed and illegal policy, it is time for the administration to ... get behind the peace plan _ not next week, not next month, but now,'' he told reporters at a united auto workers union hall in this grand rapids, mich., suburb
the massachusetts governor is leading in opinion polls in michigan, but he warned his supporters not to take anything for granted
friends, you're looking at a guy who was 50 points ahead in the polls in 1978 when i first ran for re-election ... and i lost,'' he said. ``i don't pay any attention to the polls and i hope you don't.''
it's a very important state. if we can do well here, it will be a giant step on the road to the nomination and the presidency,'' dukakis said
he had planned a full day of campaigning in michigan, but logistical problems snarled those plans. bad weather kept dukakis from returning to the state early friday morning, causing cancelation of events in detroit and saginaw
he held a town meeting with uaw workers and retirees in comstock park and then held a final rally in hamtramck
dukakis had emphasized repeatedly his opposition to all aid to the contras. asked friday if he supported any aid to the contras now _ as laid out in the ceasefire agreement _ dukakis told reporters:
only if it is for the very limited purpose of carrying out the provisions of the arias plan ... providing it is channeled through international relief agencies, neutral agencies and not the cia and the agencies of the federal government.''
dukakis said he doesn't want the reagan administration to handle the money because ``i don't trust this administration to provide that aid directly.''
asked if his position is consistent with his earlier stance that ``not one dollar'' of aid go to the contras, he replied: ``yes, because this is for the purpose of implementing the peace plan.''
he said the ``non-lethal'' or ``humanitarian'' aid proposed in the past for the contras was for the purpose of pursuing the war against the government of nicaragua
`non-lethal' or `humanitarian' or `the resistance' _ all of this stuff is pr stuff coming out of the administration. i don't buy it. we ought to decide what we are talking about here. a great deal of the aid that was called non-lethal was direct aid for the contras. and i think we know that
if what we are about here is genuinely implementing the arias plan or the ceasefire or both, then it may make sense to provide some assistance through international relief agencies,'' dukakis said
president joaquin balaguer of the dominican republic said friday he would grant asylum to panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega if asked, but president reagan said the dominican republic isn't far enough away
balaguer, in an interview with the voice of america, said: ``we are willing to receive anyone who has political problems. if mr. noriega or anybody else requests our hospitality, we would give it to them, not because we agree with his regime, but rather that the traditional policy of our country has been one of open doors to all political refugees.''
reagan, asked whether he expected noriega to go to the dominican republic, replied, ``no, that's not far enough.''
a senior administration official said reagan referred to this remark during his private 50-minute meeting with balaguer, but the veteran dominican leader did not respond
the official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said, ``we do not believe that having him (noriega) that close to panama is a sensible move.''
noriega has been indicted on drug-trafficking charges by two federal grand juries in florida. the justice department has said it would not seek his extradition if he would agree to leave panama and take asylum in an agreed-upon country elsewhere. spain has offered him exile
the apparent disagreement over noriega came during a washington visit in which balaguer met with reagan, other administration officials and senators and expressed hope that his pleas for higher u.s. sugar quotas would be heeded
there are problems which subsist in our relations, especially in connection with the lowering of our sugar quota, but this we have discussed with president reagan and with his senior advisors in this area of expertise,'' balaguer said in a departure statement
we also discussed the subject this morning on capitol hill with a number of senators who are friends of the dominican republic,'' he said. ``we found there a very receptive climate and feel confident that the problem will be solved, taking into account the interests of both our countries.''
reagan, in his remarks at the departure ceremony on a porch facing the white house rose garden, did not refer to the issue of sugar quotas, a touchy issue with the dominicans since sugar is their major crop
the annual quota for sugar imports from the dominican republic to the united states has been reduced from about 750,000 tons in the early 1980s to 123,000 tons this year
the senior official said the administration will continue to press congress for changes in u.s. sugar policy. he said balaguer ``asked for help,'' both with the sugar quotas and with the declining levels of u.s. aid
reagan and secretary of state george p. shultz told balaguer the united states would make available $10 million worth of surplus u.s. corn, providing the dominicans with food as well as $10 million in foreign exchange, the official said
reagan, in his departure remarks, said, ``within our budget limitations, we will continue to support development and growth in the dominican republic.''
as a duo, the judds are an award-winning combo, but the mother and daughter say they'd team up with others if it would help country music
we'll do just about anything as long as it's legal to promote the goodness of country music,'' said daughter wynonna judd
we're pretty joined at the lips, you know,'' added her mother, naomi
after collecting another vocal duo of the year award from the academy of country music here monday night, the women talked about the responsibility each new award means
you have people who support you. you read your mail,'' wynonna said. ``we get lots of letters from people saying, `you helped me through such a hard time in my life
you get so much support from people that you really feel you want to do your best. you want to be the best you can be.''
pulitzer prize-winning columnist ellen goodman says women have been successful in getting into the male world, but have not been able to get that world to adapt to their needs
the workplace, though welcoming more women than ever, still is a man's world and that perpetuates a conflict between work and family, she said
in addition, women in the work place are seen as isolated individuals with no families, she said thursday
speaking at the 25th anniversary celebration of the university of missouri-kansas city family study center, goodman said individual rather than community goals are being emphasized in this decade
eleven-year-old nikki edwards says she'll never wash her face again, at least not the cheek that singer michael jackson kissed
so every time i take a shower, i put a wash cloth over my face so it doesn't get wet,'' she said friday, a week after the kiss
nikki and her sister, mari anna miller, 24, were in the front row at jackson's concert march 18 in indianapolis when the fifth-grader was selected to come on stage
a burly man grabbed nikki's arm and ms. miller, thinking the fellow was trying to hurt her sister, belted him
he flashed his light on mari anna's face and then on his security badges,'' nikki said. ``the security man said, `mr. jackson was wondering if you would appear on stage with him.'''
when jackson led nikki on stage, ``i thought to myself here he comes and i'm going to die,'' she said. ``then i thought what a way to go.''
jackson, a gary native, hugged her while he sang ``she's out of my life.''
dennis hopper says he was shocked by the police reaction to the new movie he directed, ``colors,'' which features police battling drug dealing and street crime by violent southern california gangs
real law enforcement officers were given a preview and several detectives said the film glamorizes the gang lifestyle and could trigger violence among gang audiences. assistant police chief robert vernon suggested it be banned
hopper says that reaction shows how much the gang problem is out of control
at the beginning we point out that there are 250 men and women in law enforcement working against 600 gangs with over 70,000 members,'' he said. ``how can they possibly handle it?''
the film, scheduled for release in mid-april, stars robert duvall and sean penn as policemen
washington state lawmakers called friday for a senate hearing on the navy's decision to bar civilian employees of the puget sound naval shipyard from participating in the state's march 8 presidential caucuses
while the employees were allowed to attend the caucuses, the navy said that a provision of the hatch act forbade them from speaking. some of the employees reportedly wore gags when they attended the caucuses
we are concerned that this implementation of the hatch act may have seriously affected the outcome of the caucuses in the bremerton area,'' all 10 members of the washington state delegation said in a letter to sen. john glenn, d-ohio, chairman of the senate governmental affairs committee
the committee is currently considering changes in the hatch act
debts
gary hart's financial adviser is hoping $110,000 from hart's aborted 1988 presidential campaign can eventually be applied to the former candidate's 1984 debts
bernard schneider, who serves as hart's financial adviser, says he is happy with thursday's fec ruling that allows hart to pay off debts left from his 1984 campaign with excess funds from his most recent 1988 camaign
schaefer expects $110,000 to remain after the 1988 campaign clears its debts and returns a share of matching funds to the fec
since his 1984 campaign, hart has reduced his $4.75 million debt to $1.1 million through fundraisers and debt settlements
it's a very good record for a losing presidential campaign,'' schneider said. ``people lose sight of that in this whole feeding frenzy around gary.''
a vote of confidence can sometimes be as good as a vote itself for vice president george bush _ just ask 101-year-old mary fishbyrne
bush sent her an autographed color portrait of himself after learning that fishbyrne, who prefers to be called miss mary, had been frustrated when she tried to vote for him in louisiana's super tuesday primary
miss mary, a registered democrat who has voted in every presidential election since women were granted suffrage in 1920, thought bush was a smart man and ``would make a good president.'' but she could not cast her ballot for him because voters in the state's presidential primary aren't permitted to cross party lines
a bush campaign spokesman said a campaign worker heard of miss mary's frustrations on super tuesday and decided to send her the picture in appreciation for her would-have-been vote
she said bush has her support in november. ``if i can make it there, i'll vote for him.''
gov. robert p. casey said friday he will not endorse any of the democratic presidential hopefuls prior to pennsylvania's april 26 primary
at a news conference, casey gave two reasons for his decision
it was clear a number of democratic candidates have substantial support amng the voters of this state,'' he said, adding that voters should have a chance to express their views
casey also said his supporters have pledged to a number of the candidates and if he made a choice it would undercut their positions
the governor said he was not leaning toward any of the five democrats still in the field
the united states will begin a series of mock inspections next month to prepare its new force of arms control inspectors and escorts to deal with soviet facilities and personnel, a ranking pentagon official said friday
the exercises will be staged at the 21 sites in europe and the united states where soviet inspectors will be allowed to visit to ensure compliance with a treaty banning intermediate and shorter-range nuclear missiles, the official added
the mock inspections will begin april 6 and should be completed by may 10, hopefully in plenty of time to allow final preparations for the real inspections that will begin 30 days after the u.s. senate ratifies the pact, the source said
the official agreed to meet with a group of reporters friday to discuss the defense department's formation of the on-site inspection agency, or osia, only on condition he not be identified publicly
the agency is to be the arm of the federal government responsible for verifying russian compliance with the new treaty. signed by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev on dec. 8, the treaty specifies that all nuclear missiles in the two superpower arsenals with a range of roughly 300 miles to 3,500 miles be destroyed within three years
the osia will be responsible for escorting soviet inspectors who travel to the united states and sites in western europe to monitor the removal and destruction of american nuclear weapons, as well as performing the same role inside the soviet union by visiting russian facilities and deployment sites
the official said next month's practice sessions would involve both inspectors and escorts, with the inspectors pretending to be soviet officials who are met by the american escorts
under the treaty, there are 10 sites open to soviet inspection inside the united states and another 11 in western europe. all 21 sites will be tested to ensure they're ready for hosting russian inspectors, the official said
and we will challenge them (the escorts) with all kinds of possible variances in the (inspection) routine,'' said the source
according to the official, the task of staffing the osia has now been completed. the agency will keep in place 20 teams of 10 members each for the inspections, plus a headquarters' staff of 50 in washington. perhaps a third of the inspectors are women, the official said, and a sufficient number of russian linguists have been located, although with some difficulty
the u.s. military airlift command will be responsible for providing the aircraft and crews needed to ferry american inspectors to two ``entry points'' into the soviet union and to move russian inspectors around inside the united states, the official continued
the two entry points for the russians will be washington, d.c., and san francisco, calif., and the pentagon intends to inform the news media when the soviets arrive for spot inspections, the source said
the head of the osia, brig. gen. roland lajoie, and his soviet counterpart have already met once _ during a technical meeting in moscow earlier this month _ and will meet again in washington starting april 12, the official continued
the technical meetings are being held to sort out questions about the type of monitoring and survey equipment that will be used by the inspectors, the source said
conan owen knew it was thursday once again when officials served up beef stew in gallery one of the model prison
owen, a 23-year-old free-lance photographer from annandale, va., has been marking off the days in his stark white cell for more than a year, ever since a spanish civil guard found more than four pounds of cocaine in a suitcase registered in his name
i don't belong in here because i'm innocent, and if this were the united states, i would have been out a long time ago,'' owen said in an interview in this 85-year-old prison in the heart of downtown barcelona
owen, whose case has drawn the attention of attorney general edwin meese iii, is to stand trial saturday before a three-judge panel. the prosecution is asking for a 10-year sentence
he arrived at barcelona's el prat airport on march 13, 1987 _ friday the 13th _ on a flight from santiago, chile, via amsterdam. he said he was on his way to spain for the first time to shoot pictures for tourist agency travel brochures
i was working as a free-lance, and the guy offered me $1,000 for four days' work. i like to travel, so i accepted and thought i was taking a suitcase full of travel brochures and film to someone in spain,'' he said
owen was booked on charges of cocaine smuggling, denied bail and taken to the modelo, as the jail is known here
this is the worst jail in spain, the oldest and the most-crowded,'' said guard manuel escobedo. ``it was meant to hold 600 people, but there are about 2,400 in here now.''
according to the u.s. embassy in madrid, as of last month there were 25 u.s. citizens in jail in spain. six are serving prison terms following conviction on drug-related charges, and another nine, including owen, are awaiting trial
owen's attorney, ana campa, plans to enter as evidence results of a polygraph test administered to owen by an agent of the u.s. drug enforcement agency, which she says indicates owen is telling the truth about his photo job and the suitcase
on feb. 5, george barahona, the man who offered owen the job, pleaded guilty in u.s. district court to a drug conspiracy count. he told the court he had shared a hotel room with owen in santiago and planted the cocaine-lined suitcase on the unsuspecting photographer
barahona received a two-year suspended sentence and a promise he would not be extradited to spain in return for his cooperation
following his testimony, three spaniards and three bolivians, all fugitives, were indicted by a federal grand jury in virginia on cocaine conspiracy charges in connection with the case
it was my parents who first confronted barahona, because my cousin maria teresa corrales knew him and he lived in the area,'' owen said. ``at first he denied everything, but then he told the truth.''
when meese came to spain to sign an annex to a 1970 extradition treaty feb. 9, he also handed over copies of barahona's statement to spanish judicial authorities
owen is a 1986 graduate of syracuse university and in 1984 was a summer intern in vice president george bush's office
the walls of the halls leading to the five sections of the prison are decorated with travel posters for catalonia, the region in which barcelona is located, and neighboring france
owen said what he has seen of spain consists of the barcelona airport, the court where he was arraigned and the modelo
during his year in jail owen has read 150 books, written letters and walked miles around the patio during the daily morning and afternoon recreation periods
guards in spanish jails are unarmed, and inmates wear street clothes. prisoners in the modelo are allowed one, one-hour conjugal visit every month with a woman of their choice
it's the boredom that gets you more than anything, the lack of stimulating conversation, someone to talk about serious things with,'' said owen
the united states should think very carefully before permitting highly secret u.s. submarine technology to be sold to canada, two senators said friday
this is a decision that should be very carefully scrutinized before we decide to go ahead,'' said sen. james j. exon, d-neb., chairman of the senate armed services strategic weapons subcommittee, in a speech on the senate floor
we have a number of questions which need to be answered before this decision is made,'' agreed sen. john warner, r-va., ranking republican on the armed services committee and a former secretary of the navy
canada last year proposed to construct a fleet of 10 to 12 nuclear-powered submarines and is considering building boats which are updated versions of the british trafalgar-class subs or the french rubis-class subs
the trafalgars use u.s. technology, which means the information could not be supplied to canada by the british unless the united states approves, both exon and warner said
if the pentagon decides to permit canada to use the american technology, congress could block the plan within 90 days if both the house and senate pass resolutions of disapproval, exon added
the pentagon has not yet decided to grant a waiver to britain, navy secretary william ball iii told the armed services committee earlier this week
exon noted that u.s. nuclear-powered sub technology had only been transferred once in the past, to britain, and he questioned whether canada has ``the money and the enormous infrastructure'' needed to safely operate the subs
in this era of nuclear phobia, we must maintain and enhance our shipboard standards of nuclear propulsion,'' exon said. any accidents aboard canadian subs which involve u.s. technology would raise fears about u.s. subs and could hamper the american navy's operation, he told his colleagues
warner said, ``before we approve this decision, we need to know how canada proposes to fund this program, how canada proposes to insure that the standard of nuclear safety will be at least as high as the united states and the british.''
exon said the technology involved may be outdated and he noted that the soviets are building a bigger, faster class of attack boats
a 3-year-old boy scalded to death in a welfare hotel reportedly was removed from foster care and returned to his mother and father last summer despite a judge's reservations
police have charged that the mother, marian mckenzie, 21, murdered quintin by holding him in 136-degree water because he had soiled his diaper. the boy's father, calvin, 23, has been charged with beating him earlier that day
the mckenzies received custody of quintin and his older sister, tanisha, after judge joseph esquirol of family court in brooklyn dismissed a case brought in december 1986 by city child welfare authorities
the city sought to remove the children from the mckenzies on grounds that the father had beaten quintin at a shelter in new jersey where the family then was living
new york newsday and the daily news reported that after numerous delays during which the city produced no evidence of a beating, esquirol dismissed the case may 26
the judge stayed return of the children to june 3 and urged that city or new jersey officials refile the case
i know i certainly didn't want to return the children. the mother had admitted to new jersey authorities that the father beat her and the children,'' the judge told newsday. ``it was very, very frustrating.''
william grinker, head of the city's human resources administration, has declined to comment before completion of an investigation of his agency's handling of the case
quintin had spent more than half his 41-month life in foster care or hospitals, including the first six months of his life. he weighed only 1.8 pounds when he was born prematurely. chief's yard</head>
sworn statements that led authorities to dig up a body in a police chief's yard tell of a friendship that allegedly developed into wife-swapping but ended in homicide
a district court judge allowed the affidavits to be released friday, a week after he rejected arguments by the state attorney general that they should be sealed to protect a continuing homicide investigation
robert chambers, who resigned as part-time chief after the body was found, has said through his lawyer that he is innocent of any wrongdoing. no charges have been filed
mark sisti, a public defender representing chambers, called the affidavits ``low-quality, unsubstantiated blatant hearsay.''
the attorney general's office said friday it was satisfied with the progress of the investigation and expected an arrest, though it did not say when
according to sworn statements given by chambers' sister, his niece and a brother-in-law, the following story emerges:
chambers, 36, and good friend russell bean, then 25, worked together at a factory in keene, and ``were having a wife swap.'' sometime in september 1978 the two were drinking at an abandoned quarry when they got into a fight and bean died. robert, with the help of his father, clifton chambers, buried bean's body
after bean disappeared, chambers divorced his wife, deborah, and married bean's wife, sylvia
robert and sylvia chambers settled in his five-room cabin on a dirt road three miles outside of marlow and he became the part-time police chief for the town of 600 three years ago. he also became the part-time chief of nearby gilsum and a police trainee in winchester. he has a leave of absence from gilsum and is suspended with pay from winchester
on march 11, police began digging in chambers' front yard with a backhoe. three days later, bean's skeleton was found 20 feet deep
pathologists determined bean had been beaten on the head and chest
on march 2, clifton chambers told his daughter, melissa, and granddaughter, lorrie wheeler, that robert came to him in the middle of the night 10 years ago and said ``he had just killed russell and wanted to know what to do.'' robert said the two were drinking, got into a fight and robert hit bean, who fell back, hit his head and died instantly
the father, in ill health, made melissa and lorrie promise not to say anything until after his death
one week later, clifton chambers, 61, suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died. that same day, melissa and lorrie told the story to the keene police, who relayed the information to state police
sgt. clayton young of the state police major crimes unit interviewed the women and louis lacourse, the husband of melissa's sister, susan. authorities then sought a warrant to excavate the chief's yard
the relationship between robert, russ, sylvia and debbie was weird,'' melissa said in her statement. ``it's called wife-swapping, that was going on before debbie ran off and russ disappeared. i know robert always beat debbie, that was why she ran off. (she) couldn't take it any longer.''
deborah, who was admitted to a keene hospital with an undisclosed illness after the digging began, left chambers in july 1978
bean was last seen in september 1978, and his wife moved in with chambers that october. in january 1979, she divorced the missing bean. chambers divorced deborah in march and chambers and sylvia married in september 1979
young's affidavit said sylvia wrote bean's mother two letters about his disappearance. the first said bean had borrowed money from chambers, who then gave bean a ride to the vermont state line and let him out
later, she wrote that she feared chambers, and that she was afraid chambers had harmed bean
lacourse told police that after bean disappeared, chambers told him he ``would not have to worry about seeing him (bean) again. he (chambers) hit him so hard no one would ever seen him again.''
melissa, who lived with her father and lorrie in a trailer behind robert chambers' home, said her mother, now deceased, warned her to ``look out for robert.'' last year, her father ``warned (me) about my brother being dangerous,'' she said
mickey and minnie mouse led baby boomers and their swivel-hipped soul mates of all ages back to the 1950s friday as 1,527 people simultaneously spun hula hoops at disneyland to claim a world record
the crowd _ certified by a turnstile count _ gyrated to the strains of ``whole lotta shakin' goin' on'' until a representative of the guinness book of world records was satisfied he had witnessed history's biggest crowd of hula hoopers
but for most of the swirlers, making hula hoop history took a back seat to having fun
i'm reliving my childhood,'' said frank samagaio, 36, an investigator with the san diego district attorney's office
i was 7 years old when these came out,'' samagaio said, demonstrating that hula hooping, like riding a bike, is a skill one never loses entirely
some hoopers woke up as early as 4 a.m. to reach the park from distant points of southern california. they were all given t-shirts, free park admission and hula hoops
the record try was a promotion by disneyland and hula hoop maker wham-o, which is celebrating the 30th anniversary of the toy this week
some inept hoopers twirled the hoops on their wrists while others madly twisted while the hoops inexorably spun farther and farther down their legs
it's in the hips,'' confided jackie eastman, 11, of penasquitos, who got a hoop for her birthday march 9 and already can twirl it for 10 minutes at a stretch
after three false starts, dan roddick, a wham-o employee who also serves as a guinness field representative, proclaimed success, which he had earlier defined as everyone putting his or her hoop through three revolutions at once
while guinness doesn't actually recognize a mass hula hoop record at present, roddick said the largest known mass swivel appears to have been performed by about 350 people some 25 years ago in the northwest. that event is recorded only by a photograph, he said
for some of the teens and young adults in friday's crowd, the event was sort of a ticket to more innocent times, symbolized for them by pompadour hair-dos and the do-wop music of the 1950s and early '60
it was happier,'' said sarah culver, 20, a college student from tustin who favors 1950s music, dance and clothes
the styles, they fit better, they're more feminine,'' miss culver said. ``you can dance with the guys _ closer _ you don't have to dance by yourself.''
gov. bob martinez said friday that investigators will look into claims that attorneys for death row inmates asked witnesses to lie to save the prisoners' lives
martinez, who earlier this week ordered the florida department of law enforcement to check out the methods of the state-funded defenders, said he didn't plan to interfere
i probably won't make any more announcements now until the report comes in. it wouldn't be appropriate,'' he said
martinez also established an independent seven-member commission to review the investigation's findings to avoid any appearance that he was mounting a political attack against the office of capital collateral representative, a 3-year-old agency that has won stays of executions for dozens of inmates
the st. petersburg times reported friday that allegedly false affidavits were given to martinez and attorney general bob butterworth after witnesses _ two prison inmates, a miami prosecutor and a miami lawyer _ complained about the conduct of several employees of the collateral appeals office
in each case, inmates who testified against men on death row say they were asked to sign false affidavits that would be used to gain a stay of execution
ronald guralnick, the miami lawyer who represented one of the inmates, said attorneys from the office of capital collateral representative in tallahassee told him they had filed a motion alleging ``everything possible'' and would ``try to prove it later,'' the newspaper said
in both cases the affidavits, allegedly prepared by the death row lawyers, accused police who handled the murder investigations of inventing testimony that witnesses later repeated in court
larry spalding, the lawyer who supervises the collateral appeals office, said he has questioned the lawyers involved in one instance and will support them until he sees evidence to change his mind
the other one i know nothing about, but i will immediately talk to those involved,'' spalding said thursday
spalding blamed the investigation on the continuing controversy between his office and a governor who, he said, wants to speed up executions
spalding's office was established in 1985 to handle appeals filed by death row inmates. those appeals traditionally involve issues not concerning guilt of innocence, but legal procedures
the stae set up the appeals agency to provide lawyers for indigent inmates making their final appeal and do away with claims that inmates were not properly represented
sen. albert gore jr. portrayed his democratic presidential opponents as too liberal on friday, saying ``you don't have to be very far to the right to be to the right of this crowd.''
gore also said he was optimistic about his chances in saturday's michigan caucuses
wherever we have had a level playing field and enough time to get the message out and become known by the voters, we have won,'' he told a radio audience in detroit. ``the time in michigan has been short ... but we've got a lot of good friends working for us and i hope that we'll do significantly better than people expect.''
gore has steadfastly tried to depict himself as the moderate candidate in the presidential field
the tennessee senator addressed the subject anew on friday after being asked a question on his defense posture
it's not conservative. i've never used that word. let me hasten to add, you don't have to be very far to the right to be to the right of this crowd,'' he said
earlier, in racine, wis., gore rolled up his sleeves and joined foundry workers at their jobs. wearing a shiny white hardhat, blue jeans and a leisure shirt, gore took a 1{-hour tour of the racine steel casting plant
the campaign stop gave gore a chance to shovel chunks of metal into a furnace, to help a worker form a casting mold and to drive a forklift and unload large metal sprockets
i think getting some hands-on experience is a way to communicate symbolically with the workers,'' he said
gore told reporters he will continue to campaign heavily in wisconsin, which will hold its primary april 5
i predict we're really going to surprise people in wisconsin,'' he said. ``wisconsin has a chance to play a unique role.''
gore also picked up the endorsement friday of one-time presidential candidate eugene mccarthy
mccarthy, who was a senator from minnesota when he sought the democratic nomination in 1968, said he endorses gore because of his experience and voting record on foreign affairs and economic and environmental issues
there is no better preparation for the presidency than being in congress, especially the senate,'' mccarthy said
i've felt for some time that the governorship is the worst preparation for the presidency,'' mccarthy said. ``it provides a great oversimplification of how the federal government operates.''
allowing surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould to continue visiting baby m will hurt the child psychologically, the toddler's father argued in court papers released friday
william stern, who won custody of the baby in a landmark state supreme court ruling feb. 3, asked a superior court judge to discontinue visitation. stern's attorney said he will call expert witnesses to show that halting visitation would be in the best interest of the child, now legally known as melissa stern
testimony will again reconfirm ... that visitation at this particular point could only have a destabilizing influence on the child and result in very grave consequences on her future mental health,'' attorney gary skoloff said in court papers
mrs. whitehead-gould has asked that she be allowed to spend more time with the baby, with the meetings expanded eventually to half the summer and some holidays
she has been allowed to see melissa once a week, for two hours, under supervision. court papers released thursday by mrs. whitehead-gould's attorneys call that schedule ``insufficient.''
she contends that the child would be harmed if those visitations were discontinued
mrs. whitehead-gould has fashioned an excellent relationship with melissa and is devoted to promoting an even more flourishing and productive relationship,'' said court papers filed by mrs. whitehead-gould's attorney, harold cassidy
the documents, filed earlier this week, give an indication what both sides will argue when superior court judge birger m. sween on monday convenes a visitation hearing that may be the final legal skirmish in the fierce battle over the child, who turns 2 sunday
mrs. whitehead-gould's $10,000 contract with stern became a highly publicized court case after she refused to turn over the child she agreed to bear. since the case began, mrs. whitehead-gould divorced her first husband, richard whitehead, and married a wall street broker, dean gould
this has been a long trial, a long process for my client and for the levin family,'' defense attorney jack litman told the court in announcing the plea agreement
the pleas are acceptable to the people,'' prosecutor linda fairstein told the court
the plea bargain followed two days of turmoil in the case, and fairstein and litman spent most of the last two days in chambers meeting with state supreme court justice howard e. bell
president reagan warned israel on friday that the united states would be ``totally opposed'' to any israeli attack on saudi arabia's new intermediate-range missile launchers
state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley, meanwhile, confirmed that the administration has cautioned israel not take action against the newly delivered chinese missiles
mrs. oakley refused to comment on reports that the israeli air force has been conducting low-level practice bombing runs
reagan, asked how the united states would feel about israeli attacks on the saudi sites, said, ``naturally, we would be totally opposed to any such thing and hope that they are not considering any such act.''
egyptian president hosni mubarak said in cairo thursday that he had sent an urgent message to reagan urging him to ``use his influence with israel and urge it to stop threatening arab states in this irresponsible way.'' mubarak said such an attack would ``blow up the entire peace process'' in the middle east
reagan was asked about the situation as he prepared to meet with visiting president joaquin balaguer of the dominican republic
on wednesday, an unidentified egyptian official said cairo would consider any israeli attack on the installations an attack on egypt itself
saudi arabia recently acquired the missiles, which have a range of 2,200 miles, enough to reach iran and israel. the missiles are capable of carrying nuclear warheads, but both china and saudi arabia have given assurances they will be fitted only with conventional warheads
in jerusalem, yossi ben-aharon, a senior aide to prime minister yitzhak shamir said, ``israel has a tradition of not standing by quietly when there is a real threat against it. the question is if this is a threat or not. there are people to deal with it, the cabinet, the government.''
israel radio reported that saudi arabia issued a warning through the united states that it would use any remaining missiles to strike at the jewish state if israel attempted a pre-emptive strike
ben-aharon said u.s. officials had ``told us they are going to deal with the matter the best they can, both in china and in saudi arabia.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the reagan administration was ``concerned about any instability that is introduced by weapons changes in the area'' and had made its views known to both the israelis and the saudis. he added that ``our protests have gone to the nuclear capability as opposed to the site.''
thunderstorms battered parts of the south on friday, locally heavy rain fell around the lower great lakes and temperatures reached record highs in the northeast and southern california. snow blew across the northern plains
thunderstorms reached across the lower mississippi valley into georgia and northwestern florida. hail as big as golf balls fell at natchez, miss., in the morning and thunderstorm wind gusts caused damage at franklinton, la
during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est, 3.19 inches of rain fell at mccomb, miss., and 1.61 inches fell at jackson, miss. west palm beach, fla., got 1.40 inches
showers extended from the lower great lakes across the ohio valley
more than 1.5 inches of rain fell from wednesday night into friday afternoon across sections of northwestern ohio, and the national weather service warned of local flooding
record high temperatures for the date included 71 at binghampton, n.y.; 75 at rochester, n.y.; 88 at san diego; 83 at santa maria, calif., and 77 at williamsport, pa
snow continued to fall from northern north dakota across northern minnesota
advisories for snow and blowing snow were posted in north dakota and minnesota. seven inches of wet snow were reported overnight at bottineau, n.d., and 1 to 2 inches were reported over northwestern minnesota in the morning
wind gusting to 50 mph caused blowing and drifting snow in open areas
as much as 7 inches of snow were expected across the mountains of northern colorado, accompanied by high wind creating near-blizzard conditions
wind gusted to 120 mph in the morning at the top of rendezvous peak, wyo., to 90 mph at wyoming's curt gowdy state park, to 86 mph at colorado's squaw mountain and to 73 mph at garden of the gods in colorado
wind and ice were blamed for a collision involving up to a dozen vehicles in the morning along interstate 70 near georgetown, colo. the colorado state patrol said several people were taken to hospitals with minor injuries
elsewhere, showers extended along the northern pacific coast
temperatures around the nation at 1 p.m. est ranged from 27 degrees at warroad, minn., to 96 at palm springs, calif. the morning low for the nation was 11 degrees at yellowstone national park, wyo
for saturday, showers were forecast from the northern pacific coast to the northern rockies. scattered snow was forecast over upper michigan, changing to rain across lower michigan and eastern wisconsin. rain and occasional thundershowers were forecast from maine across georgia, the lower great lakes, the upper ohio valley and the appalachians
high in the mid 20s were predicted over northeastern minnesota; in the 30s and 40s over the remainder of the upper great lakes, the upper mississippi valley, north dakota and the northeast half of south dakota; in the 50s and 60s from new england across the virginias, over the lower great lakes, the ohio valley, the tennessee valley, the central half of the mississippi valley, southwestern south dakota, the central plains, the upper missouri valley, and the rockies to the northern half of the pacific coast; in the 80s over much of florida, southern through southwestern texas, and over much of central and southern california; in the 90s across the desert southwest, and in the 70s over most of the remainder of the nation. democrats</head> ``i think; also subs last graf to update delegate count</note>
sen. bob dole conceded friday it was a ``foregone conclusion'' that george bush would win the republican presidential nomination, while long-shots richard gephardt and paul simon looked to michigan democrats to resuscitate their fading campaigns
i can read the numbers and i probably know what's happening,'' dole told a u.s. chamber of commerce audience in washington. dole indicated he was re-evaluating his campaign and would likely ``have something to say'' before the april 5 wisconsin primary
the campaigns of gephardt and dole, winners of the lead-off iowa caucuses in their respective parties, stood at turning points on friday
gephardt stayed in michigan, insisting that ``we're going to turn this race around'' _ although his aides were saying privately that the missouri congressman would call it quits if he lost michigan's saturday caucuses
an aura of political fatalism hovered over dole's hard-luck drive for the white house, as he said of the successor to president reagan, ``if it can't be me, it will be george bush.''
bush has garnered 788 delegates to the republican national convention in new orleans next august, more than two-thirds the number necessary to win the nomination. propelled by his sweep in the super tuesday competition of march 8, the vice president has amassed 727 of those delegates in the last 30 days, while dole has won none. the kansas senator has 178 delegates, and robertson, 17
the vice president, who learned about dole's comments shortly after giving a speech at the university of denver, said, ``this doesn't say it's over. so i'm going to just keep going right down to the wire and not speculate on somebody else's campaign or on the democratic side.''
asked whether he would consider dole as a running mate, bush said, ``it's too early for me to start thinking about any running mates. that would project a certain arrogance or presumption that i don't want to do.''
dole, in his speech to the chamber of commerce, said, ``i've been saying now for some time as a candidate all the things i thought we should focus on, and nobody really seems to care.''
i think it's probably a foregone conclusion what's happening on the republican side,'' he said. ``but i still have some things to say. lo and behold, as your candidacy weakens, you find more people willing to listen.''
bush, campaigning in colorado, shrugged off questions about his role in the iran-contra affair
the democrats are short of real issues,'' he said, ``bringing it up over and over again. no one is even suggesting i have done anything wrong.''
most of the democrats were in michigan, scouring the heavily industrialized state for votes in saturday's caucuses, with 138 delegates at stake
michigan had been described by gephardt's aides earlier as a do-or-die campaign battlefield. on friday, gephardt mimicked rival michael dukakis' claim of an economic miracle in massachusetts, saying he looked forward to a ``michigan miracle'' to revive his candidacy
we're going to get back in the middle of this thing,'' gephardt said in an interview on cbs-tv's ``this morning'' program
dukakis was leading in opinion polls in michigan, but he warned his supporters not to take anything for granted. ``friends, you're looking at a guy who was 50 points ahead in the polls in 1978 when i first ran for re-election ... and i lost,'' he said
the massachusetts governor, a longtime opponent of u.s. aid to the nicaraguan contras, said he would support aid to the rebels to support the new ceasefire and the regional peace plan of costa rican president oscar arias _ ``providing it is channeled through international relief agencies, neutral agencies and not the cia and the agencies of the federal government.''
during an airport news conference, simon was asked about the possibility that he would win no delegates in michigan
i recognize that's a possibility but it's not fatal to my campaign,'' he said
sen. albert gore jr. sought to set himself apart from the rest of the democratic field, saying his more moderate stands are ``not conservative. i've never used that word. let me hasten to add, you don't have to be very far to the right to be to the right of this crowd.''
jesse jackson criticized reagan for vetoing legislation extending a civil rights law _ a veto supported by bush but overridden by congress _ and called it ``an attempt to turn back the clock.''
any man who stands ... against civil rights restoration in this country is not fit to lead our nation,'' jackson said in detroit
dukakis and jackson are running one-two in the democratic delegate race, according to the associated press tabulation
dukakis has 548 of the 2,082 delegates needed for nomination, while jackson has 520. gore has 362 delegates, simon 171 and gephardt 154. travel;'' inserts 2 grafs after 28th graf, ``arad, the,'' with reaction; deletes pvs 29th graf, ``said and,'' now outdated</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz will meet saturday with two members of the legislative arm of the palestine liberation organization as americans are being warned to keep away from the israeli-held west bank and gaza
professor edward said of columbia university, one of the two palestine national council members invited by shultz, said they notified plo chairman yasser arafat and he approved of the session
as u.s. citizens, said said he and professor ibrahim abu-lughud of northwestern university did not need a `'green light'' from arafat to see shultz. ``we did notify chairman arafat, and that was fine with him _ absolutely,'' said said in a telephone interview
the state department said the meeting did not represent a change in the 13-year-old u.s. policy of not dealing with the plo. both the united states and israel have condemned it as a terrorist organization
in another action friday, the state department issued a travel advisory against the israeli-held west bank and gaza. americans were cautioned not to travel to the areas
the announcement coincided with the approach of easter and passover, christian and jewish holidays that usually attract tourists to the holy land
said said he and abu-lughud were interested in ``an exchange of views'' with shultz. he said they wanted to know more about the u.s. proposal for arab-israeli negotiations
i am not a diplomat,'' said said. ``we're going to tell him about the palestinians' view of the whole matter.''
asked if the plo should participate in the negotiations, the columbia professor replied without hesitation: ``absolutely.''
he said he did not know if the meeting changed u.s. policy toward the plo. ``i have no idea. i`m not too concerned about this,'' he said
a state department announcement friday described said and abu-lughud as ``prominent americans with an intimate knowledge of contemporary middle eastern politics.''
their membership on the palestine national council was not mentioned in the announcement but was confirmed later by state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley
israeli ambassador moshe arad protested shultz's invitation to the two as in conflict with the u.s. policy against dealing with the plo, which is pledged to dismantling israel as a jewish state
the state department, meantime, cited ``continuing disturbances'' in urging americans to stay away from the west bank and gaza. a total of 111 palestinian arabs and an israel soldier have died in violent protests and other incidents since dec. 9
we are not issuing an advisory for israel itself,'' mrs. oakley said. ``israel is safe for american travel.''
however, with the statement coming during the easter season, which attracts many religious pilgrims to the area, the impact on tourism and on israel's economy could be severe
the west bank was held by jordan and gaza by egypt from 1949 until 1967 when the arabs lost the territories to israel in the six-day war. about 96 percent of the population is palestinian
the travel advisory cautioned americans to avoid travel to the areas ``until further notice.'' it said americans living in the areas ``should exercise particular caution.''
the situation in east jerusalem, which is part of israel's capital, was described as ``unpredictable.'' the advisory said americans should check with u.s. diplomats in the city before entering the area
under all circumstances, americans should avoid demonstrations and other situations that have the potential to lead to violence,'' the advisory said. ``american travelers should carry their u.s. passports at all times.''
shultz will hold the meeting with said and abu-lughud ``to discuss our approach to the middle east peace process,'' the separate announcement said
he is trying to open negotiations on may 1 to provide self-rule for the palestinians. the plo would not participate. however, palestinians with plo approval would be part of a delegation with jordan
mrs. oakley stressed that said and abu-lughud are u.s. citizens. she said the u.s. policy of not dealing with the plo itself remained intact
there is no change in u.s. policy on negotiating with or recognizing the plo,'' she said. ``that policy remains as it has been since 1975.''
the united states, after persuading israel to relinquish territory to egypt and syria, promised in 1975 it would not deal with the plo. the pledge subsequently was incorporated in u.s. law
asked if the plo had given said and abu-lughud permission to meet with shultz, mrs. oakley said: ``i have nothing on that.''
she said shultz initiated the meeting. ``he will discuss the palestinian point of view,'' she said. ``they have an intimate knowledge of middle eastern politics.''
arad, the israeli ambassador, telephoned m. charles hill, an assistant to shultz, to protest the meeting as a violation of the pledge. mrs. oakley declined to describe the conversation
on capitol hill, rep. charles shumer, d-n.y., also contended that the meeting would violate the pledge, which also was included in law in 1984, and called on shultz to reconsider it. reps. mel levine, d-calif., and benjamin gilman, r-n.y., also wrote the secretary of their concern that the meeting ``might be seen as an erosion of the u.s. position regarding the plo.''
however, the american-arab anti-discrimination committee lauded the meeting as ``a reflection of the reality that legitimate palestinian representation is essential to any peace in the region.''
during a mideast shuttle trip last month, shultz tried to arrange a meeting in jerusalem with 15 palestinian arabs. apparently under plo orders, none of them showed up
shultz went to a hotel in east jerusalem, stood in the floodlit courtyard and read a statement suggesting the palestinians were fearful of working with the united states
opportunity knocks loudly on your door,'' he said then. ``now is the time to get to work. we have a workable plan, and we are ready to commit our efforts to it. the time is right, together, to make decisions of historic proportions.''
in january, shultz met here with two palestinian arabs, hanna siniora, a jerusalem editor, and fayez abu rahme, a gaza lawyer
we feel we got his attention to the situation in the territories,'' siniora said afterward
mrs. oakley, meanwhile, confirmed the united states had cautioned israel not to take any action against chinese missiles delivered to saudi arabia. she refused to confirm reports the israeli air force has been conducting low-level practice bombing runs
riot police used water cannon friday to break up a roman catholic demonstration for religious freedom held in downtown bratislava in defiance of an official ban, western observers said
clashes broke out when police tried to clear the square of thousands of catholics who gathered in front of the notre dame cathedral. injuries and arrests were reported, but no figures were available
bratislava is a southern city near the czechoslovak-austrian border
witnesses said it took security troops and riot police about 45 minutes to push the catholics, who were singing, praying and holding candles, into side streets to end the protest
two television teams, sent to bratislava from the austrian state radio-television corporation, orf, and the west german ard station, were seen being shoved by police and detained as catholics gathered on the square. they were prevented from filming the protest
frantisek miklosko, a slovak catholic activist, had told authorities of plans for a peaceful rally and organizers were expecting up to 70,000 people would take part
but communist authorities thurday banned the demonstration, saying it was ``an event guided from abroad'' and directed against the socialist system
protesters defied the ban, saying they wanted a free and independent church and 10 bishops appointed to fill vacant bishoprics throughout czechoslovakia
government officials have been arguing with the vatican over the vacancies. organizers also wanted to show support for a petition calling for separation of church and state and for free expression of religion, which has been signed so far by more than 430,000 czechoslovak catholics
the austrian tv crew was released after 2{ hours, orf journalist otto hoermann reported
in a broadcast telephone call from his car driving toward the nearby border, hoermann said he and his colleagues saw about 100 catholics who were taken to police headquarters
they were totally drenched,'' he said, referring to police use of road-cleaning trucks and water cannon. ``it has also been raining. so bratislava must be today the cleanest city in central europe.''
hoermann said he saw many police with clubs around bratislava as he drove from the city
demonstrators began gathering at 3.30 p.m. a witness said shortly before 6 p.m., when the crowd was several thousand strong, people clutching candles sang the slovak and czech national anthems
police began moving street-cleaning trucks and police cars toward the square. authorities used loudspeakers to urged demonstrators to vacate the square, saying: ``this demonstration has not been allowed according to state laws. will you please disperse?''
but the appeal went unheeded. police cars, six abreast, drove through the crowd. the scene became chaotic as demonstrators blocked off some of the cars
elderly women, middle-aged people and youngsters were among those resisting
then came the street-cleaning trucks, spewing water
most of the demonstrators stood fast on the square
authorities brought in riot police and three water cannon drenched the crowd. the demonstrators still were not entirely dispersed, and security troops shoved people off the square, herding them into side streets
students were warned this week not to take part in the protest and threatened with losing their place at universities and dormitories, the austrian catholic news agency kathpress reported wednesday
kathpress said the organizers insisted the event was registered officially as a ``peaceful assembly of citizens.''
they were also quoted as saying, ``is it unlawful to stage a rally for religious freedom, observance of human rights and appointment of bishops by the pope ?''
the state news agency ctk later said members of illegal church structures tried to organize a ``quiet religious demonstration,'' the aim of which was to abuse religious feelings of believers, violate relations between the socialist state and the church, and undermine negotiations with the vatican
a strong earthquake shook a sparsely populated area of the northwest territories on friday. there were no reports of injuries or damage
the quake registered 6.0 on the richter scale and was centered about 95 miles west of fort simpson, 750 miles northwest of edmonton, said bob wetmiller, a federal seismologist
an earthquake of that magnitude can do serious damage, but wetmiller said it was too far from populated areas to pose a danger
it struck 12:36 p.m. mst and was felt in communities several hundred miles away, he said
the last earthquakes of that magnitude in the region were in 1985. one of 6.6 was reported oct. 5 and another of 6.9 on dec. 23 that year
the richter scale is an open-ended gauge of energy released by an earthquake as measured by ground motion recorded on a seismograph. every increase of one number means that the ground motion is 10 times greater
a quake with a magnitude of 5 can cause considerable damage in a populated area; a magnitude 6 quake severe damage, one of magnitude 7 widespread, heavy damage and a magnitude 8 quake, a ``great'' earthquake capable of tremendous damage
a quake of magnitude 2 is the smallest normally felt by humans
a scuba instructor was sentenced friday to 10 years in prison for fatally shooting his boss, who authorities said was a suicidal millionaire who badgered and bribed the employee to pull the trigger
frederick wisniewski, 27, of linden had pleaded guilty to aggravated manslaughter and aiding a suicide in the nov. 25 death of julius ``alex'' bittmann, 44, of north brunswick
i am sorry for it,'' wisniewski told superior court judge paul r. kramer at sentencing
wisniewski told authorities bittmann badgered him for two months before he agreed to kill him in return for $40,000 in cash and a $60,000 mercedes benz
wisniewski said bittmann pleaded, ``do it, do it!'' before he killed bittmann with a shot from a .357-caliber magnum pistol in a forest, authorities say. bittmann had attempted suicide four times previously, authorities said
authorities said wisniewski told them he drank a six-pack of beer and some scotch and snorted cocaine before going through with bittmann's request
burlington county prosecutor stephen raymond said the sentence ``sends out a clear message that this type of conduct isn't excusable.''
julius bittmann really did do everything but actually pull the trigger,'' he said
wisniewski will be eligible for parole after three years and three months, authorities said
bittmann owned a scuba shop in edison where wisniewski worked as a diving instructor. bittman amassed his fortune through several businesses and real estate
relatives and acquaintances have said that they do not know what led to bittmann's chronic depression, but that he had been taking excessive amounts of anti-depressant drugs in recent years. ... ''</note>
jesse jackson denounced president reagan and george bush on friday for opposing civil rights legislation and accused presidential rivals in both parties of ``not offering leadership to stop the flow of drugs.''
jackson, striving for a win in a big industrial state, campaigned at the county jail, inner-city union halls and a suburban high school, blending his criticism of republicans with stirring calls to shun the ``short-term thrill, long-term chill'' of drugs
on the eve of michigan's statewide democratic presidential caucuses, jackson provided his own answer to those who ask what he seeks to accomplish with a candidacy that is dogged by the assumption he cannot win the nomination, even as he leads the democratic field in popular votes cast
people always ask, no matter how we're winning, what does jesse jackson want,'' jackson said before a crowd of more than 1,000 people, jammed into the united auto workers local 212 next door to a shut-down chrysler plant
what does jesse want? i want to wipe out illiteracy,'' he said
what do i want? i want to raise the minimum wage. what do i want? i want comparable worth for women. ..
i want head start and day care early on, rather than jail-fare and welfare later on,'' jackson said
he called reagan's veto of legislation extending a civil rights law, and bush's support for that veto, ``an attempt to turn back the clock.'' congress on tuesday overrode reagan's veto of the bill, which covers discrimination by institutions that use federal money. reagan argued that the legislation would expand federal power
any man who stands ... against civil rights restoration in this country is not fit to lead our nation,'' jackson said
linking drugs to problems of inner cities such as the one where he was campaigning, jackson criticized vice president bush repeatedly and noted bush's position as head of the administration's fight against drugs
george bush ... he's over the drug commission, and offers no leadership,'' jackson said at the uaw hall
mr. reagan, mr. bush, my competitors, are not offering leadership to stop the flow of drugs,'' jackson said
later in flint, jackson named rivals michael dukakis and albert gore jr., and said he was outspent 50-to-1 by them in the south ``yet we got the most votes.''
if they had my budget, they would surrender. if i had their budget, they could not compete,'' he said
jackson spoke at a baptist church where the crowd was so large people stood outside unable to get in. he also spoke in the parking lot beside a uaw hall where democrat richard gephardt spoke a day earlier. across the street was a gm auto assembly plant closed three months ago, laying off some 3,500 workers
foreign labor is not better labor, it's just cheaper labor,'' jackson said. ``south korea didn't take jobs from us, gm took jobs to them.''
at each stop jackson gave careful instructions on how to vote in michigan's unusual caucus system. at one rally he called all the young children in the crowd to gather around him
who are you going to vote for?'' he asked them. ``jesse,'' they responded
jackson was running in a tight michigan race with dukakis, according to most polls in michigan, with gephardt running third in a state where he must win
jackson, the black civil rights activist, is counting on doing well in heavily black detroit, even though the city's black mayor, coleman young, is backing dukakis
a jackson victory in michigan would be a major achievement for his candidacy in a state of the industrial north _ one where only 16 years ago george wallace won a stunning democratic primary victory
he spoke in a detroit neighborhood not far from empty factories, vacant lots and gutted storefronts
what does it matter to have civil rights, if you can march downtown but can't walk down your own neighborhood streets?'' jackson asked
hours earlier, he visited the wayne county jail and met with about 30 inmates, all facing misdemeanor charges, and urged them to use their time to read and learn and to reject drugs
just because you're down, you don't have to be out; you can change your situation,'' he said
jackson urged the inmates to ask for absentee ballots and vote in the presidential balloting being conducted at saturday's caucuses
a doctor said friday he was looking out his office window when he saw his house passing before his eyes
it was on a flatbed truck, headed out of town with a police escort
i ran down the street and yelled, `hey, where are you going with my house?''' dr. frank calabro, a general practitioner and part owner of a real estate business, said in relating thursday's events
the cop looked at me like i was crazy,'' said calabro, 55
this is your house, mister?'' the officer asked
this is a house-napping,'' calabro told him
the officer stopped the convoy and walked to the back to talk to the man who had ordered the house moved. he was gone
we all stood in the street laughing,'' said calabro. ``it seemed so ridiculous. who would steal a house?''
the answer, provided by the boss of the flatbed truck, was a guy who sold it to someone else for $500, then hired the mover to deliver it
the concept of a man's home being his castle has been shaken to its very foundation,'' suffolk county district attorney patrick henry said
the two-bedroom yellow beach house with a white door had been placed on runners for removal because calabro had sold it _ a $12,000 value _ earlier in the week. partisans</head>
austrian president kurt waldheim, while serving in the german army, received and then forwarded adolf hitler's order to kill captured greek partisans, according to documents released friday
the documents from the u.s. national achives are waldheim's army group's war diary and a corresponding nuremberg war trial document. they were provided by the world jewish congress
the chief witness against kurt waldheim is the one he can never refute _ his own name on the captured nazi war records,'' said elan steinberg, executive director of the world jewish congress
john russell, a justice department spokesman, confirmed friday that the war diary and nuremberg records were among documents used in deciding to place waldheim on the ``watchlist'' that bars undesirable aliens from the united states
the austrian government has protested that the u.s. government has not disclosed the documents. waldheim, u.n. secretary-general from 1972 to 1982, has denied committing any war crimes, although his army unit was accused of them
waldheim served with the german army during world war ii in the occupied balkans. he was a lieutenant in the german general staff attached to the 11th italian army in athens
the documents show that on aug. 8, 1943, waldheim entered hitler's order to kill captured greek partisans in his army group's war diary in athens and on the same day transmitted the order by radio to a german division in the field
the diary entry signed by waldheim said: ``according to a new fuehrer order bandits (partisans) captured in battle are to be shot. others suspected of banditry, etc., are to be taken prisoner and sent to germany for use in labor details.'' the translation was provided by the world jewish congress
the word ``bandit'' was used to describe partisans
the nuremberg document shows the actual transmission of the order: ``to the 1st mountain division: reference teletype ia no. 959-43 secret of 7 aug. 1943 concerning shooting of bandits. a new fuehrer order is at hand, which will be transmitted. bandits taken in battle are to be shot. other bandit suspects etc. are to be arrested and evacuated for `sauckel' labor service.''
ss gen. fritz sauckel, sentenced to death at nuremberg, ran a network of slave labor camps. the 1st mountain division was operating against the anti-nazi resistance in northern greece
steinberg said the documents were made available at this time because waldheim, despite his protests, has failed to appeal the ``watchlist'' decision
these documents demonstrate the basis for that decision and the evidence is devastating,'' he said
an austrian ``white book'' rebutting charges against waldheim makes brief reference to the war diary but does not mention his role in forwarding the hitler order and does not mention the nuremberg document
steinberg said that in the ``white book'' waldheim ``ignores half the diary entry which says these instructions on treatment of bandits are being transmitted.''
the world jewish congress located the waldheim war diary and nuremberg document at the u.s. national archives in 1986 and turned them over to the justice department
a commission of historians appointed by the austrian government issued a report earlier this year saying waldheim was in a position to know of atrocities but did not try to stop them. hospitals</head>
soviet officials agreed in principle during a human rights conference that ended friday to allow american psychiatrists to visit soviet mental hospitals, a high-ranking state department official said
that could lead to examination by americans of soviets believed to be incarcerated in mental institutions solely because they are dissidents
richard schifter, assistant secretary of state for human rights, said the agreement was reached during a unique ``roundtable discussion'' between soviet and u.s. psychiatrists and legal experts
the purpose of the conference, from the american side, was to press the soviets to put into practice recent pledges to improve human rights, to allow judicial review of government actions affecting human rights and to explore ways the soviets could moderate policies on capital punishment, control of religious activity and use of mental hospitals
unlike the united states, where commitment is a legal process, the soviet union permits incarceration in a mental hospital if two psychiatrists sign the order
for years, the united states, soviet activists and psychiatrists around the world have accused the russians of using the system to lock up dissidents who are perfectly sane. the practice has reportedly been stopped in new cases, but schifter said: ``there are certain persons whose names have come up _ still in psychiatric institutions _ who in the opinion of a great many people may be there for reasons other than their mental health.''
under the agreement at the conference, in addition to visiting the soviet institutions, there may be requests for visiting psychiatrists to examine specific patients, schifter said. ``i consider that a possibility.''
soviet psychiatrists will also visit u.s. mental institutions
schifter said the u.s. government would not be involved in the exchanges, but would leave all arrangements to private psychiatric groups
at the conference, schifter said, the soviets also were willing to discuss the issue of capital punishment. he said the soviet union performs 10 times as many executions as are carried out in the united states each year and that there have been some indications moscow is examining whether to continue applying the death penalty for major economic crimes
he said the u.s. participants also suggested the soviets consider dropping use of capital punishment in national security cases. the last spies executed in the united states were julius and ethel rosenberg, who were convicted in the early 1950s of giving atomic bomb secrets to russia
among the participants in the roundtable _ the first conference of its type under a 1975 agreement to hold them _ were loren roth, of the western psychiatric institute, roger peele, director of st. elizabeth's hospital in washington and frank kaufman, a federal judge in baltimore
the soviet delegates included anatoliy l. adamishin, the deputy foreign minister, vasiliy a. vlasikhin, of the usa-canada institute and gennadily n. milekhin, of the serbskiy institute, a soviet hospital
paul kamenar of the washington legal foundation said the chief accomplishment of the conference was ``the recognition by the soviets that they have shortcomings; that they have problems.'' he said the soviets agreed to hold several workshops on human rights and appeared to be eager to talk about the rights situation
talk is cheap, but this is a beginning and we'll see where it goes,'' kamenar said. and edits to conform.</note>
president oscar arias hailed a 60-day cease-fire between the nicaraguan government and rebels as offering a ``a new and firm hope that all central americans can live in peace.''
the presidents of mexico and guatemala, meeting friday at mexico's caribbean resort of cancun to discuss the cease-fire accord, denounced what they called foreign interference and military threats in central america
they did not specifically name the united states, but their remarks appeared directed at washington
mexico is demanding absolute respect for the sovereignty of peoples'' in central america, mexican president miguel de la madrid said in a speech welcoming president vinicio cerezo of guatemala
cuba, which along with the soviet union has been helping nicaragua with military advisers and weapons, called the truce agreement a hope for peace but said it would not undermine the revolutionary principles of nicaragua's leftist sandinista government
in a dispatch, the cuban news agency prensa latina noted that president reagan said he welcomed the agreement between nicaragua and the rebels, but that he also added there ``is reason to have caution'' because of the sandinistas' past actions
it would not be surprising if the united states would now exert pressure on the contra leaders to abhor the agreement with managua and force them to retake the path of war,'' prensa latina said in its dispatch, received friday in mexico city
arias, who won the 1987 nobel peace prize for drawing up a central american peace plan that calls for cease-fires in the region's wars, said thursady he believes the nicaraguan agreement can succeed
i want to be optimistic and trust the good faith of those who signed the document,'' he said
the agreement was signed wednesday in the nicaraguan border town of sapoa, near the costa rican border
if an effective cease-fire is achieved for 60 days and can be extended there is no reason whatsoever not to advance in fulfilling the other points'' in the peace plan, he said
the peace plan, signed by the five central american presidents last aug. 7 in guatemala, also calls for democratic reforms, amnesties and an end to outside aid to insurgencies
arias said the region's conflicts also must be dealt with by the united states and soviet union ``who will have to do their share so that they get their hands out of central america.''
de la madrid and cerezo are to hold two days of talks in cancun. high on their agenda is the nicaraguan pact and u.s. efforts to force panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega out of office
we observe with worry how in central america military threats and foreign interference are taking on a new impulse ... along with economic aggression and military intimidation,'' de la madrid said in his welcoming speech
cerezo, referring to u.s. troops in honduras, said, ``we are ready to do everything possible so that the nations of the world learn to respect us and to help other peoples of the world become masters of their own destinities.''
the reagan administration sent 3,200 american soldiers to honduras last week at the request of honduran president jose azcona hoyo, who accused nicaraguan troops of crossing the border into his country to attack base camps of the u.s.-backed contras
nicaragua denied its troops had entered honduras. honduran officials said earlier this week the sandinistas had withdrawn
de la madrid and cerezo made no mention of the nicaraguan cease-fire agreement in their remarks at cancun
arias told a news conference thursday in san jose the united states was not justified in sending troops to honduras and there was no reason for them to remain there any longer
he also said he had discussed with cerezo the possibility of another meeting of central american presidents
there is much to talk about and clarify,'' he said, but did not elaborate
the 3,200-man american expeditionary force that flew here last week during a honduran-nicaraguan border crisis will start returning to the united states on monday, military intelligence sources said
the sources said the first troops of the 82nd airborne division, based at fort bragg, n.c., will return monday and the entire force will be back home within two or three days after
there was no immediate confirmation from u.s. military spokesmen here. the sources spoke on condition of anonymity
the americans were deployed here from the united states in a dramatic show of force after president jose azcona hoyo asked for help, charging that nicarguan forces had penetrated honduran territory while chasing u.s.-backed contra rebels
honduran government officials said tensions had subsided along the border and that the sandinista troops had withdrawn
it's peaceful on the border,'' presidential spokesman lisandro quesada said. ``there are no sandinista troops in honduras.''
honduras has reported several smaller incursions since the arrival of paratroopers from fort bragg and light infantry from fort ord, calif., on march 17-18
the u.s. forces continued joint training exercises friday with honduran troops at four bases throughout the country, cap. brian deloche, a public affairs officer at palmerola air base said
deloche said the soldiers expected to go home next week, but were still awaiting orders. deloche spoke by telephone from the base, about 40 milies northwest of the capital of tegucigalpa
deployment of the reinforcements brought u.s. military strength in honduras to more than 6,000, alarming even the friendly governments in the region
the sandinistas accused the united states of either preparing to invade nicaragua or using the training exercises to cover up the delivery of arms and equipment for the contras, whose u.s. military aid was cut off by congress last month
some congresmen voiced similar suspicions about the equipment brought here with the troops, including combat helicopters and large quantities of weapons
auditors from the general accounting office, congress' watchdog, were to come to palmerola to make sure the equipment went home with the troops
u.s. embassy spokesman michael o'brien said the auditors were coming at the request of several u.s. lawmakers. neither he nor deloche could say when the auditors were due in honduras
since the troops' arrival, there have been major developments in the six-year war between nicaragua's leftist government the rebels. the two sides agreed wednesday to a 60-day cease-fire as a prelude to talks on permanent peace
meanwhile, honduran military air reconnaissance thursday of the frontier in olancho and el paraiso provinces detected no sandinista activity in honduras, said eugenio castro, a foreign ministry spokesman
the ministry had filed what it called an ``energetic protest'' with nicaragua thursday over what it said were two border incursions involving a total of about 350 sandinistas this week
no confrontations were reported
in guatemala, a meeting of representatives of the five central american nations who signed a regional peace accord on aug. 7, 1987, apparently broke down over the issue of u.s. troops
nicaragua demanded withdrawal of u.s. troops from honduras and honduras countered by demanding that nicaragua withdraw a complaint filed with the world court in the hague, netherlands. the complaint accuses honduras and costa rica of harboring contras
torrential rains swept across central argentina friday and civil defense officials reported six storm-related deaths. they said flooding forced the evacuation of about 20,000 people
two women were electrocuted by downed power lines as they tried to cross streets in suburban buenos aires, according to the officials. they said a 19-year-old woman drowned in villa ponsati and three people drowned in florencio varela _ two girls ages 3 and 4 and a 24-year-old man
it was the second day of haevy rains. among those evacuated were many of the 11,000 residents of moron and quilmes near buenos aires
flooding disrupted rail and road transportation and telephone service
there were widespread power outages in buenos aires, which has a population of 10 million, and the port city of la plata, 30 miles south of the capital
weather forecasters said the rains could continue through sunday
on aug. 25, 1986, dorrian's red hand was just another upper east side bar catering to the young and upwardly mobile: a hangout for yuppies and preppies, where the izod crowd came to knock back a few
twenty-four hours later, all that changed
with the death of jennifer dawn levin early on the morning of aug. 26, dorrian's became _ fairly or unfairly _ a symbol of youthful decadence, of teen-agers with too much money and no place to go
among them was robert chambers, who sat at the bar drinking shots of tequila with beer chasers the night he killed miss levin
he fouled everybody's life up,'' bar owner john f. ``jack'' dorrian said recently. ``who needs this guy?''
after miss levin's death, investigators returned to dorrian's and closed the bar for 10 days for serving underage patrons in november 1986. dorrian has put the bar up for sale; no buyer has been found
chambers, now 21, had been a regular at dorrian's. he also was a college dropout who had a very proper upbringing
dinner at the chambers house, located next to the former andrew carnegie mansion a few blocks north of dorrian's, ``always had silver involved,'' said ralph destino, a friend of chambers, shortly after his arrest
chambers apparently had no steady job at the time of his arrest, yet was drinking and flirting ``five or six nights a week'' at dorrian's, said its owner
interviews in the months since the slaying indicate dorrian's remains attractive, a place where young people can gather in front of an ornate fireplace and play backgammon at the tables
regulars said they avoided dorrian's after miss levin died, fearing the bar had been taken over by the curious. but the young men and women who grew up in the wealthy neighborhood and knew one another in the best prep schools came back
miss levin was not a regular at dorrian's but was known there. patrons don't talk much about the case, they said
i come here when i feel like sitting around like i'm in my living room,'' said alyssa donati, 21, who said she has been frequenting dorrian's for five years
dorrian himself knows who's who in the bar; he can point out the child of a well-known writer and the daughter of a presidential adviser. john zaccaro jr., son of ex-democratic vice presidential nominee geraldine ferraro, was tending bar the night of the death
chambers would no longer be welcome, dorrian said. other regulars would say tourists, out-of-towners and the curious are not welcome either
parents like their kids to come here,'' miss donati said 17 months after miss levin's death. ``here they know the people are from at least good families, they've been to good colleges, and they're not out to rape people.'' storm across argentina, six deaths. picks up 5th graf pvs, `petrehn, head of...' adds 3 grafs at bottom on flight plan.</note>
an attempt by two u.s. adventurers to circle the earth in a balloon in 9 to 14 days was scuttled friday by bad weather, officials said
the attempt by john petrehn and rowland smith, both of kansas, to launch their 360-foot-high balloon from mendoza was canceled by heavy rains, and poor weather forecast this weekend jeopardizes the entire project, said u.s. embassy spokeswoman patricia rosker
torrential rains lashed central argentina from the atlantic to the andes for the second day and officials on friday blamed the storms for six deaths. weather forecasters said the rain would continue through sunday
ms. rosker said of the balloonists, ``the last word i have is that they're planning to launch on tuesday. that will be the final day. after that, the project will have to be canceled, which would be a pity because of all the effort they've put into this.''
the balloonists are trying to do what no one else has: circle the earth around the 45-degree parallel in the southern hemisphere using longitudinal winds that carry them to the east, ms. rosker said
petrehn, head of the project, is a 52-year-old businessman from topeka, kan., while smith, 50, is a former vietnam war pilot and a kansas-based pilot for trans world airlines
they chose mendoza, 660 miles west of buenos aires as their launch and landing site because ``apparently it was the part of the world where there are more days of sun and good weather and because it had good wind conditions,'' ms. rosker said
the balloonists have received about $2.5 million in donations for the project, which includes scientific experiments measuring ozone levels along the 45th parallel, she said
they plan to ride in a specially devised gondola. it contains a small porthole for a window, a bed and one chair. they plan to maintain contact along the route with radar and sophisticated radio equipment, she said
it has a small window like a mini-sub and is quite uncomfortable. also very dangerous because practically all the time they will be flying over water with no help. if a storm arises and it's not predicted by satellite, they will be in trouble,'' she said
two balloons, one of hot air and the other of helium, will ride piggyback above the gondola, allowing the craft to rise and fall by opening valves of hot air as it travels east with the prevailing winds, ms. rosker said
they can reach an altitude of 30,000 feet. the gondola is pressurized for their comfort and they will use the same type of food as astronauts, dehydrated food and lots of water,'' she said
according to petrehn, smith and members of the crew of 24 that helped bring the balloons and gondola to argentina, the flight would be the first non-stop, unrefueled, manned balloon trip around the world
the craft's intended flight from el plumerillo air base outside mendoza would take it over the atlantic, about 200 miles south of africa, across the indian ocean, south of australia, over the southern new zealand island of campbell island to chile where it would cross the andes and arrive back in argentina after 17,545 miles
petrehn and smith said the longest manned balloon flight was that of the double eagle v, which in 1981 crossed the pacific and covered about 5,000 miles. clarify when trial opened, update with explanation of plea bargain and quotes from victim's mother and a juror, and add detail on prior relationship of defendant and victim. picks up 18th graf pvs, `for four ...' trims last two grafs.</note>
robert chambers pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of manslaughter friday for strangling a young woman during sex in central park, halting jury deliberations in the ``preppie murder'' case after nine days
state supreme court justice howard e. bell asked chambers whether he intended to cause ``serious injury'' to 18-year-old jennifer levin ``and thereby cause her death.'' state law defines first-degree manslaughter as causing a death while intending to cause serious injury
looking back on everything, i have to say yes,'' chambers, 21, said. ``it breaks my heart to have to say that.''
at that, prosecutor linda fairstein shot up and said loudly, ``we're asking about his mind and his hands, not his heart.'' the judge repeated the question, and chambers replied, ``yes.''
chambers' mother, phyllis chambers, stared straight ahead, showing no emotion. his father, robert, also sat silently
miss levin's death in the summer of 1986 focused attention on the lives of wealthy young new yorkers. it also drew protests from feminists, who argued that chambers' defense was an example of blaming women for male violence
chambers had maintained that he never intended to hurt miss levin, whom he had dated before, and killed her accidentally with a swipe of his arm when she hurt him during rough sex. the sexual encounter was not their first
chambers originally was charged with second-degree murder, which carries a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in prison
under a plea bargain, he will be sentenced to five to 15 years. he could have received up to eight and one-third to 25 years on the charge. sentencing was set for april 15
the plea bargain, reached after two days of negotiations, came as the jury was in its ninth day of deliberations. chambers' trial began with jury selection oct. 21. opening arguments started jan. 4
manhattan district attorney robert morgenthau said that the prospect of a possible mistrial, the strain on the levin family and the circumstantial nature of the evidence prompted the plea bargain
i'll feel better tomorrow when he's in jail, where he should be,'' said ellen levin, jennifer's mother. ``he wasn't the lily-white altar boy he appeared to be.''
chambers, who was free on $157,500 bail during the trial, will surrender saturday morning, said his attorney, jack litman
chambers also pleaded guilty to second-degree burglary in an unrelated indictment, with his sentence to run concurrent with his manslaughter sentence
one juror said the votes on the murder charge swung from 8-4 for acquittal to 9-3 for conviction, and the last vote was 7-5 for acquittal. but he said he felt the jury could have reached a verdict. the judge had sealed the jurors' names, and the juror who spoke would identify himself only as mike
when lawyers involved in the burglary case appeared earlier in the day, prompting speculation about a plea bargain, miss levin's grandfather arnold domenitz, 72, said he found such talk ``sickening.''
if that wasn't so tragic, it would be funny,'' he said
shortly after miss levin's body was found, chambers told police in a videotaped statement that she had ``molested'' him sexually and hurt his genitals
for four hours during his closing argument, litman appealed to the jury to acquit chambers. ``what he was doing was reacting to the pain,'' litman said. ``he was trying to stop her'' and the result was a ``tragic accident.''
fairstein called the story ``ludicrous.'' she said he attacked miss levin in a rage, punched her, chased her when she tried to flee, caught her and ``squeezed the life out of her.''
fairstein, holding a photo of miss levin taken in a bar hours before her death, told the jury: ``one can't help but look at that photograph and pray for time to stand still, for time to grab her and say, `don't go with robert chambers.'''
the judge told the jury that while ``motive is not an element of the crime charged here,'' the lack of one is a circumstance from which they might infer innocence
fairstein had been hard put to offer a motive, and suggested chambers strangled miss levin after an argument which started when he was impotent after a night of drinking
perhaps he couldn't perform because he had too many beers and shots of tequila that night,'' she said
at 11:30 p.m. aug. 25, 1986, chambers arrived at dorrian's red hand. the bar-restaurant on manhattan's upper east side, in the heart of one of the city's wealthiest areas, was popular among privileged young people, many of them younger than new york's legal drinking age of 21
the atmosphere, bartender john zacarro jr. testified, was festive. patrons on their way to colleges table-hopped, embraced friends and laughed
that night chambers, a boston university dropout, talked with miss levin, who was planning to go to college that fall. they left together
the prosecution presented 25 witnesses and 120 exhibits, including many color photos of miss levin's bruised and nearly nude body beneath a tree behind the metropolitan museum of art where she was found by a bicyclist at daybreak
the prosecutor argued the victim's left eye, red and swollen, and the fracture in a small bone in chambers' hand show that the defendant assaulted her with ``hands as deadly as any arsenal.''
harolds club, the last remaining property in the gaming empire of the late howard hughes, has been sold, it was announced friday
the lincoln group, which owns fitzgeralds hotel-casino across the street from harolds and operates the nevada club next door, announced the purchase from hughes properties inc. the price was not disclosed
harolds club was founded in 1935 by gaming pioneer harold smith
hughes arrived in las vegas in 1966 and began buying gaming properties the following year with the purchase of the desert inn. within a few years he owned the desert inn, the landmark, the frontier, the sands, the silver slipper and the castaways in las vegas and harolds club. the reclusive billionaire died in 1976
lincoln group president phil griffith, who was president of harolds club from 1978 until 1984, called the purchase ``a project close to our hearts.'' the lincoln group also owns fitzgerald's hotel-casino in las vegas
the lincoln group said it will take over harolds on may 31 and close it for about a month for remodeling
hughes revolutionized gaming in the late 1960s by introducing corporate ownership into a business previously dominated by individual owners like smith
hughes' company in december sold its last two las vegas properties, the frontier and the silver slipper
earlier last year, it sold the desert inn and sands resorts to financier kirk kerkorian and previously sold the castaways to golden nugget owner steven wynn
the government began using newspaper ads friday to drum up information about nazi war criminals, apparently in reponse to charges it has not been energetic in pursuing perpetrators of world war ii atrocities
war criminals _ evidence wanted,'' read the heading of the ad that appeared in the times of london and other papers with national circulations
the advertisements were taken out by a special war crimes inquiry panel set up after the nazi-hunting simon wiesenthal center accused the british government of failing to seek and prosecute war criminals
it is alleged that some war criminals responsible for genocide, murder or manslaughter in germany or german-occupied territories during the second world war are in the (united kingdom),'' the ad says
others with british nationality may be living elsewhere in the world. the names of some suspects have already been sent to the home office.''
the advertisements say that when the inquiry is complete, home minister douhlas hurd will advise the government ``whether there is sufficient evidence to justify the prosecution of the alleged offenders.''
they ask anyone with ``any information that you think may be relevant'' to write the home office. the ads are to be repeated in newspapers sunday
the inquiry panel is headed by the former director of public prosecutions, sir thomas hetherington, and william chambers, a former senior government official in scotland
hetherington and chambers will spend a year investigating evidence and interviewing people with information in britain and abroad, including the soviet union
efrain zuroff, director of the wiesenthal center's israel office, last month gave british officials the names of two more alleged war criminals and more evidence against nine suspects the government already confirmed are living in britain
zuroff said at that time that the center expects dozens of suspected war criminals living in britain and other western countries to stand trial within 18 months as new legal changes close in on the suspects
he said in an interview in london last month that, before hurd set up the inquiry, britain was the only major western country that refused to take any action against alleged war criminals
the los angeles-based wiesenthal center has submitted the names of a total of 256 suspects to eight countries _ australia, brazil, britain, canada, sweden, the united states, venezuela and west germany _ where they are alleged to have fled after the war ended in 1945
the suspects are mainly from the ukraine, latvia and lithuania, all now part of the soviet union. they are accused of collaborating with nazi invaders in killing jews and others
british-resident suspects include a former lithuanian platoon commander, 71-year-old antanas gecas, who lives in edinburgh, scotland
the wiesenthal center alleges gecas killed more jews than klaus barbie, the so-called butcher of lyon. gecas, a retired mining engineer, says he is innocent and the accusations have wrecked his life
the wiesenthal center tracked down the suspects, mostly over age 70, after gaining access to international immigration data in late 1986
west germany and the united states are probing cases identified by the center, while australia and canada set up inquiry commissions and changed their laws recently to allow prosecutions
zuroff charged last month that brazil, sweden and venezuela have done little or nothing to trace the individuals or prosecute. was told he could use money for practically `any damn thing.' no pickup.</note>
gov. evan mecham, fighting charges he misused $80,000 from a ``protocol fund'' by loaning it to his auto dealership, testified friday he was told he could use the money for practically ``any damn thing that you want.''
the first-term republican said he had never heard the money referred to as public funds
testimony at the governor's senate impeachment trial in recent days has focused on his borrowing at 9 percent interest money that had been raised by his inaugural ball
state law had barred him from using the money to pay off campaign debts, and a ``protocol fund'' was set up instead last year. witnesses said the fund was intended to promote arizona through events and gifts to visiting dignitaries
the prosecution contends the fund was public money; the defense contends that it was private and that it was borrowed because mecham's dealership was in desperate financial straits
mecham said he received instructions on use of the money from william long, chairman of mecham's inaugural committee, which had raised the funds before learning they could not be used to retire campaign debts
mr. long said, `we have gone through all of this rigamarole and you can spend it for any damn thing that you want,' those were his words, `except you can't spend it for politics or personal living expenses,''' mecham testified
i never heard the words discussed, `public funds,''' the 63-year-old governor said under questioning by his attorney, jerris leonard
a key piece of evidence in the case is a letter of agreement signed by long and the maricopa county attorney agreeing that money placed in the fund could be used only to promote the interests of arizona and encourage public service
however, long, in an affidavit submitted by the defense friday, said he ``did not intend to transfer these monies as a gift to the state of arizona.''
the misuse of funds charge is the second of three impeachment counts before the senate, which earlier heard testimony on an allegation mecham attempted to obstruct an investigation of an alleged death threat. the governor has also been accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, also faces a recall election may 17 and a criminal trial april 21 on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan
mecham, who took the stand shortly before the trial recessed for the weekend, began answering allegations that his mecham pontiac dealership was in financial trouble and needed the $80,000 borrowed in july
he and his attorney presented documents that they said showed the company had an unencumbered net value of $2.5 million at the time. a prosecution accountant had testified the company owed more than it was worth
asked about a $101,900 loan that was in default last summer, mecham said that was a mistake
quite frankly, i wasn't watching my details,'' he said. ``i was a little red faced when they caught up with me and i took care of it.''
in testimony earlier friday, mecham's son denied the family car business was in financial distress when the $80,000 loan was made in july
dennis mecham, 37, who took over as general manager of mecham pontiac when his father was elected in 1986, supported his father's statement that he borrowed the money only so it would earn higher interest than it was getting
he called up and asked if i could use $80,000 in the dealership operation,'' dennis mecham recalled of his talk with his father last july. ``i said yes. i'd say yes to anyone who had $80,000 to loan me.''
he said it was the inaugural fund and it was just sitting there,'' the younger mecham recalled. ``he wanted to roughly double the interest it was getting
i needed the money, but the rate of interest had to be reasonable. i didn't want him to stiff me,'' the younger mecham said with a laugh. ``of course, i knew he wouldn't.''
about 200 guerrillas blew a hole in the wall of el salvador's largest prison friday, entered the compound and fought guards in a half-hour battle that left two people dead, officers reported
gen. rinaldo golcher, deputy security minister, told reporters about 10 prisoners escaped from the mariona penitentiary just north of the capital of san salvador as the lestist guerrillas withdrew. no guerrilla casualties were reported
officials did not give a breakdown on the number of common criminals and the number of rebels held in mariona, a facility that normally holds 1,000 prisoners
seven guards were wounded by rifle fire and grenade shrapnel and ``some prisoners'' also were injured, golcher said. ``there are probably some dead,'' he added
a guard interviewed by journalists as he left the prison said two civilian employees were killed. some inmates set fires as the left-wing rebels launched their attack in the early afternoon, according to the guard
he said ``about 200'' guerrillas made the assault and golcher reported a large number managed to get into the prison grounds during the ``very strong'' attack
a first-aid worker said three civilian employees suffered serious bullet wounds and were taken by ambulances to hospitals
journalists were kept hundreds of yards away from the penitentiary as scores of soldiers were rushed to the prison. two helicopters flew over the compound
the guerrillas have been fighting the u.s.-backed government since 1979. prosecution, sted defense, contends dealership was in financial trouble.</note>
gov. evan mecham, fighting charges he misused $80,000 from a ``protocol fund'' by loaning it to his auto dealership, testified friday he was told he could use the money for practically ``any damn thing that you want.''
the first-term republican said he had never heard the money referred to as public funds
testimony at the governor's senate impeachment trial in recent days has focused on his borrowing at 9 percent interest money that had been raised by his inaugural ball
state law had barred him from using the money to pay off campaign debts, and a ``protocol fund'' was set up instead last year. witnesses said the fund was intended to promote arizona through events and gifts to visiting dignitaries
the prosecution contends the fund was public money; the defense contends that it was private. prosecutors have also alleged that mecham's dealership was in financial trouble and needed the money
mecham said he received instructions on use of the money from william long, chairman of mecham's inaugural committee, which had raised the funds before learning they could not be used to retire campaign debts
mr. long said, `we have gone through all of this rigamarole and you can spend it for any damn thing that you want,' those were his words, `except you can't spend it for politics or personal living expenses,''' mecham testified
i never heard the words discussed, `public funds,''' the 63-year-old governor said under questioning by his attorney, jerris leonard
a key piece of evidence in the case is a letter of agreement signed by long and the maricopa county attorney agreeing that money placed in the fund could be used only to promote the interests of arizona and encourage public service
however, long, in an affidavit submitted by the defense friday, said he ``did not intend to transfer these monies as a gift to the state of arizona.''
the misuse of funds charge is the second of three impeachment counts before the senate, which earlier heard testimony on an allegation mecham attempted to obstruct an investigation of an alleged death threat. the governor has also been accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, also faces a recall election may 17 and a criminal trial april 21 on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan
mecham, who took the stand shortly before the trial recessed for the weekend, began answering allegations that his mecham pontiac dealership was in financial trouble and needed the $80,000 borrowed in july
he and his attorney presented documents that they said showed the company had an unencumbered net value of $2.5 million at the time. a prosecution accountant had testified the company owed more than it was worth
asked about a $101,900 loan that was in default last summer, mecham said that was a mistake
quite frankly, i wasn't watching my details,'' he said. ``i was a little red faced when they caught up with me and i took care of it.''
in testimony earlier friday, mecham's son denied the family car business was in financial distress when the $80,000 loan was made in july
dennis mecham, 37, who took over as general manager of mecham pontiac when his father was elected in 1986, supported his father's statement that he borrowed the money only so it would earn higher interest than it was getting
he called up and asked if i could use $80,000 in the dealership operation,'' dennis mecham recalled of his talk with his father last july. ``i said yes. i'd say yes to anyone who had $80,000 to loan me.''
he said it was the inaugural fund and it was just sitting there,'' the younger mecham recalled. ``he wanted to roughly double the interest it was getting
i needed the money, but the rate of interest had to be reasonable. i didn't want him to stiff me,'' the younger mecham said with a laugh. ``of course, i knew he wouldn't.'' defendant</head>
the lawyer for a man accused of murdering two women and shackling four others in a basement torture chamber said friday he has obtained files that will prove his client was the subject of army lsd tests in the 1960s
i found that my client was a guinea pig for the u.s. army and it will be proven beyond any doubt,'' a. charles peruto jr. said. ``if i were to pay rent on the files by the square foot, i'd be broke.''
one year ago, police found three half-naked women chained to a sewer pipe in the basement of gary heidnik's house after being led there by a woman who said she had escaped from the captor
limbs of another woman were found packaged in the freezer and another body was found in a new jersey forest
peruto said he plans to argue during the trial set to begin april 4 that heidnik was insane and the hallucinogen lsd aggravated his schizophrenia
peruto said army and veterans administration documents show heidnik was the subject of lsd tests between 1961 and 1963
an army spokesman said the service's records did not show such testing
nothing exists in his army record on file. it is not known what is part of his record on file with the veterans administration,'' said lt. col. greg rixon in washington
calls to the va late friday afternoon went unanswered
the va granted heidnik 100 percent psychiatric disability after he was discharged from the army in 1963. the pentagon has said the army initially set the diability level much lower after concluding heidnik's condition pre-dated his induction
in another development friday, peruto withdrew an agreement with heidnik's creditors that would have assigned two-thirds of book and movie profits to his alleged victims. the other third would go to peruto in lieu of attorney's fees
peruto said he withdrew the arrangement, filed in u.s. bankruptcy court, because the district attorney's office objected. heidnik and a now-defunct church he founded, the united church of the ministers of god, are in bankruptcy
assistant district attorney harriet brumberg said wednesday that state law provides that 100 percent of such book or movie profits goes to the victims. peruto holds a $100,000 judgment note against heidnik's estate, guaranteeing his fee. `foreign ministers ...' to update with u.n. sending team of experts to investigate iranian claims of iraqi chemical weapons attack. picks up 10th grafs pvs, `dispatches of ...' with minor editing thereafter to trim.</note>
iranian and iraqi soldiers fought in the kurdistan mountains friday for control of a strategic area east of the kirkuk oil fields, which produce more than half the oil that finances iraq's war effort
at the united nations, francois giuliani, spokesman for secretary-general javier perez de cuellar, said friday that a u.n. team of experts will travel to iran to see victims of what tehran claims was an iraqi attack with chemical weapons
each side claimed to have shot down four of the other's warplanes during the battle on the northern front
iran said its revolutionary guards killed or wounded 500 iraqis in heavy fighting east of sayyid sadiq. both sides used warplanes and helicopter gunships in the battle
in the persian gulf, iraq claimed its warplanes scored ``accurate and effective hits'' on two tankers off iran during the night. there was no immediate confirmation from maritime executives
reports from tehran said the iranians hit basra, iraq's southern provincial capital, and five other border cities farther north with missile and artillery barrages. iraq said its warplanes bombed bakhtaran, hamadan and shushtar in western iran
iraq reported 10 civilians killed and 22 wounded. iran said 53 people were killed in the iraqi raids
towns and cities on both sides of the frontier have been battered regularly since the war began in september 1980
both sides have fired more than 250 missiles into each others capitals and other cities cities since feb. 29, killing hundreds of civilians
foreign ministers of the organization of islamic conference in amman, jordan, said they would press the united nations to force a cease-fire on iran. the iranians left the meeting thursday, accusing the delegates of serving only iraq's interest
in new york, iran's u.n. ambassador, mohammad ja'afar mahallati, said iraq used chemical weapons on kurdish rebels, in violation of international agreements. giuliani said the u.n. delegation was making the visit at iran's request
mahallati also said tehran would send a special emissary for peace talks at the united nations. perez de cuellar had requested the consultations on efforts to implement a cease-fire resolution passed by the security council last year
dispatches of iran's official islamic republic news agency said revolutionary guards pushing into northeastern iraq mauled four infantry battalions and a brigade, totaling around 7,500 men
irna identified the brigade as part of iraq's 7th army corps, an element in the defense network that protects basra from periodic iranian thrusts across the southern border
that indicated the iraqis had moved forces from the south, where about half their 1 million soldiers are concentrated, to counter the northern offensive
according to the agency, fighting centered on the rishan mountains east of sayyid sadiq, the apparent iranian objective in the latest phase of the 10-day-old assault
an iranian force of at least 30,000 men was said to be five miles west of the town, an important transportation hub, on thursday after a two-pronged drive 10 miles across the border that cut off many iraqi soldiers
tehran radio said four iraqi fighter-bombers were shot down by ground fire friday and the pilots killed. baghdad's official iraqi news agency said anti-aircraft fire downed four iranian jets in the battle zone and iraqi fighters destroyed four helicopters
iran claims its soldiers have killed or wounded 11,000 iraqis during the northern offensive, captured 4,500 and destroyed 200 tanks and armored vehicles. iraq says thousands of invaders have been killed, but admits losing several towns
by iranian accounts, revolutionary guards reached a position 5 miles east of sayyid sadiq after overrunning several other towns since the offensive began march 16
they are said to control the area around the eastern shore of lake darbandikhan and hills overlooking a major hydroelectric dam, on the southern edge of the lake, that provides power for much of northeast iraq
western military analysts said the iranians could use the captured territory as the base for a drive southward, behind iraqi defense lines in the central sector of the 730-mile border just 80 miles east of baghdad
that could threaten the kirkuk oilfields, 80 miles west of sayyid sadiq. they are heavily defended and produce about 1.5 million barrels of crude a day, more than half iraq's total production
about 30,000 striking teachers rallied in front of the federal government building friday, demanding higher wages to end a walkout that has idled 7.2 million schoolchildren
the protesters are among 505,000 public school instructors who remain off the job. primary school teachers went on strike march 14, the first day of the argentine school year, and were joined monday by secondary school teachers
no violence was reported during the giant rally in front of the government house, the seat of the federal government. teachers waved placards, taunted the government and listened to remarks by union leaders
teachers are seeking a minimum salary of $118 a month. the government has countered with an offer of $84 a month, saying it cannot afford more because of argentina's economic crunch
the teachers' union, the confederation of educational workers of the argentine republic, is part of the four million-member general confederation of labor, argentina's largest and most influential union
argentina's foreign debt of $50 billion is among latin america's largest and payment of interest on the debt seriously drains its reserves. inflation in 1987 was 175 percent, more than twice the rate of 1986
despite promises of horse-diapers and careful drivers, this luxury resort has said neigh to a $100-an-hour horse-and-carriage service similar to those operated in new york's central park
horses are lovely animals. i think they're very beautiful _ in someone else's town,'' town councilman paul ilyinsky said thursday after the palm beach public safety committee turned down the proposal
ilyinsky said there would be accidents and ``a lot of mangled horses'' if they were allowed to trot around town
darcy canevari, 24, who runs a horse-drawn carriage service in norwalk, conn., had asked for a trial run
i think people would love it,'' she said. ``it's very romantic.''
if anyone objects to manure on the streets, canevari said, the animals will be fitted with diapers. she said, however, that in some towns ``they like to have the manure on the streets to let people know the horses are there.''
here's pms digest line u wanted

phoenix, ariz. _ gov. evan mecham, defending himself on charges he misused $80,000 from a protocol fund, says he was never told that it was public money and was given carte blanche to do ``any damn thing that you want'' with the funds. should stand. by laurie asseo

pn calling reagan `extra-terrestrial,' congressmen's remarks, canal pilots say problems resolved. edits throughout to trim.</note>
the armed forces that keep gen. manuel antonio noriega in power went unpaid friday and the broke and beleaguered government ordered businesses closed by the general strike to reopen
in a decree issued under a week-old state of emergency, the civilian government that does noriega's bidding said it would take away the commercial licenses of any businesses ``offering goods and services to the public'' if they remained closed
the decree specifically mentioned grocery stores, pharmacies, transportation companies and gasoline stations
an estimated 90 percent of panama's industry and businesses have shut down in the strike, called to force noriega's removal as the head of the 15,000-member defense forces that includes the military and police
the government's inability to pay the defense forces kindled hopes in the opposition that loyalty for him will wane
several members of the defense forces, including a secretary at military headquarters, said army, navy, police and air force personnel did not receive their semi-monthly paychecks as scheduled friday
we did not receive our wages and we were not told when we would receive them,'' said the secretary, who declined to give her name. soldiers questioned by reporters also said they had not been paid
in mid-march, most of the 130,000 public employees were given partial payment of at least $75 on their salaries. those employees whose monthly salaries are $1,000 or more were not paid. social security checks have been postponed
demonstrators at the roman catholic cathedral protested the church's failure to issue a denunciation of noriega as expected
pilots who guide ships through the panama canal and claimed they had been harassed by soldiers in panama city demanded protection and met with the panama canal commission. some pilots had spoken of a strike, but commission spokesman frank castsrellon said the situation was resolved at the meeting. he did not elaborate
john maher, president of the panama canal pilots association, said: ``there is no problem now.''
noriega remained obstinate
he was asked at a military ceremony about president reagan's renewed call for his departure and he replied:
my president is called (manuel) solis palma and my geographic space is called panama. i don't take orders from extra-terrestrials.''
solis palma was named chief executive by the legislature when president eric arturo delvalle was ousted on feb. 26, the day after he tried to fire noriega
two members of the house foreign affairs committee, reps. gary ackerman, d-n.y., and peter h. kostmayer, d-pa., ended a two-day visit friday and told a news conference they thought the reagan administration should increase economic pressure on noriega
noriega is under indictment in the united states on narcotics charges. the reagan administration has cut the flow of money to panama, which uses the u.s. dollar as its currency
a threat to seize stores that refuse to open was in decree no. 16 issued under the state of emergency that enables the government to act as it deems necessary ``to secure public order,'' including suspending civil liberties
it did not say how authorities would force businesses to open
another decree issued friday said any establishment that had been closed for the past five days and sold food, meats or canned goods ``cannot reopen unless it is first inspected by the health ministry.''
it said store owners who do not comply face ``temporary suspension of their licenses or, in case of repeated violations, the cancellation of their commercial licenses.''
the strike began monday and was called by the national civic crusade, a broad alliance of noriega's opposition. crusade leaders said it would continue until noriega was ousted
panama canal employees have worked throughout protests and general strikes against noriega that began last june. the canal continues to operate normally while the nation around the waterway is at a virtual standstill
most of the canal's 230 pilots are american citizens
soldiers man roadblocks around the capital and they demand identification from drivers, search cars and rummage through personal belongings. some pilots complained about those actions
about 100 people stalked out of the cathedral after archbishop marcos g. mcgrath opened a special mass by telling worshipers and observers the church would not issue the anticipated anti-noriega statement
we don't know how this mistaken rumor originated,'' mcgrath said. ``we are sorry, but it is not our fault.''
civic crusade leaders and ackerman had said they had been assured the church would issue a strong condemnation of noriega
those who walked out stood on the steps of the gray stone cathedral chanting, ``justice! justice!'' and ``noriega must go!''
mcgrath told those remaining inside that he and noriega had a ``preparatory meeting'' thursday. he did not explain and said he could not discuss the conversation
the active-duty strength of the nation's military services declined in february from both the previous month and the year-earlier period, the pentagon said thursday
as of feb. 29, the army, navy, marine corps and air force had 2,163,193 men and women on active duty, down 2,625 from jan. 31 and a decrease of 8,914 from the feb. 28, 1987, tally
it is not unusual for military strength to swing up and down on a monthly basis during the year, primarily because of differences in the flow of new recruits
the strength totals are expected to vary even more widely than normal this year, though, because the pentagon is reducing its active-duty strength in a budget-cutting move
according to the latest ``military strength'' assessment, three of the four armed services reported personnel reductions in february
the marine corps reported 198,231 men and women on active duty, down just 12 from january. the air force had 603,599 on active duty, down 975; and the army listed 776,415, down 2,308
the navy, meantime, reported an increase of 670 personnel in february, with 584,948 on active duty at the end of the month
the marine corps and air force reported declines in strength compared with feb. 28, 1987, while the navy and army reported slightly increases
the soviet union is lending nine rare works of islamic art for an exhibition of ancient persian art and culture planned next year at the smithsonian institution's arthur m. sackler gallery and the los angeles county museum of art, it was announced thursday
the art works from the hermitage museum in leningrad and the state armory at the kremlin in moscow have been seen rarely outside the soviet union and never in the united states
the soviet loan will include a pair of 14th century gold bowls with dragon handles, two 15th century bronze oil lamps commissioned by the central asian warlord timur, also known as tamerlane, and a polychrome tile mosaic from timur's monumental tomb in samarkand
in exchange, the sackler gallery and the los angeles museum will lend master islamic paintings, calligraphies and ceramic vessels to be exhibited at the hermitage for its 225th anniversary next year
the exchange was authorized by a protocol signed recently by the soviet union, the sackler and the los angeles museum under terms of a cultural agreement reached at the 1985 geneva summit meeting between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
the american exhibition, ``timur and the princely vision: persian art and culture in the 15th century,'' will appear at the sackler from april 14, 1989, through july 9 and in los angeles from aug. 13 through nov. 5
initial support for the exhibition is being provided by the national endowment for the humanities and the smithsonian's special exhibitions fund
the federal communications commission on thursday reaffirmed its decision to abolish its policy requiring broadcasters to air conflicting views of controversial issues
the action will allow a lawsuit filed by supporters of the fairness doctrine to go forward in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia
the fcc voted 3-0 to deny reconsideration of its aug. 4 decision to scrap the doctrine on the grounds that it violated the first amendment and chilled broadcasters' coverage of controversial issues of public importance
we anticipated this. we're happy the commission finally acted'' so the court case can move along, said attorney donna lambert, who with henry geller, a former fcc general counsel, are asking the court to revive the doctrine
the case before the court stems from allegations by the syracuse peace council that meredith corp. station wtvh-tv in syracyse, n.y., violated the fairness doctrine by broadcasting editorial advertisements favoring construction of a local nuclear power plant without presenting opposing views
the fcc's decision to abolish the doctrine infuriated democrats in congress, who mustered the votes to pass legislation to reinstate the policy but were unable to override president reagan's veto of the measure
these supporters say they will make another attempt to revive the policy this year, against the wishes of broadcasters who oppose the doctrine
two men were charged friday with murdering five supermarket employees during a robbery sept. 4 in which the victims were shot in the back of the head after being ordered to lie on the floor
one suspect was arrested without incident friday after a grand jury handed up the indictments; the other remained at large, said police capt. charles mccrary
each was charged with five counts of murder, one of robbery and two of assault in connection with two supermarket employees who were wounded in the hold-up after closing time by gunmen posing as a cleaning crew
investigators have said they believe the two gunmen surprised and shot to death a supermarket security guard. the four other slain employees, including a 16-year-old bag boy, were shot while lying on the floor
the gunmen robbed the cash register of several hundred dollars. most of the store's cash was kept in a safe that could be opened only with the help of a wells fargo guard, police said
mccrary said the key to the arrests was the discovery of the security guard's .38-caliber revolver in the trunk of a car brentwood police stopped for speeding
the police captain said the investigation continued another four months because ``a lot of information needed to be checked into.''
donnie blankenship of overland had been jailed since november on charges of receiving stolen property and unlawful use of the guard's weapon, but posted bail in the last week or two and remained at large, mccrary said
the other suspect, marvin jennings of overland, was taken into custody friday, mccrary said
mccrary said more people may have been involved in the crime
i'm pleased we've got the indictments, but there's more work to be done,'' he said. ``we're still at a critical point in this investigation. there are still a lot of things we can't tell you.''
relatives of the victims expressed relief
it brings a little justice if they got the right people,'' said sonja spahn, the widow of the slain security guard, 27-year-old david spahn
the pentagon on thursday expressed reservations to a house panel's plan to kill funding for a trident nuclear submarine and instead build two destroyers that would give japan more security without disclosing secret u.s. technology
it really isn't the answer,'' said lt. cmdr. chris baumann, a defense department spokesman
the house armed services seapower subcommittee voted this week to delete the administration's request for $1.4 billion for a 16th trident submarine in the fiscal 1989 budget
rep. charles e. bennett, d-fla., subcommittee chairman and architect of the funding maneuver, is wary of an administration plan to sell sophisticated aegis radar systems to japan for new japanese destroyers
instead, he wants the united states to build two extra aegis ddg-51 destroyers and station them in japanese waters under u.s. control, a move that would provide japan with extra security while not divulging technology
but baumann said bennett's plan would hinder u.s. efforts to have japan patrol its own waters. under an agreement reached early in the reagan administration, japan agreed to patrol waters out to 1,000 miles and u.s. forces would cover the rest of the pacific
what we're trying to do is get japan to do more, not to do less,'' baumann said. ``all of a sudden, we would be taking their mission.''
bennett, however, said keeping a tight rein on technology secrets should take precedent
i just don't want them to have our secret of our aegis ships,'' bennett said in a telephone interview. ``it's not just against japan. we shouldn't unnecessarily share a secret with anyone. ... it opens another channel of opportunity for spies.''
the issue comes before the full armed services committee next week, and chairman les aspin, d-wis., plans to oppose the move, said a congressional source who spoke on condition of anonymity
bennett said he did not know if the full committee would support his plan. he said that if he loses, he will take his case to the house floor, where he predicted he would prevail
meanwhile, lawmakers from connecticut and rhode island, where tridents are built by the electric boat division of general dynamics corp., vowed to fight the move
sen. john h. chafee, r-r.i., a former navy secretary, wrote to house armed service committee members urging them to reject the bennett proposal
at a time when u.s. defense resources are so stretched, and when increased burden-sharing by japan has been endorsed by both houses of congress, it seems unwise to sacrifice a crucial trident submarine in favor of this new naval commitment of questionable merit,'' chafee said
the 18,750-ton tridents each carry 24 long-range, multi-warhead missiles. trident contracts create thousands of jobs in southern new england at electric boat's plants in groton, conn., and north kingstown, r.i
the legal battle between eastern airlines and its largest union over the carrier's proposed sale of its east coast air shuttle service moved to a higher court thursday
attorneys for eastern filed papers with the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia, asking for dismissal of an earlier ruling that the airline was in contempt
u.s. district judge john h. pratt, who on march 10 found the airline in contempt for attempting to sell the shuttle, on wednesday denied eastern's request that he overturn his own ruling
the case pits the miami-based carrier against the international association of machinists and aerospace workers, which represents 12,000 mechanics and other ground workers at eastern. the union and the airline are in mediation seeking new contract terms
eastern, whose parent company is texas air corp., has proposed selling its shuttle to another texas air subsidiary for $225 million. company officials say eastern needs cash, but union leaders say the sale is simply an attempt to pare the union's membership
the shuttle flies between washington, new york and boston and earned a $17 million profit for eastern last year. overall, eastern lost $182 million in 1987
in another dispute, pratt ordered eastern last july to refrain from taking any actions that would alter the machinists' working conditions. on march 10, pratt ruled that the proposed shuttle deal violated that order
eastern's lawyers also want dismissal of sanctions pratt levied against the airline on monday. pratt forbade eastern to pursue government permission to sell the shuttle, and threatened $10,000-per-day fines for future transgressions
fielding questions in english and spanish, democratic presidential hopeful michael dukakis on thursday denounced the u.s. role in central america and said he would consider a hispanic running mate
courting the hispanic vote in the nation's largest spanish-language media market, the massachusetts governor said he favored a one-year extension in the deadline for illegal aliens to apply for amnesty
asked in spanish if a dukakis ticket would consider a hispanic as a vice-presidential running mate, he answered ``tal vez (perhaps),'' adding: ``vamos a ver (we'll see).''
dukakis, who noted his own ethnic background as the son of greek immigrants, impressed some spanish-speaking reporters with his command of the language, although he spoke carefully and a translation was sometimes requested
invited to a question-and-answer session were reporters, editors and executives of los angeles' spanish-language media: three daily newspapers, two television stations and at least five radio stations
in blasting the reagan administration's central american policies, dukakis said costa rica's president oscar arias deserved much of the credit for the recent cease-fire agreement between nicaragua's sandinista government and the u.s.-backed contra rebels
the reagan administration's backing of the contras and recent dispatch of u.s. troops to honduras did nothing to contribute to the peace process, dukakis declared
on the amnesty issue, dukakis called for extending the may 4 deadline by which illegal aliens must apply for temporary resident status another year
but regardless of whether congress extends the deadline, dukakis said that as president he would ensure that the immigration bureaucracy does not break up families in cases where only some members qualify for amnesty
the u.s. immigration reform act offers resident status to illegal aliens who can prove they have lived continuously in the united states for the last five years
it also sets stiff penalties for employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens
asked about the minimum wage, a perennial concern of minority groups, dukakis called for an increase
i don't see how you can support a family on $3.35 an hour,'' the candidate said
the government's massive program of public works has created jobs but fueled inflation in this caribbean nation, a top presidential aide said
it's not that we don't want stability. that's a top goal of the balaguer government,'' technical minister guillermo caram said in an interview before leaving with president joaquin balaguer on thursday for a meeting with president reagan in washington
but it has to be understood that we have to sacrifice now in order to strengthen the base for tomorrow's growth,'' caram said. ``for that, we have to make sacrifices today.''
balaguer was scheduled to meet with reagan on friday and then with officials of international lending agencies. on balaguer's agenda was the u.s. sugar quota, which he wants increased, and the dominican republic's $4 billion foreign debt
the government's $600 million program of construction of roads, bridges, schools and hospitals has created 210,000 jobs within the last year, caram said. the money, to be spent through balaguer's four-year term, has spurred the country's economic growth rate to 9 percent, he added
but it also touched off double-digit inflation that private economists say is closer to 40 percent than the official government figure of 30 percent
the foreign exchange value of the peso, the dominican currency, has declined steadily since and now is worth less than 20 cents. just four years ago the peso traded evenly with the u.s. dollar
increases in prices of gasoline, milk, rice and other basic commodities earlier this month touched off strikes and skirmishes between soldiers and stone-throwing youths. the clashes threatened to escalate into full-scale riots such as occurred in april 1984, when more than 100 people died
balaguer fended off protestors by pledging to increase the minimum wage by 30 percent to $75 a month, and to implement price controls. representatives from the government, labor, private business and the influential roman catholic church are to meet for a second time in early april
politically, the 80-year-old balaguer seems to be in firm control. he began a fifth presidential term in august 1986 after being out of office for two consecutive terms
the opposition dominican revolutionary party, split into camps supporting former presidential candidate jacobo majluta and former santo domingo mayor jose francisco pena gomez, has not sought to use the unrest to challenge balaguer
relief may come from washington
balaguer would like the united states to lift its sugar import quota from the dominican republic from its current level of 160,000 tons annually. in 1983, the quota was 525,000 tons a year
in 1987, revenue from sugar sales was a record low $150 million
balaguer also would like international lending agencies to ease his country's debt repayment schedule, which last year totaled $700 million, or almost the entire value of dominican exports
u.s. ambassador lowell kilday traveled with the balaguer delegation, which includes central bank governor roberto saladin
before returning home, balaguer, who suffers from glaucoma and is nearly blind, was scheduled to visit a hospital in boston for an eye examination
u.s. roman catholic bishops, at odds over what role the church should play in aids education, will discuss the issue at their june meeting in minnesota, the president of the national bishops conference said thursday
archbishop john l. may of st. louis said the administrative board of the u.s. catholic conference decided at its two-day session, which ended thursday, to schedule a discussion of ``the pastoral, theological and moral dimensions of aids.''
the board agreed that the discussion should ``be open-ended in format with its direction determined by the will of the bishops,'' may said
he added that the discussion at the june 24-27 meeting in collegeville, minn., would be held in executive session
the bishops conference's board recommended last december that condom use be explained in church-sponsored aids education programs, touching off a spate of criticism from conservative bishops
those bishops, led by cardinals bernard law of boston and john o'connor of new york, said they would not allow condom use to be explained or discussed in their dioceses' schools, hospitals and youth programs. and they argued that abstinence is ``the only morally acceptable way to avoid the sexual transmission of aids.'' aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is spread through close contact with blood or semen from infected persons
the conservative bishops were particularly concerned that the bishops conference's 50-member board had made the condom recommendation without a full vote of the conference's 380 members
in the wake of the criticism, may had suggested that the full body of bishops discuss the issue at their meeting in minnesota, and the administrative board made that recommendation official. two lawsuits</note>
gary hart won permission thursday to use whatever is left of his skimpy 1988 campaign fund toward paying off the $1.15 million debt from his 1984 presidential campaign
he cannot use any of the $1.12 million in federal matching funds he received, however, leaving the prospect of only a projected $100,000 or so in the kitty to transfer to the 1984 creditors once the 1988 accounts are settled, his campaign said
somewhat ironically, it was only hart's exit from the 1988 race this month that won him federal election commission permission to transfer the funds
were he still a candidate, he would be excluded from using the 1988 money for anything other than 1988 campaign-related expenses, the commission ruling said. he had submitted the request before he quit the race on march 11, so the commission was in a position of applying a different set of rules to the question
once a campaign is concluded, the leftover money can be used for any lawful purpose, election regulations state. that would include paying some of the 1984 debts
but it is unclear how much money hart will have left by the time he pays winding down costs and the fec conducts its lengthy audit process. he must return to the federal treasury anything left of the federal matching funds that he received this year. matching funds accounted for about one-third of his total fund raising for 1988
hart's campaign attorney, bernie schneider, said the campaign was pleased with the fec decision
he anticipated that after final 1988 bills are paid, the campaign will have about $110,000 leftover to apply to the 1984 debt
commissioner lee ann elliott at thursday's meeting raised doubts that any any significant amount will remain
we're going to be talking about a small trickle of money as against the '84 debt,'' she said
and the ruling thursday does not end the saga of hart's nearly four-year-old debt, and schneider said hart will still work on raising money to pay the rest
nobody is running away,'' he said, but he could not specify what kind of fund-raising efforts will be undertaken by the former colorado senator
some creditors have taken hart to court _ so far unsuccessfully _ to try and place liens on the 1988 funds to recoup money they are owed from 1984
one creditor got a court order that resulted in federal marshals seizing $30,000 in proceeds at a hollywood fund-raiser for hart last year
two businesses filed suit in denver. tri-state envelope corp. of beltsville, md., claims hart owes it $133,600. semper-moser associates of venice, calif., an advertising agency, claims it is owed $172,920
hart's most recent campaign financial statement showed that at the end of february he had $488,966 in cash on hand and $34,661 in bills to pay
schneider said the fec audit staff will probably begin its audit in the summer. the agency audits all presidential campaigns as a routine once the campaign is concluded. the agency was still finishing up 1984 audits last year
the fec decision thursday came in response to hart's second request on the same topic. he first asked if he could use 1988 funds toward the 1984 debt last spring. but after the commission denied him federal matching funds on the basis that he was not an active candidate, his campaign withdrew the request as moot
he withdrew from the race for the first time in may in the wake of disclosures about his relationship with part-time miami model donna rice
when hart re-entered the race last fall, he resubmitted the request in hopes of wiping out the nagging 1984 debt
a federal appeals court has refused an immediate ban on the spraying of herbicides on federal rangeland in oregon and washington
in an order made public thursday, a three-judge panel of the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals denied an emergency injunction sought by rural and environmental groups. the court said it would explain its reasons later
however, no spraying is expected until at least late spring, said norma grier, director of the northwest coalition against pesticides, one of the groups filing suit
she said she hoped the court would rule before then on the groups' appeal of a decision by a federal judge in oregon who ruled the u.s. bureau of land management had adequately studied the environmental effects of the weed-killer
the chemicals, including the controversial 2,4-d, are to be sprayed on weeds that threaten forage or cause other harmful effects on blm land in the two states
u.s. district judge james burns blocked the spraying in 1984, ruling that the blm's environmental analysis had not considered the range of possible danger to humans
the agency, supported in the case by a group of farmers and ranchers, revised its analysis last year and concluded that under the worst foreseeable circumstances, the herbicides were still relatively safe
burns in november lifted his injunction
at a hearing march 7 in portland, ore., opponents asked the appellate court to reinstate the ban while it considers their appeal of burns' ruling
the appellate court's unanimous order thursday did not address the merits of burns' ruling, which remains under appeal
john dilorenzo, a lawyer for a group of farmers, ranchers and herbicide users called oregonians for food and shelter, said he was encouraged by the court's decision. the group considers the herbicides safe
but ms. grier said the government agency had ignored studies showing health problems and had failed to consider non-chemical approaches
the bureau ``should have looked at how to prevent problems before they exist,'' she said. ``are we managing our lands in a way that encourages problem weeds? could we alter the use of land by livestock in a way that would make the land less susceptible to noxious weed problems?''
a record number of voters turned out thursday for an election late polls indicated would oust the incumbent government of this british fortress colony
clive coon, the government press officer, said 13,325 _ or 76 percent _ of gibraltar's 17,530 registered voters cast ballots. the previous record, 74 percent, was set in 1984, the last election for the 15-seat house of assembly
opinion polls among 29,000 citizens this week indicated victory for joe bossano and his gibraltar socialist labor party over incumbent chief minister adolfo canepa of the long-dominant association for the advancement of civil rights
coon attributed the high turnout to ``a lovely day.''
an opinion poll published this week by the gibraltar magazine panorama indicated 63 percent of voters favored bossano, 26 percent were for canepa and 11 percent supported the independent democratic party of joe pitaluga
canepa's party controlled the government for all but three years since 1945 under the flamboyant leadership of sir joshua hassan, who retired last december at age 72
bossano, 48, advocates self-determination and opposes spain's efforts to regain sovereignty over the 2.2 square miles of limestone rock on its southern coast
bell of pennsylvania announced thursday that it is clarifying instructions to sales representatives and mailing information to customers following charges of deceptive sales practices
the announcement came after the state attorney general and consumer advocate filed a suit and a complaint alleging the state's biggest phone company stuck customers with such options as call waiting, three-way calling and speed calling
while insisting the allegations were unjustified, regis filtz, bell vice president and chief operating officer, said the telephone company was taking steps to resolve what he called confusion about the options
we are going beyond what normally we would do to strengthen and clarify and assure there is absolutely no misunderstanding in terms of what customers order, what options they get, what the value of those options is (and) what the prices are,'' filtz said
we believe we go the extra mile to make sure that customers are fully informed about their services, and have every opportunity to change it whenever they wish.''
state consumer advocate david barasch said the company is ``at least in part admitting the allegations we've been making.''
but the state has not withdrawn the suit filed monday in state court or the complaint filed with the state public utility commission
the allegations made by barasch and attorney general leroy zimmerman were based on 32 test calls made to bell representatives. of those calls, more than 70 percent were assigned one, two or three optional services they had not requested or were not told were optional
in one case, an agent posing as a single mother on welfare was assigned service at $28.55 monthly, when basic service could have been obtained for $6.65 per month, the officials said
barasch alleged the representatives were subject to quotas or ``bonus'' plans geared to the optional services
filtz said the workers did not receive commissions but can qualify for prizes including toasters, appliances and pizza lunches based on sales performance
in a complaint filed with the puc, barasch said bell representatives followed guidelines directing them to include certain options, including a maintenance plan, when recommending rates to new customers
the ``clarified'' guidelines do not include such instructions, and also specify that customers be told the services such as call forwarding and call waiting are optional
bell of pennsylvania has more than 3.7 million customers, or about 80 percent of the state's telephone lines
the puc complaint and the lawsuit seek fines, an end to the allegedly deceptive sales practices, and customer refunds that barasch said could involve millions of dollars
federal authorites raided espionage suspects thursday and made at least one arrest, the bild daily newspaper reported
numerous offices and apartments were searched in connection with the operation,'' it said, citing unidentified security experts
bild said the raids may have been connected to the arrest of elke falk last friday as a spy suspect. she was working as a secretary in the federal ministry for economic cooperation in bonn. ms. falk worked in the west german chancellory from 1974 to 1977 and in several ministries in later years
the brief bild account, which was to appear in friday editions, gave no details. it was telexed to other news organizations in advance late thursday
government officials could not be reached for comment immediately
ms. falk is suspected of having worked as a spy for years, according to the federal prosecutor's office
she is being held in investigative custody and has not yet been charged with any crimes, officials said
in the last major spy scandal to rock the government, 15 communist agents were arrested or disappeared between august and december 1985
a family trying to force payment of a $4 million jury award has obtained a freeze on the city's bank accounts, apparently plunging this desperately poor community into a payroll crisis
at least $85,000 in city checks were outstanding when the accounts were frozen wednesday, including about $37,000 in paychecks issued march 15 but not yet cashed by municipal employees, said city treasurer charlotte moore
that kind of puts us in a destitute situation,'' said alderman melvin frierson. ``my real interest right now is payroll. that's critical.''
mayor carl officer and city attorney samuel f. ross jr. did not return calls thursday, but officials have said there was no way a municipality with an annual budget of about $6 million could afford to pay a $4 million
the money was awarded in 1985 to walter debow, a granite city man who suffered permanent brain damage when he was beaten by a fellow inmate in the east st. louis jail
in november, the illinois supreme court ordered the city of 55,000 people to pay the judgment, clearing the way for the debow family to seize its bank accounts
on wednesday, city accounts containing about $1.2 million were frozen at four local banks
clyde kuehn, debow's attorney, said he did not think the city would file for bankruptcy in federal court, a move that would put a court-appointed trustee in control of municipal funds. ``they don't want a trustee running the city,'' he said
as far as the people of east st. louis are concerned, this isn't going to hurt the citizens any more than they already are,'' he said. ``they already don't get their trash picked up. they already have a fire department and police department that isn't properly equipped.''
william stodghill, president of local 50 of the service employees international, said the 35 or 40 city hall employees represented by his union would meet monday to discuss options that could include a walkout
east st. louis, once a thriving industrial city, became one of the nation's poorest with the decline of the industries and the exodus of whites in the 1960s
the city is 98 percent black, and 61 percent of its residents receive some kind of assistance. unemployment is unofficially estimated at 40 percent
debow, who had been arrested for driving with an open bottle of malt liquor, was placed in a cell with a man who was being held on misdemeanor charges but had a history of violent crime
the man beat debow severely, causing permanent brain damage, said kuehn, adding his client would need constant medical care for the rest of his life
a former nuclear technician who claimed he revealed israel's atomic secrets for the good of humanity was convicted thursday of espionage and treason and could be sentenced to 20 years in prison
mordechai vanunu, 34, was found guilty by a three-judge panel after a trial that had been closed to the public since it began in september. his lawyer said vanunu would appeal the verdict to israel's supreme court
mordechai is very disappointed,'' said defense attorney avigdor feldman. ``the court decided that he was a traitor, and he had hoped to be seen differently. but he is not broken. he is looking ahead to the appeal.''
the conviction carries a maximum sentence of death. however, prosecutor uzi chasson said he would ask the court for a sentence of life imprisonment, which in israel is limited to 20 years. sentencing is set for sunday
vanunu, who worked nine years at the nuclear facility in dimona, was charged for revealing details of israel's atomic capacity to the sunday times of london in october 1986
the newspaper said vanunu's information showed israel had stockpiled the world's sixth-largest nuclear arsenal
israel never has responded directly to allegations of its nuclear capacity, saying only it would not be the first country to introduce such weapons into the middle east
vanunu has insisted he made his revelations to alert the middle east and the world to the dangers of nuclear weapons. the state argued he intended to harm israel's security
he was kept under heavy security during the trial, which was closed to the public because authorities feared an open hearing would harm state security
vanunu has been held in near isolation for the last 18 months and has been permitted to see only his attorney and family
the precautions were taken after vanunu managed to flash a message to reporters at a pre-trial appearance by scribbling it on the palm of his hand. in the message he said he had been kidnapped in rome, presumably by israeli agents, and brought to israel for trial
vanunu was fired from the dimona nuclear center in 1985 and went to australia, where he became acquainted with a priest and converted to christianity
he later traveled to london, but disappeared in october 1986, just days before the sunday times published his revelations. israeli officials acknowledged several weeks later he was in custody in israel
details of vanunu's journey back to israel were revealed by his brother, meir vanunu, who said vanunu was lured from london to rome by an american woman named cindy, who promised him sex. in rome, he was abducted by israeli agents and spirited home, meir said
during the trial, feldman argued vanunu did not hurt israel's security because information about israel's nuclear capacity was available in the academic world. he said vanunu had in fact helped state security because allegations of israel's nuclear strength served as a deterrent to arab enemies
andrew neil, editor of the sunday times, said thursday in london that vanunu was warned of the risks before divulging his information. neil said that vanunu replied he was prepared to take them because he wanted israelis to know their country was a nuclear power
but we will always regret that he did not take our warnings seriously enough, with the tragic consequences of his abduction which followed,'' said neil
neil said his paper was concerned about the way vanunu was taken from britain and regretted he was convicted
we understand that democratic governments must protect secrets in the national interest and that most israeli citizens regard vanunu as a traitor,'' neil said. ``but the citizens of every other democratic nuclear power are not debarred from knowing that their countries have nuclear weapons _ the nature of the defense of their countries is one of their fundamental democratic rights.''
stock prices tumbled thursday even as the government reported that americans' personal incomes and consumer spending surged in february
on wall street, the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 43.77 points to 2,023.87. declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 5 to 1 on the new york stock exchange whose composite index dropped 2.82 to 149.00
analysts cited a continued decline in the dollar, which fell to its lowest level in nearly two months against the japanese yen and west german mark, as contributing to the weakness in stocks
in its latest eonomic report, the commerce department said personal incomes advanced 0.9 percent in february, reflecting strong employment gains in the past few months. spending rose 0.7 percent, up sharply from a tiny 0.1 percent january increase
meanwhile, the government reported the savings and loan industry last year recorded its worst annual loss since the great depression
the federal home loan bank board said a $3.2 billion loss in the last three months of 1987 pushed the industry's red ink for the year to a record $6.8 billion. that was nearly 50 percent greater than the previous post-depression record of a $4.6 billion, set in 1981
elliott ``pete'' estes, who rose from junior engineer to president of general motors corp. during a 42-year career with the automaker, died of an apparent heart attack thursday. he was 72
estes, a resident of paradise valley, ariz., served as gm president and chief operating officer from 1974 until his retirement in 1981
estes collapsed outside o'hare international airport of an apparent heart attack, police said. he was pronounced dead on arrival at resurrection hospital, according to hospital spokeswoman janice youngwith
estes, a native of mendon, mich., began his long-time relationship with gm in 1934 when he enrolled at general motors institute in flint, mich. he joined gm research laboratories as a cooperative student while at the institute
estes became a gm research engineer in 1939, a year before he graduated from the university of cincinnati with a degree in mechanical engineering
in 1946, estes joined the oldsmobile division in lansing, mich., as a motor engineer
in 1961 he was elected a gm vice president and general manager of the pontiac motor divison. he became general manager of the chevrolet motor division in 1965 and executive vice president for gm operations staff in 1972
pete estes was one of gm'ss brightest stars. in whatever role he assumed for the corporation, he performed at peak capacity,'' gm chairman roger b. smith said in a statement
he demanded excellence from his subordinates, but he always drove himself harder than anyone else. ... general motors is a stronger and better corporation because pete estes served it.''
survivors include his wife, connie, and three sons
funeral arrangements were incomplete
iran's hashemi rafsanjani said thursday that britain must help free iranian hostages in lebanon before iran will intervene on behalf of anglican envoy terry waite and another missing briton, the bbc reported
a spokesman for archbishop of canterbury robert runcie said, ``if he (rafsanjani) is confirming that john mccarthy and terry waite are alive and being well treated by captors that is indeed good news.''
at a news conference in tehran attended by british broadcasting corp. correspondent john simpson, parliament speaker rafsanjani said britain must help free three missing iranians kidnapped by right-wing christian phalangists in summer 1982
simpson interpreted his remarks as indicating waite and british reporter john mccarthy were alive. they are among 24 foreigners missing in lebanon. the bbc radio report, broadcast in london, made no mention of non-british western hostages. the longest held hostage is terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, who was kidnapped on march 16, 1985
rafsanjani said at first that he did not know if they were alive or dead,'' simpson said in a broadcast from the iranian capital. but when pressed, he began to talk of the conditions for their release
waite, runcie's personal envoy, disappeared jan. 20, 1987 after leaving his west beirut hotel to negotiate with an islamic group in his efforts to gain the release of western hostages
no claim of responsibility has even been made in waite's disappearance
simpson said, ``he (rafsanjani) accepted that there was a clear difference between on the one hand mr. waite, from a religious background and mr. mccarthy, a journalist and, on the other, a spy or a military man.''
when simpson said that the iranians were almost certainly dead, rafsanjani said someone should show iran the bodies
the news conference took place during an iraqi air strike in which three missiles fell on the city
rafsanjani showed no reaction during the bombing
mccarthy, a journalist for the london-based worldwide television news agency, was kidnapped april 17, 1986
two other britons are being held, along with nine americans and other nationalities
the irish republic's broadcasting service said thursday it gave british police video segments of an angry funeral mob attacking two soldiers at an ira funeral
rte turned over the videotape one day after britain's two television networks, the british broadcasting corp. and independent television news, complied with similar demands for unbroadcast footage from the funeral
britain's defense ministry, meanwhile, denied british news reports that the two soldiers were on an undercover mission when they were hauled from their cars, beaten severely and then shot to death
the three networks initially refused to hand over unbroadcast film on the ground it would endanger crews covering future violence in the british-ruled province
they complied after the royal ulster constabulary, the provincial police force, threatened court action under british anti-terrorist legislation
the two british corporals, derek wood, 24, and david howes, 23, were dragged from a car by a mob at an irish republican army funeral in belfast on saturday. they were beaten with iron bars and then taken to a nearby soccer stadium, where ira guerrillas shot them to death
the crowd stopped tv crews filming when the soldiers were pulled from the car
rte said two detectives called at its offices in belfast and took away a 65-second videotape of the attack. the network said most of the film was transmitted on the network
security forces will examine the film to try to identify those who took part
the defense ministry thursday denied a report in the news, arts and current affairs magazine the spectator that wood and howes were on an undercover mission in west belfast when attacked. they were in plainclothes in an unmarked car at the time
the spectator, which supports the governing conservative party, said: ``we shall never be told, though it seems to be the case, that cpls. wood and howes were on an undercover operation.'' it gave no other details
members of the royal corps of signals are often employed on surveillance work and other undercover activity. but a ministry spokesman, who in accordance with british practice refused to be identified, said the claim in the spectator was ``inconceivable.''
the army has said it thinks the soldiers may have become involved with the cortege purely by accident while on their way to their base at lisburn barracks south of belfast
parliament has passed a law that will provide payments of up to $416 each to people victimized by the nazis when austria was under german rule during world war ii
the law, which had been planned for months, was passed wednesday by all three main political parties in parliament. five of the six deputies from the small greens party voted against it, saying the measure provided too little compensation
under the law, those deemed to have suffered under nazi rule will receive one-time payments of from $208 to $416 at current exchange rates. the payments vary depending on whether the potential recipient was persecuted by the nazis, forced to leave the country or served in the resistance
no estimates have been published of how many people will be eligible for payment
alfred dallinger, the socialist welfare minister in the coalition government, told parliament he hoped the payments would be understood as a symbolic gesture, since no sum could compensate for such suffering
adolf hitler sent his troops to annex austria to the third reich in march 1938, a move many austrians welcomed
austria already pays small pensions to individuals persecuted by the nazis. unlike west germany, however, it never paid compensation to israel or any other state or group for nazi crimes
the proposal was approved by the socialist party, the conservative people's party and the rightist freedom party
austria has been mired in a controversy over president kurt waldheim's wartime past. waldheim served as a lieutenant in a german army unit in the occupied balkans. his unit was linked to war crimes, including the deportation of jews to concentration camps and the murders of partisans
waldheim kept his military service in the area secret until 1986 and has denied wrongdoing since. a historians' commission said waldheim was in a position to know about nazi war crimes and did nothing to stop them. buy</head>
a judge has awarded the state permanent custody of a 2-year-old whose mother accused of having used him as collateral for $50 worth of cocaine
lou ann powell, 26, did not appear at wednesday's court session during which cook county circuit judge claude whitaker stripped her of all parental rights to her son, anthony
the boy has been in foster care since he was found outside a day labor agency june 16
ms. powell told authorities when she identified the child in october that she had a cocaine habit, was behind in payments to a drug dealer and had offered the boy as collateral
she apparently planned to redeem him when she got some money, kind of like when you take a promissory note from the bank,'' frank giunta, a police youth division investigator, said at the time
ms. powell was charged with felony abandonment, said lisa howard, spokeswoman for the state's attorney office
anthony's foster parents already have moved to adopt him, and we hope that becomes final soon,'' said dave schneidman, spokesman for the state department of children and family services
ms. powell is also charged with neglect stemming from her treatment of her younger son, joseph, 13 months old. ms. howard said authorities will seek to have her parental rights to joseph terminated in that case
mayor w. wilson goode on thursday proposed a $1.93 billion budget that would turn trash collection over to a contractor, freeze wages and raise taxes for the first time since he took office in 1984
the mayor of the nation's fifth-largest city, in asking for a $67 million tax increase, left it up to city council to decide which taxes to raise
the increase will help ``meet human needs, create jobs, promote economic development, care for and nurture our children and revitalize our neighborhoods,'' said goode, a democrat elected in november to a second term
his budget for fiscal 1989, which starts july 1, represents a 6.4 percent increase over the current budget of $1.86 billion
goode proposed cutting $50 million in costs through new labor contracts or new contract terms and by turning over garbage collection to private industry, a move that could eliminate several thousand jobs and save $35 million annually
garbage collection in philadelphia has come under attack as sloppy and rife with overtime abuse
i am a lifelong supporter of organized labor and while part of my financial plan anticipates privatization, which they may find difficult, i am resolute in pursuing this only to the extent that labor fails to work with the city to find meaningful and cost effective alternatives,'' goode said
the mayor's budget offers no wage increase to the city's blue-and white-collar employees, whose contracts expire this summer. the spending plan does not include the school system, which has proposed a $1 billion budget
it would add $44.3 million to basic services, which include police and fire protection, street cleaning, job training, housing rehabilitation and programs for children, the homeless and aids victims, who would receive $7.5 million
tax revenue for the current fiscal year is projected at $1.4 billion. the mayor's spending plan for the coming year projects tax revenue of $1.5 billion
everybody's inclination is against a tax increase,'' said councilman david cohen, a democrat
republican councilman thacher longstreth said he considered raising taxes ``a disgrace'' but also said it probably would be done
council president joseph coleman, a democrat, said: ``we are going to have to raise taxes or cut the budget tremendously.''
a pre-dawn fire friday killed 19 female workers in a factory dormitory on the outskirts of seoul and badly injured four, police reported
police officials said 17 workers suffocated from poisonous fumes as the fire consumed rolls of fabric and two workers died in a hospital of injuries
they said 28 women in all were asleep on the third-floor dormitory of a building in seoul's anyang district when fire broke out about 2 a.m. rolls of fabric were stored in the stairway between the second and third floors, police said
five workers escaped unhurt
the cause of the fire is under invetigation, police said
a pilot testified thursday that he took his 4-year-old son with him as cover while flying cocaine into the united states for alleged drug kingpin carlos lehder rivas
i believe he was the youngest drug smuggler at that time,'' said andrew richard barnes, 32
lehder, 38, is on trial on charges of smuggling about 3.3 tons of cocaine into the country from colombia via norman's cay in the bahamas from 1978 to 1980
barnes, a native of england known as british andy, said he transported 3,000 kilograms, or about 6,600 pounds, for lehder while working for him in 1978 and again in 1980
barnes told the jury that he would receive a telephone call the night before each trip from one of lehder's employees
come over and pick up the children and take them to school,'' was the message he said he received. ``children'' was lehder's term for cocaine, witnesses have testified
in october 1980, barnes said, he transported two loads of 450 to 500 kilos each from norman's cay, which was lehder's private island, into fort lauderdale international airport
he (lehder) said it was the largest loads we'd done,'' barnes said, adding he was paid $225,000 for the flights
three other flights were made in the latter part of 1980, and barnes said he took his son with him to appear that they were on a family outing
lehder is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
co-defendant jack carlton reed, 57, of san pedro, calif., is charged with taking part in a smuggling conspiracy
jazz trumpeter al hirt was admitted to a hospital thursday for treatment of an infection in his playing hand
the 65-year-old bourbon street musician flew from his home in new orleans to be under the care of his friend, famed heart surgeon michael debakey, at methodist hospital
i had this infection or something in my hand. it's like blood poisoning. it looks like it's from a bite or something. it's all swollen and has red streaks,'' hirt said
but my prognosis is excellent. i'm going to be ok as long as i can keep blowing the trumpet.''
hirt said doctors think the problem may be a related to his trumpet playing and a growth that developed on a finger of his right hand after 59 years of horn work
he was expected to remain hospitalized for at least several days, debakey said. hirt had been scheduled to perform at a benefit thursday for the financially troubled new orleans symphony
the prognosis is excellent for mr. hirt,'' debakey said. ``i am sorry he will miss his performance, but his health is most imporant at this point.'' news digest: washington _ pm-treaty obstacles, a0432; managua, nicaragua _ pm-nicaragua, a0461; undated _ pm-political rdp, a0413; panama city, panama _ pm-panama, a0479; jerusalem _ pm-israel, a0415; charleston, w.va. _ pm-blue flu, a0473.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz is raising the possibility that the administration will seek legislative authority for a quick vote on military aid to the nicaraguan rebels if the cease-fire there breaks down
shultz said thursday night that the prospect of additional military assistance to the rebels would be added insurance that nicaragua's leftist government will abide by promises it makes under its cease-fire agreement with the contra rebels
but house speaker jim wright, d-tex., indicated that he would oppose any effort by the administration to have an ``expedited procedures'' provision for military aid included in a contra humanitarian assistance package the congress will take up next week
recent polls and his own need to come up with a victory in the north have forced democrat albert gore jr. to back off from his claims that rival michael dukakis can't win in november
in the glow of his southern victories two weeks ago, gore was depicting dukakis as having the electoral appeal of george mcgovern and walter mondale
campaigning in the north now, gore has halted the harsh rhetoric. and with recent polls showing dukakis _ not gore _ as the only democrat running even nationwide with gop front-runner george bush, gore is having a more difficult time pinning his rival with the image of the democrats' landslide losers of 1972 and 1984
after hearing rival michael dukakis' talk of his ``massachusetts miracle'' for much of the presidential campaign, richard gephardt is looking for his own ``michigan miracle'' in democratic caucuses saturday
gephardt dismissed questions thursday about aides' comments that he would end his struggling bid for the democratic presidential nomination and run for re-election to congress if he fails to win in michigan
but before a crowd of laid-off auto workers, enthusiastic about his call for tough foreign trade policies, gephardt acknowledged his presidential candidacy is in need of extraordinary help from michigan democrats
a scientist who 14 years ago helped discover that some chemicals destroy the earth's protective ozone layer says he's elated that the nation's largest manufacturer of them now plans to end production
the announcement by the du pont co. could encourage other companies to follow suit, says sherwood rowland, professor of atmospheric chemistry at the university of california at irvine
i think du pont has had more intimate contact with the science than some of the other companies,'' and thus more credibility, rowland said thursday. ``i am elated by it.''
every week or so, patty ludwin lugs a rifle out to the back yard, casually aims at a pile of jeans on the ground, then fires once, twice, so many times she loses count
it's putting bullets to a good use, rather than going around killing people with them,'' the fashion designer said, blasting holes into a pair of blue denims
the 33-year-old entrepreneur sells her bullet-riddled calamity jeans for $45 a pair. her trademark is a leather bull's eye stitched to the right hip pocket and a spent .357-caliber magnum cartridge that dangles from the patch
after nearly a year and a half perched atop two 43-foot poles to raise money for cancer research, mellissa l. sanders came down to earth to a place in the record books and the fiance she has never dated
everything looks so small, so different from here,'' miss sanders, 19, said thursday after a fire truck's bucket brought her down from the three-story-high shack where she spent 517 days with her feline companion, pole cat
my knees are wobbly but i feel great,'' said miss sanders, who was embraced by her mother, mauri rose sanders. news digest:
undated. slug am-political rdp. panama. slug am-panama. tarqumia, occupied west bank. slug am-israel. nicosia, cyprus. slug am-gulf rdp. moscow. slug am-soviet-unrest. chicago. slug am-visitor's nightmare. baton rouge, la. slug am-roemer's program.washington. slug am-homework. tokyo. slug am-japan-savings. ^by the associated press</note>
there will be no organized union boost behind a single candidate in saturday's democratic caucuses in michigan, a state where union members can wield more clout than almost anywhere else
while national labor leaders are assuming michael dukakis will be the eventual nominee, they are prevented from endorsing him by what appears to be growing rank-and-file support for jesse jackson, who has gotten more union votes than any of the other candidates in primaries so far. richard gephardt also has considerable union support
none of the democratic candidates appears to have won the hearts _ or votes _ of a majority of the state's 750,000 rank-and-file union workers, nearly half of them members of the united auto workers
the leftist sandinista government and the contra rebels each claimed on friday that its own military pressure helped force the other to yield to a cease-fire plan
the sandinistas, in their newspaper barricada, called on citizens to prepare for ideological warfare to defend the ruling party against the contras. the contras hinted that if peaceful measures don't bring about democratic reforms, they are prepared take up arms again
a defense ministry spokesman said there were no reports of combat on friday, five days after the two sides agreed to suspend offensive operations
conservative republican members of congress are wary of the cease-fire pact in nicaragua _ one calls it a ``disguised surrender'' _ and say the united states will have to continue pressuring the sandinistas until they install a truly democratic system
at the same time, the congressmen _ attending a gop retreat here _ say it was american pressure and american aid to the contras that forced the sandinistas to deal with the contras
the result was this week's dramatic turn of events: a 60-day cease-fire agreement signed by representatives of the nicaraguan government and the guerrilla leaders, and a sandinista promise to institute democratic reforms
president reagan said friday he expects former national security aides oliver l. north and john m. poindexter will be found innocent of criminal charges in the iran-contra affair, adding, ``i still think ollie north is a hero.''
reagan refused to say whether he would pardon them, saying he could not discuss the case because it was before the courts
however, that did not stop him from proclaiming the defendants' innocence
the senate, voting 92-0, urged president reagan on friday to increase u.s. economic pressure against panamanian military strongman manuel antonio noriega as part of a campaign to drive him from office
the unanimous vote was intended to demonstrate noreiga has lost all u.s. support
the non-binding resolution also urged the white house to consider ``a comprehensive package of emergency financial and other economic assistance'' to help a democratic successor government rebuild panama's economy
secretary of state george p. shultz will meet saturday with two members of the legislative arm of the palestine liberation organization as americans are being warned to keep away from the israeli-held west bank and gaza
professor edward said of columbia university, one of the two palestine national council members invited by shultz, said they notified plo chairman yasser arafat and he approved of the session
as u.s. citizens, said said he and professor ibrahim abu-lughud of northwestern university did not need a ``green light'' from arafat to see shultz. ``we did notify chairman arafat, and that was fine with him _ absolutely,'' said said in a telephone interview
robert chambers pleaded guilty to manslaughter friday for strangling a young woman during sex in central park, halting jury deliberations in the ``preppie murder'' case after nine days
state supreme court justice howard e. bell asked chambers whether he intended to cause ``serious injury'' to 18-year-old jennifer levin and ``thereby cause her death.''
looking back on everything, i have to say yes,'' chambers, 21, said. ``it breaks my heart to have to say that.''
dancer-choreographer robert joffrey, who guided his joffrey ballet from an itinerant troupe in a station wagon to international acclaim, died friday morning after a lengthy illness. he was 57
joffrey died at new york university hospital of a liver ailment caused by medication he was receiving for asthma and a muscle condition, spokeswoman pennie curry said. he had been hospitalized in intensive care for two weeks
because of asthma, a doctor had recommended that joffrey take up dancing as a child to improve his health
a record number of americans died last year, but births also soared to the highest total in more than two decades, new government figures showed friday
marriage and divorce rates changed little last year, both remaining at relatively low levels, according to the annual data summary of the national center for health statistics
the preliminary count of deaths for 1987 ``totaled 2,127,000, or about 28,000 more than in the previous year and the largest number ever reported for the united states,'' the center said
sworn statements that led authorities to dig up a body in a police chief's yard tell of a friendship that allegedly developed into wife-swapping but ended in homicide
a district court judge allowed the affidavits to be released friday, a week after he rejected arguments by the state attorney general that they should be sealed to protect a continuing homicide investigation
robert chambers, who resigned as part-time chief after the body was found, has said through his lawyer that he is innocent of any wrongdoing. no charges have been filed
conan owen knew it was thursday once again when officials served up beef stew in gallery one of the model prison
owen, a 23-year-old free-lance photographer from annandale, va., has been marking off the days in his stark white cell for more than a year, ever since a spanish civil guard found more than four pounds of cocaine in a suitcase registered in his name
i don't belong in here because i'm innocent, and if this were the united states, i would have been out a long time ago,'' owen said in an interview in this 85-year-old prison in the heart of downtown barcelona
jesse upchurch knew little about apocalyptic imagery in the bible and cared less about satanic symbols until the new owners of her lakefront luxury building said it was no longer 666 north lake shore drive
i never knew it had satanic connotations until one night when i was watching `the omen' on television,'' ms. upchurch said, referring to the 1976 movie in which a boy named damien has the numbers ``666'' on his scalp
when i saw that,'' she continued, ``i said to myself, `isn't that amazing? he has our address on his head.' it actually made me feel kind of proud.''
when the 60th academy awards are presented on april 11, the evening is likely to produce at least one magical moment that will last in the memories of those who watch hollywood's annual salute to itself
that has happened throughout oscar's fabled history: one unscripted, unexpected and spontaneous moment that electrified the audience. rarely have the awards failed to produce such an event
everyone has his or her own favorite, and here are just a few:
_ sacheen littlefeather. in 1973, there was speculation that marlon brando, nominated as best actor for ``the godfather,'' might pull a surprise. he did
when roger moore announced that brando had won, a woman in a native american costume came onstage and brushed away roger moore as he tried to hand her the oscar statuette. she said her name was sacheen littlefeather, that she was apache and president of the national native american affirmative image committee
marlon brando ... very regretfully cannot accept this very generous award. and the reasons for this being are the treatment of american indians today by the film industry.'' the audience was stunned as she left the stage
_ the naked stranger. in 1974, david niven's introduction of elizabeth taylor was suddenly interrupted by screams and laughter from the audience. niven turned around just as a naked man flashing a peace sign raced past him. streaking was the year's fad on college campuses and elsewhere
henry mancini had the orchestra play ``sunny side up,'' and the imperturbable niven commented: ``just think, the only laugh that man will probably ever get is for stripping and showing off his shortcomings.''
miss taylor came on stage and said, ``that's a pretty tough act to follow.''
_ the tramp's farewell. in 1972, the academy voted charlie chaplin a special award. the event was packed with drama because it was chaplin's first return to hollywood since his self-exile 20 years before. the furor over his politics was forgotten. more important was the ``incalculable effect he has had in making motion pictures the art form of the century.''
when chaplin appeared onstage at the end of the ceremonies, the ovation was thunderous. frail and overwhelmed, he did a little flipping trick with the black derby that was his trademark
_ last of the duke. in 1979, john wayne was scheduled to appear at the awards despite his desperate fight with lung cancer. a trailer was parked outside the los angeles music center so he could rest before his entrance
ladies and gentlemen, mr. john wayne,'' announced johnny carson. when the cheers finally subsided, the duke cracked, ``that's just about the only medicine a fella'd ever need.'' within three months he was dead
_ a sign of thanks. last year, marlee matlin was the favorite for best actress because of her role as the deaf woman in ``children of a lesser god.'' when her name was announced, the music center audience roared its approval
miss matlin's graceful hands described her gratitude, and her remarks were swiftly spoken by her interpreter. her performance reminded many of louise fletcher's acceptance of her 1976 best actress award for ``one flew over the cuckko's nest.'' as she spoke her words, she used sign language for her parents, who were both deaf
_ patton says no. george c. scott had once requested that his name be withdrawn as candidate for supporting actor in 1961 for ``the hustler'' (the academy declined). so everyone wondered if he would accept the oscar if he won for ``patton'' in 1971
he won, and he wouldn't accept. frank mccarthy, the producer of ``patton,'' accepted scott's award, but it was never delivered. scott's opionion of the awards: ``a two-hour meat parade.''
_ miss bergman returns. in 1957, ingrid bergman was nominated as best actress for ``anastasia.'' would hollywood forgive her desertion and disgrace when she mothered a child by roberto rossellini before they were married? it would
her victory was a dramatic moment, even though she wasn't at the awards to enjoy it. cary grant accepted for her and remarked: ``dear ingrid, if you can hear me or see this, i want you to know that we all send you our love and admiration.''
_ ``aw, coop.'' gary cooper, who had won two oscars during his career, was given an honorary oscar in 1961 but he was not at the ceremonies. his close friend, james stewart, accepted the award for him
stewart began crying during his speech and could only say, ``aw, coop,'' before walking tearfully off stage. the world realized the desperate health of cooper, who was too ill to attend. he died of cancer a month later
_ kate shows up. the all-time acting winner with four oscars, katharine hepburn never appeared to collect her awards. finally, in 1974 she came to the ceremonies to present the thalberg award to her longtime, ailing producer, laurence weingarten
i'm the living proof someone can wait 41 years to be unselfish,'' said the indomitable hepburn
_ elizabeth redux. elizabeth taylor had been reported near death from pneumonia in 1961 when she was nominated for best actress in ``butterfield 8.'' miss taylor herself had termed it ``the most pornographic script i have ever read,'' but she played the new york call girl so she could escape her mgm contract and star in ``cleopatra.''
i don't believe it!'' she exclaimed when yul brynner announced her the winner. she told the audience, ``thank you with all my heart,'' then went backstage and fainted
october's stock market crash had little impact on the economy, according to some university economists who base their judgment largely on numerical measurements
but there has been an impact, a very clear-cut one that can be detected without any instruments, including calculators
it can be seen in a strange bullishness in the stock market itself. it can be observed in the tendency of professional analysts to discount the good news about the economy that shows up in the statistical indicators
the impact, though not the expected one, shows in a strange propensity of investors to write off the collapse as an aberration _ to diminish its significance, for example, by calling it a ``change of leadership.''
since the crash, some analysts point out, smaller stocks that had been ignored during the bull market have surged, along with rising volume. some have risen 50 percent, re-igniting the hopes of many for a quick killing
the scent of potential profits is as strong and enticing as freshly brewed coffee. it spreads, and even those folks who lost the family jewels just a few months ago are enjoying the prospect of buying them back
corporations have similar thoughts. through march 7, a total of 15 deals of $1 billion or more were announced during 1988, or nearly half the total for all 1987, and some have been at unrealistically high prices
while a notion seems to prevail that the stock market cannot be stopped from going higher, the exact opposite attitude is expressed about the u.s. economy. good economic reports are immediately discounted by analysts
if you had listened to the latter, the fourth quarter of 1987 was a time of economic downturn. but when the figures came in they showed the economy grew at 4.3 percent, later revised to 4.5 percent and this week to 4.8 percent
economists expressed concern that consumers would drastically lower their spending because of (1) fears generated by the stock market collapse, and (2) their inability to continue taking on additional credit. it didn't happen
an accumulation of inventories _ of goods already made and still to be sold _ was expected to slow production during the early part of the year. but latest reports suggest the inventory problem isn't as big as had been feared
inflation was supposed to have menaced the economy by now, but instead it has acted like a groundhog that believes there'll be no summer. the february consumer price index rose at a 0.2 percent rate, a barely measureable amount
deep-rooted doubts continue to exist among economists regarding the renewed health of manufacturing, although output by that sector accounted for 22 percent of gross natinal product last year, one of the highest percentages in 40 years
concern prevails about the recovery of exports, the competitiveness of american goods, the level of interest rates, the budget deficits and more. but in most instances, the news about these matters has been good
it's may be a puzzle for psychologists rather than economists
the stock market crash seems to have intensified existing fears about the economy, but not about the market itself
in fact, the temporarily depressed prices of stocks may have drawn in a brand-new set of speculators, just as the relatively healthy economy has produced more doubters
lisa, a first-grader and the daughter of underground artists in the soviet union, says she's afraid of what she will be asked at school the next day
the questions won't be about her lessons, but about the people who had visited her parents
when asked what she will reply, she tells the visitors, who are documentary filmmakers, that she will not tell her teachers that americans were at her house, only ``daddy's friends.'' she shows them her stuffed cat and tells them the cat knows she shouldn't tell ``family secrets'' at school
the documentary ``back in the u.s.s.r.,'' airing tuesday on pbs' ``frontline,'' illustrates the pervasive fears of soviet citizens and the double lives some of them lead despite the economic and social reforms the kremlin has launched
the hour-long show looks at how the lives of the soviets have changed in the last 20 years through the eyes of an american journalist and his family who lived in moscow in the 1960s and returned last year for three months
jerrold schecter, the former moscow correspondent for time magazine, and his wife and grown children looked up old friends, artists, jewish refuseniks, writers, political dissidents and others, and talked to them about mikhail gorbachev's reforms, known as ``perestroika.''
the people they spoke with are the intelligentsia: those who have been gorbachev's staunchest supporters and thus the ones with the most to lose if his experiment fails
americans have been able to see many documentaries in recent years on the other superpower, including ted turner's current seven-hour ``portrait of the soviet union,'' depicting the u.s.s.r. in glowing, flattering terms
how the ``frontline'' documentary differs from the others is that its producers managed to conduct many interviews on camera without the presence of officials from gostelradio, the state broadcasting committee, who have always accompanied western filmmakers in the soviet union
we negotiated a deal with them,'' says ``frontline'' producer sherry jones. ``it was unusual at the very least. if their presence would likely interfere with the conversation, i had the right to ask that he not be there.''
thus, the camera crew was able to elicit thoughtful, candid answers in their interviews from subjects who otherwise might be intimidated by the presence of a member of gostelradio
because members of the schecter family speak russian and know the country well, there's no need for state-supplied interpreters or guides who might stage events for the camera
in another candid scene, also shot without government intervention, a middle-aged couple strolls in a park with the schecters in the rain under umbrellas. the couple, who lived through the era of nikita khrushchev and saw his reforms blossom and fail, said they no longer want to stay in the soviet union, describing it as a land of ``lies and double-thinking.''
all thoughtful people hope perestroika won't stop,'' the woman says. ``they are afraid. people our age lived through the disappointment of khrushchev's times. that was a time of bitter disappointment.''
the crew also interviewed jewish refuseniks who tell the painful tale of how their daughter has been allowed to emigrate while they have not, and of the anti-semitism they have encountered
a dissident historian who spent time in a labor camp gives his wry views of soviet leaders since stalin
even when the subjects were part of the establishment, the ``frontline'' crew seemed to get frank comments
at the state-controlled newspaper izvestia, jones said officials initially tried to persuade her to photograph a formal editorial meeting. but she begged off, saying she didn't have enough lights
she opted instead for an informal daily afternoon bull session by a few editors over coffee in the cafeteria. there, the editors got into a lively debate on soviet residency permits, which restrict where people live
an izvestia editor shows off the stacks of mail the newspaper receives and tells of the letter he will print that day. it is from a reader who is afraid to embrace gorbachev's reforms because the government cannot guarantee that one day, if the policies are reversed, those who speak out now won't be attacked as ``anti-leninist.''
one answer is provided by oleg yefremov, an avant-garde theater director who is said to have been given a personal assurance of support by gorbachev
everybody is afraid of one thing: that it will all get covered up again,'' yefremov says. the intelligentsia must ``push this thing farther and farther open. then it will be impossible to cover it up again.''
more `mystery!' _ even though long-time public television supporter herb schmerz is departing mobil, the corporation says it will continuing its grant to wgbh in boston for presentation of ``masterpiece theatre'' and ``mystery!'' on the public broadcasting service. among ``masterpiece theatre'' offerings planned for 1988 is an adaptation of john le carre's ``a perfect spy,'' and on ``mystery!'' new programs will include ``game, set, match'' based on len deighton's novels
the title of ``facing evil, with bill moyers'' evokes images of 90 minutes in front of the television in a dark depression contemplating the worst in human nature
not so. as moyers says in his introduction to this surprisingly uplifting report, a discussion of the dark mystery of evil seems inevitably to lead to a celebration of the light
part of moyers' ``news of the mind'' series for pbs, the former network journalist taped the special at a symposium called ``understanding evil,'' sponsored by the university of texas and featuring a distinguished group of speakers, including poet maya angelou, holocaust scholar raul hilberg, choreographer and author chung-liang al huang, author philip paul hallie, and dr. samuel d. proctor, a baptist preacher
often as eloquent as the featured speakers are the audience members, ranging from a holocaust survivor still struggling to understand what happened to her, to a vietnam veteran who says his experience ``has made me think of evil in another way, coming out of vietnam, turning around and seeing it wearing my own face.''
the message from the program _ and it's never forced _ is that good and evil reside in the human spirit, and it takes an act of will to repress evil in favor of good
angelou, a striking television presence, tells of being raped when she was 7. the man who attacked her was known to her family. soon after he was released from jail, he was found dead, apparently kicked to death. the child believed she had brought on the man's death by speaking his name. she didn't speak again for five years
a horrible thing to happen to a child. but, she said, during those five years, she sought solace in reading, everything she could get her hands on, memorizing poems, stories and plays. when she finally spoke again, she had truly found her voice, thanks to words and wisdom of others
hallie still grapples with the concept of evil after a lifetime of study. a soldier in world war ii, he says he is horrified to recall enjoying the violence of conflict. he was so moved by the story of courageous, peace-loving french villagers who disarmed the german invaders with love, he wrote a book about them and found himself transformed. but later, he realized, it was not the villagers who defeated hitler, but those like himself who killed the germans
hallie likens the struggle between good and evil to the experience of being in a hurricane _ all around is fury, but there can still be blue sky above. to a quotation from george santayana, ``in the midst of battle there is room for love,'' hallie adds his own thought _ ``we can push back and expand the blue, but we're in the eye of the hurricane, and don't ever forget it.''
hilberg is more pessimistic, having studied the holocaust and realized that it took thousands of typical _ and well-educated _ citizens to produce it. his presentation prompts audience members to wonder whether they could be caught up in evil mob psychology, be it nazism or a lynching, if they had been there
it's a compelling 90 minutes, thanks to moyers' insistence on presenting ideas, not neat conclusions. stylistically moyers ignores the accepted television tenet that talking heads are boring. he believes in the power of storytelling and pushes the camera up close, but avoids visual monotony by interspersing footage of the speakers at the podium with often emotional one-on-one interviews. he also artfully refers with the camera occasionally to the incongruously serene central texas landscape
moyers, who has only been seen in a brief introduction, returns at the end of the program to offer, not a conclusion but a question _ if we can identify an evil act after it occurs, why can't we stop it before it happens?
that we usually fail to see an act in time,'' he says, ``is as puzzling to me as the persistence of evil itself.''
soap opera mogul bill bell had a producer on the phone, was doing running commentary on the action on two tv monitors, and was adroitly fielding questions on the 15th anniversary of ``the young and the restless.''
bell looked deceptively calm in the eye of the storm, but it was bell generating the hurricane whirling about his penthouse office atop cbs' television city
he is the executive producer, head writer and co-creator, with his wife, lee phillip bell, of ``the young and the restless'' and ``the bold and the beautiful.''
at 15, ``y&amp;r,'' as he usually calls it, is running neck and neck in the nielsen ratings with abc's ``general hospital'' as the most popular daytime show. ``the bold and the beautiful,'' which just passed its first anniversary, was in ninth place in the ratings
i think we brought a new approach to daytime programming because we featured young people,'' bell said of ``y&amp;r.'' ``it's a very contemporary show and we make good use of music and closeups in ways that hadn't been used before. our stories are provocative. i won't say sensual because that would give the wrong impression, but sometimes they are.''
bell said he is in good shape to weather the strike of the writers guild of america, provided it's settled soon. he has scripts for six weeks of ``the young and the restless'' and five weeks of ``the bold and the beautiful.'' in addition, he has several weeks of shows already taped. they are taped far in advance to get them overseas
as he talked to his visitor, bell relayed instructions to producers on the sets and commented on the taping and the actors on the screen
bell watched a young actor on the monitor for ``the bold and the beautiful.'' the actor was ethan wayne, the son of late film legend john wayne. ``can you think of a better place for a young actor to train?'' bell asked. ``they get new material every day, filled with conflicts and romance, and they get stretched every way possible.''
later, daughter lauralee bell came on the screen. she plays cricket on ``y&amp;r.'' one son, bradley, is a script writer, and another, bill, runs business affairs for ``the bold and the beautiful.''
bell, a former chicago advertising executive and writer for other daytime serials, was lured away from his job as head writer of nbc's ``days of our lives'' to create a new show for cbs
fred silverman was the head of cbs programming then and he paid me more to quit `days of our lives' than i was getting paid to do it,'' he said
lee had her own show in chicago and i went back to chicago. there we were staring at a blank sheet of paper. we did 70 pages, which took the story through the first two years.''
soap operas are difficult to establish because viewers are reluctant to break their viewing habits. bell had hoped that ``the young and the restless'' would make a breakthrough, but when the ratings failed to climb he grew impatient and asked cbs to take it off the air
it wasn't doing as well as i thought it should,'' he said. ``but fred silverman showed me ratings figures that convinced me to stay with it. it took the show a year and a half to get established
when you have a long-running show the audience grows older with the show,'' said bell. ```the young and the restless' was the first show to turn that around and attract a young audience for cbs.''
in 1980 bell did something that was unprecedented in daytime television
the show had begun with the focus on two families, the fosters and the brooks. several young actors decided to leave the show and it began to affect the two families
after one young actress told me she was leaving i knew it would be a mortal blow to try to replace her,'' he said. ``i'd already had to replace several other actors. what i did was gradually move the focus from the fosters and the brooks and brought in two new families, the abbotts and the williamses
it was a fascinating thing, but we were also scared. we didn't know if it would work. but the audience stayed with us and the show has grown in the ratings.''
new game show _ ``family double-dare'' will join the fox broadcasting co. on saturday, april 9, as a prime-time version of the popular ``double-dare'' children's show on nickelodeon. the new show will use two children and their parents as contestants competing for prizes. the winners go on to compete in an obstacle course appropriately called ``the messiest minute on television.'' marc summers is the host of the show
it is a puzzle to conventional economists, a challenge to management and marketing people and, according to its discoverer, ``political dynamite'' for presidential contenders
it is the split personality of the american economy
the united states has two economies, says albert sindlinger. there is what he calls the coastal economy, which has been sluggish of late. and there is the heartland economy, which has become more vigorous over the past two years
when compiling national figures, one tends to offset the other. when the coastal economy boomed, the heartland economy was in recession. now the latter is thriving, at least relative to 1985, while the other one lags
the heartland is based on manufacturing, agriculture, mining and forestry. it suffered badly between memorial day 1985 through february 1987. sindlinger referred to 31 states as being in recession then. only four now are
the coastal economy is sited mostly on the eastern and western seaboards. much of its strength depends on the service sector, including, of course, the various financial industries. it lost spunk following the stock market crash
in the coastal economy, which incidentally has gaps in its uniformity _ in massachusetts, for example, there has been a continued boom _ they worry about the billions of dollars that vanished in the stock crash
in the heartland, says sindlinger, ``the decline in services and the crash have been only events on the evening news, as remote as news dispatches on the fighting in afghanistan.''
how does sindlinger know all this? because, as it has for three decades, sindlinger &amp; co. of wallingford, pa., calls hundreds of households every week, asking them highly detailed questions about job status, money supply and more
it is founder sindlinger's contention that the consumer still drives the economy, and that the consumer cannot do so without a job and income and confidence. more and more he has found these in the heartland. and more
the improvement in the heartland economy, he says, is attributable mainly to small, entrepreneurial companies employing fewer than 200 workers. it is a finding, he suggests, that indicates a new, different, more vigorous heartland
for the two weeks that ended march 7, he found that 22.1 percent of workers there were employed by companies with payrolls of more than 200, but that 31.7 percent were self-employed or worked in companies of 10 or fewer workers
he says that finding is significant. ``these companies are finding their goods more competitive. especially among small entrepreneurial companies, there is an increased willingness to expand into foreign markets,'' he says
it is because of such successes that sindlinger's consumer confidence index has now risen to 66 percent, ``in the boom area.'' it means two things:
1. that two out of every three households nationwide has experienced either income gains or no loss in income over the past six months
2. that two of three households are either positive or neutral about expectations for income, employment and business conditions
based on these findings, sindlinger has scoffed at forecasts of a recession to follow the oct. 19 stock market crash. in fact, he has raised his outlook for growth in the gross national product, though he sees some signs of inflation to come
smart companies, he observes, have been capitalizing on the split economy. some are his clients, and if they have acted on his analysis, he says, they have been able to place the proper inventories in proper geographical areas
politicians might not be as wise. ``not one of the presidential contenders has taken advantage of it yet,'' he says
but no matter who wins, he suggests they pay attention to small business
although the growth in the u.s. economy is the result of strength among small companies, he says, ``it is the gms and bethlehem steels who have the time and the money to lobby congress for the favors they believe they need.''
but the jobs, especially those in the heartland economy, are coming from small companies. the workers know it. and he suggests the politicians better begin learning it
what do charlie chaplin, greta garbo, cary grant, alfred hitchcock and steven spielberg have in common? they have never won academy awards for their individual achievements
such flagrant omissions are often cited by critics as evidence of the unfairness of hollywood's highest prize. oscar's 60-year history is filled with examples of the film world's highest achievers being overlooked by the academy of motion picture arts and sciences
the latest casualties are directors james l. brooks, whose movie ``broadcast news'' was nominated though he wasn't, and spielberg who was left out in the cold with his ``empire of the sun.''
although ``broadcast news'' won seven major nominations, including best picture and three acting categories, brooks was strangely overlooked by the academy's directing branch
since no movie has ever won a best picture oscar without its director at least being nominated, the chances of the once-favored ``broadcast news'' to be a big winner at the awards ceremony on april 11 have been significantly reduced
brooks did better in 1984 when his ``terms of endearment'' took the lion's share of oscars, including best picture and director
spielberg's ``empire of the sun'' won six nominations this year, none of them major and none for director. two years ago, ``the color purple'' received 11 nominations but not for him as director. the directors guild nevertheless named him best director that year
i'm floored by this,'' spielberg said upon receiving his dga award. ``this is the last thing i expected to happen. ... if some of you are making a statement _ thank god _ i thank you for that.''
why the spielberg slight? some observers cite the fact that only 257 directors nominate for the academy awards, and many are veterans who might not look kindly on the young man whose films are the biggest moneymakers in history (``jaws,'' ``e.t.,'' ``raiders of the lost ark'')
the academy appeared to make amends last year by presenting spielberg with the irving thalberg award for ``consistently high quality of production.'' there was no mention of the fact that spielberg is primarily a director, not a producer
the thalberg award has come in handy to acknowledge giants who were overlooked for individual awards. the recipients have included cecil b. demille, stanley kramer, alfred hitchcock, ingmar bergman and mervyn leroy
the honorary award has also proved useful to salve the academy's conscience. charlie chaplin received one at the first academy awards for his creation of ``the circus'' and again at the 44th awards for ``the incalculable effect he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century.''
douglas fairbanks, judy garland, noel coward, ernst lubitsch, fred astaire, gene kelly, harold lloyd, greta garbo, maurice chevalier, stan laurel, cary grant, lillian gish, edward g. robinson, groucho marx, howard hawks and jean renoir are others who have received honorary awards
cary grant once remarked that he never expected to win an academy award. ``i'd have to blacken my teeth first,'' he quipped, alluding to the academy's fondness for actors who portray bums and downtrodden characters
alfred hitchcock also had a lighthearted comment on why he failed to win an oscar: ``i suppose it was a matter of carelessness.''
the overlooking of classic films and the industry's most talented filmmakers has provided historians with cause for dispute
for example, ``citizen kane,'' which customarily places no. 1 on polls of the greatest american films, was nominated in 1941 for best picture (there were 10 nominees in those days), for orson welles' performance, direction and co-scripting with herman mankiewicz, gregg toland's camera work, plus art direction, sound, music and editing
the only oscar for ``citizen kane'' was for the script. ``how green was my valley'' was named best picture
billy wilder's classic comedy, ``some like it hot,'' failed to be nominated as best picture, as did chaplin's ``modern times,'' hawks' ``red river'' and woody allen's ``manhattan.''
oh, well. oscar might use joe e. brown's final line from ``some like it hot'': ``nobody's perfect.''
the origins of the oscar, a golden symbol of artistic triumph, are more down to earth than many of the glitzy stars who take home the greatly cherished statuette
far from the studios, sun and sea of the california west coast, is a cluster of brick buildings in a residential-industrial neighborhood of chicago. under a cloak of security, this is where the trophy manufacturer r.s. owens &amp; co. creates the academy award prize
winning the oscar contract may not compare with winning the oscar itself. however, it was a coup for owens seven years ago and remains a source of company pride. the statuettes used to be made by dodge, inc., at a small manufacturing plant in crystal lake, ill., some 25 miles northwest of chicago
with 300 employees, owens makes about 95 percent of the most prestigious awards in the country, including the television industry's emmys, advertising's clios, the super bowl trophy and the miss america awards. but oscar tops them all
most people don't know the names of awards in other fields, much less what they look like, said bernice estka, who handles the oscar account for owens
oscar, you know,'' she said
each model of the muscular knight, who holds a sword and stands impassively on a reel of film, is hand cast from a single steel mold
oscar was designed by cedric gibbons, then head of the mgm studio's art department. he sketched the prototype on a table cloth in 1927. sculptor george stanley transformed the sketch into the coveted statuette
the trophy was named oscar by longtime academy employee margaret herrick, who took one look at the statuette and declared that it reminded her of her uncle oscar, estka said
the design has remained unchanged since 1927, and the mold, which was turned over to owens with the contract, is kept in a vault
neither owens nor the academy of motion pictures arts &amp; sciences, whose members' votes decide the winners, would reveal the price tag on oscar
i like to say that they are worth a million dollars to the people who receive them,'' said owen r. siegel, founder and chief executive officer of the trophy company. ``once you have got an oscar _ you've made it.''
if we say it only costs a certain amount to make, what does that do to the image?'' said patrick stockstill, the academy historian who will hand the oscars to presenters at the 60th annual awards presentation on april 11
it is the most famous award and the most prestigious. it thrusts a person into the limelight and brings additional cash into their pockets.''
the oscar's value as a symbol far exceeds the cost of the pewter form and electroplating of copper, nickel, silver and gold, estka said. however, from 1943-47, because of war rationing, the statuettes were made of plaster. they were later replaced
early each year, nine or 10 owens employees set aside the work of the moment such as little league trophies or bowling prizes to make the oscars. each 13{-inch, 8{-pound statuette takes about five man hours to craft, estka said
the awards are handcrafted in the 100,000 square-foot facility with cinderblock walls whose concrete floors often are shrewn with metal shavings
the academy usually needs about 100 oscars, but this year's order was for 150 because of the academy is celebrating its 60th anniversary, estka said
the oscars are locked in a separate room each night. as each statuette is finished, it is packed in plastic foam. when all are ready, they're put in a sealed truck for the trip to los angeles
we don't have an elaborate secret route, but only a few people actually know when they leave or how they go to los angeles,'' said scott siegel, president of the company
once in a secret los angeles warehouse, the oscars wait in muffled silence for the night they make dreams come true
in the tang dynasty 1,000 years ago, boatmen carried rice and supplies to fight the northern barbarians. today, boatmen on barges still pass through huaian, but now they carry coal and bricks to keep china's great metropolises humming
life goes on, changing but always the same along the world's longest man-made waterway, the 1,000-mile grand canal, which hua yuhua, a local official, describes ``as great a feat as the great wall.''
in huaian, a 1,600-year-old town in coastal jiangsu province, the canal remains the lifeline
huaian is a bumpy, four-hour drive from the provincial capital of nanjing and has no railway
we have looked to the water in developing our land,'' said the local radio station director, wang ruoyuan
every day about 1,200 barges, some in convoys of as many as 10, pass through the town's two locks, where they are lowered or raised about 10 feet
along the shore, a sea of men in green and blue jackets load and unload the coal, grain, vegetables, oil, roof tile, cotton, lumber and gravel that traverse the 220-mile jiangsu stretch from the yangtze river in the south to the city of xuzhou in the north
the lucky ones have donkeys, but for most a strong back and sturdy shoulders are crucial. people strapped to harnesses tug at carts and wagons. on one bridge, a unique pulley system helps them up an incline
bicycles weave around bridge-side stalls that sell cabbage, oranges, soft drinks and sugar cane. children gather around to watch an elderly couple puff oats with a hand bellows that fires a blackened iron pressure vessel
fishermen come by with cormorants perched on bicycle handlebars, taking the black seabirds to catch fish for them
work on the canal began in the 6th century b.c. but the early 7th century emperor yangdi built the main sections, from the western capital of luoyang eastward and the north-south channel linking hangzhou to beijing, china's modern-day capital
hundreds of thousands are believed to have been mobilized for the project
upon its completion, the emperor sailed its length at the head of a flotilla extending in close file for 60 miles
during the tang dynasty (618-907), what served as the ministry of transport was in huaian, and the city had a population of 200,000, double its current number, town official hua said
the canal fell into disrepair after the tang dynasty, but the kublai khan rebuilt it in the 13th century
the communist government, after coming to power in 1949, has built an extensive irrigation and flood control system to make life easier for the people of this waterlogged, impoverished area
the town fathers also hope huaian's rich historical heritage will draw tourists. it was the home to han xin, the han dynasty (206 b.c.-220 a.d.) general; wu chengen, writer of ``journey to the west,'' the classic of the ming dynasty (1368-1644), and the late premier chou en-lai
one small temple along the canal has a statue in memory of the ``washerwoman,'' an upright woman who helped gen. han when he was a poor boy and later refused a reward of 1,000 taels of silver
near that temple, outside their one-room brick homes with upswept tile roofs, the washerwomen of today are still down at the canal, hard at work
the school board president in jackson, mich., disagreed strongly with a recent board vote that outlawed paddling. ``i went to a school where we were spanked when we misbehaved. it didn't damage us,'' said l. michael ketchens. ``it didn't teach us that physical violence is the only response.''
many educators around the nation concur. and yet teachers and administrators increasingly look to alternative ways of controlling unruly students: counseling, suspensions and restrictions on special privileges
they cite lawsuits over allegedly abusive corporal punishment and research indicating that minority and poor students are paddled disproportionately
spanking has been prohibited in california, hawaii, maine, massachusetts, nebraska, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, rhode island and vermont. movements are afoot in at least 15 more states to try to outlaw corporal punishment
and, as in jackson, mich., many localities have banned spanking _ among them, the school districts of anchorage, alaska; atlanta; baltimore; chicago; cleveland; columbus; the district of columbia; fargo, n.d.; minneapolis; new orleans; philadelphia; pittsburgh; portland, ore.; seattle; st. louis; and tucson, ariz
california child psychologist adah maurer, who has spent the last decade in an anti-paddling crusade, said it's been difficult to persuade state legislators to support anti-spanking bills because they get mixed signals
teachers don't like to be told how to run their classrooms, said maurer, founder of end violence against the next generation inc
they vote for the status quo. if paddles are in use, teachers will vote in favor of them. we have found that all over,'' she said. ``but if they've never had corporal punishment, as in new jersey, they don't miss it.''
the national education association is on record as opposing corporal punishment in schools, but its position is not binding on the various state chapters
religious educators also are of two minds. some favor banning corporal punishment, saying violence begets violence. others cite solomon's biblical admonition: ``spare the rod, spoil the child.''
fundamentalist schools lobbied to be exempted from a michigan anti-spanking bill that's supported by roman catholic schools
corporal punishment is too risky,'' said sister dorita wotiska, superintendent of the diocese of lansing roman catholic schools. ``when you hit a child out of anger, the chances of hurting a child is beyond what you know.''
but paul vanaman, president of the michigan association of christian schools, said spanking ``gets results. why tie everyone's hands because of the possibility that something might happen on the ten-thousandth time?''
the u.s. department of education has estimated public school children are swatted about 1.3 million times a year. but the figures don't differentiate between a tap with a hand and paddling that raises welts and do not show the frequency of physical injury or emotional damage
the education department's biannual survey of 20 percent of the nation's school districts, from which the figures were derived, also showed wide racial and regional fluctuations: children were more likely to be physically punished in the south, and black children were paddled at a higher rate than whites
the u.s. supreme court ruled in 1977 that corporal punishment did not constitute cruel and unusual punishment, but the justices may take another look at the issue
the high court is considering whether to hear arguments on an appeal from a new mexico case. the parents of teresa garcia contend the 9-year-old's constitutional rights were violated when she was paddled hard enough to require medical treatment
they say she was hit on two occasions, first as punishment for hitting a boy who kicked her and later for saying she saw a teacher kiss a student's father
maurer said her research shows that educators get used to using the paddle, then employ it for lesser and lesser offenses
there's a lot of sadism,'' she said. ``children are hit for academic matters, like not finishing their homework. they're hit for coming in a little late.''
in jackson hole, wyo., a sixth-grader was spanked with a wooden paddle by his teacher and about 19 classmates. the offense: getting a grade of 79 percent on a math test. a lawsuit later was settled for more than $20,000
in a pennsylvania case, the parents of a seventh-grader say they're preparing to sue over the paddling administered to their son and the rest of his class. the reason: one classmate reported his math book missing and no one owned up to the theft. the parents blame the paddling for the seizures their son has suffered since
those aren't isolated cases, according to irwin hyman, director of the national center for the study of corporal punishment at temple university in philadelphia
teachers have legally beaten children severely enough to leave welts, lacerations and fractured bones,'' he said, adding that he has documented hundreds of cases. children have sometimes suffered nerve damage and in rare cases have even died after being required to do exhausting exercises, he said
hyman said corporal punishment can inflict on children a version of post-traumatic stress disorder, the psychological damage associated with war veterans
the people who teach teachers-to-be say they emphasize discipline techniques that don't rely on the threat of pain
most behavior problems can be prevented,'' said michigan state university professor cassandra book. ``those people who engage in corporal punishment don't have other ideas in their head on how to cope with kids' misbehavior.''
she urges teachers to give youngsters reasons to behave _ for instance, by setting up contracts in which they agree to give up certain privileges if they misbehave
sister wotiska's technique for stopping misbehavior is a well-directed stare _ ``an evil eye,'' she called it
the national coalition of advocates for students said it's concerned that paddlings may be racially motivated
corporal punishment is used most frequently on poor, minority students,'' said joan mccarty first, director of the boston-based advocacy group, which analyzed data from the federal government's most recent school survey
black students made up 16 percent of the nation's school enrollment and accounted for 28 percent of the episodes of corporal punishment, according to the analysis
in individual state analyses, the group found similar discrepancies
for instance, in arizona, where black students constitute 4 percent of enrollment, they accounted for 13 percent of the episodes of physical punishment. in connecticut, 10 percent enrollment, 73 percent punishment rate; in wisconsin, 8 and 39 percent; in ohio, 14 and 26 percent; in michigan, 17 and 25 percent; in arkansas, 25 and 35 percent
the national association for the advancement of colored people supports efforts to ban corporal punishment in schools
also on the record as supporting anti-spanking efforts are the american medical association, american bar association, american civil liberties association and national parent-teacher association
when the youthful alan garcia took office as peru's ``president of hope'' in july 1985, his energetic policies won applause from a country besieged for decades by economic and governmental failures
but midway through his five-year term, the 38-year-old populist has been battered by unrelenting poverty, a leftist insurgency and growing social chaos
in some eyes, garcia's honeymoon ended in 1986 when he gave government forces a free hand to quell prison riots in lima, and more than 250 leftist guerrilla inmates were slain in a bloodbath
most of garcia's support in the middle and upper classes has ebbed since this past july, when he accused peruvian banks of exploitation and announced plans to nationalize them
current economic woes have further frayed garcia's backing even among the working class and poor, toward whom most of his policies have been directed and from whom he commands his largest following
garcia's approval rating has fallen from 96 percent during his first months in office to 44 percent, according to the independent polling firm datum
alan garcia is just too young. he scares the middle class,'' said jose castro, who drives a taxi between jobs as a civil engineer. ``the generals might have to come in and straighten things out again.''
though most analysts doubt a military coup is likely, castro's comment reflects a constant worry among many people recalling military rule from 1968 to 1980
the 6-foot-3 garcia won office by a 2-1 margin with a campaign promising a ``different future.''
there was a massive need to bet on someone who could pull peru out of this crisis,'' said luis pasara, columnist for caretas, peru's leading news weekly, terming garcia's appeal as emotional and lacking in substance
garcia and his center-left aprista party, which won a majority in congress, moved with dizzying speed to implement policies he frequently terms ``nationalistic and anti-imperialistic.''
he limited repayments of peru's foreign debt, now $16.5 billion, to a ceiling of 10 percent of exports
the voracious appetites of imperialists will not be satisfied with the hunger of the people,'' garcia said
he used the money owed foreign banks to finance an economic reactivation program that cut inflation to 63 percent and catapulted the country from its deepest depression this century. peru led latin america with 8.5 percent and 6.7 percent economic growth in 1986 and 1987
the new chief executive took steps to root out police corruption, decentralize government, boost the fight against cocaine traffickers, gain more control over the military and reduce human rights violations in the anti-insurgency campaign
his reputation as a ``bad boy'' of the americas grew as he nationalized a u.s. oil company, banned foreign companies from remitting profits to parent firms abroad, drew closer trade links with the soviet union and embraced nicaragua's leftist government, while condemning u.s. involvement in central america
i am going to speak until latin america unites and defeats the imperialism of the rich nations,'' garcia said in one of his frequent volleys against u.s. and european foreign policy, which he blames for keeping latin america ``dependent and on its knees.''
such talk has eroded much of garcia's foreign support
his foes accuse him of being a demagogue, impetuous in making decisions and insincere about keeping promises
government officials and supporters acknowledge that garcia has made serious political and economic errors. but they say the problems are being corrected and recent fence-mending efforts reflect a new presidential maturity
the bank takeover polarized the nation and awoke a powerful center-right coalition. congress went ahead, nevertheless, with the nationalization plan but only one of the 10 banks affected now is under government control because of legal challenges by owners of the others. garcia's aprista party, however, has proposed amendments softening the nationalization plan in an effort to lessen the strident opposition to it
in the meantime, many foreign companies have cut back on operations or left the country, prompting the government to revise policies to attract more foreign investment
spurred by heavy government spending, inflation is expected to rocket to a record 300 percent this year. the country is virtually out of dollar reserves due to falling exports and a cutoff in loans by foreign lenders
with the economy pitching toward a recession, garcia in early march announced a ``war economy,'' with steep price increases, and appealed to rival political parties to help find solutions
the response, however, has been lukewarm
fox television's ``america's most wanted'' has become the best thing since post office walls for law enforcement officials, who say the innovative show has led to the capture of three long-sought fugitives
this show is just what the fugitive doesn't want,'' said rex tombs, fbi agent who acts as bureau liaison with the sunday evening program
america's most wanted,'' produced in washington because of the proximity to federal police agencies, is a unique mix of dramatization, documentary, news, public service and interactive television
the show uses actors and sometimes actual victims to dramatize crimes, filming when possible on sites where the incidents occurred. the show uses film and still photos of the real fugitives and sends camera teams out to cover stakeouts. and it makes direct appeals for people to get involved in the chase with a 20-line toll-free number, 800-crime88
a dozen law enforcement officers, whose expenses are paid by the show, are assigned by their agencies each week to monitor the calls _ sometimes as many as 1,600 _ that follow each broadcast
we don't have anything else that can get the message across the nation in prime time. this is the only thing we have other than post office walls which are not that effective,'' said dick pederson of the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms
law enforcement officials credit the show and viewer response for the capture of at least three fugitives, including:
_steven paul mack, who was wanted for questioning in the february 1987 slaying of 21-year-old beauty queen karen grace winlett of carmichael, calif., and the death of 19-year-old annette huddle in ohio
_donald adams, a convicted rapist in boston
_david james roberts, who escaped from the prison where he had been serving six life terms for burning to death a young couple and their 1-year-old child in indiana because the man had witnessed him stealing tires
we're making a smaller place for these guys to hide,'' said the show's host, john walsh, whose 6-year-old son was kidnapped and killed in 1981. walsh directs eight child-protection centers around the country and has become a widely recognized lobbyist for laws protecting children. the unsolved murder of his son, adam, was the subject of two television movies
walsh said he agreed to do the show only if it would meet high journalistic standards, avoid gratuitous violence and allow him control over his scripts
so far fox has kept their word,'' he said. ``the violence on this show is off the evening news. this is not a nightmare turned into a tv show; this is the nightmare of reality.''
michael linder, the show's producer, said it tries to be meticulous in the details it presents about criminals and clearly identifies dramatizations so tipsters won't send police after the actors it uses
he said he is also exploring ways to show less dramatic crimes such as telephone fraud
i don't want to get the reputation for doing only flamboyant, flashy stories,'' linder said. ``the last thing we want is to be perceived as is adam 12 or movie of the week.''
and, he said, there are no plans to offer rewards for capturing criminals, because he doesn't want it to start looking like a game show
america's most wanted'' is aired on fox-owned stations in seven major cities covering about one-fourth of u.s. tv viewers. with its success in catching criminals and attracting viewers, several independent stations have begun to pick it up
although the show now is taped about two hours before air time, plans call for the show to be broadcast live
one of the most recent captures attributed the show came earlier this month on a tip from an ohio woman who told the marion county sheriff she recognized mack from an episode on ``america's most wanted.''
the tipster didn't know where mack was but also told the sheriff about a call she received from salt lake city about a man named sean paul lanier. she apparently connected the call with mack
the ohio sheriff sent mack's fingerprints to utah where ``america's most wanted'' is not aired, and on tuesday police discovered mack and lanier were one
sacramento county sheriff's spokeswoman sharon telles said the tv show provided deputies with 170 tips
i think this is going to put some fear into somebody,'' she said. ``it's a wonderful tool for us.''
two weeks ago, adams, the convicted rapist, hurriedly moved out of the boston area apartment where he had been living for several weeks. police, who had been staking out the apartment, said he fled because he saw the dramatization of his brutal 1983 attack on a boston area woman on tv that night. adams was arrested four days later
the show helped flush him out,'' said capt. david mattioli of the massachusetts state police. ``it was a classic example of a cooperative effort between `america's most wanted' and police.''
the program's first success came with its first episode, which had actually been filmed eight months before it was shown last feb. 7
fbi spokesman milt ahlerich appeared the following week to thank viewers who called the show with information about roberts, a prison escapee who had been serving six life terms
ahlerich said that before the tips started pouring in the fbi had no idea that roberts was living on new york's staten island with a job as coordinator for a homeless shelter, where residents praised him as a ``sweet guy,'' someone who would help anyone in trouble
other fugitives profiled on the show include members of a jamaican hit squad sought in a drug-related massacre of five people in a suburb of washington, d.c., and william ``pops'' pegram, 72-year-old bank robber who has blazed a 40-year trail of crime across several states. with one ``r'' is cq.</note>
fifty-seven tractor-trailers backed up to a kansas city, mo., loading dock earlier this month to collect their quarry _ six billion ``e'' stamps that had been salted away in a limestone cave for the next increase in postal rates
it was one step in the complex process of raising postal rates that began march 4, when the independent postal rate commission recommended a sweeping series of rate increases, including a 25-cent first-class stamp. the rate increase takes effect april 3
assistant postmaster general gordon c. morison knew there would not be enough time to print new stamps to meet the nation's 100 million-a-day stamp appetite
so he turned to the ``e'' stamps that had been stored in kansas city for more than a year. the stamps have no denomination _ when they were printed, no one knew just how large a rate increase would be enacted
we printed six billion. it takes about 13.6 billion stamps to make a rate change. six billion stamps probably will last us around 45 to 60 days ... in that period of time we can print enough with denominations to get the next six billion stamps out there and replenish the inventory,'' morison said in an interview
if we waited to get the rate change (to start printing stamps) ... there would be pockets of shortages throughout the country,'' he said
it took four days to finish loading the leased tractor-trailers, which fanned out across the nation delivering the stamps to sectional postal centers for distribution to local post offices
last wednesday, the day after the postal service board of governors put its formal seal of approval on the new rates, the special stamps went on sale across the nation
while the public will likely take most notice of the new ``e'' stamps, it takes no less than 45 different postal items to get through a rate change, according to morison
there are the six billion 25-cent stamps to follow the e stamps, plus millions of 1- and 3-cent stamps that will be needed to make up the new rates for people using up old stamps
there's postal stationery _ envelopes and postal cards bearing the new rates _ plus new stamps bearing the 45-cent international rate and stamps with the new bulk rates, non-profit rates, express mail rates, official mail rates for government use and even special ``e'' envelopes to mail savings bonds
and for each type of stamp, more than one form is printed _ for example ``e'' stamps will come in coils, booklets and sheets; there will be three different booklets of the current 25-cent jack london stamp, new booklets of a 25-cent pheasant stamp and other new items, morison said
to print the stamps needed for the changeover, the bureau of engraving and printing used 915,000 pounds of ink and 4,680 tons of paper, morison said. he wasn't sure how much glue was used
i don't think people realize,'' how many stamps it takes, he said, commenting that many people ask why the undenominated stamps are used during changeovers
if all the new stamps required were stacked one on top of another _ the thin way _ he said, the pile would be 571 miles tall
of course stacking them the thin way makes the smallest possible pile, and morison had statistics with much more impressive illustrations
many people buy stamps in rolls of 100, he said. if all the rolls needed for the changeover were stretched out, they would go around the earth twice at the equator, with a strip 5,255 miles long leftover
the other popular sales method is the booklet, he noted, with the consumer seeing only a little folder a few inches long
if we laid out all the stamp booklets we are producing they would stretch 10,623 miles, or a round trip between san francisco and china, so that's why we think we have enough booklets,'' he said
indeed, the last time rates changed, booklets proved to be the major problem, he said, with supplies never able to keep up with demand
this time he is determined to have enough
in addition, morison said, postal and business forms have to be converted to the new rates, decals changed in vending machines, rate charts replaced, new software produced for computer mail terminals and postal scales changed
in addition to the bureau of engraving and printing, the american bank note co. has contracted to print some new stamp booklets to help in the changeover
then comes the problem of getting the new stamps into the hands of the public _ at a time when budget problems imposed by congress have forced a curtailment of hours at many offices
to help, postmaster general anthony frank has ordered offices to extend their hours during the next two weeks. in addition flyers will be sent to homes to encourage purchase of stamps by mail
plus, telephone stamp sales have also been extended nationwide. callers can use credit cards to buy stamps by calling 1-800-stamp24. there is a $2 service charge
officials don't expect people to be happy paying more, but morison says he hopes at least for fewer complaints about the appearance of the ``e'' stamps
past undenominated stamps have been rather plain stamps with the head of an eagle. the e stamp has a colorful space-based image of the earth because, morison says, ``over the years we have been besieged by the public with requests for pretty stamps.''
there's another thing we have to consider as we change rates, especially on the ordinary issues. we have to make them discernably different ... because our clerks have gotten used to seeing'' certain stamps
for example he cited the popular flag stamps. there will be a new flag stamp at the 25-cent rate, but the design will be changed enough to make it easy for clerks to be sure the correct stamp is being used
in 1981, the postal service issued a commemorative stamp honoring white house architect james hoban at the 18-cent rate, and then reissued the same stamp at 20 cents when rates changed
it wasn't a good idea and we don't plan to repeat it,'' morison said of the confusion
with all this effort, when will they start thinking about the next change and planning an ``f'' stamp?
well, we'll probably start looking at that in the near future, at least from the design standpoint,'' he said
but that doesn't mean a new rate increase is being considered, he cautioned. ``we don't look so much at the next rate case, quite frankly, as we look at what might happen between rate cases
theoretically, you could have a requirement for a substitute stamp in several fashions, for example if we didn't have the printing capabilities for stamps for some reason, we would have stamps to tide us over. or if we had a lawsuit that would change the rates suddenly on us, either higher or lower.''
david hare, a leading british playwright, has remarked that when prime minister margaret thatcher came to office nearly nine years ago, the usually vibrant, challenging british theater fell silent
a lot of writers stopped writing because they didn't know how to deal with her arrival,'' said the author of ``plenty'' and other works. ``now people are really beginning to get to grips.''
today, secure in her third term of office, mrs. thatcher's imprint on britain is indelible _ nowhere more so than in the arts, where disaffection is being turned into the stuff of provocative films and plays
the topicality itself is nothing new, as ``angry young playwrights'' such as john osborne and arnold wesker and such filmmakers as karel reisz and john schlesinger were demonstrating 30 years ago
but no post-war government, conservative or labor, has come under such concerted artistic attack as mrs.thatcher's, and few serious works today fail to address themselves somehow to the phenomenon of thatcherism, most often from an angry, left-wing viewpoint
emasculated politically by the march of thatcherite capitalism, the left has dug in on stage and screen to attack her bourgeois, pro-business values
so sustained is the onslaught that a backlash is being felt from artists who ordinarily would stay out of the political crossfire
i'd much rather have a frank disinterest in culture than a phony and deliberate one,'' novelist peter ackroyd recently said. ``and i find the patronizing snobbery of those who despise mrs. thatcher and her supporters very unpleasant indeed.''
in a recent sunday times article, right-wing historian norman stone of oxford university said the growing tendency was ``to run down mrs. thatcher, to assume that capitalism is parasitism, that the established order in this country is imperialist, racist, profiteering.''
earlier, critic francis king had asked in the conservative sunday telegraph: ``why is there so much stage left?'' and yearned for a play to counter the ``vicious denigration of poor old mrs. thatcher'' which he saw proliferating in theater
many of the works have a common message: under mrs. thatcher, britain is becoming a greedy society, heartless to the poor, hostile to free speech, in thrall equally to nuclear weapons and america under president reagan
works both new and old are being mobilized against thatcherism. in alan ayckbourn's ``a small family business,'' the upstanding hero falls into a spiral of corruption in which vanishing paper clips become a metaphor for vanishing morals. olwen wymark has adapted emile zola's 1880 novel ``nana'' for the london stage because, she says, it matches her sense of britain today
both dramatists acknowledge the anti-thatcherite message. ``i couldn't have written that play 10 years ago,'' ayckbourn, 48, said in an interview. ``the disease (of greed) much more deeply permeates the society now than it once did.''
the american-born wymark says she chose ``nana'' because ``the book is about the kind of tendencies thatcher has been able to nail to the mast. ... i feel very strongly that the urge towards greed is being fostered, the sense of communal responsibility is drying up.''
hanif kureishi, the anglo-pakistani screenwriter of two low-budget hit movies, ``sammy and rosie get laid'' and ``my beautiful laundrette,'' says he and director stephen frears want their movies ``to shoot bullets at thatcherism and everything it stands for.''
because things are so terrible in this country, we have to be able to look at what's going on and discuss it publicly,'' kureishi said in an interview
sammy and rosie'' opens with images of a riot-torn, rubbish-strewn london and the voice of mrs. thatcher promising to tackle the problems of the inner cities
other works share kureishi's view: david hare's ``wetherby'' and derek jarman's ``the last of england'' on screen; karim alrawi's ``a colder climate'' and kay adshead's ``thatcher's women'' on stage
on television, various drama series consistently portray the government as authoritarian, secrecy-obsessed, even murderous. ``spitting image,'' a satirical program, uses rubber dolls to portray mrs. thatcher and her ministers as hitler's nazis
more benignly, john mortimer in ``paradise postponed'' has pointed up the irony of post-war britain: the traditional working-class vote has swung to mrs. thatcher, the self-made grocer's daughter, because she, rather than the ideological left, embodies blue-collar aspirations
mortimer, a committed laborite, gently mourns the loss of an older, dreamier, more compassionate britain. other playwrights, such as caryl churchill in ``serious money'' tony marchant in ``speculators,'' vilify the london's financial district as a nest of greed, fraud and raw ambition
director christine edzard's six-hour film version of charles dickens' novel ``little dorrit'' draws parallels between the victorian virtues and vices and mrs. thatcher's britain. its juxtaposition of obscene wealth and tragic destitution, she says, makes it ``the dickens novel very much closest to today.''
however, some critics feel the point is being stretched. reviewing nick darke's 1983 play ``the crimes of vautrin,'' which used an honore de balzac work to indict a society glutted by materialism, critic victoria radin complained in the observer newspaper: ``it is a gray day when balzac can be bleakly molded to symbolize the dread face of thatcherite britain.''
but mrs. thatcher does have defenders, powerful figures in the arts such as painter francis bacon and novelists kingsley amis and anthony powell who argue that the resentment is largely intellectual snobbery toward her bourgeois background
historian stone wonders why there are not more films such as ``a room with a view'' and ``chariots of fire'' which extol traditional british virtues
but hanif kureishi feels the truths of england today take precedence over golden-hued images of its past: ``there are actually so few films that show life in great britain at all (that) we have to make films about life as it is. there are so many stories to be told, and we've got to get on with it.''
the dollar moved lower against most major foreign currencies in europe today in the absence of market-moving news. gold prices also fell
dealers said the dollar was unlikely to move much during the day, since no important economic news was expected
officials delayed until next week today's planned release of west german january trade data, seen by some in the market as an indicator of the near-term trend for the mark
dealers said that although the west german trade figures are not very important for interpreting dollar trends, they are relevant for investors trading on cross-rates between the mark and major european currencies
dealers said the market was expected to focus again on the pound-mark rate. they said the pound is likely to test the key 3.1000-mark level again today after the bank of england reportedly intervened late thursday to push the pound below that level
in tokyo, where trading ends before europe's business day begins, the dollar fell 0.56 yen to a closing 125.74. later, in london, it was quoted at 125.84 yen
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late thursday's prices, included: 1.6792 west german marks, down from 1.6800; 1.3884 swiss francs, down from 1.3885; 5.7000 french francs, down from 5.7120; 1.8860 dutch guilders, down from 1.8980; 1,242.75 italian lire, down from 1,246.95; 1.2415 canadian dollars, down from 1.2426
in london, the british pound was quoted at $1.8422, compared with $1.8435 late thursday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $452.65 a troy ounce, compared with late thursday's $452. at mid-morning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $451.50
in zurich, the bid price was $451.80, down from $452 late thursday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell $1.32 an ounce to close at $454.08
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.68 a troy ounce, up from late thursday's $6.61
the dollar closed slightly lower against the japanese yen on the tokyo foreign exchange market today, while stock prices shed more than 150 points following declines in both currency and stock markets overseas
the dollar opened at 125.68 yen, down 0.62 yen from its thursday closing, and closed the week at 125.74 yen
japan's central bank reportedly purchased an estimated $200-300 million during the morning to prop up the sagging currency. the bank of japan does not comment on its monetary policies, including market intervention
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which lost 113.95 points thursday, closed today at 25,626.71, down 154.57 points, or 0.59 percent
the tokyo market ``was discouraged largely by an overnight decline in the new york market,'' said masahiro umemori, a stock researcher at nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage firm
the dow jones industrial average lost 43.77 points to close at 2,023.87 points thursday
umemori said stock prices in tokyo kept rising ``at a rapid pace'' in recent weeks and just ``took a little respite the past two days.''
commenting on foreign exchange transactions, a dealer at the bank of tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there were ``no major negative market-affecting factors domestically'' to explain the dollar decline
she said there still was a chance for ``the yen's further appreciation against the dollar'' and predicted the dollar would hover at a range between 123.00-127.00 yen next week
here are the yearly profits or losses for federally insured savings institutions from 1978 through 1987, according to the federal home loan bank board
1987 _ $6.8 billion loss
1986 _ $132 million profit
1985 _ $3.7 billion profit
1984 _ $1.0 billion profit
1983 _ $1.9 billion profit
1982 _ $4.1 billion loss
1981 _ $4.6 billion loss
1980 _ $781 million profit
1979 _ $3.6 billion profit
1978 _ $3.9 billion profit members</head>
a former thrift executive has been charged with falsifying documents, making illegal campaign contributions and procuring prostitutes for members of the institution's board of directors
john v. hill, one-time vice president of the former vernon savings and loan association, was charged thursday in a felony information filed by the u.s. justice department with conspiracy to violate federal bank and bribery law
prosecutors said hill, 40, arranged for sexual favors for vernon officers and directors at a three-day 1985 board meeting in solana beach, calif., in an apparent attempt to win favor with the board
justice department attorneys said hill has agreed to plead guilty and cooperate in a continuing investigation of the thrift. he could be sentenced to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine
vernon savings was closed by the federal savings and loan insurance corp. in 1987. in the fslic's biggest bailout ever, the agency committed $1.3 billion to help reopen the institution as a new thrift, montfort savings association
don dixon, former owner of vernon savings, is fighting an fslic lawsuit charging him and other former officers with ``looting'' the institution
hill falsified documentation justifying $100,000 in payments to a consultant, and along with others created false board minutes on renewal and extension of some commercial real estate loans, the justice department said
he also was accused of conspiring with a vernon official to make $5,400 in illegal state and federal campaign contributions on the understanding that he would be reimbursed through false expense vouchers submitted to vernon
contributions went to such politicians as rep. martin frost and former rep. tom loeffler of texas and rep. jack kemp of new york, prosecutors said
prosecutors said there was no evidence that any of the campaign organizations or candidates knew the contributions were from the thrift
hill was unavailable for comment thursday. there is telephone listing for him in dallas. clear that end of production is not imminent.</note>
a scientist who 14 years ago helped discover that some chemicals destroy the earth's protective ozone layer says he's elated that the nation's largest manufacturer of them plans to eventually end production
the announcement by the du pont co. could encourage other companies to follow suit, says sherwood rowland, professor of atmospheric chemistry at the university of california at irvine
i think du pont has had more intimate contact with the science than some of the other companies,'' and thus more credibility, rowland said thursday. ``i am elated by it.''
rowland's delight was matched by environmentalists and their allies in congress, who used words they rarely use when talking about large corporations _ things like ``this letter is a wonderful surprise,'' as sen. david durenberger, r-minn., put it
this is a sterling example of corporate environmental leadership'' added dan dudek, an economist with the environmental defense fund
du pont's pledge notably omitted any deadline for compliance. joe steed, environmental manager in du pont's freon products division, said the length of a changeover to other chemicals could not yet be determined. he said it will depend on the outcome of work still under way testing substitutes, but it should be known ``certainly within five years.''
it was rowland who, in 1974 with mario molina, first mapped the chemical route _ then just a theory _ by which the long-lived chlorofluorocarbon or cfc compounds rise high into the stratosphere, are broken up by ultraviolet rays and liberate chlorine which destroys the ozone that normally blocks ultraviolet rays from reaching the ground
that ultraviolet causes skin cancer, and there is some evidence from lab animal tests that it can suppress the immune system. the environmental protection agency has estimated that each 1 percent decline in ozone overhead means an increase of 4.8 percent to 7.5 percent in the most common forms of skin cancer. research is under way to determine the effect, if any, of increased ultraviolet on tiny forms of marine life. some have predicted that they, too, could be hurt by increased ultraviolet
the rowland-molina mechanism, scientists say, is almost certainly what causes the annual 50 percent drop in ozone over the antarctic continent each spring, and what has caused a 2.3 percent decline in ozone over mid-latitudes from 1969 to 1986
the mid-latitude decline was announced last week by a panel of more than 100 scientists who worked under the national aeronautics and space administration for 17 months in the most thorough examination ever undertaken of ozone
this report was ``important new information,'' du pont's chairman, richard e. heckert, wrote members of the senate environment and public works committee
thus, ``additional actions should be taken for long-term protection of the ozone layer,'' a switch from heckert's march 4 letter to the senators saying further action was not needed
thirty-one nations last fall signed a treaty in montreal calling for a 50 percent reduction in cfc production by 1998. heckert's letter said du pont was encouraging other manufacturers and cfc users to join in ``an orderly transition to the total phaseout'' of the compounds
we also plan to urge all nations to treat the new scientific information seriously, accelerate ratification of the montreal protocol and then immediately initiate the protocol's assessment process to consider further global limitations on the emission of cfcs,'' he wrote
cfcs have been valued because they are non-toxic and non-flammable
dupont and other companies have rushed work on substitutes in recent years, and the company already has announced alternative products for plastic foam blowing agents and cleaning solvents for electronics parts. dupont and others are researching new compounds for a third major use of cfcs, as refrigeration fluids. the fourth major use, as aerosol propellants, was banned in the united states in 1978, though it is still common abroad
u.s. aerosols now are powered by hydrocarbon compounds which slightly enhance the production of ozone at ground level, where it is a pollutant
a du pont briefing paper said some jobs might be impossible to perform with substitutes at a price anyone would pay, but it did not give specifics
more than 2,000 workers in du pont plants in seven countries make about 25 percent of some 2.3 billion pounds of cfc compounds consumed each year. the company said it sells $600 million worth of cfc products annually, about 2 percent of its sales revenue
steed said the company hopes that ``over the long term'' jobs making replacement compounds would offset lost cfc jobs
stock prices fell friday following the release of disappointing british trade figures
the financial times-stock exchange index of 100 stocks was off 12.5 points, or 0.7 percent, at 1,770.2 at midday
volume was a relatively active 259.4 million shares, compared to 221.2 million shares at the same time thursday
traders said the market was unlikely to gain much more before the opening of the new york market
if there's strength in the u.s., this market could soar,'' said one london broker. alternatively, he said, a weaker start in new york would probably send london shares lower
britain's february trade deficit narrowed to 1.3 billion pounds, or $2.39 billion, from 1.4 billion pounds in january, and its current account fell to 720 million pounds from 844 million pounds
the deficits were larger than the markets had expected
ford motor co. has rejected a british union delegation's appeal that the automaker revive plans for an electronic components plant in scotland, a ford spokesman said
the delegation met with ford officials thursday night to present a union agreement to the company and try to persuade ford to change its mind
but john j. emmert of ford's international public affairs division said ford officials would stand by their decision not to build the plant in dundee, scotland
the $73 million plant would employ about 450 people and manufacture electronic engine controls to help cars meet tightening european emissions standards, he said
ford announced its plans not to build in dundee last week after it was unable to win a single-union agreement for the plant. the company's decision followed five months of feuding among british unions
emmert said the automaker was willing to meet with the unions in the future but they would have to modify their position
the feeling was that the unions were not unified in their commitment,'' he said
earlier, gavin laird, head of the amalgamated engineering union, britain's second largest, before the five-member delegation left london's heathrow airport, ``we have a monumental task ahead of us.''
britain's national labor federation, the trades union congress, has agreed to ford demands for a single-union deal at the proposed plant
however, the transport and general workers' union, britain's largest union, remained opposed to a single-union plant. the transport union represents two-thirds of ford's more than 32,000 workers in britain
the stock market headed lower today in a carryover of selling from thursday's sharp drop
the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped .83 to 2,023.04 in the first half hour of trading
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 418 up, 575 down and 444 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 23.23 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
after tumbling thursday in foreign exchange, the dollar showed signs of steadying today
interest rates, which had contributed to the stock market's woes by rising thursday morning, dropped back a bit
but analysts said investors were still leery of stocks. they said thursday's selloff dealt a significant blow to the tenuous confidence that had been building up in the market's rally since late last year
koppers co. rose | to 59]. beazer plc of britain raised its offer for the company from $56 a share to $60 a share
among actively traded blue chips, international business machines gained ] to 110[ and american telephone &amp; telegraph added [ to 27{, while general electric lost [ to 41}
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .04 to 148.96. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .47 at 296.83
on thursday the dow jones industrial average fell 43.77 points to 2,023.87
declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 5 to 1 on the nyse, with 259 up, 1,373 down and 349 unchanged. big board volume totaled 184.91 million shares, against 167.37 million in the previous session
britain's merchandise trade deficit narrowed 8 percent in february, while the country's annual inflation rate was unchanged at 3.3 percent, the government said friday
the trade gap totaled 1.32 billion pounds, or $2.43 billion, far above market expectations of an 875 million-pound gap, but economists warned that new customs rules adopted at the beginning of the year continued to distort the figures
the pound, british government bonds and british stocks nonetheless tumbled on the news. even if the pound shows renewed strength in the near term, analysts said the trade report makes a further cut in interest rates remote
in january, the merchandise trade deficit came to a revised 1.44 billion pounds, the department of trade and industry said
britain had a current account deficit, which includes invisible trade such as financial services, of 720 million pounds last month, narrower than a revised january deficit of 844 million pounds but wider than market expectations of a gap around 270 million pounds
britain's retail price index rose 0.4 percent in february from january and was up 3.3 percent from february 1987, the department of employment said in its inflation report
in january, the index was unchanged from the previous month and also up 3.3 percent from a year earlier
the index, which uses a january 1987 base of 100.0, stood at 103.7 in february, up from 103.3 in january, and up from 100.4 in february 1987
the department said the rise in the index between january and february was mainly the result of higher prices for fresh and vegetables, and with the end of the winter sales period, prices for clothing and other goods were higher
prices were lower for petroleum products and motor vehicles
police have only bits and pieces of disintegrated bank checks to go on as they try to crack a dissolving paper caper that has hit at least two states and cost banks nearly $70,000
the checks, treated with a chemical that makes them disintegrate three or four hours after being deposited, have turned up at five or six banks in the chicago area and two in tennessee, police said thursday
the one i've got in front of me looks like a handful of ashes,'' said capt. james zurawski of the police department's financial crimes division
a check clearinghouse said it has warned 142 banks to be on the lookout for the dissolving checks, which may have an unusual odor and feel oily
the checks, drawn on personal accounts at banks in california and chicago, have been reported in about 12 incidents, zurawski said. authorities are also checking a report of a possible dissolving check in indiana
in most cases, someone opens a new account at a bank with a small amount of money and later make a large deposit with a dissolving check. then the money is withdrawn before the bank learns the big check was bogus
the check's decomposition leaves little for evidence
police believe more than one person is involved, but have no suspects because of the dissolving evidence, zurawski said
so far nobody's been harmed by it. the only clue we've got is we've talked to the tellers. one teller says that the check felt oily, another said it had a funny aroma,'' the captain said
on thursday, zurawski's office received copies of five checks for a total of $20,000 drawn on a chicago bank and deposited at a bank in memphis, tenn. ``they're in bits and pieces,'' he said
the scam has cost banks about $70,000, he said
the chicago clearing house association, which clears checks for 142 members, sent out a memo march 9 warning of the dissolving checks, said vice president tom tucker
the association first learned of the checks from northern trust bank, which has been hit by at least three disintegrating checks since feb. 16, tucker said
chicago police learned of the dissolving checks about two weeks ago, zurawski said. ``what happened was two checks showed up in one of our downtown banks and they literally dissolved,'' he said
northern learned on march 4 that two other checks for more than $8,000 dissolved after being processed by jewel food stores, which offers banking services for some customers
officers from jewel told the bank that a worker saw one of the checks start ``to sweat and deteriorate from its borders.'' the worker tried to prevent further disintegration by putting the check in a paper envelope, but the envelope also began to dissolve, investigators said
northern trust declined to comment. ``we are not at liberty to discuss customer accounts,'' said a spokeswoman who asked not to be identified
south korea's gross national product grew 12 percent last year, down from a growth rate of 12.3 percent in 1986, the bank of korea announced friday
the gnp totaled $118.6 billion last year, compared $98.3 billion in 1986, according to the central bank's preliminary estimate
the central bank had projected a growth rate of 12.2 percent for 1987, based on economic growth in the first three quarters of the year
bank officails said exports, the mainstay in the korean ecnomy, accounted for 46.1 percent of the gnp last year when korean exports soared to a record $47.2 billion, up 36.2 percent from a year earlier
the sharp rise in dollar value of the gnp, which measures the nation's output of goods and services, was attributed partly to the revaluation last year of the korean won against the u.s. dollar. the won rose 8.7 percent last year
icn pharmaceuticals inc. says it has sold the 8.6 percent stake in swiss drug-industry giant f. hoffmann-la roche &amp; co. it accumulated since september, abandoning hopes of merging the companies
proceeds from the sale will be used to buy one or more health-care companies to expand icn's distribution capabilities, the costa mesa-based company said
in announcing the decision to sell its holdings, icn said, ``we understand and respect hoffmann-la roche's desire to remain in family control for the rest of this century.''
la roche is controlled tightly by descendants of its founder, fritz hoffman, and industry analysts never gave icn's overtures much hope of succeeding
icn said it sold its stake for $153,300 per share, or a total of $209 million
the company declined to say whether it had shown a gain or loss on the stock, adding that the information would be released with results of its first quarter ended feb. 29
as of the end of its fiscal year on nov. 30, the company had paid $169.8 million for a 6.3 percent stake. la roche has about 16,000 shares outstanding
separately, icn said that in its first-quarter results, it would reverse $15.9 million of the $19.4 million in unrealized losses it posted at the year's end. most of those losses were atrributable to the company's government and corporate bond holdings
icn's major product is ribavirin, an antiviral drug that has been approved in 28 countries thorughout the world for a variety of viral infections, including influenza, hepatitis b and herpes simplex
bruno's inc., alabama's largest grocery chain, has agreed to buy 82 piggly wiggly stores in georgia for $30 million in stock, company officials said
bruno's, a birmingham-based company, already has 123 supermarkets. under the agreement, bruno's will buy piggly wiggly southern, a vidalia holding company that owns stores in central and southern georgia
the purchase, announced thursday, includes a 585,000-square-foot warehouse in vidalia that serves all 82 stores
bruno's operates supermarkets under the names of bruno's, food world, foodmax and consumer warehouse foods in alabama, georgia, tennessee and florida. with the addition of the piggly wiggly stores, it will have more than 200 stores
the georgia stores that bruno's plans to buy will continue to operate under the piggly wiggly name, said bruno's spokeswoman beth dunnaway
de laurentiis entertainment group inc., struggling to recover from heavy losses caused by a string of box-office bombs, says it will close down its five regional film-distribution offices, eliminating 28 jobs, or about 15 percent of its 200 workers
among the movies that performed poorly at the box office for deg were ``taipan,'' ``million dollar mystery,'' ``weeds'' and ``date with an angel.''
the company said thursday its future sales would be handled out of its corporate office but that the company would ``continue to explore various distribution alternatives.''
those alternatives could include contracting with another film company to handle de laurentiis' production
currently, de laurentiis has seven films, most of them completed except for various amounts of post-production work. that is down from nine films in 1987
the distribution offices to be closed are in los angeles, chicago, dallas, atlanta and new york
while this news may seem discouraging, in reality the closing of our branches is in line with our restructuring plans,'' said laurence gleason, president of the company's marketing and distribution unit
the company's restructuring speeded up substantially after its founder, dino de laurentiis, stepped down in february as chairman and chief executive
in mid-march, the firm sold foreign television, video and non-theatrical rights to virtually its entire 320-movie film library for $69 million. it is still seeking a burying for the remaining rights to its library and for the wilmington, n.c., studio where most of its films have been made
entertainer merv griffin's investment company says it is seeking to meet with rival bidder donald trump in their battle over hotel-casino operator resorts international inc
but griffin at this time has no plans to further increase his $295 million offer, spokesman mark gill said thursday
griffin and an attorney for trump also disclosed separately that the securities and exchange commission has begun looking into alleged violations of securities law in the resorts fight
in another development, griffin announced that the largest holder of resorts' class a common stock had withdrawn its support for trump's $22-a-share offer and asked a delaware court to reject it
the court must act on the offer because it was made as part of a proposed settlement of shareholder suits alleging that trump's initial offer of $15 a share undervalued the company
trump attorney pamela tikellis disclosed the sec investigation in a letter to the delaware court, linking it to ``very substantial gyrations in the marketplace'' for resorts stock
it attributed those stock price movements to statements by griffin and an ally that ``have had a manipulative effect.''
griffin also acknowledged that the sec had begun gathering information in the probe but indicated that it was limited to allegations of violations by trump, including the failure to promptly disclose a new and higher appraisal for resorts properties in making his $22-a-share offer
griffin last week made an offer of $35 a share, or $225 million, for all of the company's stock _ its 5.7 million class a shares, which carry one vote each, and its 752,000 class b shares, which carry 100 votes each
trump owns 95 percent of the class b stock, giving him control over 88 percent of the company's voting strength
this week, griffin boosted his offer to $295 million. except for a proviso that class a shareholders receive an unspecified premium over the $35 offer, resorts' directors would be able to apportion the $70 million increase as they see fit. that was widely seen as a vehicle to shunt most of the money to trump
we are prepared to sit down with mr. trump and the resorts board to discuss obtaining a superior bid for the public stockholders and to satisfy the needs of all parties,'' said michael nigris, the president of griffin co
griffin spokesman gill said the allusion to a ``superior bid'' referred to one that is better than the $22-a-share bid that trump has made. gill said griffin has no plans at this time to again increase his offer
trump has repeatedly said he would not sell his stock _ a condition required by the griffin bid. attorney steve gartner, representing trump, said thursday that the new york-based developer hasn't changed that stance
as a result of trump's objection, resorts' board has twice refused to pursue the offer on grounds it is moot
the shareholder who defected from the settlement agreement with trump was the investment firm of tweedy, browne co., which owns 8.6 percent of resorts' class a stock
trump, based in atlantic city, n.j., has hotel-casino operations in new jersey and the bahamas
the stock market declined slightly today in a carryover of selling from thursday's sharp drop
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 43.77 on thursday, slipped .33 to 2,023.54 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 564 up, 643 down and 489 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 49.61 million shares at midmorning
after tumbling thursday in foreign exchange, the dollar showed signs of steadying today
interest rates, which had contributed to the stock market's woes by rising thursday morning, dropped back a bit
but analysts said investors were still leery of stocks. they said thursday's selloff dealt a significant blow to the tenuous confidence that had been building up in the market's rally since late last year
gillette jumped 3 to 47 amid widespread but unconfirmed rumors that philip morris was readying a bid for the company
sabine corp., which agreed to be acquired by pacific enterprises for $24 a share, gained 3{ to 23{
koppers co. rose | to 59]. beazer plc of britain raised its offer for the company from $56 a share to $60 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks edged up .03 to 149.03. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .52 at 296.78
ford motor co.'s non-automotive subsidiaries together earned a $62 million profit in 1987, their first money-making year since 1979, the no. 2 automaker said in its annual report
the businesses, which include rouge steel corp., the only steel company owned by a u.s. automaker, and ford aerospace corp., have been the focus of major efforts to restore profitability rather than sell
the 1987 profit was a strong improvement over 1986's $205 million loss, but still well short of 1979's $181 million profit, ford said
although ford doesn't disclose results for the individual companies, the biggest loser is believed to be rouge steel, which ford once tried to sell to a japanese steel company
instead, ford opted to modernize rouge steel and other non-automotive and supplier businesses. this year, it will spend more than $100 million on rouge steel alone
the biggest winner was ford aerospace, which won three major government space station contracts worth more than $400 million, ford said
ford also said it plans to build a $100 million electronics plant in lansdale, pa., to replace an existing plant and keep 2,400 jobs
grain and soybean futures prices opened steady to mixed today on the chicago board of trade
soybeans opened off more than a penny a bushel due to fairly heavy farmer selling after thursday's sharp gains, analysts said. but prices came back quickly and were narrowly mixed within minutes of the opening bell
soybean prices also were pressured by ideas that the threat of weather damage to the nearly ripe south american soybean crop has passed, said richard loewy, senior grain and oilseed analyst for prudential-bache securities inc. in new york
you haven't had moisture there since mid-february,'' loewy said. ``but the perception in the market is that whatever damage will be done to the crop by the hot, dry weather has already been done.''
he said wheat futures were slightly lower due to slackening export demand; corn was slightly higher on a lack of farmer selling
in early trading, wheat was \ cent to 1{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $3.06 a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1 cent higher with may at $2.07} a bushel; oats were } cent lower to { cent higher with may at $1.69 a bushel; soybeans were 2 cents lower to 1 cent higher with may at $6.49 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly higher in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .03 cent to .23 cent higher with april at 74.60 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .05 cent lower to .25 cent higher with march at 82.45 cents a pound; hogs were .20 cent to .50 cent higher with april at 46.50 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .15 cent to .32 cent higher with may at 57.00 cents a pound
cattle futures settled mostly lower on thursday; pork futures were mostly higher. shares, not only common; picks up 3rd graf pvs bg'ng, west point-pepperell's new ...; adds new 4th graf to update with tender offer deadline and lawsuit; picks up 4th graf pvs bg'ng, stevens stock ...</note>
bidding has escalated for j.p. stevens &amp; co. inc., with rival textile maker west point-pepperell inc. raising its buyout offer in an attempt to thwart the takeover agreement stevens already has made with an investment group
west point-pepperell offered to pay $62.50 for each of stevens' 17.8 million shares outstanding, a total of about $1.1 billion, and indicated it was willing to go higher in a negotiated deal
west point-pepperell's new offer topped a bid stevens already accepted from an investment group as well as west point-pepperell's own earlier bid. stevens agreed last week to accept a $61.50-a-share buyout offer from the new york investment group odyssey partners
the tender offer will expire at midnight est on april 21, west point-pepperell announced today. the company also said it has filed suit in a delaware court against stevens and odyssey, charging stevens' board of directors with breach of their duty to shareholders in signing an ``unlawful'' merger agreement with odyssey
stevens stock rose 50 cents to $63.50 a share on the new york stock exchange thursday. west point-pepperell dropped $1.50 a share to $33.12{
stevens does not plan to respond to west point-pepperell's new offer ``until we have some information on which to base a response,'' said stevens spokesman jim franklin
franklin said some stevens shareholders had sued the company for rejecting west point-pepperell's earlier cash buyout offer of $56 a share, or about $867 million, but declined to elaborate
eager to capture stevens as part of an ambitious expansion plan, west point-pepperell said it would raise its latest offer to $64 a share if stevens accepted its proposal and signed a definitive merger agreement by april 5. the merger agreement would have to be similar to the accord that stevens signed with odyssey, west point-pepperell said
odyssey's offer is subject to a majority of the shares being tendered and the necessary financing being obtained
we've been absolutely frustrated by the (stevens) board,'' west point-pepperell chairman joseph l. lanier said in a telephone interview. he said his company was willing to sweeten its bid to $64 a share ``if the board would only cooperate with us.''
asked whether west point-pepperell would consider raising its offer above the conditional $64 a share, lanier said, ``i wouldn't preclude it.''
west point-pepperell also sought to soothe potential antitrust concerns raised by a possible merger of the two textile giants. the company said that if it acquired stevens, it would sell half of stevens' bath lines and 20 percent of its sheet lines for about $170 million. west point-pepperell said it has signed a definitive agreement for the sale with ntc group, parent of bidd co., a textile manufacturer
the comapny also said ntc had an option to acquire stevens' automotive and residential carpeting business for $120 million
bidding for stevens began shortly after it fielded a leveraged buyout offer several weeks ago from a group led by its own senior management, including chairman whitney stevens _ a fifth-generation member of the family that founded the company in 1813
the management group initially offered $43 a share and later sweetened its bid to $55 a share in cash and securities. in a leveraged buyout, a company is acquired largely with borrowed money repaid with a target company's profits or the sale of assets
west point-pepperell has indicated previously that an acquisition of stevens would fit with its strategy of focusing on consumer products
west point-pepperell's brands include arrow, martex, lady pepperell and burberrys
stevens, one of the nation's biggest textile makers, produces home fashion textiles such as sheets, towels and carpets under the brand names ralph lauren, laura ashley and pierre cardin. the company also makes automotive and industrial products
a bull charges with a ferocious, head-down gallop that spikes victims and flings them in the air. a bear attacks by clawing and stomping enemies into the ground
the beasts evolved into the symbols for good times and bad in the stock market, the bull for charging forward in a buying spree and the bear for selling at any excuse. they are ingrained in the securities vocabulary
but amid one of wall street's most uncertain times, questions are arising over these terms. some analysts say the market's erratic behavior since the october crash suggests it might be time to scrap the conventional animal analogies in favor of others
i would rather have eagles and groundhogs,'' said philip c. puccio, manager of institutional trading at dillon read &amp; co. in new york. ``but seriously, how about ostrich? the market is wearing blinders to what the economic problems are out there, hiding its head in the sand.''
robert sobel, a hofstra university professor and financial author who has written extensively about the stock market, says he believes the october break was an aberration in the bull market that began in 1982
now that the market is neither bullish or bearish, he says, ``i call it a horse market. just horsing around.''
most strategists who routinely use bullish or bearish to describe the outlook don't know the origin of the terms. historians never have documented precisely who invented them
throughout my travels i've never seen anything that says, `aha, this is where it came from,''' said yale hirsch, a veteran analyst who publishes the stock trader's almanac. ``i've looked constantly, and nobody seems to know.''
a common hypothesis is that the symbols evolved during the 1800s in england, sobel says
the theory most people seem to accept is that a bull, when it goes after you, tries to push you on its horns and lift you up,'' sobel observed. ``the bear crushes you down.''
james medbery, a 19th century stockbroker who wrote a work titled ``men and mysteries of wall street,'' was one of the first to explain the terms in print. if you bought stock cheaply for future delivery in the hope prices would rise, you were a bull, he wrote. if you sold stock for future delivery in the hope prices would fall, you were a bear
the official history book of the new york stock exchange suggests the analogy's roots may date back earlier to the proverb, ``to sell the bear's skin before one has caught the bear.''
the book also mentions natural history as a possible explanation. ``if a bear finds anything, whether it be a turkey on a roost or a man on a tree, he lifts its paw and pulls it down,'' it explains. ``the bull, on the contrary, lowers its head only to give men and things a decided upward tendency.''
the nyse helped institutionalize the bull and bear analogies early this century, when it commissioned a sculpture depicting the beasts locked in combat, with neither taking the advantage. merrill lynch &amp; co., one of the country's biggest investment houses, uses the bull on its logo
animal behaviorists say that generally, the bull and bear analogies to the stock market are appropriate
bears are pretty tough animals,'' said frederick sterling, manager of animal collections for the bronx zoo. ``people take them as being lethargic and easy-going. but if they're disturbed, for whatever reason, they run you right down. it's like the 8:15 from connecticut coming into grand central.''
lowell l. wilson, professor of animal science at pennsylvania state university, says bulls can have unpredictable behavior patterns but usually are territorial and ornery
that's probably one of the main reasons the analogy to the stock market is made,'' wilson said. ``on a practical basis though, the bulls we use in the (husbandry) industry are selected for good behavior. in other words, if somebody has an aggressive bull, it probably winds up as hamburger.''
the stock market lost more ground today in a carryover of selling from thursday's sharp drop
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 43.77 on thursday, dropped 14.92 to 2,008.95 by noontime on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 5 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 475 up, 821 down and 495 unchanged
after tumbling thursday in foreign exchange, the dollar showed signs of steadying today
interest rates, which had contributed to the stock market's woes by rising thursday morning, dropped back a bit
but analysts said investors were still leery of stocks. they said thursday's selloff dealt a significant blow to the tenuous confidence that had been building up in the market's rally since late last year
that left the fous of activity on numerous stocks involved in takeover news and speculation
gillette jumped 2~ to 46~ amid widespread but unconfirmed rumors that philip morris was readying a bid for the company
sabine corp., which agreed to be acquired by pacific enterprises for $24 a share, gained 3] to 23]
avon products, rumored as a possible buyout candidate, picked up 2~ to 27[
koppers rose | to 59]. beazer plc of britain raised its offer for the company from $56 a share to $60 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .77 to 148.23. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 1.07 at 296.23
volume on the big board came to 74.55 million shares at noontime, down from 101.69 million at the same point thursday
interest rates and bond prices were holding steady in early trading today, following thursday's volatile session that ended on a mixed note
by midday, the treasury's 30-year bond slipped 1-32 point, or about 30 cents per $1,000 face amount, and yielded 8.72 percent, unchanged from late thursday
the bellwether issue had closed 1-32 point lower in the previous session after losing as much as { point, or $5, earlier in the day
in the absence of any market-moving economic news, some bond traders were looking at the currency and oil markets, often an indicator on where inflation might be heading
a stable dollar was said to be adding a positive tone to shorter-maturing securities while a slight increase in oil prices has hurt some longer-maturing bonds a bit
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term governments and intermediate maturities were unchanged to 1-16 point higher while 20-year issues were down 1-32 point, according to figures provided by telerate inc
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 0.01 to 111.82. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, stood at 1,169.54, up 0.31
in corporate trading, industrials and utilities were unchanged in light trading, according to the investment firm of salomon brothers inc
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, rose 0.63 to 281.73
yields on three-month treasury bills were down 3 basis points to 5.78 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills were unchanged at 6.03 percent and one-year bills were off 2 basis points at 6.38 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6| percent, unchanged from late thursday
here are the major business events and economic events scheduled for the coming week (some dates are tentative):

cincinnati _ the board of federated department stores inc. is to meet by wednesday to consider competing $6 billion-plus takeover bids from campeau corp. and r.h. macy &amp; co. inc
washington _ the supreme court issues orders today, possibly announces decisions tuesday and wednesday and hears arguments today, tuesday and wednesday
richmond, va. _ today is the deadline for a.h. robins co. to file an amended reorganization plan _ its sixth _ as the result of a court hearing on the adequacy of the company's disclosure statement

washington _ the commerce department is scheduled to report the index of leading economic indicators for february; due at 8:30 a.m. est
washington _ the commerce department is to report on the sales of new single-family homes during february; due at 10 a.m. est
washington _ the federal open market committee, which sets the nation's monetary policy, has scheduled a closed meeting
houston _ first city bancorporation of texas inc. extended its deadline to today for debt holders to redeem their securities at a discount under a federal bailout plan for the bank

washington _ the commerce department is reporting on the amount of factory orders during february; due at 10 a.m. est
washington _ the department of agriculture is to report on the prices received by farmers for their produce at mid-march; due at 3 p.m. est

tokyo _ an agreement on japanese quotas on imports of american beef and oranges is scheduled to expire

new york _ the nation's stock and commodity markets are closed in observance of good friday
washington _ the labor department is to report on the nation's unemployment rate for march; due at 8:30 a.m. est
washington _ the commerce department is reporting on construction spending for february; due at 10 a.m. est
chicago _ mcdonald's corp, general motors corp. and sears, roebuck &amp; co. have scheduled a news conference to kick off a joint promotional program
general electric corp., in its quest for roper corp., said today it will move to michigan its legal battle challenging the appliance and garden equipment maker's agreement to be acquired by whirlpool corp
separately, roper said its board will meet next week to review bids from ge and whirlpool. ge increased its tender offer for roper on monday to $507 million, topping whirlpool's $470 million merger agreement with roper
the ge tender offer amounts to $54 a share; whirlpool's tender offer amounts to $50 a share for the augusta, ga.-based company
a federal judge here denied ge's request to move a lawsuit filed by whirlpool to delaware, where ge filed two suits challenging the roper-whirlpool combination
it was simply a matter of whether it would be consolidated in delaware or michigan,'' ge spokesman george jameson said
ge said today it will withdraw the federal court actions it filed in delaware in and refile them in the kalamazoo court, jameson said from ge headquarters in fairfield, conn
whirlpool will be inconvenienced by litigating in delaware, while ge will be inconvenienced by litigating in michigan,'' u.s. district judge richard a. enslen said in a written order issued thursday
but in ordering the case to be heard in michigan, enslen noted that many of the main witnesses are in michigan
whirlpool, headquartered in benton harbor, mich., has not said whether it will top ge's latest bid. ``we don't have a comment on that at this point,'' spokeswoman donna mclean said today
analysts have said that merging with roper would move whirlpool ahead of ge as the country's top appliance maker
whirlpool's suit charged that ge's initial $45-a-share offer for roper, made on march 6, was an attempt to sabotage a whirlpool-roper merger agreement announced in february in which whirlpool said it would pay $37.50 a share
whirlpool later sweetened its bid to $50 a share, and roper's board recommended shareholders accept the offer
in its lawsuits, ge claimed both whirlpool and roper failed to adequately disclose terms of their merger agreement under securities and exchange commission laws
the suit also claims whirlpool and roper failed to publicly disclose ge's prior interest in acquiring roper and accuses the roper board of concealing from shareholders that ge, as well as whirlpool, wanted to buy the company
share prices closed lower friday but finished well above their worst levels of the day reached after the release of disappointing british trade figures for february
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index fell 14.8 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 1,767.9
the index moved down as much as 23.3 points on the trade news but then recovered gradually through the afternoon as trading volume slackened considerably
volume was light at 412.5 million shares, down from 535.3 million on thursday
shares traded narrowly in the morning but then plunged when the government reported at 11:30 a.m. local time that britain's february merchandise trade deficit narrowed to 1.3 billion pounds, about $2.4 billion, from 1.4 billion pounds in january
the current account deficit, which includes invisible trade like financial services, narrowed to 720 million pounds, or $1.3 billion, from 844 million pounds, the department of trade and industry said
despite the narrowings, both deficits were much larger than the markets had expected
the sharp drop attracted a few bargain hunters. share prices recovered further on the back of markups by market makers after wall street opened, apparently in no mood to reenact thursday's sharp sell-off. but afternoon trading volume slowed to a trickle ahead of the weekend
the financial times 30-share index was 13.3 points lower at 1,408.3 at the close
the financial times 500-share index fell 9.35 points to close at 999.76
uncle sam has clearly broken up the cozy relationship between the nation's commerical banks and the municipal bond market
historically one of the biggest players in that market, banks have dumped more than $51 billion of their municipal bond holdings in the last two years due to changes in the tax law, according to a report by the public securities association, a trade group of bond dealers
the report, released this past week by the psa and based on federal reserve data, showed that individual investors were the leading buyers of municipal bonds for the third consecutive year in 1987, either through the purchase of individual bonds, unit investment trusts or tax-exempt mutual and money market funds
the report noted that households owned 39 percent of the $720.5 million outstanding issues last year, up from 33.6 percent in 1986 and 36.5 percent in the previous year
banks came in second with a 25 percent holding, down from 29 percent in 1986 and 35.1 percent in 1985. their holdings peaked in 1971 with 51.2 percent. property and casualty insurance companies owned 13.1 percent; mutual funds, 9.8 percent; and money market funds, 8.5 percent
the dramatic decline in bank holdings came as a result of the 1986 tax reform act, which removed incentives for bank portfolios to invest in municipal bonds, or ``munis'' as they're known on wall street
banks had been able to deduct from their income taxes 80 percent of the cost of holding these tax-exempt bonds, but the tax law eliminated the deduction except on state and local issues totaling $10 million or less a year. the changes have had a mixed effect on the market so far, analysts and traders said
from an issuers point of view ... you're entering the market realizing that except in very unusual circumstances banks won't be one of your purchasers, so you're heavily dependent on individual purchases who face an entirely different set of incentives than do banks,'' said psa president heather ruth
in the recent past, issuers and banks have had a cozy relationship. as an example, ruth notes that around tax time when some individual investors sold bonds to raise cash to pay their taxes, banks would eagerly snap them up, keeping prices and yields stable
george friedlander, a managing director at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., says it's not surprising that since the tax law most smaller issues have been doing better than the bigger ones which dominate the market
because banks are still actively buying them, bonds from the smallest of issues are more liquid, meaning they could be traded in a short period of time with relatively small price fluctuations, friedlander said
that price stability means lower yields, reducing borrowing expenses for the small issuers but raising them for the bigger ones
analysts note that volatility in the muni market is likely to continue through 1989, when insurance companies will see their tax incentives wiped out as a result of the overhaul of the tax system
the chicago mercantile exchange said friday it would impose an unusual system of adjustable price limits on its standard &amp; poor's 500 stock-index futures to reduce the volatility of u.s. financial markets
the limits were approved thursday by the commodity futures trading commission and take effect monday, replacing the 30-point price limit the chicago merc placed on s&amp;p 500 futures in the wake of the oct. 19 stock market collapse
the new limits will range from 15 index points to 25 index points depending on the settlement price of the lead-month s&amp;p 500 futures contract on the last business day of the preceding month, the exchange said in a statement to its members
price limits effectively halt trading of a futures contract whenever the price of the contract moves above or below the specified amount
investors use stock-index futures to hedge against losses in the stock market by betting on the price movement of the stocks that make up the index
s&amp;p 500 futures account for more than 80 percent of all u.s. stock-index futures trades
chicago merc officials have said the limits will result in better coordination of u.s. financial markets, a key recommendation of the presidential commission that investigated the stock market crash
a one-point move in the s&amp;p 500 index is roughly equivalent to an eight-point move in the dow jones average of 30 industrials. some analysts had criticized the 30-point limit on s&amp;p 500 futures _ equivalent to about 240 points on the dow _ as being too high to curtail all but the most violent price swings
a 15-point limit will take effect monday because the june contract settled feb. 29 at 268.75 points, within the low-end range of 0 to 275 points
the limit would rise to 20 points if the june contract settled above 275 points on the last trading day of march, or to 25 points if the june contract closed above 325 points
the june contract settled at 264.10 points on thursday
the stock market came under more selling pressure today, extending thursday's sharp drop
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 43.77 on thursday, dropped 23.70 to 2,000.17 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by more than 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 434 up, 969 down and 479 unchanged
after tumbling thursday in foreign exchange, the dollar showed signs of steadying today
interest rates, which had contributed to the stock market's woes by rising thursday morning, dropped back a bit
but analysts said investors were still leery of stocks. they said thursday's selloff dealt a significant blow to the tenuous confidence that had been building up in the market's rally since late last year
that left the focus of activity on numerous stocks involved in takeover news and speculation
gillette jumped 4[ to 48[ amid widespread but unconfirmed rumors that philip morris was readying a bid for the company. philip morris shares fell 2 to 89{
sabine corp., which agreed to be acquired by pacific enterprises for $24 a share, gained 3] to 23]
avon products, rumored as a possible buyout candidate, picked up 2~ to 27[
koppers rose { to 59\. beazer plc of britain raised its offer for the company from $56 a share to $60 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 1.48 to 147.52. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 1.74 at 295.56
volume on the big board came to 108.59 million shares with two hours to go
most companies stay close to home when they relocate their headquarters, according to a national survey to be released monday
the survey published by cushman &amp; wakefield inc., a business real estate firm based in new york, showed that 85 percent of the companies that relocated their headquarters during the past five years moved to a similar type of location, while 62 percent relocated in the same community
only 7 percent of the relocating companies changed states, the survey indicated
the findings are based on interviews with top executives at 400 organizations, including publicly and privately held corporations, partnerships, non-profit companies and government agencies. all the organizations polled have 50 or more employees at their headquarters and have relocated in the past five years
while the suburbs of large cities rank first as a preferred location for head offices with 36 percent, the survey also suggested a growing tendency for relocating in the biggest u.s. cities, cushman &amp; wakefield said. the survey showed that 28 percent of the relocating companies consider big cities the best type of location
the survey disputes the widespread impression of a sudden wave of headquarters relocations and a mass exodus from the nation's largest cities,'' said arthur j. mirante, president and chief executive officer of the real estate company
only a handful of organizations relocate across state lines,'' mirante added
he said such moves recently as mobil corp.'s from new york to fairfax, va., and firestone tire &amp; rubber co.'s from akron, ohio, to chicago are the exceptions rather than the rule
the need for more space was the most compelling reason for relocating, according to the survey
other reasons were a more favorable company image, lower occupancy costs, a better quality of life for employees, better access to markets, customers or clients, and a major change in the company's strategic direction. none of those factors, however, were considered crucial by more than 24 percent, the survey showed
more than $2 trillion in japanese savings accounts loses its tax-free status next week, and executives from tokyo investment firms to foreign manufacturers are dreaming of tapping into the treasure trove
the april 1 change was prompted by complaints from allies that japan needs to spur domestic consumption as a way to recycle some of its $82.7 billion annual trade surplus
the hope is the new 20 percent tax on interest will encourage japanese to save less and spend more. but many experts do not foresee that happening
the system of tax-free individual accounts _ known as ``maryu'' _ was set up after world war ii to provide a reserve of capital to finance the rebuilding of japan's economy. through it, the average japanese family had built a nest egg worth the equivalent of $82,000 by last year
george nemo, a broker for the investment firm vickers da costa in tokyo, estimates such accounts now hold a total of 300 trillion yen _ or about $2.3 trillion
banks are touting new savings plans to hold onto this treasure, while securities companies are trying to lure it away. foreign countries hope to get part of it through increased sales of exports to japan
but despite the advertising hoopla, nemo and other financial analysts expect much of the money to remain right where it is for now
this is not as spectacular as one might expect,'' nemo said
he said recent surveys of japanese housewives, who handle most of the money in the average japanese family, found they would be willing to pay the new tax and ``leave their nest eggs alone.''
however, he said there is bound to be at least a small percentage unwilling to settle for the low interest that banks pay on such accounts. some of that money will find new homes, most probably in japan's booming stock market
banks pay only four-tenths of 1 percent interest on a regular savings account and up to about 4 percent for long-term deposits
under the maryu system, no tax was charged for interest on savings accounts of up to $47,500, postal savings accounts of $23,800 and installment savings of $4,000. in addition, workers were allowed to build tax-free savings accounts of $40,000 through their employers
the japanese are among the industrialized world's biggest savers. the average family in japan saves 16.1 percent of its annual income, compared with 11.6 percent for west germany, 10.1 percent for france, 7.8 percent for britain and 6.6 percent in the united states
nemo is doubtful the next tax will have much effect on saving
the problem is, they already have just about all the televisions, videos, and smart clothes they could want,'' he said. ``and if they can't afford to buy homes, where are they going to spend the money?''
according to the economic planning agency, 99 percent of the japanese own a color television set, refrigerator and washing machine, 98 percent own a vacuum cleaner and nearly 70 percent own a car
with the high housing and land prices, most japanese can never hope to own their own home, so there is little else to do with the money other than spend it on high-priced cars or travel, invest it in the stock market or put it in a savings account
takasuke koneko, a spokesman for dai-ichi kangyo bank, said japanese are very cautious about where they put their savings because the burden of providing for old age falls on the individual in japan. he predicted many people would be scared off stock investing because of the worldwide plunge in stock prices last october
koneko said some of the money probably will go to life insurance, which is still tax-free if a person signs a contract for more than five years. however, he said, many people will not be willing to wait that long for a return on their investment
the bottom line is that we have to protect ourselves,'' he said. ``we cannot shift our funds. still, we will have to save. in 20 years, when we get ready to retire, the stock market could be two or three times what it could be now, but it could also be one-half or one-third
even with the end of the maryu system, our money has to be kept where it is safe.''

base price: $23,153 (4-door)
as tested: $23,567

type: front-engine, four-wheel-drive, 5-passenger, compact sport utility vehicle
engine: 4-liter, six-cylinder, electronic fuel-injected
mileage: 16 mpg (city) 21 mpg (highway)
top speed: not availlable
length: 165.3 inches
wheelbase: 101.4 inches
curb wt: 3,080 lbs
assembled by: jeep (chrysler), toledo, ohio
options on test car: none

delivery charge: $414
corn futures prices closed higher while wheat and soybeans finished slightly lower friday on the chicago board of trade
corn turned in the best performance but most of the buying was speculative in the absence of fresh fundamental news, an analyst said
soybeans retreated in line with soybean meal. the soybean complex also was pressured by ideas that the threat of weather damage to the nearly ripe south american soybean crop has passed, said richard loewy, senior grain and oilseed analyst for prudential-bache securities inc. in new york
i just don't think any more crop damage can be done,'' he said
losses in wheat futures were underpinned by the agriculture department's sale thursday of 7.2 million bushels of surplus wheat, an unusally large figure for the thrice-weekly auctions in the face of slackening export demand, loewy said
at the close, wheat was 1 cent to 1} cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $3.05 a bushel; corn was 2{ cents to 3} cents higher with may at $2.09{ a bushel; oats were \ cent to 1 cent higher with may at $1.68} a bushel; soybeans were unchanged to 2 cents lower with may at $6.48{ a bushel
the arrival of spring has brought signs of recovery to the toy industry following 1987's dismal performance. stores are selling more toys and manufacturers are getting more orders
but toymakers know the fickle tastes of young customers can take a promising product and overnight turn it into a dud. so there is an air of caution in this highly volatile business, although the early trend is positive
it's a very good retail environment for the first time in several years,'' said paul valentine, a toy industry analyst with standard &amp; poor's corp
at toys r us inc., the nation's largest toy store chain, president norman ricken said more customers are in the stores and sales are up ``quite strongly'' over last year
the indications are that it's a better start for the year than most people anticipated,'' said spencer boise, a spokesman for mattel inc., the nation's second-largest toymaker
good consumer demand usually translates into more orders for manufacturers, and that has heartened the big toy companies, most of whom finished 1987 in the red because product lines failed, sales fell off and costs were too high
toys that were big sellers at christmas have remained popular in 1988. among them are nintendo and other video games, games gang ltd.'s pictionary board game, fisher price's fun with food, kenner parker toys' real ghostbusters action game and matchbox toys ltd.'s pee wee herman talking doll
the popularity of such products _ known as carryover toys in the business _ contrasts with the events of a year ago, when toys that had been best sellers at christmas 1986 fizzled
another positive sign is that the success of the current best-sellers is becoming contagious
they spark people to come into the store, and they buy other things,'' ricken of toys r us said. ``there is a lot of impulse buying.''
rick anguilla, editor of the trade publication toy &amp; hobby world, agreed, saying, ``the key is, bring people into the stores.''
several years ago, coleco's trivial pursuit and cabbage patch kids were luring consumers in droves, but pictionary and nintendo are today's top draws, anguilla said
but despite the early trends, manufacturers and the people who track their fortunes are taking a wait-and-see approach for the remainder of 1988
it's a little too early to predict a strong year,'' said anguilla
mattel's orders are running ahead of the company's conservative expectations, but boise warned, ``orders are not necessarily a good indication of how the year might go, because they're cancelable anytime up to delivery.''
the analysts also caution that after the disappointments of 1987, it's easy to show for companies to show an improvement in sales
they're just going from a disaster to a more normal operating environment,'' said harold vogel, an analyst with merrill lynch &amp; co
i think they are doing better, but i don't see anything great happening,'' he said
caution also was the watchword when the industry unveiled its new products last month at its annual trade show, toy fair
burned by the failure of lines such as expensive high-tech dolls, companies showed fewer new toys and leaned toward smaller, less expensive ideas. the early returns indicate the strategy is working
tonka corp. is getting strong orders for starting lineup, a series of sports figures intended to sell under $5 apiece, said robert meek, a company spokesman
tonka's orders are well above 1987 levels, meek said. the company markets a top-selling video game, sega, but all of its divisions are showing improvement, he said
industry watchers say another company doing much better is lewis galoob toys inc.'s. galoob, which lost money on high-tech items in 1987, is focusing on less risky ideas such as plastic charms that contain cosmetics and stationery for girls, tiny dolls and small, transformable military figures for boys
companies, some of which have laid off workers, also continue to look for ways to cut expenses. on friday, tonka announced a restructuring in its canadian operations, including 60 layoffs
such moves will help a company's bottom line, and form a hedge against heavy losses should sales drop off again
vogel predicted for the toymakers this year, ``they'll have some modest profits, but no one's setting the world on fire.''
the stock market declined broadly again today, extending thursday's sharp drop
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 43.77 on thursday, dropped 26.52 to 1,997.35 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by nearly 3 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 389 up, 1,115 down and 434 unchanged
after tumbling thursday in foreign exchange, the dollar showed signs of steadying today
interest rates, which had contributed to the stock market's woes by rising thursday morning, dropped back a bit
but analysts said investors were still leery of stocks. they said thursday's selloff dealt a significant blow to the tenuous confidence that had been building up in the market's rally since late last year
that left the focus of activity on numerous stocks involved in takeover news and speculation
gillette jumped 3| to 47| amid widespread but unconfirmed rumors that philip morris was readying a bid for the company. philip morris shares fell 2 to 89{
sabine corp., which agreed to be acquired by pacific enterprises for $24 a share, gained 3] to 23]
avon products, rumored as a possible buyout candidate, picked up 2} to 27
koppers rose ] to 59[. beazer plc of britain raised its offer for the company from $56 a share to $60 a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 1.64 to 147.36. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 2.30 at 295.00
volume on the big board came to 131.19 million shares with an hour to go
sheikh ahmed zaki yamani, former saudi arabian oil minister, lost his appeal court bid friday for a temporary injunction against monday's official publication of the book ``yamani: the inside story.''
yamani applied for a temporary order blocking simon and schuster's release of the book by american author jeffrey robinson pending a full hearing next week
the book is also scheduled to be serialized in the sunday express, a london newspaper, this weekend
the judge, lord donaldson, said a full hearing could not be scheduled until wednesday. he said it was regrettable when the courts could not act fast enough to ``preserve the rights of the parties,'' but said yamani should have started court proceedings sooner
yamani claimed the author reneged on undertakings not to refer in the book to the saudi royal family or to the reasons behind his dismissal from the government
pre-publication copies of the book have already been offered for sale in london
the treasury department auctioned off $4.06 billion in short-term bills on friday with an average yield of 6.20 percent
the so-called cash management bill will mature in 22 days and was issued so the government would have enough money on hand to make tax refund payments during the tax filing season
the last time the government had to resort to such short-term financing was during last year's tax filing season when a 20-day bill had an average yield of 5.75 percent
the discount rate understates the actual return to investors _ 6.31 percent with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,962.10. a total of $38.81 billion in bids were received
stock prices tumbled for the second straight session today, closing out the market's worst week so far in 1988
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 41.94 points at 1,981.93
the stock market took a sharp drop for the second straight session today, closing out its worst week so far in 1988
after tumbling thursday in foreign exchange, the dollar showed signs of steadying today
interest rates, which had contributed to the stock market's woes by rising thursday morning, dropped back a bit
but analysts said investors were still leery of stocks. they said thursday's selloff dealt a significant blow to the tenuous confidence that had been building up in the market's rally since late last year
about the only stocks attracting any buying interest were issues involved in takeover news and speculation
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 44.92 points to 1,978.95, finishing the week with a net loss of 108.42
declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 3 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 377 up, 1,149 down and 431 unchanged
big board volume totaled 163.17 million shares, against 184.91 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index lost 2.42 to 146.58. corn</head>
a south korean trade delegation signed contracts in iowa on friday to purchase about 10 million bushels of u.s. corn for about $29.3 million, and an official said about 95 percent of his country's corn purchases this year would be from the united states
that would mark a continued rebound of u.s. shipments, which in 1985 accounted for just 36 percent of the corn purchased by south korea, according to the iowa corn promotion board
the drop in u.s. corn sales mainly reflected an aggressive export drive by china earlier this decade to compete for a growing share of world sales, said economist robert wisner at iowa state university
he said the resurgence of corn sales to south korea by the united states is a result of reduced chinese sales because of growing domestic consumption
south korea, meantime, is stepping up imports of feed grains as it expands its livestock industry, and has increased corn consumption from 3 million metric tons in 1985 to about 5 million metric tons this year, said chan-kung park, head of the trade mission and chairman of the korea feed association
the delegation signed contracts friday to buy 150,000 metric tons, or about 6 million bushels of corn, from continental grain and to buy another 50,000 metric tons, or about 2 million bushels, each from cargill inc. and marc rich co. a metric ton is approximately 2,205 pounds
after subtracting the cost of transporting the grain to asia, south korea paid an average of about $1.85 a bushel for the grain, according to the iowa corn promotion board
those purchases, when added to contracts signed in neighboring nebraska and south dakota, brought sales to the trade mission to 550,000 metric tons
park said that so far this year, south korea had bought more than 2.25 million metric tons of u.s. corn and that most of the remainder of its 1988 purchases would be from the united states. he estimated the u.s. would account for 95 percent of the corn bought by his country in 1988
korea is purchasing as much as possible from the united states,'' park said through an interpreter. he said that with the decline in the u.s. dollar in the past three years, u.s. corn is priced competitively on world markets with grain from china and other asian sources and he said u.s. agricultural policy has been very successful since 1984
in the early 1980s, south korea also bought more than 90 percent of its corn from the united states, before china became a major competitor
iowa is the nation's leading corn producing state
officials of texas air corp. on friday declined comment on press reports that investor t. boone pickens is considering helping unions acquire the company
the wall street journal reported in friday's editions that pickens met recently with representatives of eastern airlines' unions to propose a plan to take over texas air, the parent of miami-based eastern
texas air, based in houston, is the nation's largest airline holding company with about 20 percent of the u.s. market
pickens laid out one strategy whereby his personal investment company, boone co., would assist the unions in seeking a controlling interest in texas air, the newspaper reported
the longstanding policy of the company is never to comment on rumor or speculation,'' texas air spokesman bruce hicks said friday
pickens' spokesman, david batchelder, reached by telephone in amarillo, texas, also declined comment
under pickens' plan, about $1 billion of eastern employees' pension fund money would be used as leverage to fund an offer for the company, the newspaper said
under the arrangement, the unions would negotiate wage concessions in return for a financial stake in the company, the journal said. if the plan succeeded, pickens would receive a fee, and would not participate in the management of the company, the newspaper reported
texas air has about $5 billion in long-term debt, and chairman frank lorenzo has control of the company's voting power
lorenzo and a few close associates own a special class of stock which carries voting rights 10 times those of regular common stock
unidentified participants in the recent discussions between pickens and eastern's unions told the journal they believed between 75 percent and 80 percent of eastern's common shares would have to be tendered in order to dilute lorenzo's voting control to a minority position
campeau corp. says it will not raise its $6.53 billion tender offer for federated department stores inc., but is demanding a fair opportunity to compete with r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. to buy the retailer, federated said in a filing with the securities and exchange commission
campeau is not increasing its price,'' federated quoted campeau as saying in a statement to federated's board thursday. ``it believes its price is already too high.''
this does not mean that you can give macy's a chance to jigger its bid or take any other action with respect to macy's, without giving campeau a fair opportunity to respond,'' federated quoted campeau as saying
the federated filing was made public friday
the cincinnati-based federated, operator of more than 650 stores nationwide with total 1987 sales of $11.1 billion, said thursday it would discuss campeau's tender offer with the toronto-based developer and talk with macy about a possible sweetening of macy's $6.3 billion bid
federated management has already approved a merger agreement with macy
federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer, said its board would meet by wednesday, and macy chairman edward finkelstein and his counterpart at campeau, robert campeau, both would be allowed to speak at the session
federated said there is no guarantee the negotiations with macy will result in an improved offer
campeau on tuesday raised its two-step, all-cash offer for federated to an aggregate of approximately $73 a share from $68 a share, or $6.18 billion. under the new offer, campeau said it would pay $82 each for 70.5 million federated shares and $37 for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares in a subsequent merger
campeau also extended the expiration of its offer to midnight est april 4, when macy's offer is scheduled to expire
campeau also proposed to federated's board an alternate friendly merger under which it would pay $73 a share for 70.5 million shares in a tender offer and $73 for the remaining shares following the merger
campeau has proposed that a campeau-federated merger be structured along lines similar to a merger agreement between the retailer and macy
macy is offering $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $5.4 billion. macy would exchange shares in the merged company and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares
analysts value the macy offer at $6.3 billion
federated's divisions include bloomingdale's, abraham and straus, burdine's, filene's, foley's, lazarus and rich's department stores; ralphs supermarkets; gold circle discount stores; and main street and children's place specialty stores
federated also has delayed putting into effect, until at least march 30, a ``poison pill'' amendment to the company's shareholder rights plan that allows shareholders to buy new shares at a steep discount. it is designed to make an unwanted takeover more expensive
it is not clear if federated could apply the pill to campeau but not to macy. some analysts believe the outcome of the takeover fight may turn on that issue, and that a court might ultimately decide whether federated can take such a step
federally subsidized sales of 475,000 metric tons of hard red winter wheat to the soviet union have been indicated by five private exporters, the agriculture department announced friday
the foreign agriculture service said in a statement that the government-owned commodity credit corp. had agreed to pay in-kind bonuses to the exporters at an average value of $21.95 a ton to ship the wheat to the soviets in may
the subsidy payments were being made under the export enhancement program, which provides grain companies and others with government-owned crops as bonuses to stimulate overseas sales of american commodities
since last april, total subsidized sales of wheat to the soviets have totaled amore than 10.8 million tons
melvin e. sims, general sales manager of the foreign agricultural service, identified those receiving the bonuses and the amounts of grain involved as garnac grain company inc., 50,000 tons; richco grain ltd., 200,000 tons; mitsubishi international corp., 25,000 tons; artfer inc., 50,000 and louis dreyfus corp., 150,000 tons
the sales left 525,000 tons still left for the soviets to purchase under a 2 million-ton offer made by the united states on jan. 29
the united states also made the soviets an additional one million-ton offer on saturday
the two countries are preparing to negotiate a new long-term grain agreement to replace the one that expires sept. 30
it calls for the soviets to buy 9 million metric tons a year of which 4 million must be wheat and 4 million corn. the rest may then purchasing the remainder in wheat, corn, soybeans or soybean meal, with every ton of beans or meal counting as two tons of grain
wheat sales to the soviets slumped badly in 1986 despite the agreement but picked up against last year as the united states gave that country the green light for purchases under the subsidy program
david batchelder, who helped oilman t. boone pickens jr. make his corporate raids for the past decade, said friday he plans to leave the firm to start a consulting business that may compete with pickens
batchelder, 38, said he will leave mesa limited partnership at the end of may to move to san diego
it was really more of a case of leaving amarillo than leaving boone,'' said batchelder
ten years in amarillo is enough,'' batchelder said. ``it's a significant sacrifice to live in amarillo,'' which he likened to ``a large truck stop.''
he said he told pickens last year that he would be leaving
my third child _ my son, gary _ is graduating from high school in may,'' he said. ``and i told boone nine months ago, when that happens, i would be leaving.'' he said pickens said that he ``hated to see a great team split up, but he understood.''
batchelder, who helped pickens launch takover attempts against phillips petroleum co., gulf corp., superior oil co., and unocal corp., said he plans to offer other oil and gas interests his experience through a private consulting firm
i think the expertise that i've developed through the years with mesa, i could take out now and advise others,'' batchelder said. ``i think i can generate some ideas that would be helpful to other companies.''
batchelder refuted claims that his departure signals discontent with mesa's recent failed or aborted takeover efforts. in fact, he said, he expected to be involved in more decisions with pickens
i hope to do business with boone and bring him some deals,'' he said. still, he acknowledged he may be competing with pickens and mesa on some ventures
certainly the primary level for expertise i have is in the oil and gas industry,'' batchelder said. ``mesa has recently branched out into the gold industry and the aerospace space industry. but petroleum has been a very profitable venture for mesa and is still very much a viable interest.''
the oklahoma native came to pickens' firm from the denver office of the accounting firm deloitte, haskins &amp; sells, where he made $30,000 a year as an audit manager. he began at mesa as an assistant to a vice president, but rose to the rank of comptroller within two years and ultimately to the presidency of mesa petroleum co
when mesa later became a limited partnership, batchelder began as a consultant
batchelder said he believed mesa would not suffer with his departure
i think it will continue doing exactly what it's been doing,'' batchelder said. ``we have a great team at mesa. the other two members of my team have been with me six years and seven years. they'll go forward with the business.''
batchelder said he did not think he would be replaced at mesa. ``i don't think they need to,'' he said. ``they are very experienced.''
stock prices tumbled for the second straight session friday, closing out the market's worst week so far in 1988
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 44.92 points to 1,978.95, finishing the week with a net loss of 108.42
that marked the average's biggest weekly decline since it dropped 143.74 points last nov. 30-dec. 4
declining issues outnumbered advances by about 3 to 1 in the daily tally on the new york stock exchange, with 385 up, 1,156 down and 428 unchanged
big board volume came to 163.17 million shares, against 184.91 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index lost 2.42 to 146.58
after tumbling thursday in foreign exchange, the dollar showed signs of steadying friday. interest rates, which had contributed to the stock market's woes by rising thursday morning, dropped back a bit
but analysts said investors were still leery of stocks. they said thursday's selloff dealt a significant blow to the tenuous confidence that had been building up in the market's rally since late last year
in the absence of any news to explain the market's weakness, brokers said many traders remained fearful that economic and inflationary pressures might soon reach a point where they would prompt the federal reserve to begin tightening credit
since early february, when the nyse set strictures on computer program trading in the event of a 50-point move in the dow, the average has had five separate gains or losses of more than 40 points without ever activating the 50-point ``collar.''
it rose 47.58 on feb. 10; rose 48.41 on feb. 29; fell 48.24 on march 10, and then suffered back-to-back losses of 43.77 and 44.92 thursday and friday of this week
point-plus losers among the blue chips friday included international business machines, down 2} at 107; general electric, down 1] at 40{; exxon, down 1[ at 41|; merck, down 2} at 161{, and international paper, down 1] at 41{
about the only stocks attracting any buying interest were issues involved in takeover news and speculation
gillette jumped 2} to 46} amid widespread but unconfirmed rumors that philip morris was readying a bid for the company. philip morris shares fell 3 to 88{
sabine corp., which agreed to be acquired by pacific enterprises for $24 a share, gained 3] to 23]
avon products, rumored as a possible buyout candidate, picked up 2| to 26~
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market lost $39.81 billion, or 1.52 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 189.25 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 5.78 to 299.53, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down 4.84 at 258.51
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market dropped 3.06 to 372.54. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 294.64, down 2.66
platinum futures prices plunged more than $10 a troy ounce friday as the buying interest that had propelled prices sharply higher earlier this week abruptly dried up
on other markets, gold and silver futures also retreated; crude oil prices rose above $17 a barrel; stock-index futures fell sharply; livestock and meat futures were mostly higher; and grains and soybeans were mixed
a five-day rally in the precious metals market skidded to a halt after speculators tried and failed to push prices through key resistance levels, analysts said
platinum took the hardest hit, settling $10.10 to $10.80 lower on the new york mercantile exchange with the contract for delivery in april finishing at $503.10 a troy ounce
from what i understand there was just no interest in buying it,'' said jack barbanel, director of futures trading for gruntal &amp; co. in new york. ``usually the tendency is for the floor traders and speculators to go into the weekend and take their profits.''
inflation fears linked to rising oil prices had supported the precious metals through the week. but even friday's solid gains in oil prices could not keep the metals from slipping
on the new york's commodity exchange, gold settled $1.00 to $1.20 lower with april at $453.30 a troy ounce; silver was 7 cents to 7.4 cents lower with march at $6.665 a troy ounce
crude oil rose above the psychologically important $17-a-barrel mark for the first time since feb. 11 on speculation that the five-member pricing committee of the organization of petroleum exporting countries would take substantive action to stabilize prices when it meets the first week in april, analysts said
in trading on the new york mercantile exchange, west texas intermediate crude oil settled 7 cents to 12 cents higher with may at $17.03 a barrel; heating oil was .38 cent to .47 cent higher with april at 47.78 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .53 cent to .70 cent higher with april at 47.94 cents a gallon
stock-index futures plunged for the second consecutive session, mirroring sharp downward moves in the dow jones industrial average
the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 6.35 points lower at 257.75 on the chicago mercantile exchange
analyst bob ray of dean witter reynolds inc. said trading activity was mostly technically motivated
i think we're in the throes of a good correction,'' ray said. ``it's very orderly, very methodical and not what i would call very heavy volume, either.''
live cattle futures posted new contract highs for april and june delivery on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the bullish mood reflected higher cash prices increasing demand
the higher cash prices for beef parts ``suggest that retailers are coming in fairly strong looking to get their needs ready for after easter,'' said tom o'hare, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
they do a lot of hams before easter, then the week before easter they start really getting interested in beef again,'' o'hare said
pork futures prices advanced on higher cash prices and indications of slackening supplies, o'hare said
live cattle settled .05 cent lower to .52 cent higher with april at 74.92 cents a pound; feeder cattle were unchanged to .52 cent higher with march at 82.72 cents a pound; hogs were .18 cent to .67 cent higher with april at 46.25 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies werre .03 cent lower to .62 cent higher with may at 57.37 cents a pound
corn futures prices closed higher while wheat and soybeans finished slightly lower on the chicago board of trade
corn turned in the best performance but most of the buying was speculative in the absence of fresh fundamental news, an analyst said
soybeans retreated in line with soybean meal. the soybean complex also was pressured by ideas that the threat of weather damage to the nearly ripe south american soybean crop had passed, said richard loewy, senior grain and oilseed analyst for prudential-bache securities inc. in new york
losses in wheat futures were underpinned by the agriculture department's sale thursday of 7.2 million bushels of surplus wheat, an unusally large figure for the thrice-weekly auctions in the face of slackening export demand, loewy said
wheat settled 1 cent to 1} cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $3.05 a bushel; corn was 2} cents to 3} cents higher with may at $2.09} a bushel; oats were \ cent to 1 cent higher with may at $1.68} a bushel; soybeans were 2{ cents lower to \ cent higher with may at $6.48{ a bushel
the omnibus trade bill pending in congress will include a provision allowing the united states to ``get tough'' with a european airplane manufacturer which domestic aerospace companies claim receives subsidies and engages in unfair trading practices, a washington state senator said friday
democratic sen. brock adams said the provision, which he authored, has been approved by house and senate negotiators trying to iron out final details of the trade bill
this amendment is designed to stop the international consortium supporting airbus industrie from using unfair trading practices in the united states,'' adams said
airbus, a consortium of aerospace companies in france, west germany, britain, spain, belgium and the netherlands, is the world's second-largest manufacturer of commercial airplanes with about 35 percent of the market
u.s. rival boeing co., based in seattle, has between 55 percent and 60 percent of the market
adams said his amendment would expand coverage of existing ``countervailing duty laws'' to include countries such as those supporting airbus
at present, adams said, u.s. companies can seek relief from unfair trading practices when their competition is subsidized by just one country, but not when the subsidies are coming from a consortium of foreign countries
boeing can sucessfully compete with airbus, but not if airbus is not playing by the rules and getting huge subsidies from foreign governments,'' adams said
airbus officials have consistently denied that the company was receiving government subsidies or engaged in unfair trading practices
the countervailing duty laws allow domestic manufacturers to ask the u.s. government to impose a duty equal to the amount of foreign subsidy for a product
adoption of the amendment will help ensure a fair arena for competition between boeing and airbus,'' adams said
the adoption of this important amendment by congress also demonstrates once more for european governments the seriousness with which their subsidies are viewed by the united states,'' said l.w. clarkson, a senior vice president of boeing
beazer plc, unable to lure koppers co. into a friendly deal, on friday boosted its hostile tender offer for the building materials and cement company to $1.7 billion
government officials, meanwhile, lashed out at shearson lehman hutton inc. for assuming the unusual role of equity partner in the takeover bid, but shearson maintains it is merely acting as a responsible investment banker to beazer, a long-standing client
to protest shearson's collaboration in the battle for pittsburgh-based koppers, pennsylvania officials said they have terminated a $7-billion-a-year relationship with the new york investment house, and one lawmaker has called for a congressional investigation into shearson's role
koppers has rebuffed beazer ever since it appeared on the scene three weeks ago with a $45-a-share offer. last weekend, beazer sweetened that bid to $56 a share, or $1.52 billion, which koppers characterized as inadequate
before going directly to shareholders with its latest $60-a-share tender offer, the british construction and building materials company tried to negotiate a friendly deal at the same price with koppers management
in staunchly resisting the overtures, koppers said it is prepared to go deep into debt to finance a one-time cash payout to its shareholders as a defensive maneuver. a consortium of banks has agreed to lend koppers about $1 billion to finance the payout
beazer has threatened to sue koppers if the company sells some or all of its construction materials and services business as part of a recapitalization plan
separately, koppers asked the u.s. district court in los angeles to halt beazer's tender offer because of antitrust considerations. beazer had agreed to sell koppers' aggregate plant in los angeles if the deal is consumated to satisfy the justice department's antitrust concerns. beazer called the koppers move ``completely without merit.''
koppers fell 12.5 cents to $58.625 a share on the new york stock exchange
at koppers annual community business luncheon in pittsburgh, president glen tenley, a 33-year koppers veteran, declared management's intention to remain independent
thirty-three years have not been spent with koppers to be put under some other company's ownership just because the dollar is cheap and there are fat financial fees to be made,'' he said
in full-page advertisements appearing friday in papers including the new york times and the wall street journal, the treasurer of pennsylvania criticized shearson and its parent, american express co., for their role in a hostile bid that ``can potentially have a significant adverse impact on jobs in this state.''
g. davis greene, jr., said in a letter to shearson@american express chairman and chief executive officer peter a. cohen, that he suspended all business activity between the state treasury's office and shearson on wednesday
greene said that ``business activity'' totaled $7 billion over the past year
shearson spokesman michael o'neill said he did not know ``what the $7 billion refers to,'' but added that ``overall there is no evidence of any significant business impact.''
british investor brian beazer sees koppers as a strategic step in his quest to build a worldwide building materials empire. as an equity partner in beazer's bns inc., which launched the tender offer, shearson agreed to provide the mortar for the deal with $570 million in bridge financing and about $23 million in equity interest in bns
we're providing a form of interim financing ... but it does not translate into a long-term interest in the company,'' shearson's o'neill said. county natwest ltd., a british investment bank, also agreed to take an equity position
there's a confusion over the nature of our financing ... we're not the acquirer, beazer is,'' o'neill stressed. under terms of a complex financial package, shearson will sell its stake in bns back to beazer
on thursday, rep. doug walgren, d-pa., called for a congressional investigation of shearson's ``unique and highly questionable hostile takeover attempt.''
walgren noted that shearson's bid ``marks the first time that an investment banking firm has both conceived of a hostile takeover and acted as an equity partner in the deal.''
if investment banks take on equity interests, walgren said, ``corporate america will be controlled by banks at unprecedented levels, and america's landscape will be littered with the empty shells of abandoned office buildings and company plants.''
koppers has taken its own action against shearson and american express. earlier this week koppers' management canceled its american express account, through which the company had been buying about $1.5 million per year in goods and services
koppers employees also shredded 175 american express cards in protest
likewise, the pittsburgh chamber of commerce urged citizens to ``leave home without it'' by destroying their american express cards in sympathy
pennsylvania gov. robert casey on friday ordered shearson be dropped as a potential advisor for a pending bond issue. the city of pittsburgh, which has sued shearson to block the takeover, also has suspended business dealings with the firm
the dollar closed mixed after moving in jagged fashion friday amid rumors that central banks stepped in to steady the currency
gold prices eased. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $452.75 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, down from thursday's late bid of $453.15 an ounce
traders said the federal reserve and the bank of japan moved to support the dollar as the yen continued its upward climb against the major currencies. the dollar fell to levels against the yen not seen since mid-january
without the intervention, ``the beating would have been fairly bad'' for the dollar, said albert soria, vice president and foreign exchange manager at swiss bank corp
while sentiment is brewing that the narrowing of u.s. trade deficits might be drawing to a close, traders continued to argue that the dollar's drop is not so much related to fundamentals as it is to the continued strengthening of the japanese yen
there seems to be a very big demand for investors to be into yen,'' said stephen flanagan, an assistant vice president at manufacturers hanover trust co
dealers are wary that the japanese will begin to dump their dollar holdings once their fiscal year comes to a close on march 31, ``so the market is beginning to jump the gun'' by selling the u.s. currency, flanagan said
the dollar mostly weakened in europe, where the pound was the center of attention as it slumped on the heels of a british government report of a disappointing trade deficit for february
the pound was hit by news that britain's merchandise trade deficit narrowed slightly in february to 1.3 billion pounds, or $2.4 billion, from 1.4 billion pounds in january
the current account deficit, which includes invisible trade like financial services, was pegged at 720 million pounds, or $1.3 billion, from 844 million pounds, the department of trade and industry said
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar fell 0.56 yen to a closing 125.74 yen. later, in london, it was quoted at 125.33 yen. in new york, the dollar closed at 125.30 yen, down from 125.575 yen thursday
in london, the pound fell to $1.8360 from $1.8435 late thursday. in new york, it cost $1.84175 to buy one pound, cheaper than thursday's $1.8420
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late thursday, included: 1.6760 west german marks, down from 1.67725; 1.3865 swiss francs, up from 1.38625; 5.68625 french francs, down from 5.6995; 1,238.50 italian lire, down from 1,242.50, and 1.24205 canadian dollars, down from 1.2421
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late thursday, were: 1.6760 west german marks, down from 1.6800; 1.3865 swiss francs, down from 1.3885; 5.6860 french francs, down from 5.7120; 1.8820 dutch guilders, down from 1.8980; 1,241.00 italian lire, down from 1,246.95; and 1.2433 canadian dollars, up from 1.2426
gold prices eased. on new york's commodity exchange, gold closed at $453.20, a troy ounce, down from $454.10 on thursday. in london, gold fell to a late bid price of $451.70 a troy ounce from late thursday's $452
in zurich, gold was lower, closing at a bid $451.50 compared with $452 dollars late thursday. earlier, in hong kong, gold fell $1.32 an ounce to close at $454.08
silver closed at $6.665 a troy ounce on new york's comex, down from $6.735 on thursday. in london, the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.64 a troy ounce, compared with late thursday's $6.61
beazer plc, unable to lure koppers co. into a friendly deal, on friday boosted its hostile tender offer for the building materials and cement company to $1.7 billion
government officials, meanwhile, lashed out at shearson lehman hutton inc. for assuming the unusual role of equity partner in the takeover bid, but shearson maintains it is merely acting as a responsible investment banker to beazer, a long-standing client
to protest shearson's collaboration in the battle for pittsburgh-based koppers, pennsylvania officials said they have terminated a $7-billion-a-year relationship with the new york investment house, and one lawmaker has called for a congressional investigation into shearson's role
koppers has rebuffed beazer ever since it appeared on the scene three weeks ago with a $45-a-share offer. last weekend, beazer sweetened that bid to $56 a share, or $1.52 billion, which koppers characterized as inadequate
before going directly to shareholders with its latest $60-a-share tender offer, the british construction and building materials company tried to negotiate a friendly deal at the same price with koppers management
in staunchly resisting the overtures, koppers said it is prepared to go deep into debt to finance a one-time cash payout to its shareholders as a defensive maneuver. a consortium of banks has agreed to lend koppers about $1 billion to finance the payout
beazer has threatened to sue koppers if the company sells some or all of its construction materials and services business as part of a recapitalization plan
separately, koppers asked the u.s. district court in los angeles to halt beazer's tender offer because of antitrust considerations. beazer had agreed to sell koppers' aggregate plant in los angeles if the deal is consumated to satisfy the justice department's antitrust concerns. beazer called the koppers move ``completely without merit.''
koppers fell 12.5 cents to $58.625 a share on the new york stock exchange
at koppers annual community business luncheon in pittsburgh, president glen tenley, a 33-year koppers veteran, declared management's intention to remain independent
thirty-three years have not been spent with koppers to be put under some other company's ownership just because the dollar is cheap and there are fat financial fees to be made,'' he said
in full-page advertisements appearing friday in papers including the new york times and the wall street journal, the treasurer of pennsylvania criticized shearson and its parent, american express co., for their role in a hostile bid that ``can potentially have a significant adverse impact on jobs in this state.''
g. davis greene, jr., said in a letter to shearson@american express chairman and chief executive officer peter a. cohen, that he suspended all business activity between the state treasury's office and shearson on wednesday
greene said that ``business activity'' totaled $7 billion over the past year
shearson spokesman michael o'neill said he did not know ``what the $7 billion refers to,'' but added that ``overall there is no evidence of any significant business impact.''
british investor brian beazer sees koppers as a strategic step in his quest to build a worldwide building materials empire. as an equity partner in beazer's bns inc., which launched the tender offer, shearson agreed to provide the mortar for the deal with $570 million in bridge financing and about $23 million in equity interest in bns
we're providing a form of interim financing ... but it does not translate into a long-term interest in the company,'' shearson's o'neill said. county natwest ltd., a british investment bank, also agreed to take an equity position
there's a confusion over the nature of our financing ... we're not the acquirer, beazer is,'' o'neill stressed. under terms of a complex financial package, shearson will sell its stake in bns back to beazer
on thursday, rep. doug walgren, d-pa., called for a congressional investigation of shearson's ``unique and highly questionable hostile takeover attempt.''
walgren noted that shearson's bid ``marks the first time that an investment banking firm has both conceived of a hostile takeover and acted as an equity partner in the deal.''
if investment banks take on equity interests, walgren said, ``corporate america will be controlled by banks at unprecedented levels, and america's landscape will be littered with the empty shells of abandoned office buildings and company plants.''
koppers has taken its own action against shearson and american express. earlier this week koppers' management canceled its american express account, through which the company had been buying about $1.5 million per year in goods and services
koppers employees also shredded 175 american express cards in protest
likewise, the pittsburgh chamber of commerce urged citizens to ``leave home without it'' by destroying their american express cards in sympathy
pennsylvania gov. robert casey on friday ordered shearson be dropped as a potential advisor for a pending bond issue. the city of pittsburgh, which has sued shearson to block the takeover, also has suspended business dealings with the firm.   
resorts international inc., target of rival takeover bids from entertainer merv griffin and real estate developer donald trump, is trying to line up $600 million in high-yield bond financing, mostly to complete its overdue and over-budget taj mahal hotel-casino
the financing negotiations were disclosed friday by trump, who controls 88 percent of resorts' voting strength, is the company's chairman and is seeking to buy the rest of its stock and take it private
besides providing money to complete the taj mahal, proceeds from the financing would be used for working capital and to reimburse trump for stock-purchase costs if his tender offer succeeds
while terms of the financing aren't complete, trump said the arrangement is contingent upon the success of his tender offer for the company and upon trump's guarantee that the taj mahal will be finished
if trump's takeover bid fails, the company may seek a smaller amount of financing, trump said
trump has estimated it will take $550 million to complete the sprawling and luxurious taj mahal, which would become atlantic city's biggest hotel-casino with 42 floors and 1,250 rooms
final cost of the project is estimated to be $938.5 million, up from an estimated $535 million when work on it began four years ago
resorts has other hotel-casino operations in atlantic city and the bahamas
trump owns nearly all of the company's 572,000 shares of class b stock, which carries 100 votes per share. he is offering $22 per share to buy the remainder
besides class b stock, the company has 5.7 million class a shares, which have one vote each
griffin last week made a rival bid of $35 per share, or $225 million, for all of resorts' stock, including that held by trump. griffin later increased his offer to $295 million, leaving it up to resorts' board to decide how to apportion the $70 million increase between the two classes of stock
trump has repeatedly refused to sell his stock and has sued griffin for $250 million for allegedly interfering with trump's contractual obligations with resorts
griffin has sued trump and resorts' outside directors, claiming among other things that they breached their fiduciary duty by refusing to pursue griffin's offer. resorts' board said it didn't pursue griffin's proposal on grounds that trump's rejection had rendered it moot
on thursday, the two sides disclosed the securities and exchange commission had begun looking into allegations of securities violations, but they blamed each other's activities for triggering the probe
trump claimed statements and actions by griffin and an ally had a ``manipulative effect'' on the market for resorts' stock
griffin contended the sec was looking into allegations of breach of fiduciary duty and failure by trump to disclose a new and higher appraisal of resorts' value in making his $22-per-share offer
resorts shares rose 12{ cents friday in american stock exchange trading to close at $28.87{
four applications to build a bullet train linking miami, orlando and tampa were submitted friday after six years of planning for the space-age but still conceptual rail system
details of the applications are to be revealed monday in a ceremony with gov. bob martinez and legislative leaders
this is a major milestone in this project,'' said diana hull, spokeswoman for the high speed rail commission. ``today's deadline will put us one large step along toward putting high-speed rail in florida.''
the commission expects to narrow the list to three semifinalists, after a year's review, and award the franchise in september 1991. planners hope trains will be running by 1995, the state's 150th birthday
state guidelines mandate the multibillion-dollar project must link miami, tampa and orlando, but the applicants will determine precise routes, financing agreements and the technology to use
the first thing i want to know is, is what they're proposing a real viable plan? is it a politically do-able deal?'' said cocoa beach developer and attorney malcolm kirschenbaum, one of the seven businessmen on the commission
the team that wins the franchise will be allowed to develop property for rail stations and connecting attractions, a financing plan that mirrors one used by industrialist henry flagler who built a rail line nearly 100 years ago down florida's atlantic coast and eventually to key west
property developed as a way to help finance the system must have some transportation link to the high-speed rail,'' said hull
theoretically, those development deals will allow the franchisee to recoup its $2 billion to $5 billion startup costs, while fares will support rail operation and maintenance
balancing financial arrangements, environmental concerns, growth patterns and evolving technologies, the commission will select the best overall plan _ or reject all of them _ and make a recommendation to the governor and cabinet
initial fees for applicants are $35,000. several months from now, applicants will have to pay about $2,000 per mile, or about $600,000, to cover more detailed reviews of their proposals
the four applicants are:
_tgv of florida inc., a washington d.c.-based team backed by the french company alsthom, which supplies the 160 mph tgv trains to the french national railways, and bombardier inc., a canadian manufacturing consortium
_all american magneplane inc. of new port richey, which has an agreement to purchase a massachusetts institute of technology patent for a magnetically driven rail flight system, said president david ramsey, a civil engineer and developer
the average speed of the train, which still is being developed, is 250 mph, ramsey said
_stone &amp; webster engineering corp., a 100-year-old, boston-based international firm. stone &amp; webster's proposal is based on the french ans turboliner, a 150 mph train that can run on existing track
_florida high speed rail corp., a 40-member, international team based in deerfield beach. headed by amerifirst development corp., the company proposes an electrically powered system similar to swiss, italian, west german and some american trains already operating
a fifth company, orange blossom railroad corp., a division of the dallas-based entrak systems inc. engineering firm, had been considering an application but did not make the 5 p.m. deadline friday, said hull
kansas city southern industries inc. on friday rejected a proposal by new york investor howard kaskel to discuss a merger, saying kaskel actually intended to mount a takeover bid
the railroad and financial services company received a letter from kaskel on monday proposing talks concerning a possible negotiated merger
landon h. rowland, president and chief executive of kansas city southern, said the company's board of directors unanimously rejected the proposal
it is clear to us that mr. kaskel's letter is merely a salvo in his proposed proxy contest,'' rowland said. ``mr. kaskel has not even made a pretense of having sought or obtained financing, confirming our view that he is merely attempting to put the company into play.''
kaskel's investment group owns 11.3 percent of kansas city southern's stock. the group said monday it was offering $60 cash a share, or about $594 million, for the remaining 89 percent
the stock closed friday at $51.62{ per share, down $1.37{ per share in national trading of new york stock exchange-listed issues
kaskel said in his letter that he would attempt to place his own slate of directors on the kansas city southern board if it rejected or failed to act on his offer by april 4
he also accused the board of having erected obtacles ``designed to entrench itself and to prevent stockholders from realizing a full return on their investment.''
rowland said friday that ``contrary to mr. kaskel's careless statements impugning, without foundation, the motives of the kansas city southern industries directors, every action taken by the directors has been entirely dedicated to the best interest of kansas city southern industries and its stockholders.''
the board, after due review of mr. kaskel's letter, reaffirmed its confidence in the company's future and its view that now is not the time to sell the company,'' rowland said
in reaching its conclusion, the company said the board obtained an opinion from its investment banker, lazard freres &amp; co., which reportedly said the kaskel proposal was ambiguous and inadequate
the proposal appeared to be an effort to stimulate trading in kansas city southern stock or to publicize kaskel's plan to nominate two persons to the company's board of directors, kansas city southern said earlier
richard kaskel, one of the nominees, said wednesday the investor group would begin a proxy fight for the two slots. four of kansas city southern's 14 directors will be elected may 3 at the company's annual meeting
kansas city southern's main holding is kansas city southern lines railroad, which is the country's 14th-largest line. the company also owns 87.3 percent of dst systems inc., a financial record keeper based in kansas city, where it and affiliated operations employ about 2,000 people
for the fiscal year that ended dec. 31, kansas city southern reported a profit of $17.7 million, or $1.82 a share, on revenue of $507.6 million
the u.s. customs service ruled thursday that the tiny suzuki samurai sport-utility vehicle will continue to be counted as a truck since it enters the country without back seats, which are added later
suzuki motor co.'s samurais are imported into the united states as trucks because suzuki doesn't have a large enough allocation under the japanese government's voluntary export restraints to ship them as cars or sport-utility vehicles
this decision doesn't make any sense when people see how these vehicles are being used in the united states, but in this case the customs service has no choice,'' said customs commissioner william von raab
these are `trucks' under the law when they enter this country,'' he said
instead of paying a 2.5 percent car tariff, suzuki pays a 25 percent truck tariff on each of the vehicles, which are shipped without back seats to qualify as trucks
rear seats are added either at the port of entry or at dealerships. few, if any of the small sport vehicles actually are sold without rear seats. suzuki sold 81,349 samurais in this country in 1987 and said it plans to sell 100,000 in 1988
michigan democrat john dingell, chairman of the u.s. house energy and commerce committee, criticized von raab's decision
it appears that customs is still winking at the fact that the japanese are shipping seats into the u.s. separately, then installing them here to evade both customs laws and the (voluntary export restraints),'' he said
we don't like illogical decisions any more than commissioner von raab,'' dingell said in a statement
von raab said customs soon will seek public comment on the creation of additional criteria that would simplify the classification process
last year, customs and commerce department officials said the u.s. government had little interest in helping the japanese government enforce its export limits, particularly since the u.s. government takes in more money when foreign carmakers opt to pay the 25 percent tariff instead of the lower fee
other japanese companies following suzuki's practice include nissan motor corp., isuzu motor corp., mitsubishi motors corp. and toyota motor corp., the companies said last year
the u.s. government has safety and fuel economy standards, among other criteria, used to classify a vehicle as a car or truck for those purposes
for example, trucks are not yet subject to the same roof-crush, side-strength and high-mounted brake-light standards as cars
but those criteria are not used by the customs service, which instead looks at features such as number of seats to determine a vehicle's apparent purpose when it is imported
the japanese government voluntarily limits exports of japanese cars to this country to 2.3 million per year
under a less-publicized quota that was designed to cover station wagons, which are considered trucks in japan but cars in the united states, the japanese government also limits exports of sport-utility vehicles and minivans shipped to this country to 113,000 to 115,000 a year
suzuki, which gives nearly all its car allocation to general motors corp. for the imported chevrolet sprint, built by suzuki in japan, also has no sport-utility vehicle allocation
earlier this year, suzuki told the customs service it would be forced to close its u.s. dealerships if the samurai were classified as a car
but when that information became public, suzuki denied it had any intention of closing dealerships and said it instead was aggressively expanding its u.s. dealer network
in its second foray into the texas oil and gas market this month, pacific enterprises said friday it has agreed to buy sabine corp. of dallas for $24 per share, or $339 million
that is a 20 percent premium over the $20 per share at which sabine's stock closed thursday. in the past year, its stock has traded as high as $20.75 per share and as low as $9.37{
the deal, which is contingent upon 75 percent of the company's shares being tendered, has been approved unanimously by sabine's directors, the companies said
as part of the agreement, pacific enterprises received an option to buy 2.6 million shares, or 18{ percent, for $24 per share
sabine is engaged in exploration, development and acquisition of crude oil and natural gas in the united states
pacific enterprises, which until recently was known as pacific lighting corp., is the parent of southern california gas co. it also has gas and oil exploration and pipeline operations and runs drugstore and sporting goods chains
the deal will give pacific enterprises proved oil and gas reserves equivalent to 32 million barrels of oil, plus $55 million in cash and mineral rights and leaseholds to nearly 4 million acres of land
it will boost pacific enterprises' proved reserves by 36 percent
earlier this month, the company agreed to buy half the oil and gas mineral rights under 70,000 acres in texas for $93 million. that acreage is on the burnett ranch in king county, texas. operators</head>
the federal communications commission voted thursday to rescind the freedom of a small number of cable television systems to set their own rates for basic service
municipal rate regulation was lifted for more than 90 percent of the country's 7,800 cable tv systems in january 1987
the fcc's rules change, approved 3-0, will subject more systems to regulation by municipal officials, but neither the fcc nor the national cable television association could estimate how many. both, however, said the number would be small
the cable communications act deregulated the rates for basic service of cable systems in areas that had ``effective competition.'' cable systems that met this test became free to set their own rates for their basic tier of service, which includes the retransmission of local broadcast tv signals
but a federal appeals court struck down one of the components of the fcc's definition of that term and the agency's vote thursday was intended to address that decision
under the new definition, a cable system will be deemed to have competition if all residents in the franchise area receive at least three over-the-air broadcast signals, not necessarily the same three signals
under the old defective definition, a cable system was found to have competition if any three broadcast signals covered 75 percent of the county where the cable system operated
the ncta said it was disappointed in the decision since there is no evidence that cable systems have abused their freedom to set rates
but there appears little we can do about it'' because ``the courts are unlikely to second guess the commission on this matter,'' the trade association said
we, therefore, look to the record to be established by the large majority of cable systems which will continue to be deregulated to give us the ammunition to go back at some point in the future and ask the commission to revisit this issue.''
the successful rehabilitation of first city bancorporation of texas inc. is hindered by the apparent failure of some debt holders to accept current conditions for tendering their bonds, according to the head of a private group seeking to complete a $1.5 billion restructuring of the company
each day of delay costs money,'' said a. robert abboud, a chicago investor, in a speech to the french-american chamber of commerce on wednesday
as of last week, 51 percent of first city's $225.8 million in bonds had been tendered, but the restructuring deal requires 90 percent participation by the close of business next tuesday
it's not in their best interest to hang onto the bonds if they're going to crater the deal in the process,'' abboud said. caving into demands for better terms could set a negative precedent for similar transactions in the future, he said
senior debt holders have been offered 45 cents on the dollar for their debt, while subordinated debt holders have been offered 35 cents
on a liquidation basis, their investment is worth zero,'' abboud said, referring to the $100 million in subordinated debt. ``once the preconditions are established, we have to stick to them.''
the professionals in the market should understand that (banking) is not a regular industry,'' abboud said. ``the institutions that are so integral to our financial system should know this.''
he did not elaborate
abboud is trying to restructure houston-based first city using $970 million in assistance from the federal deposit insurance corp., $500 million infusion of capital raised privately by an investor group headed by abboud and a spinoff of $1.79 billion in book value of poorly performing assets
first city, the state's fourth-largest bank holding company with 59 banks in texas and one in south dakota, grew quickly during the texas oil boom, but was hammered by energy and real estate losses when oil prices plummeted. for 1987, the company posted a $1.1 billion loss
abboud, who become chairman under the federal bailout plan, said he was optimistic a deal could be closed by march 31. besides a successful tender, first city still needs to renegotiate unfavorable leases. first city shareholders already have voted to support the abboud plan
ford motor co. will divide up $250 million this year in bonuses for salaried employees who contributed to the success of ford and its subsidiaries in 1987, the company said in its annual report thursday
a proxy statement in the second week of april will reveal how many people will be awarded executive bonuses by the board of directors' compensation and option committee, ford spokesman thomas e. foote said
in 1987, the seven-member committee of directors from outside the company awarded $164.3 million in bonuses for 1986 to 5,528 salaried ford employees, foote said
the 1986 bonuses ranged as high as $1.3 million for donald e. petersen, chairman and chief executive officer, and $1.1 million for harold a. poling, then president and now vice-chairman, foote said
the company does not divulge the amounts of executive bonuses or other compensation except to the five highest-paid executives. their compensation will be revealed in the april proxy report, he said
ford had said in february it was distributing $635 million, or about $3,700 each, to hourly employees as their share of the company's record $4.6 billion in 1987 earnings
the compensation and option committee allocated the $250 million for the executive bonuses out of a possible $363.9 million under a formula in ford's stockholder-approved supplemental compensation plan, the annual report said
foote said the $164.3 million awarded last year was out of a possible $241.9 million
the annual report, mailed wednesday to ford's 250,000 shareholders and released publicly on thursday, cited the income of $4.6 billion _ highest annual earnings of any company in automotive history _ despite the year's seven percent drop in u.s. car and truck sales, higher capital spending and increased marketing costs
the report described a ``corporate culture ... based on the understanding that no individual is responsible for designing, engineering, manufacturing, assembling and selling a product.''
the first page of the report was a tribute to henry ford ii, who led the company as president or chairman for nearly 35 years prior to his retirement as chairman in 1979. ford died sept. 29. ``on all he left his imprint,'' petersen said in the memorial tribute
stock prices have dropped sharply as the dollar slumped in world currency markets and u.s. interest rates headed higher
in trading thursday on the new york stock exchange, the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 43.77 points to close at 2,023.87
the session marked the fourth time the blue-chip average came close to, but did not quite reach, the 50-point plus or minus limit set by the nyse feb. 4. at that level, restrictions go into effect on the use of nyse computer trading facilities for so-called index arbitrage trading
americans' personal incomes rose at the fastest clip in four months during february while consumer spending was propelled upward by a rebound in car sales, the government has reported
the commerce department said thursday that personal incomes advanced 0.9 percent, reflecting strong employment gains in the past few months. spending rose 0.7 percent
economists said the new figures provided further evidence that the economy has suffered no long-run effects from the october stock market crash
the savings and loan industry, drained by insolvent institutions in texas, last year recorded its worst loss since the great depression, the government said
the federal home loan bank board said thursday that a $3.2 billion loss in the last three months of 1987 pushed the industry's annual loss to a record $6.8 billion
that was nearly 50 percent greater than the previous post-depression record of $4.6 billion set in 1981, when the prime lending rate soared above 20 percent
irving bank corp., facing a hostile $1.08 billion tender offer from rival bank of new york co., says it is negotiating with unnamed ``third parties'' about a possible merger, restructuring or sale of assets
irving's stock jumped thursday in response to the news, closing $6.62{ higher at $66.25 on the new york stock exchange, while bank of new york rose $1.12{ to $31.37{
irving's announcement comes about a month after bank of new york received regulatory approval for the merger
west point-pepperell inc. has intensified the bidding war for j.p. stevens &amp; co. inc., announcing a $1.1 billion tender offer for the textile maker and indicating it could go even higher if stevens agrees to a friendly deal
west point-pepperell's new $62.50 a share offer announced thursday topped a bid stevens already accepted from a private investment group as well as west point-pepperell's own earlier bid
stevens agreed last week to accept a $61.50-a-share offer from the new york investment group odyssey partners
the battle for federated department stores inc. showed signs of escalating as the retailer and r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. announced they were beginning talks on a possible sweetening of macy's $6.3 billion offer for federated
federated also said thursday its board authorized company representatives to meet with campeau corp. to discuss the canadian developer's competing $6.53 billion tender offer and its proposal for a friendly merger with federated
wall street analysts have expected macy to increase its cash-and-stock offer since campeau boosted its all-cash bid earlier this week. scale</head>
the proposed contract for northwest airlines flight attendants would eliminate a two-tier wage scale, add $75 million to the company's payroll to cover wage and benefit increases and unify work rules, a company official said thursday
terry erskine, northwest's chief negotiator in contract talks with teamsters local 2747, said that if ratified by the rank-and-file the proposed contract would take effect june 1 and expire dec. 31, 1992
jeff musto, a spokesman for local 2747, said the union negotiating committee voted wednesday night to submit the proposal to the rank-and-file. union officials have said they expect it to be approved
the proposed contract was reached tuesday, averting a strike threatened for march 29
the final hurdle to the agreement had been how to treat lower-paid b-scale employees who were to get an $800-a-month pay raise by moving to the higher-paid a-scale after their fifth year of service, erskine and musto said
the union wanted to retain the provision and northwest wanted to delay the pay raise until the eighth year. as a compromise, the proposed contract will phase the 65 percent increase in after an employee's seventh year of service
workers would be paid under a single scale after 12 years with the company, finally unifying scales of northwest attendants with those of their counterparts from the former republic airlines, which was acquired by northwest in 1986
the two-tier wage scale issue had intensified since the merger. about a third of the 2,600 former republic attendants are on the lower pay scale, and the other two-thirds had said they wouldn't get enough out of northwest's previous wage offer
under the proposal submitted for ratification, flight attendants would get a 7.7 percent pay increase in their second year; a 6.4 percent increase in their fourth year, a 13.3 percent increase in their sixth year and a 27 percent increase in their seventh year
under the proposed new wage scale, most senior flight attendants would earn about $35,500 a year in basic pay _ second in the industry behind delta airlines, erskine said. entry-level flight attendants would be paid about $15,000 a year in basic pay, close to the industry average, he said
the contract also provides for pay raises of 2 percent in june 1990 and 3 percent in january 1992 for all current flight attendants, and a variety of one-time bonuses
former republic airlines workers also would be placed under the northwest pension plan, which would have its benefits boosted by 17 percent to make it level with the former republic plan, erskine said
the pension and pay increases will add about $75 million to northwest's payroll over the life of the contract, erskine said. some of the increase will be made up by adopting northwest work rules _ considered less expensive than rules covering the former republic workers _ for all the attendants
checks treated with a chemical that causes them to disintegrate into confetti shortly after being deposited have shown up in at least two states, costing banks nearly $70,000 since the beginning of the year, police said
a check clearinghouse said thursday it has warned 142 banks to be on the lookout for the dissolving checks, which may have an unusual odor and feel oily
the checks have turned up at five or six banks in the chicago area and at one in tennessee. authorities also are looking into a report of a possible dissolving check in indiana
japan has violated international rules of commerce in its implementation of a u.s.-japanese semiconductor trade agreement, according to a preliminary finding
the computer chip finding, made public thursday, was made by a panel of the gatt, the general agreement on tariffs and trade, an international body that oversees the world trading system
the panel report said japanese companies used improper means to prop up the export prices of semiconductors
ford motor co. will divide up $250 million this year in bonuses for salaried employees who contributed to the success of ford and its subsidiaries in 1987, the company said in its annual report
a proxy statement in the second week of april will reveal how many people will be awarded executive bonuses by the board of directors' compensation and option committee, a ford spokesman said thursday
in 1987, the seven-member committee of directors from outside the company awarded $164.3 million in bonuses for 1986 to 5,528 salaried ford employees
the losing side vowed to fight on after a federal bankruptcy judge approved an $11 million settlement in a case involving three zeros accidentally dropped from some financial documents
we have not given up the ship, so to speak,'' sandra mayerson said thursday. mayerson is a lawyer representing a major creditor in the chapter 11 proceedings of united states lines, a defunct shipping company, and its parent mclean industries inc
prudential insurance co. of america agreed this week to pay about $11 million to united states lines to settle legal claims stemming from a clerical error in which a mortgage lien prudential held on eight ships, worth $92,885,000, was recorded as worth $92,885
ms. mayerson's client, general electric capital corp., opposed the settlement
communism suffered its first big mac attack as mcdonald's opened a restaurant in yugoslavia, and police were called in to keep order among customers who lined up for hours under the golden arches
i just wanted to taste genuine american hamburgers,'' high school student milica nikolic said thursday
people curiously examined the renovated restaurant's plush interior and back-lit signs depicting the french fries, milk shakes and other fare more familiar in the west
stock prices dropped sharply thursday as the dollar slumped in foreign exchange and u.s. interest rates headed higher. the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 43.77 points to 2,023.87
the dollar declined in foreign exchange. gold prices rose
bond prices finished slightly lower
soybean futures prices closed sharply higher while grain futures were mixed
february surges in personal income and consumer spending are being cited by analysts as further evidence that the economy has suffered no long-term effects from the october stock market crash
but the new government reports failed to cheer wall streeters on thursday, as stock prices took a nosedive that sent the dow jones average of 30 industrials down 43.77 points to 2,023.87
separately, the government reported the savings and loan industry lost $6.8 billion last year, its worst loss since the great depression
in its latest eonomic report, the commerce department said personal income of americans rose 0.9 percent in february, reflecting strong employment gains in the past few months. spending rose 0.7 percent, up sharply from a tiny 0.1 percent january increase
five months ago after the market crash, some analysts feared consumer worries about the future would cause spending cutbacks that could push the country into a recession
for people who were worried about a major consumer retrenchment, these numbers are encouraging,'' said sandra shaber, an economist with the futures group. ``as long as income gains hold up, people will continue to spend.''
analysts said the february gain in incomes, which followed a 0.3 percent january rise and was the best showing since a 1.9 percent october increase, reflected good employment news. the jobless rate fell to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent during the month
in its report on thrift earnings, the federal home loan bank board said the $6.8 billion loss for the year included a $3.2 billion loss in the last three months of 1987
the year's loss was nearly 50 percent greater than the previous post-depression high of a $4.6 billion loss in 1981. the nation's federally insured s&amp;ls had a modest $132 million profit for all of 1986
earlier this month, the federal deposit insurance corp. said the nation's federally insured commercial banks earned $3.7 billion in 1987
in other economic reports thursday:
_business startups declined nationwide in 1987 for the first time since the end of the last recession, but the level remains strong and reflects economic stability, dun &amp; bradstreet corp. said. the 7.7 percent overall decline, from 253,092 startups in 1986 to 233,710 last year, affected all industry sectors and all regions, especially the south and southwest
_the treasury sold $6.5 billion in four-year notes at an average yield of 7.90 percent, down from 8.33 percent at the last such auction in december and the lowest level since four-year notes averaged 7.89 percent last june 24
energy futures have turned mixed amid doubts by traders over whether opec's pricing committee can soothe the turbulent market at its scheduled meeting next month
on the new york mercantile exchange, the may contract for west texas intemediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, settled at $16.96 per barrel thursday, up 10 cents from wednesday's close. the contract had risen 49 cents on wednesday
among refined products traded on the exchange, the april contract for wholesale heating oil slipped 0.33 cent to 47.40 cents per gallon, after rising 1.47 cents wednesday. unleaded gasoline, up 0.93 cent on wednesday, was up 0.08 cent to 47.33 cents a gallon
oil prices have fallen recently amid allegations that organization of petroleum exporting countries member states were cheating on production levels as well as pricing rules
rilwanu lukman, opec's president, announced wednesday that the cartel's five-member pricing committee would meet during the first week of april to discuss how to stabilize prices
peter beutel, an assistant director at elders futures inc., speculated that no substantive action would be taken until opec's regular meeting in june
a lot of people were wondering if anyting will come out of luckman's various pronouncements,'' he said
irving bank corp. is seeking a ``white knight'' friendly bidder and other alternatives to thwart bank of new york's hostile $1.08 billion tender offer, which began earlier this week
but bank of new york says thursday's announcement, made in a securities and exchange commission filing, changes nothing in its six-month effort to acquire the rival bank holding company
in the filing, which was an official response to the hostile bid, irving said it was in the ``preliminary stages of negotiating with third parties'' in connection with a possible merger, reorganization, sale of assets or change in capitalization
irving also said it has begun furnishing information to unidentified parties its management intended to talk with still more groups. irving officials have refused to comment further on the filing
irving's board of directors repeatedly has denounced as inadequate bank of new york's offer to pay $15 in cash and 1.575 shares of its own stock for each of irving's roughly 18.1 common shares outstanding
from the information they've given we have no way of telling if there's something going on or it's a lot of smoke,'' bank of new york spokesman owen brady said of irving's sec filing. ``we see nothing substantative.''
industry analysts also were at a loss over what irving's plans might include, although wall street welcomed its disclosure as a signal the bidding for irving may escalate
in active trading on the new york stock exchange, irving rose $6.62{ to $66.25 a share while bank of new york rose $1.12{ to $31.37{ a share
i have no idea who they might be talking to,'' said brent erensel, senior analyst with donaldson lufkin &amp; jenrette securities corp. ``but it seems to me the priority for irving is to be independent first, seek a white knight second, and last of all to submit to the bank of new york.''
michael starr, an analyst with duff and phelps inc. in chicago, said irving possibly could keep its current managment team intact by merging with a foreign bank with a strong capital structure
it would be difficult for one of the larger u.s. banks to merge with irving because .. (they) have relatively weak capital structures,'' he said
last month, the federal reserve board and the new york state banking board cleared a bank of new york-irving merger, saying it wouldn't hurt competition in the nation's biggest financial center
irving has asked the federal courts to overturn the fed's decision
earlier this week, bank of new york received the sec's go-ahead to begin its tender offer, and the company also has assembled a slate of 16 nominees to irving's board. bank of new york holds a 4.83 percent stake in irving
irving has stressed its desire to remain independent and has taken a number of steps to spurn bank of new york's advances, including instituting an anti-takeover ``poison pill'' intended to make any hostile buyout prohibitively expensive
in another effort to bolster its takeover defenses and place stock in friendly hands, irving recently issued $100.1 million worth of cumulative convertible preferred stock to 15 investors. the stock expands voting rights and offers other entitlements that could foil a hostile bid
bank of new york sued irving in new york state court to void the preferred issue
bank of new york began its takeover efforts in september with a bid of $1.4 billion, or $80 in cash and securities. it revised the offer to $68 in cash and securities following october's stock market crash, and lowered the offer a second time in late january
hostile takeover efforts are rare in the banking industry. a merger between new york bank and irving would create one of the nation's 15 largest bank holding companies with combined assets of more than $40 billion
yields on four-year treasury notes have declined in the government's latest auction to the lowest level in nine months
the average yield in thursday's auction was 7.90 percent, down from 8.33 percent at the last auction on dec. 23
it was the lowest rate since four-year notes averaged 7.89 percent last june 24. the notes will carry a coupon interest rate of 7~ percent, with each $10,000 in face value selling for $9,991.60
a total of $6.5 billion in notes were sold out of bids totaling $17.2 billion
a preliminary finding that japan has violated international rules of commerce in its implementation of a u.s.-japanese semiconductor trade agreement does not necessarily void the pact, officials say
the preliminary finding disclosed thursday was made by a panel of the gatt, the general agreement on tariffs and trade, an international body based in geneva that oversees the world trading system
the panel report said japanese companies used improper means to prop up the export prices of semiconductors, including production controls and industrywide pricing rules
the panel's finding requires the approval of the gatt council, which meets may 4. it was made public thursday by willy de clercq, chief negotiator of the european economic community, and later confirmed by the office of u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter
the gatt itself declined to comment on the panel's finding, saying it remained confidential
the gatt panel made the ruling three weeks ago, with copies given to the united states, japan and the european economic community. it was kept confidential in hopes that the parties could work out their differences in private
the ruling was distributed thursday to other gatt member nations, even though exact terms of the finding have not been publicly disclosed
the 1986 chip agreement was intended to stop japan from ``dumping'' chips at unfairly low prices in the united states and other markets and to open up the japanese chip market to foreign producers, including americans
in washington, yeutter issued a statement saying the united states was satisfied with the finding
the gatt panel has determined that the objectives of the agreement are consistent with gatt rules but that some of the japanese implementation methods are not. that is what we have been saying since the agreement went into effect,'' yeutter stated
some of these methods of implementation, such as production controls, will need to be changed but the need to make these changes does not relieve japan of its obligation under the semiconductor agreement,'' yeutter said
japan's alleged failure to abide by the pact triggered $300 million in u.s. retaliatory tariffs last year against selected japanese electronics imports. of those sanctions, some $165 million remain in place
gary holmes, a spokesman for yeutter in washington, said the united states never intended that japan cease third-country dumping by market manipulation
however, he said the japanese government had sought to comply with the pact through ``production controls and quantitative restrictions, things we in the united states never agreed to in the first place. we never thought they were legal (under gatt guidelines).''
the u.s.-based semiconductor industry association said the gatt findings ``did not challenge the fundamental legitimacy of the agreement between the united states and japan.''
trade officials in the japanese embassy in washington were away from their offices near the end of their business hours thursday and could not be reached for comment
competition from low-priced japanese chips knocked most u.s. producers out of the business of selling the memory chips known as dynamic random access memories, or d-rams
in addition to complaining to gatt, the eec has launched a probe of its own into possible japanese dumping of several types of computer memory chips
the eec probe involves chips known as eproms, which is short for erasable programmable read-only memories
if the japanese memory chip manufacturers were found to charge unfairly low prices, their exports to europe could be subjected to punitive levies
francoise le bail, the commission's spokeswoman, said the community's dumping investigation will continue despite the gatt finding. plan</head>
santa fe southern pacific corp.'s planned sale of its black mesa pipeline inc. subsidiary would complete a nearly nine-month-old corporate restructuring to pare the railroad and energy conglomerate's holdings
santa fe announced thursday it had agreed to sell black mesa to williams technologies inc. of tulsa, okla., at undisclosed terms
the santa fe restructuring announced june 30 was aimed at reducing the company's holdings to five core businesses in transportation, real estate and natural resources, said spokesman richard hall
chicago-based santa fe has sold or agreed to sell two other pipeline companies, a building contractor company, a timber company, a leasing business and the southern pacific transportation co., one of its two railroads
the company expects to reap $1.7 billion after taxes from the sale of the businesses
the restructuring plan included a $30-a-share payout to stockholders totaling $4.7 billion
hall said in a telephone interview that the restructuring was intended to help pay down debt incurred in paying the special dividend and to improve the company's long-term growth and earning potential
parts of the plan were bitterly opposed by two of santa fe's largest shareholders, the henley group inc. of la jolla, calif., and toronto-based olympia &amp; york developments ltd. both companies failed in attempts to take control of santa fe and have apparently abandoned the efforts
the 273-mile black mesa pipeline carries coal slurry from a mine in northeastern arizona to a power plant in southern nevada
completion of the restructuring will leave santa fe with its chicago-based santa fe railway, san francisco-based santa fe pacific realty corp., houston-based santa fe energy co., albuquerque, n.m.-based santa fe pacific minerals corp. and los angeles-based santa fe pipelines inc
charles h. pistor jr., chairman of troubled first republicbank corp.'s flagship bank will retire early, but not because of the bank's financial problems
pistor, who has been with the banking company since 1956, will retire april 15, he announced thursday
the 57-year-old pistor, chairman of first republicbank dallas, also is president of the american bankers association, the banking industry's main trade group
pistor's announcement comes a week after first republicbank, the state's largest bank holding company with $33.2 billion in assets, announced it would seek federal assistance because of mounting loan problems and deteriorating customer confidence
the fdic gave first republic a $1 billion capital loan last week to stem a serious outflow of deposits
bank officials are expected to recommend that gerald w. fronterhouse, the corporation's chairman and chief executive officer, assume pistor's position
with the fdic's stabilizing assistance and assurance that all depositors are fully protected, the permanent solutions and restructuring of first republicbank are beginning, and i have asked jerry (fronterhouse) not to consider me for responsibilities in the ongoing institution,'' pistor stated
the company also announced thursday that joseph r. musolino, vice chairman of first republicbank, was elected company president. fronterhouse will continue serving as chairman
although senior first republicbank executives had agreed to resign if asked by the fdic, as a condition of the $1 billion loan, fdic spokesman alan whitney said pistor's resignation had not been sought
pistor joined the republicbank organization in 1956 and became president and a director of republicbank dallas, then called republic national bank of dallas, in 1974. he was elected chairman of the dallas bank and a director of the holding company in 1980
general motors corp. officials are shrugging off a new book by a former employee who portrays gm chairman roger smith as a man with a high-tech vision who lacked the people skills to implement it
in his book, ``call me roger, albert lee calls smith's stewardship at gm since 1981 a ``tragedy in leadership.''
lee, a gm speech writer from 1984 to 1987, cites plant closings, gm's decreasing share of the auto market, ford motor co.'s ascendance as industry profit leader and smith's public rift with former gm board member h. ross perot, founder of electronic data systems, in making his conclusions
gm, which acquired eds in 1984, agreed last year to pay perot _ a harsh critic of gm management _ $700 million in return for his gm holdings and resignation from the board of directors
lee wrote of smith that, following the perot departure, ``by almost every measure of management achievement...his leadership had failed.''
lee's former boss, gm public relations vice president jack mcnulty, questioned lee's conclusions
(he's) just one guy who worked here two or three years, and he was in roger's office maybe six times. i don't think he's qualified to talk about gm,'' mcnulty said
the book is due in bookstores next month and will be excerpted in playboy's may issue
roger is aware of the book,'' said gm spokesman jim crellin, asked smith's reaction. ``i don't know if he's read any of it, but all we're saying is that we don't think the book's worth commenting on.''
lee said smith advanced via a fast-track executive development program that left him unschooled in the art of motivating employees. he said smith failed to realize that to make full use of its new technology, gm would require the support of workers from its design labs to its shop floor
mcnulty, who helped arrange interviews for lee and read an early draft of the book, disputed that contention
we've got the most modern plant structure in the industry,'' he said. ``we think we've got the best product line. roger has often said, `we've crossed the river and others have yet to cross it.'''
