ning rock vocalist category</note>
u2, the irish rock group with a passion for politics, picked up two grammys wednesday for ``the joshua tree,'' their 12-million selling album, and declared, ``this is just a beginning.''
paul simon won record of the year honors for ``graceland,'' the title track from his south african-inflected album which was the grammy album of the year last year
but little richard upstaged everyone as he hijacked the nationally televised ceremony for several frantic moments, declaring that he had won the grammy for best new artist
i have never received nuthin' _ y'all never gave me no grammys, and i've been singing for years,'' declared the man who sang ``tutti frutti'' and ``good golly, miss molly.''
i am the architect of rock 'n' roll,'' he shouted, and the crowd roared approval
after again announcing that he had, in fact, won the award, little richard revealed the academy's choice _ jody whatley, a madonna sound-alike from the old dance band, shalamar
whitney houston, a winner two years ago with her debut album, took honors at the 30th annual grammy awards for best female pop vocalist for her effervescent single, ``i wanna dance with somebody,'' from her lp, ``whitney.''
narada michael walden won a grammy for producing ``whitney.''
bruce springsteen won a combined male and female rock vocalist category with ``tunnel of love.''
somewhere out there,'' a sweet ballad written by veteran songwriters james horner, barry mann and cynthia weil for the animated film ``an american tail,'' won as song of the year. ``we wrote it for the mice,'' weill said
guitarist the edge, born david evans, pulled out a list as he accepted the grammy for best rock group with vocal ``the joshua tree.'' he thanked luminaries such as martin luther king jr., amnesty international, bob dylan, jimi hendrix, archbishop desmond tutu, dr. ruth westheimer, morris the cat, president reagan and college radio stations
after ``joshua tree'' won as album of the year, lead singer bono (paul hewson) quipped, ``it's really hard to carry the weight of the world on your shoulders.''
we don't see this as a peak for u2,'' bono said backstage. ``it's just a beginning. we've got 12 songs ready for the next album.''
u2, miss houston, los lobos and michael jackson each had four nominations this year, but none threatened threatened to equal jackson's eight-award sweep in the 1984 ceremony
and none had a prayer of overtaking sir georg solti, conductor of the chicago symphony, whose recording of beethoven's 9th symphony won a grammy for best orchestral recording and raised his lifetime total to 26 grammys
vladimir horowitz, the pianist who had 20 grammys entering the ceremonies, won two more for best classical instrumental performance and best classical album for ``horowitz in moscow.'' he also received the president's special merit award from the academy
i am so very happy the classical music still has an appreciation,'' the fiery pianist told the crowd as he accepted the special award. after he won the best album award, he simply smiled and carried it away, saying nothing
jackson's ``bad'' album won an early grammy, for best-produced non-classical recording for producers bruce swedien and humberto gatica
ladysmith black mambazo, the south african vocal group featured on paul simon's ``graceland'' album, won a grammy for themselves for best traditional folk recording for ``shaka zulu.''
robert shaw's recording of requiems by gabriel faure and maurice durufle with the atlanta symphony chorus and orchestra won grammys for best engineered classical recording and for producer robert woods. the atlanta group's recording of paul hindemith's ``when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd'' won as best choral performance
frank zappa's ``jazz from hell'' beat his son, dweezil, and springsteen for best rock instrumental. ``trio'' by dolly parton, emmylou harris and linda ronstadt won as best country vocal duo or group performance
this year's show at radio city music hall, televised by cbs, saluted recordings released between oct. 1, 1986 and sept. 30, 1987, in 73 categories. most awards were announced before the broadcast began
the show accented the sounds of new york, where the grammyfest returned after seven years in los angeles. one of the big production numbers featured the hot latin rhythms of tito puente and celia cruz, the funky rap of run dmc and the urban ballads of billy joel
jackson, whose music swept up eight grammys during a ``thriller'' of a ceremony in 1984, was nominated for album of the year for ``bad.'' he was also up for male pop vocal performance for the album and male rhythm 'n' blues vocal performance for the title track. jackson and quincy jones, who co-produced ``bad,'' were nominated in the producer category
los lobos, whose version of ``la bamba'' was a bigger hit than the original adaptation of the mexican folk tune by the late ritchie valens, were nominated for record of the year, song of the year and best pop performane by a duo or group with vocal. the group's ``by the light of the moon'' lp was nominated for best rock performance by a duo or group with vocal
whitney,'' houston's second album, was nominated for album of the year. she was nominated as best female pop vocalist for ``i wanna dance with somebody (who loves me)'' and as best rhythm 'n' blues female vocalist for ``for the love of you.'' another track from the album, ``didn't we almost have it all,'' was nominated as song of the year for writers michael masser and will jennings
the winners were elected by ballots cast by members of the national academy of recording arts &amp; sciences in seven chapters around the nation. the academy's 6,000 members include recording artists, songwriters, musicians, producers and technicians
there was no separate category this year for female rock vocalist. the one nominee, tina turner, was included with richard marx, bob seger, bruce springsteen and joe cocker in a category combining male and female
al schlesinger, president of naras, said the academy has a rule that members must nominate 10 people in a category for an award to be presented
kathleen battle, the soprano who starred on four of the five operas nominated for grammys, ended up winning two _ the vienna philharmonic recording of richard strauss' ``ariadne auf naxos'' and her solo album, ``salzburg recital.'' 6th graf pvs, `three former ...</note>
about 200 people staged a candlelight march at dartmouth college on wednesday night to protest as racist a student newspaper's criticism of a black professor
members of dartmouth's afro-american society and others marched down the ivy league school's fraternity row without incident and held a moment of silence on the campus green in the protest aimed at the dartmouth review
the demonstration came a day after a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit filed against the school by three former students involved in a 1986 sledgehammer attack on anti-apartheid shanties
the former students wanted their college records cleared and the school barred from ``intimidating or interfering'' with the dartmouth review and staff members of the conservative student weekly
in 1986, 12 students, mostly review staffers, took sledgehammers to symbolic anti-apartheid shanties on the campus green. the raid, hours after a service marking the birthday of martin luther king jr., sparked a semester of turmoil
racial tensions were revived last week with the review's stinging written attack on a black professor who once sued the newspaper for libel
four review staffers now are charged by the school with harassing professor william cole after confronting him in his classroom over the article, which criticized a music course he teaches and his ability as a professor
critics of the review also plan a larger rally on thursday
three former review staffers involved in the 1986 incident said the shanty attack constituted ``symbolic speech'' similar to that of the group that erected the shanties to protest dartmouth investments in companies doing business in south africa
on tuesday, u.s. district judge shane devine dismissed the lawsuit, deciding that the students failed to prove that their rights were violated
the suit was filed by deborah stone of keene, frank reichel of philadelphia, teresa polenz of katonah, n.y., and the company that publishes the review
the four review staffers now charged with harassing cole face a college disciplinary hearing on tuesday and possible expulsion
the staffers say are being persecuted for taking strong stands on the quality of dartmouth life and education, and deny that race is a factor. the afro-american society believes the review contributes to racial problems at dartmouth
delta air lines' suit blaming federal agencies for the fiery crash of a delta jet that killed 137 people went to trial tuesday with both sides accusing the other of negligence
the delta crew played russian roulette with the lives of their passengers,'' said kathlynn fadely, a government attorney, during opening arguments in the complex case
flight 191 crashed and exploded into flames aug. 2, 1985, as it headed toward a dallas-fort worth international airport runway during a storm. the 137 dead included the driver of a car that was hit as the plane plunged downward. twenty-five people were injured
in his opening statement, delta attorney john martin said the government is to blame, arguing that the federal aviation administration tower and the national weather sevice failed to warn the flight crew of the severity of a weather system at the airport
he said the delta flight happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time and air traffic control completely broke down at d-fw when the crash occured
but fadely said the crew didn't listen to warnings from the control tower and flew into the storm system
a report by the national transportation safety board concluded that the crash was caused, in part, by the pilot's decision to fly into a wind shear, a violent downdraft
the trial of delta's claims against the government, delayed six months from its original date, seeks to determine who is to blame for the crash and may also decide how much can be recovered in damages
the decision also will determine whether the government must pay part of $91.2 million in claims that delta's insurers have paid so far in connection with the crash
in december, about 90 lawsuits filed by individuals against delta were parceled out from federal court in fort worth to other u.s. district courts. judge david o. belew jr. ruled that lawsuits filed by passengers' families will be sent back to the courts where they were originally filed
about half of those 90 suits have been settled
the non-jury trial between the airline and the government could last up to three months and could include testimony from any of 550 potential fact and expert witnesses named by the two sides
a bill to ban swimming and restrict other recreation at walden pond, the retreat idealized by henry david thoreau in 1845, has sunk in the legislature
the natural resources committee declined tuesday to adopt a bill that would eliminate a manmade sand beach, restrict fishing and boating and require construction of sound barriers beside roadways near the pond in concord, 15 miles west of boston
mary sherwood, whose group walden forever wild inc. opposes continued recreation at walden, contends that 50 years of public recreation at the pond have endangered its fragile banks and spoiled a pristine site
but department of environmental management commissioner james gutensohn told the committee, ``i'm sure the indians swam at walden pond, i'm sure henry david thoreau swam at walden pond and i'm sure the people of boston should.''
the 62-acre pond, in a 333-acre state-owned reservation, has 350,000 visitors a year
government leaders concerned about israel's battered image abroad are arguing increasingly in favor of barring journalists from the occupied territories after nearly three months of violent protests there
most of israel's 24 cabinet ministers support closing the west bank and gaza strip to journalists as long as the unrest persists, defense minister yitzhak rabin said after attending a cabinet session where the issue was raised this week
closing areas to reporters ``is done in various countries around the world where confrontations of this sort take place,'' said prime minister yitzhak shamir
if it becomes clear that indeed it may limit the damage, i would be willing to consider it,'' he said
the executive committee of shamir's right-wing likud bloc voted unanimously monday evening that journalists should be banned from entering the territories
west bank army commander maj. gen. amram mitzna reissued instructions to field commanders to close areas to reporters for several hours if they believe it is necessary to keep or restore calm, army officials told the associated press on condition of anonymity
but shamir's government partner, foreign minister shimon peres of the centrist labor party, warned against further restrictions
if we were to close off the area, in my opinion, rumors of atrocities would be spread around the world that we would not be able to refute,'' peres said
israel is an open society and a free society and even if (journalists) are not always pleasant, we have to allow them to fulfill their jobs,'' he told reporters tuesday
other officials oppose closing the territories on the grounds that such a move might fuel comparisons between israel and south africa, an issue about which israel has been particularily sensitive
south african police, like israeli army officers, have the discretion to declare an area closed to media on the spot because of unrest. journalists then are barred from entry and must leave if already there
cable news network's bureau chief robert wiener said israeli soldiers seized videotape last week from a crew which photographed a palestinian hanging dead from a pole in the village of qabatiyeh after his neighbors lynched him because he was suspected of collaborating with the israelis
the army was criticized afterward for failing to rescue the palestinian. wiener said the soldiers detained the cnn crew for three hours and refused to return the videotape, saying it contained material damaging to israel's security
the israeli military command said tuesday that ``our policy is to keep the administered territories open to journalists. however there are exceptions to the rule in isolated incidents where certain troublesome areas can be closed.''
the latest debate over media access was triggered by a cbs news report last week that showed four israeli soldiers beating two captive palestinians
the two were beaten for more than half an hour while a cbs cameraman photographed it surreptitiously. after the footage was broadcast, embassies in the united states and europe received many complaints and jewish communities abroad also expressed concern, foreign ministry officials said
the four soldiers are being investigated, the army said. the cbs office in tel aviv has received anonymous threatening telephone calls, said cbs bureau chief terry plantinga
one more incident like the cbs film and the territories will be closed to journalists,'' a government official told the ap on condition of anonymity
rabin met monday with a delegation from the foreign press association and said most cabinet ministers supported blocking journalists from entering the territories but he did not, according to fpa chairman robert slater
the voices in favor of closing the territories have become much louder than the others,'' slater said. ``it appears more likely than ever before that such a step will be taken and the fpa is increasingly worried.''
two israeli newspapers, the left-wing al hamishmar and the independent maariv, ran editorials tuesday criticizing discussions in government circles about closing the territories to journalists
without media in the territories we may live in a warm comfortable bubble next to an erupting volcano,'' al hamishmar said. ``but we will be caught by surprise and off guard when the lava overflows and threatens our very existence.''
sarah, the duchess of york, better known as ``fergie,'' has received a scolding from a suburban chicago dermatologist who contends her visits to a tanning parlor set a bad example
the former sarah ferguson who is married to britain's prince andrew is especially prone to sun damage because of her fair complexion and celtic ancestry, said dr. michael greenberg
greenberg said he wrote to the duchess after reading in people magazine about her tanning parlor visits
i am astounded that an intelligent woman such as yourself would, first consent to tan her skin considering the increase in skin cancer caused by ultraviolet (rays) and, second, let yourself be an example for the millions of ordinary, gullible women who follow whatever a member of the royal family does as though it were gospel,'' greenberg wrote
the duchess and her husband, both 28, are on a 10-day visit to california. they are expecting their first child in august
i think she would be grateful for his concern,'' said francis cornish, a spokesman for the british consulate in los angeles, which delivered the letter tuesday to the duchess' private secretary
the duchess and her husband plan to leave los angeles on friday for a two-day stay in the desert resort palm springs, calif., before heading back to britain, cornish said
chinese authorities have crushed efforts at peaceful dissent by the nationalist monks of tibet as swiftly as they did last year's bold and violent protests by the buddhist holy men
hundreds of monks boycotted the opening of a prayer festival, in the first major clash of wills since at least 14 people were killed in a demonstration oct. 1
by the second day, however, a major monastery that led the boycott yielded to chinese pressure and sent more than 200 monks to the festival, other monks reported. official media had called the gathering a sign of normality in the troubled himalayan region
the monks didn't want to come,'' one holy man whispered at the jokhang temple in central lhasa, where the prayer festival began last thursday and continued this week
they finally did, he said, because ``they were afraid _ afraid that the police will grab them.'' he glanced over his shoulder at an approaching plainclothes policeman, one of dozens patrolling the temple
fear remains the primary legacy of the three pro-independence demonstrations led by monks over a two-week period in september and october in lhasa, the mile-high tibetan capital whose name means ``holy ground.''
the monks dispute china's claim to sovereignty and want independence under the leadership of their exiled god-king, the dalai lama
chinese authorities have removed all remnants of a police station near the jokhang temple that was burned oct. 1 by hundreds of angry monks and lay tibetans, prompting police to fire on the crowd. a new stone building is being built on the site
military roadblocks have been removed from outside the three main monasteries in the lhasa area _ sera, drepung and ganden _ and police who were billeted inside the monasteries have been withdrawn. plainclothes chinese agents now keep watch
all but 15 of the 80 people arrested during the protests have been released from jail after repenting, according to official reports
the prayer festival, called moinlam qenmo, has been held at jokhang temple every year since 1409 except for the period 1960-85, when it was banned by china. it gathers monks from the lhasa area for eight days of continuous prayer and is one of the the most important tibetan buddhist events
as a precaution, beijing sent the highest-ranking tibetan buddhist leader in china, the panchen lama, to tibet in early february to persuade monks to cooperate
he is regarded as second in prestige only to the dalai lama, who fled to india nine years after the chinese army entered tibet in 1950
the panchen lama said `don't demonstrate,''' said a 20-year-old monk at the sera monastery, whose whitewashed stone buildings cling to a mountainside on the southern fringe of the city
some (monks) said ok, but some were quiet, didn't answer,'' he said, gathering his blood-red robes against a chill wind
their answer came thursday, when fewer than 600 showed up in jokhang's silk-draped central courtyard for the opening of the prayer festival, which attracted more than 1,000 monks last year
those attending quickly spread the word: ``not one monk from ganden is here.''
a monk from sera said the holy men of ganden stayed away because ``the situation is not good. too many chinese are here; too many police.'' other monks said the same
sera and drepung sent fewer monks than usual, and those who remained at drepung conducted their own, small-scale prayer festival
we're afraid of the police,'' said one boycotter at drepung. ``it's a very big festival, but if we make a small mistake we will be in trouble.''
in addition to plainclothes officers inside, uniformed police were stationed every few yards around the whitewashed stone jokhang temple, which is the size of a city block
several policemen watched from the roof of a nearby police building and others photographed foreign visitors, some of the few allowed into tibet since the protests last year
the ganden monks finally arrived quietly thursday night from their home on a holy mountain 35 miles west of lhasa. their presence brought to nearly 800 the number of monks who sat cross-legged most of the day in the stone courtyard, chanting
a stream of pilgrims, including herdsmen in tattered furs, edged around the courtyard and spooned offerings of butter into lamps that flickered in racks along the wall
tibetan sources and westerners who have seen previous festivals said there were fewer pilgrims, as well as monks, this year
one tibetan said lhasa's population of 40,000 usually doubled with the influx of monks and pilgrims during moinlam qenmo. no count of pilgrims was available because most stay only a few days and sleep in the streets
china's official media said festival attendance was up, from 1,100 monks and pilgrims last year to more than 2,300
dozens of chinese reporters wrote of the event and the official news agency xinhua quoted local authorities as saying: ``last year's riot has not had any impact on the ceremony.''
monks who stayed behind at the the ganden monastery, which was leveled by radicals during the 1966-76 cultural revolution and is only partially restored, were not allowed to talk freely to visitors
of more than a dozen monks interviewed at the jokhang temple and at sera, drepung and smaller monasteries, none expressed regret for the violence of the protests. all were emphatic in disdain for the chinese
chinese are no good,'' a 12-year-old novice monk said in english. ``but we are not afraid.''
a lay tibetan said: ``tibet had its own culture, its own religion, its own border guards. how can they say we are one country?''
danny the red, leader of student revolts in france and west germany in the 1960s, jokingly says he was never quite as leftist as his nickname implied
they only meant my hair color,'' said daniel cohn-bendit, referring to his rust-colored hair during an interview in his frankfurt office. ``i've always been an anti-communist, more of one than reagan.''
he's now 42 years old and an active member of west germany's anti-establishment, environmentalist greens party _ the moderate wing _ and publishes a left-leaning regional magazine in frankfurt
he ran unsuccessfully for mayor of frankfurt in 1986 in a purely symbolic move, he said. but he is considering seriously running for frankfurt's city council next year
cohn-bendit has also become an author. a collection of interviews with other 1960s activists around the world was published in west germany in september
american activists featured in the book include jerry rubin and abbie hoffmann, leading yippies of the era, and the black panther activist, bobby seale
the book, ``we loved it so, the revolution,'' portrays rubin as a yippie-turned-yuppie and seale as hoping for commercial success as a cookbook author
his book isn't the only look back: west germany's news media have carried numerous articles on the tumultuous times of 1968
cohn-bendit said that he has basically remained true to many views he had 20 years ago
i believe that i can still legitimize everything i do from my standpoint in 1968,'' cohn-bendit said
as a moderate member of the greens, cohn-bendit favors forming coalitions with west germany's liberal social democratic party, which the greens' radical wing opposes. nor does cohn-bendit favor a west german withdrawal from nato, as some of the radicals do
west german militarization is more dangerous on its own than embedded in a larger context,'' he said. ``that's the lesson of world war ii.''
cohn-bendit has always been a figure who defied traditional national, political, and religious labels. he was born in montauban, france, on april 4, 1945, the son of german jews who fled hitler's persecution in the 1930s
his parents moved to west germany when cohn-bendit was 13. in 1961 cohn-bendit became a west german citizen
i did it only for pragmatical reasons,'' he said. ``i didn't want to serve in the military.''
jews whose parents or siblings were persecuted under the nazis are by west german law exempted from the country's mandatory military service
cohn-bendit, who speaks french and german fluently, said he doesn't assign his national identify to either country. as a french citizen, he would have been subject to the military draft in france
i'm just me. i'm not german or french,'' he added. ``i don't need a national definition.''
cohn-bendit's views have led to occasional flaps with frankfurt's jewish community. in a highly publicized dispute in 1985 he publicly supported the city playhouse in presenting a play by rainer werner fassbinder, which many jews wanted banned as anti-semitic
in the feb. 18 issue of his magazine ``pflasterstrand,'' cohn-bendit described himself as a ``convinced anti-zionist.''
in the interview, he said he favored the existence of israel but also a separate palestinian state and ``a limitation of zionism.''
tenants' housing rights and terrorist amnesty are among other issues that have made cohn-bendit a household name
but the era that propelled the activist to world fame, the 1960s, is a topic cohn-bendit said he no longer wants to talk a lot about
in his book, originally published in france, he writes that people have used him ``like a machine that turns back time.''
cohn-bendit captured world attention as a university student in france, at a time when youth protests were rocking the globe
he was a spokesman for students whose demands included greater social equality and an end to war, in vietnam and elsewhere. danny the red became the leader of paris' tumultuous _ and occasionally bloody _ student revolts
we had the will to change our lives, to participate in history right at the moment it happened,'' cohn-bendit writes of his revolutionary days
in may 1968 french authorities expelled him from the country on grounds of disturbing the peace. the ban was not officially lifted until 1978,cohn-bendit wrote in his book
cohn-bendit lives with his girl friend, but he said he doesn't intend to get married
elevated rates of colon cancer in the nation's northeast and north-central region may be due to an acid rain pollutant that absorbs sunlight, impairing the body's ability to make vitamin d, reseachers say
preliminary studies have suggested that vitamin d and calcium combine to lower the risk of colon cancer
according to the new theory, sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere absorbs ultraviolet rays from the sun that trigger the production of vitamin d in the skin, researchers said at a press conference tuesday
sulfur dioxide, produced by the burning of high-sulfur coal, is a principal ingredient of acid rain
a similar effect was observed in london more than 350 years ago, said the originators of the new theory, said cedric garland of the university of california, san diego and his brother, frank, of the naval health research center in san diego
around 1629, londoners began burning high-sulfur coal from newcastle, they said. within a short time, children began exhibiting the leg malformations characteristic of rickets _ a vitamin d deficiency disease
vitamin d aids the absorption of calcium, and calcium and vitamin d together appear to lower the risk of colon cancer, the garlands said
dr. martin lipkin of new york's memorial sloan-kettering cancer center said the garlands' theory ``is a legitimate theory'' and work is in progress to clarify the role of vitamin d and calcium in colon cancer
we're looking into how many individuals might be benefited by calcium _ and the degree to which they might be,'' said lipkin. two years ago, he showed that calcium supplements could change the growth of cells in the colons of people at high risk of colon cancer and might therefore lower colon cancer risk
an authority on diet and cancer, regina ziegler of the national cancer institute in bethesda, md., cautioned that because this was only a theory, people should not begin taking vitamin d supplements to protect against colon cancer
people have trouble distinguishing theories from proven effects,'' she said. ``with evidence such as this, you certainly don't want to start taking large doses of vitamin d. vitamin d in high doses can be hazardous to your health.''
the garlands' explanation is not the only theory to explain why colon cancer rates are highest in the north-central and northeastern states
other people have hypothesized that increased exercise, increased fruit and vegetable intake and differences in drinking water may lead to the lower incidence in the south,'' said ziegler
the garlands cautioned that people should not spend more time in the sun to increase their vitamin d production because exposure to sunlight increases the risk of skin cancer. they suggested instead that people eat foods high in vitamin d, which include anchovies, sardines, salmon and tuna. milk is fortified with vitamin d, but most other dairy products are not, they said
breast cancer also occurs at an increased rate in the areas where colon cancer is highest, and the garlands suggested that breast cancer, too, might be indirectly related to sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere. that theory is more speculative than the colon cancer theory, frank garland said. previous texas winners, other detail. picks up at dash.</note>
courtney gibbs became the fourth texan in a row to win the miss usa crown tuesday, besting miss california in the nationally televised pageant
it feels fabulous,'' ms. gibbs, 21, said moments after being crowned by her predecessor and fellow texan, michelle royer. ``one of the gifts michelle gave me was a dictionary with the word `impossible' whited out. so of course it was possible.''
ms. gibbs, of fort worth, won the right to compete in the miss universe pageant may 23 in taiwan. ms. royer, of keller, came in third in last year's worldwide competition, which was won by miss chile
the blue-eyed brunette, a junior in advertising and public relations at texas christian university, won over diana magana, 22, of rancho palos verdes, calif., the first runner-up
miss usa spokeswoman stacy sacco said she was stunned by the fourth miss texas victory in a row. ``what are the odds?'' she said
second runner-up was miss georgia, donna rampy, 24, followed by miss florida, monica bruni farrell, 23, and miss mississippi, dana michele richmond, 20
soon after the beaming new miss usa ascended her throne, the last three title holders posed with her for photographers
ms. royer's predecessor, christie fichtner of dallas, called the last four winners ``four aces in a deck of cards.''
the woman who started the string, laura martinez-herring of el paso, said: ``it's always been known texas is full of beautiful women, and this just proves it. i just feel sorry for the next miss texas.''
actress tracy scoggins and actor alan thicke served as co-hosts for the program, televised by cbs. ten semifinalists, who had been chosen last week, were announced as the pageant opened tuesday night
the pageant capped three bizarre weeks in which two contestants quit because of police records, animal-rights activists protested the awarding of fur coats and the co-host, miss scoggins, was attacked in a hotel elevator
the hosts made no mention of the various problems during the television show
the late departures of two contestants, both from minnesota, opened a spot for julie nelson, 20, of minneapolis, but the lateness meant she arrived about a week after the other contestants
actually, i've found this oddball situation to be quite an advantage,'' she said before the pageant opened. ``having so short a time to pull myself together, getting all my clothes together, finding a fur coat, dropping everything _ when all the other girls had months to prepare. it shows off my abilities.''
miss nelson was not among the 10 semifinalists
besides a mink jacket and full-length coat worth a total of $15,000, miss usa wins a $25,000 personal appearance contract, $46,000 cash, a sports car, $10,000 worth of jewelry and other prizes, including a portable home tanning center
about 25 animal-rights activists picketed tuesday outside the el paso convention center to protest the awarding of the furs to the winner
members of the el paso and las cruces, n.m., chapters of sangre de cristo animal rights contend fur ranching and trapping are cruel to the animals
bob young, director of sangre de cristo's las cruces chapter, had asked thicke to do as longtime host bob barker had done earlier: resign in protest over the awarding of the furs
thicke refused, saying the furs were taken from ranch-raised minks that had been treated humanely. he and young released a joint statement monday saying they agreed that fur-trapping is cruel but disagreed on fur-ranching
in another prepageant incident, a man accused of attempted sexual assault in the attack on miss scoggins last week was released on $100 bail. prosecutors usually ask for $15,000 bail in third-degree felonies like attempted sexual assaults
a man ripped miss scoggins' dress and shoved her into the back of a hotel elevator, authorities said. she fought the man off and a man was arrested at the hotel
the man's bail was later raised to $100,000, which he posted
another person connected with the pageant has a date with the law. suzanne pitman, miss kentucky-usa, is awaiting trial on drunken-driving charges
two other contestants with arrest records, both from minnesota and both accused of shoplifting, elected to bow out
the original miss minnesota-usa, sue bolich, resigned after it was disclosed she'd been accused of shoplifting $370 worth of clothing. her replacement, first runner-up jolene stavrakis, quit after disclosing she had pleaded no contest to stealing from a store in march 1986
the first miss usa pageant was in 1952 in long beach, calif
three-fourths of the democratic party leaders who will be national convention delegates are not yet supporting any of the presidential candidates as the initial round of primaries and caucuses draws to a close, an associated press survey found
since late last year, the candidates together have attracted support that will add up to fewer than three dozen votes at the convention, according to the survey, in which hundreds of the party's ``super delegates'' were contacted
and despite the months of debates and the weeks of primaries and caucuses, many of the automatic delegates, who include democratic national committee members, democratic governors and others, are not closing in on which candidate they plan to suppport
the more i hear, the more uncommitted i become,'' said ruth moss, a democratic national committee member from maine
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the winner of the new hampshire primary, leads the pack with commitments totaling just 31.5 votes at the convention. by comparison, the runaway favorite so far is ``uncommitted,'' a category in which delegates with 247.65 votes at the convention place themselves, the ap survey found
missouri rep. richard gephardt, winner of the iowa caucuses, is next behind dukakis with commitments amounting to 21 votes at the convention, followed by jesse jackson with 19.55, tennessee sen. albert gore with 16.55 and illinois sen. paul simon with 15.5
only gary hart, who has acknowledged his chances of winning the democratic nomination are remote at best, has not received a commitment from any of the delegates contacted by the ap
when added to delegates won by the candidates in the primaries and caucuses so far, that brings the total to 63.5 for dukakis, 47 for gephardt, 35.5 for simon, 27.55 for jackson, 16.55 for gore and none for hart. a total of 258.65 are counted as uncommitted
the survey, conducted during the last two weeks of february, indicates that the iowa caucuses and the new hampshire primary, along with nearly weekly debates, have made little impression on democratic party leaders. the survey found that just 35.25 more convention votes have been won by the candidates since a similar ap survey late last year
i'm still not convinced that iowa and new hampshire are representative of the cross section of the united states,'' said new mexico party chairman sam pick
call over to the grammar school and talk to any first-grader _ he knows just as much as i do,'' said j.t. rose, a dnc member from arkansas. ``it's up for grabs. i'm just sitting back enjoying it.''
that's not what the gephardt campaign had hoped to hear after the victory in iowa
i think we expected a bigger bounce,'' said jude barry, a gephardt campaign aide who works on delegate selection. ``we would like people to commit sooner, but we're encouraged by what they're telling us.''
rick hutcheson, a gore campaign aide involved in delegate selection, said he is not surprised to see the super delegates holding back
these are political people; they want to wait and see what the voters in the primaries decide and then they will exercise their judgment,'' he said
however, barry said party leaders may feel some incentive to begin committing themselves after next week's super tuesday contests, when nearly one-third of the party's delegates are at stake
at that point i think that people start looking at the calendar,'' barry said. ``people who come in after new york (which holds an april 19 primary) are really going to be seen as coming late to the party.''
the democratic party allots 362 convention votes to members of its national committee, some of whom will cast only fractions of votes. an additional 25 votes are given to governors of states and territories and five to former leaders, including former president carter and walter mondale, a former vice president who was the party's nominee in 1984
delegates representing 352.75 convention votes were contacted for the ap survey in february
an additional 253 delegate slots will be awarded to democratic members of congress in april
the republican party makes no such provision for automatic delegates, awarding all the seats to its national convention through the primaries and caucuses
in all, 4,162 delegates are to attend the democratic national convention in atlanta july 18-21, and 2,082 are needed to win the presidential nomination
that masterpiece of music comedy and nostalgic americana, ``the music man,'' suffered from a lack of strong, clear singing as the new york city opera opened its annual season of musical comedy
the acting, directing, dancing and scenery were first-rate tuesday at the new york state theater. but some of the verve and excitement of those glorious, fast-paced songs was lost during the first act as the singing did not carry well over the orchestra
the problem was alleviated after intermission. perhaps it was the shift to mostly ballads, or perhaps the level of the singers' microphones had been boosted, but act 2 was the rich, delightful experience one hopes the whole show will be for the rest of its run through april 10
bob gunton, debuting with the company as harold hill, had the most trouble. a broadway performer, he moves as gracefully as a dancer and sold his ``76 trombones'' to the folks of river city with more charm than brass. but his light voice didn't project in act 1's ``ya got trouble'' and ``the sadder but wiser girl.''
the female chorus also was difficult to understand in ``pick-a-little, talk-a-little,'' and the townspeople blurred the words of joyful anticipation in ``the wells fargo wagon.'' david burdick, smaller than most boys who play the lisping winthrop, also is no belter, and didn't get his words across the footlights
opera singers learn to project their voices and they came out best, making themselves understood and never sounding too operatic for the music. leigh munro was a pretty and sympathetic marian the librarian, muriel costa-greenspon a natural leader of ladies as the mayor's wife, richard mckee as the pompous mayor, james billings as harold hill's cohort, brooks almy as marian's mother and william ledbetter as the constable
the dancing chorus was splendid, with choreography by marcia milgrom dodge, making her company debut. there's a generous amount of dancing, in the library, in rehearsals for a ``social,'' in the center of town several times. david jenkins' set of business buildings pulled back to give the dancers room. andrew marlay's costumes for 1912 were glorious, from feathered hats to peppermint suits for the four school board members who squabbled every minute they weren't harmonizing ``lida rose.''
donald pippin, a broadway conductor, was conducting at the new york city opera for the first time. it was wonderful to hear the overture played by a big orchestra, less wonderful later when words were covered
the late meredith willson wrote the book, music and lyrics. he and frank lacey wrote the plot, which came out as a memory of bygone innocent days of mason city, iowa, where willson grew up. one wonderful song follows another _ ``goodnight, my someone,'' ``my white knight,'' ``till there was you'' _ and the audience greeted each gem like a reunion with a long-lost best friend
the reagan administration is trying to soften earlier accusations that the federal reserve's tight monetary policies are nudging the country toward a recession
in separate forums, a trio of reagan administration officials said tuesday they believe the nation's central bank is doing a good job of supplying money to the economy
just a few weeks ago, administration officials worried about the prospect of a recession during an election year had been complaining that the fed wasn't pumping enough new money into the economy
on tuesday, however, treasury secretary james a. baker iii told the senate appropriations committee that he has ``absolutely no disagreement'' with the fed's monetary policy
speaking at the national press club, budget director james c. miller iii said, ``there seems to be a little bit of easing, and i welcome that.''
and at a meeting of the national association of business economists, beryl sprinkel, president reagan's chief economic adviser, said the administration is ``supportive of present policy as well as the plans for the future'' the fed revealed last week
the suddenly conciliatory administration tone follows a sharp counterattack by fed chairman alan greenspan, who had responded to the administration complaints with some pointed remarks of his own
greenspan said that a looser monetary policy could spark higher inflation. he also said pressure by the administration could push the fed into asserting its independence by doing the opposite of what the white house wanted
the administration began pulling back from its criticisms last week. sprinkel said he supports the fed's policies so far in 1988, and reagan said at his news conference last wednesday that he had confidence in greenspan, whom he appointed to the fed job last summer
the central bank can usually increase the flow of credit by easing interest rates
baker told the senators tuesday that when it comes to finding the balance between keeping interest rates low and avoiding inflation, ``i think the fed is doing that and doing a very good job of that.''
in other testimony, baker played down concerns raised by senators about the growth of the national debt
projections by the congressional budget office, cited at the hearing, are that the national debt could reach $4 trillion by 1993. the debt was below $1 trillion when reagan took office in 1981
there are some risks in the growth of debt of this magnitude, but i think they tend to be overstated,'' baker said. ``i think to some extent that's a consequence of the fact that we're moving into 1988, which happens to be an election year.''
baker also said, however, that ``an increase in the debt is not a development about which this administration nor the congress can be very happy.''
the head of comedie francaise, actor and director jean le poulain, died tuesday night. he was 63
le poulain died at his home on the avenue de l'opera, near the famed theater he had administered for the past two years. no cause of death was given
it is the theater of yesterday and today which cannot, tonight, hide its tears,'' culture minister francois leotard said in a statement. ``the curtain of the (comedie) francaise has fallen on a great voice.''
le poulain had been a member of the comedie francaise since 1979 and was placed in charge in 1986
during his 40-year career in the theater, he acted in and directed dozens of plays from the classics to contemporary pieces
with his disappearance, french theater loses one of its most brilliant servants, an inheritor of the tradition of the comedie francaise, that which runs from moliere to jacques charron,'' leotard's statement said
le poulain was born in marseille sept. 12, 1924, but spent much of his childhood in cambodia, where his father worked
returning to france at the age of 19, he studied at the paris conservatory, which he left in 1949 with the first prize in acting
in 1952, he founded his own theater company, directing a variety of plays from shakespeare to jean anouilh
le poulain was known to the public as both a buffoon and a tragedien, but he received the most acclaim for his portrayals in the plays of moliere, such as ``tartuffe'' and ``le bourgeois gentilhomme.''
after taking over the comedie francaise, as the candidate proposed by president francois mitterrand, le poulain neither acted nor directed. he said he concentrated his time to running the institution _ ``i am the protector of its soul.''
alarmed by a rise in drug production and the violence that goes with it, the reagan administration is warning colombia and mexico that their anti-narcotics programs will receive close scrutiny in the coming months
they were singled out tuesday in the president's annual drug report to congress as countries that are making some efforts to stop narcotics traffic but need to improve
they were not classed with iran, afghanistan, syria and a new entry on the list, panama, as countries whose support for drug trafficking makes them ineligible for u.s. aid
ann wrobleski, assistant secretary of state for international narcotics matters, said the message to colombia and mexico is: ``we believe that you're cooperating and you deserve certification, but we want to put an asterisk next to it and we will be watching closely in 1988.''
in the annual report to congress, the president certifies whether countries are doing enough to battle narcotics to deserve u.s. assistance and other benefits
panama made the list this year because its military chief and de facto leader, manuel antonio noriega, has been indicted by a u.s. grand jury on drug conspiracy charges. panama is not a major narcotics producing country, but according to wrobleski, ``panama has been a drug traffickers' and money launderers' haven.''
putting panama on the list will have no immediate impact, because the country had lost u.s. aid even before noriega's indictment. but tuesday's action does permit further steps by the administration, including some tariffs and tightening of customs rules that could hurt panamanian exports
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said he would introduce legislation to go further by imposing a trade embargo on panama
the good news is that panama is on the list,'' said sen. lawton chiles, d-fla. ``on the other hand, mexico and colombia aren't. ... i think we have to continue to apply pressure against these countries.''
the president's report faulted colombia for not breaking a cartel of drug dealers and for not fully backing u.s. requests for extradition of drug suspects wanted in the united states. at the same time, it noted that whatever efforts colombia made in the fight were ``at great peril to its officials.''
it said mexico is the largest single source of heroin and marijuana entering the united states, and officials there need to do more to eradicate opium poppies and deal with allegations of official corruption
three countries said to be doing little to stop narcotics escaped inclusion on the list due to special ``national security concerns,'' the report said
laos was kept off the list out of concern that a condemnation would harm u.s. efforts to win laotian help in accounting for more than 500 u.s. servicemen listed as missing there after the vietnam war, wrobleski said. laos doesn't get u.s. aid anyway
paraguay escaped decertification because officials think it would be counter-productive at a time the united states is trying to woo that country toward democracy
lebanon retained its certification because there isn't much the central government can do to stop trafficking and production in regions of the country it does not control
in its estimates of worldwide drug production, the report predicted that coca leaf output would increase from a high of 211,400 metric tons in 1987 to as much as 213,650 metric tons this year
marijuana production will drop from a high of 17,625 metric tons to 10,100 tons, and opium output will drop from a high of 3,017 metric tons to 2,992 metric tons in 1988, the report said. a metric ton equals 2,200 pounds
ms. wrobleski said one of the gloomiest outlooks is for control of coca leaf growth, especially in peru and colombia, the origin of a vast majority of the world's cocaine
bolivia has made some strides in eradicating the crop by sending work crews into the production areas to kill the plants. that's impossible in peru and colombia, she said, because the growers control the regions. in peru, for example, 27 eradication workers have been killed, she said
a girls clubs of america leader says the organization's identity and fund-raising are threatened by a competing group it is suing
the suit filed monday in u.s. district court asks for an injunction to prevent the boys clubs of america from changing its name to the boys and girls clubs of america
the importance of this is the perception of the public as to who they are and who we are,'' margaret gates, national executive director of the girls clubs, said tuesday
thomas garth, national director-elect of the boys clubs, said that organization has about 300,000 girls among it 1.3 million members, and their parents are demanding the name change
the girls clubs says it serves about 250,000 girls and that about 40,000 boys participate in its activities. the organization says about 80 percent of it $2.7 million operating budget comes from contributions and grants that benefit its many members who come from lower-income families
presidential candidates are turning to increasingly aggressive television advertising in the week before the high-stakes super tuesday contests in 20 states and american samoa
vice president george bush is taking some heat on the iran-contra affair from sen. bob dole. sen. albert gore jr. is moving onto the populist turf claimed thus far by rep. richard gephardt. and gephardt is continuing his broadside against massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
gephardt, d-mo., also is running an ad in which rep. marvin leath of texas praises him for standing ``with us for lower taxes, for an oil import fee to make america strong, for a tough trade bill to stand up for american workers.'' leath says gore and dukakis oppose all three
gore spokesman arlie schardt said tuesday it had not been decided yet whether the tennessee senator would release his own cache of hard-hitting ads
we're prepared for any needs that may arise,'' schardt said. ``we're considering what other messages we may still want to convey over the next few days.''
gore did mount an indirect tv challenge to gephardt on tuesday, when he started running three new ads promoting populist themes similar to the ones gephardt has adopted
one new ad depicts gore as a fighter against polluters, price-fixers and big corporations _ exactly the type of anti-establishment image gephardt has tried to cultivate
the other two ads feature gore talking to groups of texas oil workers. in one spot he says corporations need to invest in america and create jobs at home, while in the other he tells the workers that ``it's time to put people back to work in the united states and have the rigs in libya and iran stand idle for a change.''
the ``blame foreigners'' message is strikingly similar to one of gephardt's strongest ads, the ``hyundai'' spot that helped him win the iowa caucuses and is now being used across the super tuesday states
in that ad the congressman criticizes south korea for putting high import tariffs on u.s. autos and asks how many hyundais the koreans could sell here at $48,000 apiece
gephardt has also revived a highly effective south dakota spot, now retooled for super tuesday, alleging that dukakis is a tax-raiser and mocking his suggestion that depressed iowa farmers recover by growing belgian endive
the dukakis campaign was planning to take aim at gephardt's newly acquired reputation as an anti-establishment crusader and possibly run an ad featuring a swirling weathervane to raise questions about his consistency
leslie dach, dukakis's communications director, said no final decisions had been made about which ads would be used where and when
but he said the general thrust of the spots is that gephardt ``says he is leading the little guy's fight but his campaign is financed and supported by the big guys. his biggest contributors are america's biggest corporations. he has failed to show a set of principles or a set of values that give a rudder to his policies.''
he said dukakis was also prepared to counter-attack against gore, if necessary
dukakis has commercials on the air in texas and florida, the biggest super tuesday states, plus maryland. his ad campaign was to expand this week into washington state, oklahoma, arkansas, alabama, georgia and north carolina, aides said
dole, r-kan., went on the air tuesday in north carolina and south carolina with an ad contrasting his and bush's positions on a number of issues, including the iran-contra affair
the narrator says dole ``opposed selling arms to iran. bush supported the arms-for-hostages deal.'' the ad also accuses bush of waffling on taxes, taking a soft line on the u.s.-soviet arms control treaty, and opposing a textile bill popular in several southern states
another dole spot running in florida depicts a man walking through snow but leaving no footprints. dole campaign manager bill brock said the message is that bush ``has held all these big jobs'' yet left no mark
the vice president, in west palm beach, fla., called the ``footprints'' commercial ``terribly ineffective.''
bush's campaign refused to disclose any details of how or whether it planned to respond. but the vice president said: ``we're not going to sit out there unprotected. ... i think i have every right to set the record straight.''
bush used a negative ad against dole in new hampshire last month, but it ran for only a couple of days before the primary
as the super tuesday tv campaign grew more heated, rep. jack kemp, r-n.y., questioned pat robertson's judgment in radio ads throughout south carolina, which holds a gop primary on saturday
the kemp ad asks if the former television evangelist has ``the qualifications and the judgment to be our next president'' and cites some of his more unusual positions such as a 1979 suggestion that public schools be eliminated. robertson later changed his mind about that
in addition to negative ads, the candidates are using more traditional biographical spots and political testimonials. among them: former sen. barry goldwater endorses bush, former house speaker thomas p. o'neill of massachusetts praises dukakis, and rep. claude pepper _ an elderly florida legislator with enormous clout among senior citizens _ speaks kindly of gephardt
at least two candidates, gore and dukakis, are using spanish-language ads in texas. dukakis does the talking himself. ``the governor is fluent in spanish, so it seemed like the thing to do,'' said tom cosgrove, dukakis's texas campaign director
there are 712 republican delegates and 1,307 democratic delegates up for grabs on super tuesday, march 8. television is the candidates' major tool in seeking to win them. ventures</head>
academics and business managers from the soviet union and the united states will team up to study four industrial sites in each country in an effort to develop management guidelines for joint ventures
the study will mark the first time westerners will be allowed to participate in on-site research of soviet decision-making methods, project director paul r. lawrence, a professor at harvard university's graduate school of business administration, said tuesday
the study is not aimed at encouraging joint ventures, but to ``make sure the projects that do get started are operated successfully and the combined management teams of soviet and american managers will be able to work with each other effectively,'' lawrence said
two faculty members from the harvard business school and two representatives of the research institute of external economic affairs in moscow, the research arm of the soviet foreign economic commission, will work on the study
the study, scheduled to begin in may and end in september, will include electrosila, a leningrad-based manufacturer of heavy industrial equipment. the other sites have not been determined, lawrence said
we want to prepare guidelines that will help the day-to-day management of joint ventures in the soviet union with american firms,'' lawrence said. ``this could be in any number of fields.''
the research will focus on capital investments, appointing and terminating a middle manager, introducing a new product and formulating and implementing an annual business plan
lawrence said the choices are a good cross-section of real business decisions. ``they represent quite a range of the kinds of things operating managers do,'' he said
four case studies based on the research are expected to be completed by november and the final version is scheduled for publication by july 1989
the co-director of the harvard team is charalambos vlachoutsicos, a research fellow at the school. co-chairmen of the soviet team are igor faminsky, director of the institute and b.i. fomin, general director of electrosila. the project will be jointly funded. another paper</head> add comment from tribune editor, picking up 5th graf, `broder's story...'. deletes last graf, now outdated.</note>
a correspondent for the chicago tribune in the middle east has resigned after writing a story that contained some material taken, without attribution, from a story printed in the jerusalem post, the tribune said
the tribune published a brief notice of jonathan broder's resignation monday under its ``corrections and clarifications'' headline
broder's story feb. 22 ``included a number of sentences and phrases taken, without attribution, from a column by another writer that had been published previously in the jerusalem post,'' the tribune said
that material ``constitutes only a fraction of the total story and contributed significantly only to organization and imagery,'' the tribune said
there's no justification for what he did. there's an explanation, but no justification,'' tribune editor james d. squires said tuesday
we said he cribbed the story and he resigned,'' squires said. he declined further comment
broder's story began:
anyone traveling the roads of the west bank these days cannot fail to notice the fundamental change that has overtaken the area in the last 10 weeks.''
the jerusalem post story began:
anyone traveling the roads of the west bank these days cannot fail to sense the change that has come over the area in the last two months.''
the tribune said broder's story was accurate, but ``the byline inaccurately implied that it was all mr. broder's work.''
broder, a full-time reporter with the tribune since 1979, was with family in san francisco, said a chicago tribune staff member who asked not to be identified. the staffer declined to provide a telephone number for broder. grafs after 2nd pvs to give bush, dole reactions, picking up 3rd pvs, former president; inserts one graf after 4th pvs, bush sounded, to give poll results; subs 7th and 8th grafs pvs, in vermont, to update percentages; inserts graf after 8th pvs, dukakis rolled, to give jackson reaction. ^by david espo</note>
bob dole assailed george bush on the iran-contra affair in a tough new television commercial tuesday and richard gephardt used an advertisement to attack democratic rivals michael dukakis and albert gore jr. as the presidential campaign spread across the south one week before super tuesday
bush defeated dole tuesday night in vermont's non-binding gop presidential primary, and dukakis won the state's democratic contest, with jesse jackson running second
this win gives us three out of three in new england, and i'm hopeful we can be as successful this saturday in south carolina and on super tuesday,'' bush said
mary ellen grupp said the dole campaign was very pleased with dole's ``strong showing'' and would use the primary results to build up for the gop caucuses in april
former president carter, the last democrat to occupy the white house, said he thought the chances were 50-50 that no democrat would arrive at the party nominating convention with enough delegates to claim the nomination
bush sounded confident that nothing of the sort would happen in the republican race. bush, in a strong position in virtually all of the southern states that will vote next week, said, ``i'm convinced that whoever wins super tuesday will be the next president.''
bush was further buoyed by the results of a washington post-abc news poll released tuesday, showing him with a nearly 3-to-1 lead over dole among republicans likely to vote super tuesday. dukakis and jackson were battling for the democratic lead
gop hopeful pat robertson, meanwhile, said he intends to drop his $35 million libel suit against former rep. pete mccloskey rather than go to trial on super tuesday
robertson has accused mccloskey of defaming him in a letter contending that the former television evangelist used the influence of his father, the late sen. a. willis robertson, to avoid combat duty in the korean war. but robertson may not be able to walk away from the suit without paying mccloskey's legal fees
with nearly all the precincts reporting in vermont's ``beauty contest'' primary, bush had 49 percent to dole's 39 percent. robertson had 5 percent and rep. jack kemp 3.4 percent
dukakis rolled to a solid win with 56 percent; jackson had 27 percent; gephardt 8 percent; paul simon 6 percent and gary hart 4 percent. gore was not on the ballot
we have found the common chord that is linking the american people, whether they are in iowa or maine or new hampshire or mississippi,'' jackson said about his impressive showing
the vermont contest did not involve allocating any delegates to the republican and democratic national convention
in contrast, super tuesday on march 8 involves 1,307 delegates in democratic primaries and caucuses in 20 states and 712 delegates in 17 contests on the republican side
the broad sweep of that day's contests means candidates must place greater stress than ever before on costly television commercials. gone are the days of ``retail politics,'' consisting of six stops in iowa or new hampshire in a single day
the new campaign style features chartered jets, trips to two or three regions of two or three different states _ and a heavy dose of commercials scattered across several states
in his new advertisement, dole says that bush has refused to say he would veto an increase in income tax rates, that he won't support a textile import bill and that he ``supported the arms for hostages deal'' in the iran-contra affair
that's precisely what he did _ he supported the sale of arms to iran,'' the kansas senator said as he campaigned in durham, n.c
bush campaigned in florida, where he said of dole's iran-contra comments, ``i support the president. i have nothing to say about dole's charges, nothing at all.'' instead, he touted his own role in the decision to invade grenada with u.s. troops in 1983, as well as the part he has played in the administration's anti-drug program
if bush is heavily favored in most republican super tuesday states, the democratic contest shapes up as a struggle among massachusetts gov. dukakis, missouri rep. gephardt, tennessee sen. albert gore jr. and jesse jackson
ironically, it was a democratic idea to develop a regional southern primary, in the hopes that it would give a candidate from the deep south a springboard to the nomination
it hasn't worked that way, and carter, who invited gephardt to his home in plains, ga., said he is no longer sure whether the idea is good or bad
he added, ``my hope is that out of the primary and caucus season will come a clear winner. i'm not sure that's a likelihood now.''
gephardt said he traveled to carter's home in rural georgia ``not to enhance my prospects but to greet an old friend.''
at the same time, he began running a new commercial in which texas rep. marvin leath says gephardt ``stood with us for lower taxes, for an oil import fee to make american strong, for a tough new trade bill to stand up for american workers.''
on all these issues, gore and dukakis were opposed to us,'' he says
there was no immediate response from either gore or dukakis
among the other democrats, jackson was in washington, where he met with officials from south africa about the recent arrests of black leaders in that country
sen. paul simon, largely skipping southern states, campaigned in seattle for support in the washington caucuses
rep. jack kemp, struggling to survive in the republican race, said if either bush, dole or robertson wins the gop nomination, ``the reagan revolution is over.''
robertson, under pressure for several comments he has made in the past two weeks, said a transcript of 1967 senate subcommittee testimony supports his belief that there are nuclear missiles in cuba. he quoted testimony by a state department official who said a cuban refugee told him of the missiles
this is documented evidence,'' robertson said
an assembly began an 11-day session tuesday to elect a new president and vice president
the session opened with a 35-page report by president suharto on the affairs of state since he was re-elected in 1983 for a fourth five-year term
the 1,000-member assembly is expected to re-elect suharto, a 66-year-old former general and the sole candidate for president
the people's consultative assembly, dominated by the president's governing golkar party, is a special body summoned every five years
the post of vice president, though largely ceremonial, has been the subject of intense speculation in recent weeks because it is likely to be filled by a figure considered to be suharto's chosen successor
two people have been viewed as possible candidates for the vice presidency: state secretary sudharmono, 61, golkar chairman, and try sutrisno, 52, newly appointed armed forces commander, who has served four years as a suharto aide
in his report to the assembly, suharto said his administration in the last five years has had to overcome an economic recession and a sharp drop in oil prices, a major source of foreign exchange in indonesia
suharto also said indonesia's economic growth rate was estimated to reach an average of 3.8 percent annually in the current five-year economic plan ending march 1989. the original target was set at 5 percent
in foreign affairs, the president reaffirmed indonesia's position that it will not normalize relations with china until beijing pledges it will not provide support to communist guerrillas in the region, including indonesia
jakarta suspended relations with beijing in 1967 after accusing it of complicity in the abortive communist coup attempt of 1965
however, trade relations between the two nations have been restored since the signing of a memorandum of understanding in july 1985
texas will seek a court order to stop the shipment of florida citrus to texas and other citrus-producing states, officials say
the move was prompted by a judge's order tuesday that overturned a texas ban on the florida fruit
texas imposed the ban last month after a federal rule took effect allowing the shipment of florida citrus that meets certain standards to other citrus-producing states
the new rule lifted a 3{-year-old federal quarantine on florida citrus that was prompted by discovery of the citrus canker disease in that state
u.s. district judge james nowlin said he overturned the ban because the federal regulation takes precedence over the state rule
texas agriculture officials said the ban was needed to protect texas' $65 million-a-year citrus industry from canker
when chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson steps before the house of commons on march 15, he is expected to unveil one of the rarest of british commodities _ a budget surplus
the expectation is so real that already there is widespread talk of a massive tax cut _ and also widespread criticism of the government's reputed plans for the extra money
the budget on march 15 should be the most momentous of britain's postwar history,'' the economist magazine said
anything could happen in the next two weeks, and the budget may turn out very different from what is now forecast
but for the moment, analysts are assuming a tax cut is in the works, and the government's critics are attacking the budget as a gift to the rich at the expense of the poor
last autumn the government announced its planned expenditures of $278 billion for the fiscal year ending march 31, 1989, and the spring budget day is when it discloses how it will raise the money
for the first time in almost 20 years, prime minister margaret thatcher's conservative government might produce a budget surplus for the current fiscal year, which ends march 31, said a treasury spokesman, who wasn't identified, in accordance with british custom
the government expects to out-perform its most recent forecast of a deficit of $1.77 billion, which was down from a previously forecast deficit of $7.1 billion, the spokesman said
it will probably turn out to be a surplus,'' said diane coyoe, economist for the private forecasting firm dri europe
very definitely a surplus,'' said anthony thomas, an economist at the london investment firm kleinwort grieveson ltd
the surplus will be $2 billion to $5 billion, the economists estimated
if they are right, the surplus will have resulted from the government's tight grip on spending, its buoyant tax receipts and proceeds from its giant and continuing privatization program of selling off to the public billions of dollars' worth of state-owned companies
the surplus has sparked speculation that the government will slash its top income tax rate of 60 percent to 50 percent or even lower in what would be the biggest cut in almost 10 years
the cut, which applies to people earning more than $72,900 annually, would be effective in the fiscal year beginning april 1
thomas said there was much speculation that lawson would cut it below 50 percent. ``we suspect he will want to do those cuts over an extended time period. it will seem like too much of a giveaway (otherwise).''
but the times of london said lawson might slash the rate to as low as 35 percent, adding: ``the chancellor has been stung by criticisms from his own party that president reagan's tax reforms in the u.s. have overtaken britain with a simplified system ....''
in her first budget, in june 1979, mrs. thatcher cut the top rate from 83 percent to 60 percent. it has remained unchanged since
in the united states, the top federal income tax rate is 33 percent this year, although for most individuals, the maximum rate is 28 percent
lawson also is expected to cut the lowest tax rate, which applies to income up to $31,600, to 25 percent from 27 percent. that rate stood at 33 percent in 1979
the expected tax cuts _ part of mrs. thatcher's long-term, sweeping reform of the tax system _ would be highly controversial in a country where the welfare state prevails despite the prime minister's capitalist revolution
the government is bracing itself for the charge that ... it will be introducing `a rich man's budget,''' the observer newspaper wrote
critics of mrs. thatcher's tight spending policies already have raised a furor, demanding that surplus money go to the national health service rather than toward tax cuts
in february, nurses staged a one-day walkout to protest the state of the health service, which has 700,000 people waiting for surgery at state hospitals
other critics fear that cuts could spur consumer spending enough to ignite inflation and force up interest rates
but mrs. thatcher's supporters say her fiscal policies have helped boost britain's now-strong economy
the budget proposals must be approved by parliament, where they are assured passage because of the conservative party's 102-seat majority in the 650-seat house of commons
actress molly ringwald, whose movie ``for keeps'' was criticized as glamorizing teen-age pregnancy, is doing a commercial aimed at keeping teen-agers from getting pregnant, a spokeswoman says
ms. ringwald is recording the 30-second spot for a state program called parents too soon, said audrey stewart, a spokeswoman for the program
the public-service announcement, which ms. ringwald is doing at no charge, will be sent to radio stations across illinois and may be broadcast as early as this month, ms. stewart said tuesday
illinois officials criticized ms. ringwald's movie shortly after its premiere in january
for keeps'' features the actress as a middle-class teen-ager who has a baby, marries her boyfriend, finishes high school and goes off to college with her husband _ both on full scholarship
rock sensation michael jackson thrilled the united negro college fund with a check for $600,000
there aren't many days like this,'' uncf president christopher edley said after accepting the check from the singer at a jam-packed news conference tuesday
jackson, wearing a striped shirt and bright red blazer, waved as more then two dozen camera crews and twice as many still photographers took hundreds of pictures of the usually reclusive superstar
thank you. i'm very honored and very thankful,'' jackson said during his 15 seconds at the microphone. ``i love you all. thank you.''
the check represented the proceeds from jackson's scheduled thursday night show at madison square garden, his first solo performance in new york
jackson earlier created a ``michael jackson scholarship'' for the uncf. in the past three years, 97 students have received financial aid through the program
president reagan played pizza deliveryman for nato ambassador and ``junk-food freak'' alton keel
air force one, taking reagan to a meeting of nato leaders tuesday, also carried three pizzas across the atlantic, said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater
fitzwater said the pizzas were purchased in a washington suburb by deputy white house chief of staff kenneth duberstein
keel, a former national security adviser, is a ``junk-food freak,'' fitzwater said
entertainer bette midler, who grew up in hawaii, and her husband have purchased a $1.5 million piece of the islands that was confiscated in a federal drug case
midler and husband, martin von haselberg, paid cash for the 38-acre parcel on kauai island, which includes a partly completed tri-level home and a panoramic view of the pacific ocean and a river, said u.s. marshal faith evans
midler attended the university of hawaii before moving to new york to pursue her career as a singer and actress
the property, near the town of kilauea, was among 141 acres seized by the justice department in 1986 after authorities charged the owners had purchased it with money from illegal drug sales, evans said monday
rudolf nureyev will dance three performances of ``giselle'' during the american ballet theater's three-week engagement in los angeles, artistic director mikhail baryshnikov announced
nureyev will play count albrecht in the 1841 romantic ballet on march 17 and 18 with marianna tcherkassky as giselle, and on march 19, with alessandra ferri as giselle, baryshnikov said tuesday
nureyev first danced with the abt in 1962 and has done a wide variety of ballets with the company, including ``giselle'' and his own staging of ``raymonda.''
the abt will perform at the shrine auditorium in los angeles march 1-20. the schedule does not list baryshnikov as dancing during the engagement
the country music hall of fame is putting together a black, white and silver exhibit honoring the ``man in black'' _ johnny cash
the $70,000 exhibit is scheduled to open march 23, the hall of fame said monday
this collection provides unprecedented documentation of country music's most distinguished career,'' said hall of fame director bill ivey. ``it is extraordinarily rich due to cash's unusual level of cooperation and interest, and the availability of his extensive personal archives.''
at cash's suggestion, the entire exhibit is being mounted and displayed with black, white and silver graphics. it will be divided into sections devoted to various periods of cash's life
this is the third biographical exhibit at the hall of fame. dolly parton and willie nelson also have been honored
cash's hits include ``i walk the line,'' ``a boy named sue,'' ``folsom prison blues'' and ``ring of fire.''
republican presidential candidate pat robertson said he would use the military to help stem the flow of illegal drugs into the united states and would order airplanes suspected of carrying drugs to be shot down
if one of those drug planes is flying without giving identification ... coming into this country, i wouldn't hesitate to give orders to shoot him down,'' the former television evangelist said at a rally tuesday
i believe we have played games long enough with drugs,'' robertson said. ``i don't think we are being as aggressive as we should.''
robertson, who has tapped a vein of anti-communist sentiment among cuban-americans as he campaigns around florida, also accused cuban president fidel castro of involvement in drug trafficking
earlier, robertson cited 21-year-old, second-hand testimony before a senate subcommittee as evidence that the soviet union has intermediate-range missiles based in cuba
he called for closing what he calls a ``cuban loophole'' in the u.s.-soviet intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, which now is awaiting ratification by the senate
if the inf treaty is ratified without addressing this matter then i think it will be virtually treasonous,'' robertson said at a news conference. ``i do not feel there is any way that they can sweep this thing under the rug. i am not going to permit them to do it.''
several u.s. officials said tuesday the cuban military has some surface-to-surface missiles in its inventory, but none has a nuclear warhead and none could reach the united states even if it did
robertson quoted 1967 testimony by paul bethel, a state department official from miami, who said cuban refugees had told him of seeing missiles, and one of the refugees, identified only as mr. apud, who swore cuban soldiers let him know about missiles aimed at washington before he left in 1966
neither man testified he had personally seen the missiles, the transcript indicates
the testimony was given to the judiciary subcommittee to investigate the administration of the internal security act and other internal security laws. robertson read portions of it to supporters tuesday at a breakfast in fort lauderdale and during a rally the night before in miami
i've been accused of bringing funny facts,'' robertson told the fort lauderdale gathering. ``ladies and gentlemen, the clear eyewitness, sworn testimony of witnesses before a senate judiciary committee is not funny facts. ... this is documented evidence.''
robertson's assertion that there are missiles based in cuba has been denied by the white house, congressional defense experts and castro, who told nbc on monday that robertson should ``go and see a doctor, really, or a psychiatrist, because this is pure madness.''
several defense and administration officials were asked tuesday about robertson's claim. the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because they did not want to become involved in the presidential race, said cuba has about five dozen frog-4 and frog-7 battlefield missiles, dating from the 1960s
the frog-7, when originally introduced by the soviets, could carry either a conventional or nuclear warhead, ``but we're confident no nuclear warheads ever went to cuba for that missile and it doesn't have any range anyway,'' said one source who requested anonymity
according to the reference book ``jane's weapon systems,'' the frog-7 has a range of only about 43 miles _ or half the distance between cuba and florida. moreover, the rocket has no guidance system to direct it to a specific target
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said last month that cuba has been under extensive surveillance since the 1962 missile crisis and there is ``no evidence'' any other nuclear weaponry had ever been deployed there by the soviet union
in the subcommittee transcript, apud said he was told by cuban soldiers he had known for many years that the missiles were nicknamed ``washington left,'' ``washington right,'' and ``washington central.''
a congressional study is painting a dismal environmental picture of vital streamside areas on federal property across the west
tens of thousands of miles of these riparian areas have been degraded by poor livestock grazing practices on land leased to ranchers by the bureau of land management, according to the general accounting office, the investigative wing of congress
james duffus, a gao official, says the damaged land would start repairing itself if the bureau either would ban cattle from degraded streamsides or limit the amount of grazing there
but that solution is being made difficult because bureau leaders appear to be siding with opposition from many ranchers who pay below-market rates to graze cattle on the taxpayers' land, he told a house hearing tuesday
streamside areas are important in the arid west because they help raise water tables, collect sediment, increase the availability of forage, dissipate the energy of flood waters and serve as fish and wildlife habitats, said duffus, the gao's associate director for resources, community and economic development
it has taken decades of abuse to produce the level of riparian area degradation that currently exists,'' he told the interior national parks and public lands subcommittee. ``most riparian areas managed by the bureau are in degraded condition largely as a result of poorly managed livestock grazing.''
duffus said that while the bureau does not know the extent of the damage, ``tens of thousands of stream miles on federal rangelands remain in degraded condition.''
duffus said two bureau assessments found that 80 percent of the 12,000 miles of streamside areas in idaho need better management and that 90 percent of 5,000 miles in colorado were rated in poor or fair condition
not only has the bureau reduced its ranks of wildlife and fisheries biologists since 1981, many remaining personnel responsible for riparian areas don't believe the bureau is serious about improving the condition of the streamside areas, according to duffus
these staff widely believe that if their proposed actions for restoring riparian areas are opposed by the permitted ranchers, their managers will not support them,'' he said
many bureau staff ... recounted specific instances where their riparian management efforts were specifically undercut by bureau headquarters or local management direction after permitted ranches raised objections,'' duffus said
subcommittee chairman bruce vento, d-minn., distributed copies of a 1986 bureau headquarters memo telling field personnel that streamside area management ``requires the full support and cooperation of the permittee or lessee.''
pointing to the memo, vento asked whether ranchers using bureau land for cattle grazing are experts in environmental restoration
i wouldn't look to them for any expertise,'' duffus replied
tim locke, a bureau spokesman, gave no immediate response when asked by the associated press to comment on duffus' report
the music industry promises to find a new way to thwart home taping with digital recorders now that its proposed electronic anti-taping device has been declared ineffective by the national bureau of standards
the bureau's report, released tuesday, dealt a blow to the recording industry's campaign to prevent digital audio tape, or dat, recorders from reaching the domestic market
the recorders, now manufactured by japan and other foreign makers, can copy compact disc recordings with virtually no loss in sound quality. the u.s. recording industry fears that the machines will lead to mass copying that would devastate the compact disc and record markets, and so far has managed to keep the devices off the u.s. market
but rep. robert w. kastenmeier, d-wis., chairman of a house judiciary subcommittee that handles copyright issues, said the results of the bureau's study _ which he requested last year _ shows that congress should stop trying to prevent u.s. sales of dat recorders
kastenmeier said the report appears to doom an industry-backed bill that would require equipping dat recorders with scanning devices intended to prevent copying of specially coded recordings
the bill, sponsored by rep. henry waxman, d-calif., also would prohibit the manufacture or sale of any device designed to bypass the scanner
the bureau, an agency of the commerce department, said that the scanning device was unreliable and easily bypassed, and that it damaged the sound quality of recordings
because the report was conclusive about the ineffectiveness of blocking devices, it is even more desirable that the dat controversy be resolved by the industries involved, rather than by congressional imposition of a solution,'' kastenmeier said
kastenmeier said in an interview that as a result of the bureau of standards report, ``i think it highly unlikely that the waxman bill will succeed.''
u.s. manufacturers voluntarily blocked introduction of dat units on the domestic market until congress resolved the home taping issue, but the self-imposed ban has recently shown signs of crumbling under pressure from foreign manufacturers and demand from u.s. recording enthusiasts
kastenmeier said an alternative to a congressional solution might be payment of recording artists out of proceeds from sales of dat units, or from an endowment fund created by the recording industry
jason berman, president of the recording industry association of america, said the industry accepts the study results but intends to find a new technological solution to home taping, which he said costs the recording companies $1.5 billion in lost sales annually
working together with the hardware manufacturers, we are certain to find an acceptable technological solution,'' berman said
meanwhile, recording industry officials promised to sue any manufacturer that tries to sell the machines in the united states before the copying issue is resolved, either legislatively or through industry negotiations
but gary shapiro of the home recording rights coalition said ``there is no reason at this point why manufacturers should not be selling'' digital recorders in the united states
the coalition has been fighting anti-taping efforts as an infringement on the rights of consumers to make home recordings of records, tapes and compact discs for their private use
the scanning device was designed to detect ``notches,'' or tiny bands of frequencies removed from the audio signal of protected recordings, and interrupt taping of copies with intervals of silence
the bureau said its series of laboratory tests showed that notched material was recorded anyway in about half of the sound tracks studied
advocates of the anti-taping device claimed that the notches did not affect sound quality. but the bureau said its study showed that ``the system's encoder alters the original electrical signal,'' resulting in ``a discernible difference'' between notched and unnotched recordings
also, the bureau said, ``the copy prevention system can be bypassed easily.'' it said its engineers designed and built several electronic circuits to circumvent the system in five different ways
the circuits are simple and easy to construct'' and cost about $100, the bureau said
attorney general edwin meese iii's investment manager turned a $40,000 profit for him under an arrangement that may have involved financial favors or gifts to the attorney general, says a senator
the investment manager, w. franklyn chinn, ``wasn't investing mr. meese's money, so much as he was assigning profits and losses to the accounts of mr. meese and his other clients at his own discretion,'' sen. carl levin, d-mich., said tuesday
chinn, now under indictment in the wedtech scandal, turned a profit of nearly $40,000 for meese on a $50,000 investment in just 23 one-day trades of brand-new stock issues over an 18-month span. meese established a limited blind partnership with chinn's company and the attorney general says that under the arrangement he knew nothing about chinn's stock trading activity
the democratic majority staff of the senate subcommittee on oversight of government management found that stock purchases by chinn which later appeared in meese's account were initially made without identifying the customer in whose name the stock would eventually be recorded. the purchases were assigned by chinn to the accounts he managed, after the profit or loss was known
the report said that in one instance, chinn bought and sold 5,000 shares of a new stock issue in oliver stores inc. worth $30,000 on feb. 11, 1986. it wasn't until the next day, however, that chinn instructed imperial trust co. that 2,000 of the shares were to be recorded for meese's account. the transaction gave meese a profit of more than $1,700
in seven of the 23 stock trades, chinn spent substantially more money on behalf of his corporation's limited blind partnership with meese than meese had invested in the account, the subcommittee staff found. the sums ranged from $5,000 to $140,000
chinn exceeded the account balances for his other customers as well, said the subcommittee staff. he avoided the appearance that he had exceeded the account balance by directing that his stock purchases be recorded as if they had been made in smaller lots, any one of which would not exceed the account balance
because he did not allocate winners and losers to his clients' accounts until after the fact, he was effectively able to assign greater benefits to some _ including apparently mr. meese on numerous occasions,'' levin said in a statement. ``this procedure again raises questions about possible financial favors or gifts.''
levin asked the office of government ethics in a letter for a formal finding on whether meese complied with federal regulations governing gifts and loans to public officials
levin also sent a copy of the letter to the securities and exchange commission to investigate possible violations of regulations prohibiting brokers from exceeding account balances and regulations governing the conduct by investment advisers
meese ``had no knowledge of chinn's stock trading activity and i don't think meese should be held responsible,'' said one of the attorney general's lawyers, nathan lewin
this blind partnership was set up to be sure that he had no knowledge of how things were being done.''
lewin dismissed suggestions that meese should have reported the amount over the account balances as gifts, saying ``there were a number of losing transactions as well as profitable transactions.''
meese made a profit on 18 of the trades and lost money on five
according to the majority subcommittee staff, on sept. 4, 1986, chinn had $730,000 in five of his customers' accounts at imperial trust co., but on that day bought $6.6 million in sears, roebuck stock for them, which subsequently was reflected as 34 separate transactions and sales
chinn, a former director of scandal-plagued wedtech corp., was introduced to the attorney general in 1985 by longtime meese friend e. robert wallach. chinn and wallach are now under indictment for racketeering, fraud and conspiracy in an alleged scheme to extract payments from the bronx, n.y., defense contractor in order to influence meese and other federal officials. wallach and chinn have pleaded innocent
meese has been under criminal investigation by independent counsel james mckay since last may 11 for his involvement with wedtech. meese acknowledges interceding on behalf of the company when he was white house counselor to ensure that the firm got a fair hearing from the army in its effort to win a $32 million no-bid engine-building contract. the company eventually got the work
sources familiar with mckay's probe say one aspect of the investigation has been an examination of chinn's stock trading to determine whether chinn may have given meese preferential treatment over other customers
meese may be found to have benefited from a ``very subtle bribe'' if preferential treatment were found and were determined to be a reward for official action, one knowledgeable law enforcement source said in december
one of chinn's lawyers, penny cooper, said the questions addressed by levin's subcommittee are ``exactly the same material the independent counsel went over for months and they found no wrongdoing. there was no wrongdoing.'' she said that chinn ``did no better for meese than any other client.''
the subcommittee staff didn't reach any conclusions on whether meese received preferential treatment
inamullah khan of pakistan today won the 1988 templeton prize for promoting interreligious cooperation. he is the first moslem to win the $390,000 international award
it is biggest prize given in the world, about $40,000 more than the nobel prizes in science and literature
announcement of this year's winner was to be made at a news conference at manhattan's church center of the united nations
khan, 73, a founder and secretary-general of the world moslem congress, was cited for his ``tireless work as a coordinator for peace between moslems, christians and jews.''
khan, of karachi, also is chairman of the executive committee of the interreligious world conference on religion and peace, presiding at meetings around the world
he has been keenly supportive of united nations concerns, including disarmament, human rights, education and welfare, and twice has chaired meetings of the world federation of united nations associations in geneva, switzerland
the annual prize, established in 1972 by american financeer john templeton, is given to recognize those ``who through original and pioneering ways advanced the knowledge and love of god.''
the 1988 prize is to presented may 10 by england's princess alexandra at london's guild hall
of the previous 15 winners, 13 have been christians, one hindu and one buddhist
the first winner was mother teresa of calcutta, india, founder of the roman catholic missionaries of charity, while last year's winner was physicist stanley l. jaki, a roman catholic, of seton hall university in south orange, n.j
other winners have included:
southern baptist evangelist billy graham, russian orthodox expatriate alexander solzhenitsyn, belgium's cardinal joseph suenens, u.s. presbyterian educator james i. mccord and france's brother roger, founder of the taize ecumenical community
an international, interreligious panel of judges picks the winners
khan, born in burma and a graduate in arts and law from rangoon university, was a high school principal in rangoon and editor of burma's moslem daily until 1942 when burma was occupied by japan
he then settled in india, where he headed the all-india burmese evacuees association and the islamic brotherhood society. on establishment of pakistan in 1948, he became a citizen, settling in karachi
there, he founded the world moslem congress, its offices initially in his home, but which now has an imposing new headquarters there
as secretary-general, he has traveled throughout the moslem world, including both sides of the protracted iran-iraq war, and has stood with banned christian leaders in south africa
the rev. wilbert forker, vice president of the templeton foundation, said khan has given ``much energy and imagination to building bridges between the moslem world and neighbors from other religions and cultures.''
he ``has lived in a generation when religion has often come in for attack from secular sources'' and has challenged ``atheistic teachings and practices'' and pressed religion to correct its failings, forker said
he is clearly a man sustained by his faith in god and in human values and by his sense of solidarity with his community and with humanity,'' forker said. ``religion for him is not simply a private matter but an essential motivation for society.''
many motorists who wear seat belts are still exposing themselves to serious injury by wearing them improperly, according to a federal study that says women, children and motorists over 50 are most likely to put themselves at risk
the national transportation safety board raised questions tuesday about the way some belt users wear the safety devices after examining 167 accidents in which at least one occupant was belted
twenty-one percent of the motorists wearing belts had too much slack in the shoulder harnesses, and 7 percent of the occupants, often children, wore belts that were improperly routed behind the back or under an arm
thirty-one states have laws requiring use of safety belts. but ntsb chairman jim burnett said, ``we have a lot of misuse and that problem has to be tackled.''
overall, the safety board said, lap-shoulder belts provide excellent protection with 80 percent of the belted occupants suffering minor or no injuries. but the study suggested the results could have been even better were it not for improper wearing of belts
the ntsb study was not a random sample and, therefore, does not necessarily translate into similar percentages for all motorists, said lynne smith, who was involved in writing of the report. but, she added, the data are consistent with previous findings of widespread misuse
for example, the report cited an earlier insurance industry study of maryland motorists indicating that belts are worn too loosely about one-fourth of the time
examples of misuse with tragic consequences included a head-on collision and an accident in which a car struck a tree, according to the safety board
in the head-on crash, a passenger who had loosened her shoulder belt significantly died of massive injuries, while the driver who had worn his belt snugly ``walked away from the crash with moderate injuries,'' said suzanne stack, an ntsb staff researcher
in the other crash, the driver, who had worn his belt properly, escaped with minor injuries when his car struck a tree, but the passenger, whose shoulder belt was routed under her arm, was killed from extensive injuries
the board also cited examples of people suffering extensive injuries _ fatal ones in a case involving a 7-year-old boy _ when belts were used while seats were in the reclining position. in some cases the combination of the belt and the reclining seat may create new dangers, the report suggested
the four-member safety board urged the national highway traffic safety administration to require that safety belts meet standards for the maximum amount of slack allowed or require that the belt systems be equipped with a ``pre-tension'' device that automatically pulls a belt tight a split second before a crash
the safety board questioned the widespread use among u.s. carmakers of a belt design that allows a person to pull the belt out to its full length without it automatically retracting. most foreign manufacturers use another design which automatically keeps the belt snug against the occupant, but which has been criticized as being less comfortable and, therefore, less likely to be used
the safety board said there is evidence indicating drivers aged 50 years or older and female occupants are the most likely to misuse belts, especially wearing them too loosely. ms. smith said that, generally, slack equal to no more than the width of a fist should be allowed in the shoulder belt
a particularly high misuse of belts was found among children. one-third had part of the belts behind the back or under an arm
such misuse ... seriously degrades the protective capabilities of the lap-shoulder belt, reducing it to a lap-only belt with inferior crash protection,'' the safety board said
a number of auto safety pamphlets, including two distributed by the nhtsa and one by the american automobile association, have advised parents to place the shoulder belt behind a child if the harness crosses the neck or face
the safety board does not agree,'' the ntsb report said. ``there is little evidence that small children or short adults are likely to be harmed by the shoulder portion of a belt.''
the board called for the highway safety agency to revise its brochures
nhtsa, which issues auto safety regulations, was reviewing the ntsb report, said spokeswoman betsy tyson
the united states might not have fared that well in the winter olympics, but abc was a big winner
the high-rated two weeks of prime-time olympics, pre-empting abc's entire schedule, have given the network a february sweeps win that breaks nbc's 11-sweeps streak. abc is now second on the season
the olympics averaged a prime-time rating of 19.3 and a 30 share, up 5 percent over the 1984 winter olympics, according to the a.c. nielsen co. abc estimates that more than 150 million viewers saw some of this year's games
saturday night's figure-skating finale was last week's no. 1 show, earning a rating of 26.4 and a 43 share, and included the highest-rated half hour of saturday viewing since ``roots'' in 1977
olympics coverage on monday, tuesday and thursday also made it into the top 10. wednesday's was 12th, sunday's 17th, and friday's 30th. abc had no other prime-time programming
the olympics also apparently helped abc continue its three-week win streak over cbs in news. for the week that ended feb. 26, abc's ``world news tonight'' had an average rating of 11.7 and a 21 share. ``cbs evening news'' had an 11.2 and 20 and ``nbc nightly news'' had 9.9 and 18
the rating is the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions. the share is a percentage of sets in use
abc won the week that ended feb. 28 with an average rating of 20.5. nbc was second with 15.6 and cbs third with 13.5. it was the highest weekly rating for any network since october 1986, and abc's highest since october 1985
february is one of four months a year when local ratings are measured for use in negotiating advertising rates. with only days left uncounted in the february sweeps, abc led nbc by about 1.5 rating points. cbs is third
nbc has an average 16.3 after 23 weeks of the television season. abc is second with 14.1, and cbs third with 13.6
the top 10 prime-time shows last week were: saturday olympics, abc; ``the cosby show,'' nbc; tuesday olympics, abc; ``a different world,'' nbc; monday olympics, abc; ``60 minutes,'' cbs; ``cheers,'' nbc; thursday olympics, abc; ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs; and ``matlock,'' nbc
the four-part miniseries ``noble house'' ended disappointingly for nbc. the final installment wednesday night took a slight upturn, but was only 20th
the first part of cbs' two-part ``bluegrass'' did better, coming in 15th with a 17.6 rating and 27 share
the annual rerun of the classic movie ``the wizard of oz'' on cbs last wednesday had its lowest rating yet, but still placed 25th with a 15.3 and 22
the lowest-rated shows of the week _ the rankings were abbreviated due to the olympics taking up abc's schedule, were: ``wiseguy,'' ``cagney &amp; lacey,'' ``sonny spoon,'' ``charlie brown,'' ``our house,'' ``garfield,'' ``equalizer,'' ``high mountain rangers'' and ``west 57th,'' which was against the olympics saturday night and got a dismal 5.5 rating and 9 share
here are the prime-time television ratings as compiled by the a.c. nielsen co. for the week of feb. 22-28. top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes
an ``x'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. a rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million tv homes
1. (x) ``winter olympics-saturday,'' abc, 26.4 rating, 23.4 million homes
2. (1) ``the cosby show,'' nbc, 24.8, 22.0 million homes
3. (x) ``winter olympics-tuesday,'' abc, 23.5, 20.8 million homes
4. (x) ``winter olympics-monday,'' abc, 21.3, 18.9 million homes
4. (2) ``a different world,'' nbc, 21.3, 18.9 million homes
6. (8) ``60 minutes,'' cbs, 20.5, 18.2 million homes
7. (3) ``cheers,'' nbc, 20.4, 18.1 million homes
8. (x) ``winter olympics-thursday,'' abc, 20.3, 18.0 million homes
9. (9) ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs, 19.7, 17.4 million homes
10. (14) ``matlock,'' nbc, 19.0, 16.8 million homes
11. (x) ``winter olympics-wednesday,'' abc, 18.8, 16.7 million homes
11. (4) ``night court,'' nbc, 18.8, 16.7 million homes
13. (6) ``golden girls,'' nbc, 18.2, 16.1 million homes
13. (11) ``alf,'' nbc,18.2, 16.1 million homes
15. (15) ``blue grass,'' part 1, _ ``cbs sunday movie,'' 17.6, 15.6 million hhomes
16. (22) ``perry mason: the case of the avenging ace'' _ ``nbc sunday night movie,'' 17.4, 15.4 million homes
17. (x) ``winter olympics-sunday,'' abc, 17.2, 15.2 million homes
18. (13) ``family ties,'' nbc, 16.7, 14.8 million homes
19. (18) ``dallas,'' cbs, 16.6, 14.7 million homes
20. (x) ``noble house,'' part 4, nbc, 16.3, 14.4 million homes
21. (19) ``valerie's family,'' nbc, 16.0
22. (x) ``noble house,'' part 2, nbc, 15
23. (25) ``newhart,'' cbs, 15.8
24. (22) ``227,'' nbc, 15.3
24. (x) ``the wizard of oz'' _ ``cbs special movie presentation,'' 15.3
26. (11) ``l.a. law,'' nbc, 15.2
26. (31) ``knots landing,'' cbs, 15.2
28. (35) ``facts of life,'' nbc, 15.0
28. (x) ``noble house,'' part 3, nbc, 15.0
30. (x) ``winter olympics-friday,'' abc, 14.5
31. (28) ``my two dads,'' nbc, 14.4
32. (15) ``amen,'' nbc, 14.2
33. (36) ``highway to heaven,'' nbc, 14.0
34. (38) ``falcon crest,'' cbs, 13.8
35. (28) ``designing women,'' cbs, 13.7
36. (x) ``friday night surprise,'' nbc, 13.4
37. (34) ``kate &amp; allie,'' cbs, 13.3
38. (43) ``beauty and the beast,'' cbs, 13.1
39. (62) ``tour of duty,'' cbs, 12.9
40. (40) ``miami vice,'' nbc, 12.7
40. (48) ``simon &amp; simon,'' cbs, 12.7
42. (44) ``j.j. starbuck,'' nbc, 12.4
42. (54) ``jake and the fatman,'' cbs, 12.4
44. (51) ``frank's place,'' cbs, 12.3
45. (57) ``wiseguy,'' cbs, 11.5
46. (44) ``cagney &amp; lacey,'' cbs, 11.3
47. (60) ``sonny spoon,'' nbc, 11.2
48. (x) ``she's a good skate, charlie brown,'' cbs, 10.4
49. (57) ``our house,'' nbc, 10
50. (x) ``garfield in paradise,'' cbs, 10.0
51. (51) ``the equalizer,'' cbs, 9.3
51. (56) ``high mountain rangers,'' cbs, 9.3
53. (70) ``houston knights,'' cbs, 7.5
54. (na) ``21 jump street,'' fox, 6.9
55. (81) ``west 57th,'' cbs, 5.5
56. (na) ``married...with children,'' fox, 5.3
57. (na) ``werewolf,'' fox, 5.0
58. (na) ``tracey ullman show,'' fox, 4.2
59. (na) ``duet,'' fox, 3.7
60. (na) ``boys will be boys,'' fox, 2.7
61. (na) ``women in prison,'' fox, 2.5
62. (na) ``the new adventures of beans baxter,'' fox, 1.9
63. (na) ``mr. president,'' fox, 1.6
an agriculture department labor expert says farmers probably will begin feeling the impact of a new federal immigration law next year
robert coltrane of the department's economic research service said the immigration reform and control act of 1986 exempts many agricultural employers from penalties for knowingly hiring illegal aliens, but that exemption will expire dec. 1
the real test is likely to come after that time, when penalties can be imposed and immigration investigators may take a more aggressive approach to agriculture,'' coltrane said
coltrane, whose analysis is scheduled for the march issue of farmline magazine, said farm employers may be relying heavily on the special agricultural worker program, or saw, which allows temporary legal resident status for foreign workers who formerly helped in the u.s. production of designated perishable crops
producers of those crops are exempted from the law's penalties until dec. 1. as defined by usda regulations, those crops include not only fruits and vegetables, but also wheat, sugarbeets and a number of other commodities
coltrane said the main crops not qualifying as saw commodities are cotton, sugarcane, hay, sod, forage and silage, seed intended solely for seed use, flax, millet and sorghum. livestock producers also are not covered by the saw provision
the pool of saw workers has been growing, although it is still relatively small compared with total agricultural labor needs, coltrane said. in the first eight months of signup, june 1987 through january, around 240,000 workers filed saw applications, the first step to temporary legal residency and, under certain conditions, eventual u.s. citizenship
but only about 2 percent of the saw applications through december were filed from outside the united states. coltrane said this means that temporary rules relaxing border restrictions to bring in farm workers have not had much of an impact. moreover, there is no requirement that saw workers stay with farm jobs
once farm workers receive their work authorization card, they can work wherever they want, and in whatever industry they want,'' he said. ``agricultural employers have no assurance that the workers will stay in agriculture.''
the soviet union has used up virtually all of its authorization to buy u.s. wheat at subsidized prices with additional purchases totaling 500,000 metric tons for delivery this year
agriculture department officials said tuesday that the latest sales, equal to about 18.3 million bushels, were handled by continental grain co., 100,000 tons; cargill inc., 375,000 tons; and mitsui grain corp., 25,000 tons
at recent prices averaging $2.75 per bushel, the wheat would have a farm value of about $50 million
more than 6.8 million tons of subsidized wheat has been sold to the soviet union under the department's export enhancement program, or eep, for delivery in the year that began last oct. 1
george j. pope, acting general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said that only 200 tons of wheat are still available to the soviet union under current eep authorization. there has been no official indication that a new line of subsidy may be approved
under eep, private exporters are given surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp. so they can sell a foreign buyer wheat or other authorized commodity at competitive world prices
pope said the subsidies, or bonuses, averaged $27 per ton on the latest sales, or about 74 cents per bushel. the subsidies for the soviet union have been available only for wheat
the sales also are part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of a long-term agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans, or 39. bushels of corn
in addition, 2.62 million tons of u.s. corn, 813,300 tons of soybeans and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal have been bought by the soviets for delivery this year
interest rates charged by the agriculture department for price support crop loans made to farmers in march will be 6} percent, down from 7[ percent previously
milton hertz, executive vice president of the department's commodity credit corp., said tuesday that the decline reflects the interest rate charged ccc by the u.s. treasury this month
when the first musher charges north in the 16th annual iditarod trail sled dog race on saturday, organizers already will have their own victory, over alaska's economic bust and the race's $773,000 debt
fifty-five mushers have signed up for the rugged 1,100-mile contest billed as ``the last great race on earth.'' last year, 63 teams signed up; the year before, 73
this year's field includes four-time champion rick swenson; two-time winner susan butcher, whose $50,000 winner's check last year bounced; 1983 champion rick mackey; and 16 rookies. mushers from austria, canada, france and great britain also have signed up
the race is named after the iditarod trail, an old gold rush and mail route to nome. this year's race takes mushers over the tougher northern route, where temperatures, although moderate of late, can reach minus 50 degrees
starting in downtown anchorage on trucked-in snow, racers must cross over the alaska range, traverse frozen tundra and climb the timbered kuskokwim mountains to reach the yukon river at ruby, an old gold mining community
the mushers trek south on the yukon and turn toward the coast at kaltag. at unalakleet, the teams turn north and run along the windblown coast and sea ice to nome's front street
the trail became part of alaska's legends in 1925, when 20 mushers pushed for 127{ hours to relay diphtheria serum 674 miles from nenana to nome to save the city from an epidemic
after the check issued butcher bounced, a special audit in april found the race was $773,000 in debt, said rosemary phillips, the race's executive director
i suppose the economy had a lot to do with it,'' she said. ``the iditarod was caught up in the collapse. more was spent than was taken in.''
oil prices peaked at about $30 a barrel in 1985 but plunged to less than $10 by july 1986. about 85 percent of the state's revenues come from royalties and taxes paid by the oil industry. when oil prices fell, the state's economy, heavily dependent on state expenditures, went into the abyss
bankruptcies and foreclosures soared. property values tumbled, jobs dried up and businesses closed, but the iditarod, which relies on private contributions, did not get the message
we had a hard time seeing our problem,'' said iditarod trail committee president lavon barve. ``there was a budget, and the money was spent for that budget, but the money didn't come in.''
joe redington, an iditarod board member and race founder, said the race was spending money for things it did not need. ``we spent a lot of money and didn't pay no bills,'' he said. ``it was spent unwisely. we had too many employees. we had top salaries and all the benefits. we had better insurance than general motors.''
when the race's financial problems became known, officials cut the staff by two-thirds. ``we had 34 to start with. the rest took pay cuts. we cut all benefits,'' phillips said
joanne potts, race coordinator since 1983, said about 700 volunteers, such as pilots and ham radio operators, worked for the race last year. she expected about 1,200 this year
while cutting expenses, the race also has found new sponsors. a footwear manufacturer's four-year sponsorship could bring in more than $500,000, phillips said. a dog food manufacturer agreed to a one-year contract worth more than $25,000. a television network has offered $15,000 for coverage rights
merchandising the iditarod name on everything from beer steins to buttons makes up as much as 40 percent of the race's revenues, she said
as of right now, our outstanding debts are about $220,000. i think it's fantastic,'' phillips said. this year's purse will be at least $125,000, still the largest purse in sled dog racing, she said
potts said she never doubted the race would continue
there were people last june who didn't think we were going to have a race this year,'' she said. ``we fooled them. we're going to have one. it's just bigger than all the little problems we had last year.''
and the winner is ..
michael jackson? u2? prince? whitney houston?
the answer could be any and all of the above tonight at the 30th annual grammy awards, which return to new york city after a seven-year absence and promise a number of special performances and possible surprises
jackson, who has four nominations, will perform his most recent hit, ``man in the mirror,'' with an all-star backing cast including andrae crouch, the winans and siedah garrett. it is the superstar's first televised live appearance in five years
the grammys will be broadcast on cbs-tv from radio city music hall beginning at 8 p.m. est
not performing but likely to spend plenty of time on stage are the irish rockers u2, who garnered four major nominations and go head-to-head with jackson for album of the year
u2, whose album ``the joshua tree'' vaulted them to prominence last year, also is up for record of the year, song of the year and best rock vocal performance by a group or duo
jackson has additional nominations for best male pop vocal performance, best male rhythm and blues vocal performance and producer of the year with quincy jones
prince (``sign o' the times'') and houston (``whitney'') are also up for album of the year, along with dolly parton, linda ronstadt and emmylou harris for their ``trio'' album
prince also has been nominated for best rhythm and blues vocal performance by a group or duo with sheena easton for ``u got the look,'' which also garnered him a nomination for best rhythm and blues song _ a songwriter's award
houston, who will perform the nominated ``i wanna dance with somebody,'' is a potential winner in the categories best female pop vocal performance and best female rhythm and blues vocal performance
but there are lesser-known nominees with good chances at capturing one of the tiny phonograph trophys handed out by the national academy of recording arts and sciences
new york's own suzanne vega, a cult favorite who broke into the top 10 with her song ``luka,'' is up for record of the year, song of the year and best female pop vocal performance. los angeles' favorite sons, los lobos, are nominated both for their inspired remake of ritchie valens' ``la bamba'' and their brilliant second album, ``by the light of the moon.''
los lobos will perform their version of ``la bamba,'' a mexican folk tune adapted by the late valens, at the awards show and vega is slated to do ``luka.'' the only other nominee scheduled to perform is best new artist hopeful terence trent d'arby
d'arby's competition includes breakfast club, cutting crew, swing out sister and jody watley
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,682.82 points, up 246.92 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on wednesday
a treaty to eliminate most tariff barriers between the united states and canada leaves disputes in the auto industry unresolved, witnesses at a house hearing said
lee kadrich, director of governmental affairs and international trade with the automotive parts and accessories association, said tuesday the treaty was ``a lopsided agreement that sanctions long-standing canadian protectionism.''
he told the trade subcommittee of the house ways and means committee that the treaty would put u.s. parts makers at the mercy of foreign competitors
automotive products, which account for about one-third of the trade between the united states and canada, have been governed for more than 20 years by the auto pact, which gives duty-free treatment to some parts and vehicles moving between the two countries
critics of the free-trade agreement, however, charge that canadian efforts to attract manufacturing have given their makers an unfair advantage under the auto pact, and the agreement leaves that advantage in place
our current bilateral auto trade is skewed, to canada's benefit, by a number of trade-distorting practices,'' resulting in part from canada's domestic-content requirements and duty rebates on some auto parts, said rep. sander levin, a southfield, mich., democrat
steve beckman, international economist for the united auto workers union, said that the treaty, by retaining canadian production incentives for honda, toyota and hyundai, provides ``a subsidy of canadian production, much of which will be sold in the u.s.''
an exception to that overall assessment was given by thomas hanna of the motor vehicle manufacturers association, which represents auto manufacturers
hanna said the treaty would create the world's largest free-trade zone and ``takes on and resolves most of the trouble spots which were developing in the bilateral auto trade.''
he said concerns that the treaty would provide expanded entry for japanese and korean manufacturers were unfounded because the north american auto industry already has excess manufacturing capacity
it makes no sense for the canadian government to lure more foreign auto investment, especially when much of the production would be headed for the u.s. market,'' he said
the national transportation safety board says it was unable to determine what caused the crash in 1986 of a helicopter scheduled to carry the entourage of jordan's king hussein in which four people died
investigators concluded that poor flying conditions, including fog that caused limited visibility, were factors in the june 6, 1986, crash in sutton, mass. but the official probable cause was listed as ``undetermined.''
dennis jones, the lead investigator, said tuesday the massive disintegration of the helicopter hindered the inquiry. ``we're only as good as the evidence,'' he said
there's no evidence to point to anything that we can concretely say'' triggered the crash, ntsb spokesman michael benson said
investigators originally concentrated on a mysterious piece of wire that raised questions of sabotage, but that turned out to be part of an electrical testing instrument
the investigation later focused on what looked like a frayed cable that controlled the tail rotor, which provides stability to the craft. but the final report, issued monday, said ``no pre-impact part failure (or) malfunction was found.''
four employees of sikorsky aircraft were killed when the seven-seat, sikorsky-built s-76b helicopter went down on a trip from hanscom field in bedford, mass., back to sikorsky headquarters in stratford, conn
the helicopter was one of four sikorsky had provided to hussein during his new england visit, but the king, his family and aides drove from massachusetts to the westover school in middlebury, conn., for the graduation of his daughter, princess zeim, because of the bad weather. her twin sister, princess aisha, graduated from the dana hall school in wellesley, mass., later that weekend
sikorsky spokesman marty moore said the company supports the board's findings
benson said the crash illustrates the need for smaller aircraft to carry ``black boxes,'' devices that would tape the crew's conversations and possibly provide clues
the safety board has been pushing the federal aviation administration to require cockpit voice recorders in smaller craft, including helicopters that seat at least six passengers. the faa is considering the proposed rules change
scientists in two laboratories say they have confirmed a report from researchers that a new kind of superconducting material loses all resistance to electricity at a record high temperature
researchers at the university of arkansas say the material showed zero resistance at about minus 269 degrees fahrenheit, more than 20 degrees above previous widely accepted reports for stable superconducting compounds
paul chu of the university of houston said he had confirmed the arkansas results, finding zero resistance at minus 272 degrees. he said his sample also expelled an applied magnetic field, a hallmark of superconductivity called the meissner effect
the results also have been confirmed by researchers at international business machines corp., said ibm spokesman jerry present. he said he could not release details
superconductivity is the ability to carry current without resistance. scientists are trying to make materials that become superconducting at as high a temperature as possible, to make them practical for uses in high-speed computers, bullet trains and other applications
higher temperatures than the arkansas mark have been reported in the press. but some have not been confirmed in other laboratories, and others refer to the temperature at which a sample shows initial signs of isolated pockets of superconductivity, rather than superconducting pathways along its entire length
the new compound showed initial signs of superconductivity at minus 238 degrees, said university of arkansas researcher allen hermann, who did the research with zhenghi sheng
that is slightly higher than the mark of about minus 243 degrees recently reported for superconductors that include the element bismuth rather than a so-called ``rare earth.''
the arkansas compound uses the element thallium rather than bismuth or rare earth. other ingredients are calcium, barium, copper and oxygen
the results were announced to the press and at a scientific meeting last month, but were not widely reported. they have been accepted for publication in the british journal nature, hermann said in a telephone interview
chu said lessons from the thallium and bismuth compounds will help in developing materials with still higher temperatures. he also noted that the thallium compound showed zero resistance above 100 degrees on the kelvin scale, giving a psychological boost for hopes of higher temperatures
the 100-degree kelvin mark corresponds to about minus 280 degrees fahrenheit
thallium is ``not quite practical'' for applications outside the laboratory because it is toxic and in limited supply, he said
hermann said he thinks thallium and bismuth eventually will be abandoned in favor of new materials with higher temperatures and better characteristics for applications
brian schwartz, physics professor at brooklyn college, said the arkansas work is encouraging because it shows that substituting elements in superconducting materials may lead to higher temperatures
a federal court ruling expected today in boston could determine whether new regulations will go into effect this week that cut off funds to family planning centers which advocate or perform abortions
the months of debate continued tuesday as nabers cabaniss, deputy assistant secretary at the department of health and human services, defended the administration proposals before members of a family planning group challenging the regulations in court
cabaniss told the gathering that the new title x regulations were not an attack on the family planning industry but a reaffirmation of the administration's anti-abortion policy
addressing the annual meeting of the national family planning and reproductive health association, cabaniss said the new regulations, due to go into effect tomorrow, would withhold funding to centers in which ``abortion is a method of family planning.''
we support family planning but not abortion on demand,'' she said, urging the group to ``work together to separate family planning from abortion.''
cabaniss said the regulations require so-called ``non-directive'' counseling, which offers pregnant women information about their medical options with the exception of abortion
if the facility also performs abortions, to keep title x funding for its other programs the clinic must maintain separate personnel, separate accounting procedures, and provide different and clearly defined waiting and treatment rooms for each type of patient
among participants speaking out against the new title x rules was dorothy p. mann, executive director of the family planning council of southeast pennsylvania in philadelphia. she told cabaniss: ``we are not fools. women won't come to programs that can't help them
these regulations will destroy the family planning programs and in doing so the lives of millions of poor women.''
since the regulations were published in the federal register last month, two injunctions have been granted in courts in denver and new york. the denver suit was brought by planned parenthood federation of america, while the new york court action was brought by the american civil liberties union
the denver ruling covers all planned parenthood centers, and the new york ruling covers clinics in that state
a third suit, filed by nfprha in u.s. district court in boston, seeks an injunction to protect its publicly funded member clinics and other family planning centers not covered by the other injunctions
scott swirling, the association's executive director, said the suit was filed to eliminate regulations he asserted ``are illegal, violate the intent of congress, violate medical ethics and could harm the health care of almost 5 million poor women we serve.''
if the boston court agrees, the three preliminary injunctions would stop the regulations from going into effect and give the court time to look at the regulations and issue or deny a permanent injunction, cabaniss said
in this case we would expect some permanent ruling in march,'' she said, adding that the cases will end up in the supreme court
if the u.s. district court in boston denies the injunction, hhs must decide whether to wait or implement the regulations affecting those clinics not covered in the planned parenthood or new york state suits
as head of the office of population affairs, cabaniss administers the $140 million title x program, which funds about 4,000 family planning centers. according to hhs statistics, 85 percent of the patients served by these centers are low-income and one-third of them are adolescents
work could begin this week on a $2.3 million elevator that will allow visitors to view what is believed to be the perch from which president john f. kennedy was shot
the contract to build the elevator was awarded monday by the dallas county commission
the dallas county historical foundation struggled to fund the exhibit for the past 11 years, and plans to raise $1.5 million more from private sources for additional renovations on the sixth floor of the former texas schoolbook depository
as sad as it is, it is the most important historical site in dallas,'' said lindalyn adams, president of foundation
the project includes construction of a six-story access tower that will house the elevator and a one-story, ground-level exhibit hall adjacent to the building
the exhibit, to be called ``the sixth floor,'' is expected to attract an estimated 300,000 to 500,000 visitors annually
the warren commission determined that on nov. 22, 1963, lee harvey oswald fired a high-powered rifle at kennedy's motorcade from the sixth floor of what is now the dallas county administration building, where he worked
tony callaway, a partner in the architectural firm of hendrick callaway, said construction could be completed by november. but foundation officials say they are unlikely to schedule the exhibit's opening for nov. 22, the 25th anniversary of kennedy's assassination
we think it would be inappropriate,'' ms. adams said
about 30 of israel's leading entertainers staged a sing-in to protest the government's handling of 12 weeks of arab riots in the west bank and gaza strip
shalom, shalom, we are making peace. there will be peace. we are together beyond fear,'' they sang, swaying together on a stage in front of tel aviv's city hall
about 3,000 israelis sang along in hebrew to the tune of ``we are the world.''
the protesters also heard newly released peace songs and carried placards that said ``we won't be a nation of bullies'' and ``enough of occupation.''
the demonstration was held in kings of israel plaza, site of a protest by more than 100,000 israelis in 1982 that helped lead to israel's pullout from lebanon
tuesday's protest was sponsored by red line, peace activists who are staging a four-day march from rosh haniqra on the lebanon border to jerusalem, where about 1,500 marchers are expected today
three months of arab rioting against the 20-year israeli occupation of their homelands has produced a crop of new protest songs, the first since the end of israel's three-year occupation of lebanon in 1985
among the stars was rita fayrouz, the iranian-born singer who recently released ``a song for children.'' the lyrics say, ``he was born of mother war, but deep in his heart, he just wanted to be a poet.''
a number of participants expressed disappointment at the relatively small turnout. but rami kleinstein, a rock musician and ms. fayrouz's husband, predicted ``change is going to happen.''
one of the most critical songs was by si hyman, 26, who wrote ``shooting and crying'' to protest an incident last month in which israeli soldiers buried alive four arabs in kfar salem. the victims were rescued by relatives
ms. hyman sang:
shooting and crying, burning and laughing
when did we learn to bury alive?
shooting and crying, burning and laughing
when did we forget that we also had children killed?''
in an interview after the performance, she said she was shocked that ``this was done by the jewish people who lived through the holocaust. i said to myself we've got to stop it.''
japan and western europe were rebuilt with america's help after world war ii and should now repay the united states by picking up a larger share of nato and japanese defense costs, according to a well-known historian
the comments tuesday by yale historian paul kennedy echoed other calls by legislators and former government officials as president reagan flew to europe for a two-day meeting of the 16-nation north atlantic treaty organization
kennedy, author of ``the rise and fall of great nations,'' told the senate budget committee that calls for increased ``burden sharing'' are part of the effort to find a way out of ever-growing defense expenditures
some american allies ``are now richer per capita than the usa,'' kennedy said, adding that japan and western europe ``ought to bear a larger share of the defense burden.''
sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., chairman of the panel, agreed, saying: ``it seems to me we are draining our power trying to do too much. our adversaries are happy to see us try. our allies haven't done as much as they can to help.''
defense secretary frank c. carlucci also agreed at least in part with kennedy. at a house budget committee hearing earlier tuesday, he said, ``i quite agree with the thesis that our allies need to do more.'' but he added that ``i don't think it is very useful to simply berate the europeans on this.''
carlucci told the house panel that he doesn't think nato will increase spending in response to complaints by congress
rep. william gray, d-pa., chairman of the committee, complained about what he called ``unequal sharing'' by nato countries. ``our allies in nato are not doing, in my estimation, enough for their own defense,'' he said
the united states is spending about 6 percent of its gross national product on defense while no other countries in nato are above 3 percent, gray said
rep. richard durbin, r-ill., said the average japanese citizen spends about $100 a year in taxes for defense, while the average american spends $1,200
we need to make every effort to get our allies to do more,'' carlucci agreed, but he added that they do more than is ``generally recognized.'' he cited a statistic that nato would supply 90 percent of the ground troops that would be used to halt a soviet non-nuclear attack
carlucci said america's defense budget is 5.7 percent of the nation's gnp, not 6 percent and he added that u.s. defense budgets generally have stayed even or declined in recent years
nato has long set a target for each member to increase spending by 3 percent a year after inflation, and most nations don't meet that target, carlucci said. the united states hasn't met the 3 percent target for at least four years, he added
carlucci and adm. william crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said nato needs to improve its conventional defenses in the wake of the treaty banning medium-range atomic missiles from europe
crowe detailed nato's shortcomings in non-nuclear weapons, but added, ``surely the prospect of having to fight 16 nations at once remains a sobering one for the kremlin.''
when congress convened last july for the first time in 15 years, it vowed to build democracy from the ruins of authoritarian rule. seven months later, critics say it has been slow to address fundamental issues
the new constitution, drafted under president corazon aquino, reestablished the bicameral, u.s.-style congress. former president ferdinand marcos abolished congress in 1972 and replaced it with a single-chamber, rubber-stamp assembly
members of the senate and house of representatives were elected in may 1987, and congress convened last july 27. since then, more than 6,000 bills have been submitted in the 23-member senate and the 202-member house
as of the end of february, only 13 had been enacted into law
the bills are not an indication of quality at all,'' said rep. bonifacio gillego. he said most were for local projects such as roads, schools and hospitals
meanwhile, legislation on major national issues, such as land reform, has been bogged down by special interests and organizational problems in the two chambers
commentators and congressional sources disagree on why congress has not been more productive
some complain that traditional politicians spend too much time on ``peripheral'' topics or delivering lengthy speeches while ignoring complex issues
it's part of the turmoil of transition, part of growing up,'' said opposition leader wilson gamboa, who was defeated for the senate last may. ``vital issues of legislation that should have far-reaching effects on the condition of the people have not been addressed.''
some congressmen defend the slow pace, saying it is better to take time with complicated issues than rush legislation which members may later regret
we cannot afford to hurry that much and regret it later,'' said sen. juan ponce enrile. ``we're not just talking about our few interests but a complex situation.''
sen. ernesto maceda, chairman of the senate defense committee, also defended the slow pace
is that what they want, faster laws but probably imperfect laws?'' maceda said in an interview. ``we're slower, but probably all sides are heard.''
last month, eight senators formed a ``conscience bloc'' and publicly criticized senate president jovito salonga for delays in bringing legislation to the floor
one of the eight, sen. alberto romulo, said economic and social issues ``have not been given the importance they deserve.'' he added, ``our performance will be assessed by how much we have done to improve the quality of life of our people.''
salonga promised to speed up senate proceedings and reduce the time allotted for speeches
some congressmen also complain that the two chambers lack sufficient staff and resources to provide members with detailed information and advice on legislation
many commentators view the current debate on land reform as a test case of congress' ability to legislate controversial issues with far-reaching impact on national life
last july, mrs. aquino decreed a nationwide land redistribution program but left virtually all the difficult decisions, such as compensation and retention limits, to congress
she gave the lawmakers 90 days to approve the legislation, and house speaker ramon mitra boasted his chamber would meet the deadline within 30 days. but neither the house nor the senate has approved a land reform bill, in part because of opposition by landlord members
there has been considerable delay, almost intentional on the part of the landlords to avoid the passage of an agrarian reform bill,'' said gillego, chairman of the house's land reform committee
the justice department should appeal a pair of conflicting rulings on random drug testing for civilian government employees in order to resolve the issue, says a judge responsible for one of the decisions
u.s. district judge thomas f. hogan on tuesday ordered the army to stop random checks of 9,400 of its civilian employees for drug use because the tests are an unreasonable search prohibited by the constitution
it is with some regret that the court removes what might be a powerful weapon from the nation's arsenal in the campaign against illegal drug use, but the values represented by the constitution and fourth amendment are transcendent,'' hogan ruled
hogan said random checks could not be justified by safety concerns because the urine test used by the army did not indicate whether an employee was using drugs on the job
the ruling was made on three challenges brought by public employees unions to the army's 1986 order directing random drug tests of civilians in sensitive jobs. the cases involved unions representing civilians at ft. stewart, ga., the sharp army depot in lathrop, calif. and guards at aberdeen proving ground, md
noting that another federal judge in washington last year upheld random drug testing of nearly 30,000 transportation department employees, hogan invited the justice department to appeal his decision
he also suggested that the u.s. circuit court of appeals here consolidate the two cases for a single review of ``a question of exceptional importance.''
based on hogan's invitation, ``we are reviewing the opinion and are considering an appeal,'' said amy brown, a justice department spokeswoman
on monday, the supreme court agreed to review a ruling by a federal appeals court in new orleans, which had upheld drug testing of u.s. customs service employees who seek promotions
a federal appeals court in san francisco last month ruled unconstitutional the mandatory drug testing of railway workers involved in accidents
sen. edward m. kennedy says increases in the government's food stamp program are needed to make up for reagan administration cuts that have helped create hunger in america through the 1980s
the cold statistics only begin to measure the toll in terms of the human lives damaged, disabled and destroyed by our shameful abdication of responsibility in recent years,'' the massachusetts democrat told a group of nutrition activists tuesday
we have financed the greatest arms buildup in human history, but once again we are losing the war on hunger,'' he said
kennedy, chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, planned to introduce legislation today with sen. patrick j. leahy, d-vt., and rep. leon e. panetta, d-calif., that would help ``right those wrongs.''
i do not intend to accept proposals that seek to balance the federal budget on the backs of poor children,'' he said. ``survival of the fittest may be the law of the jungle, but it is not the law of america, and it is time for america to help.''
kennedy said his anti-hunger legislation would raise food stamp benefits ``so that no americans are forced to go hungry for the last part of every month.''
it also would ease food stamp eligibility requirements and provide more public information about the program
kennedy said hunger in america was largely eradicated by the late 1970s, but ``misguided'' budget cuts under president reagan have ``rubbed salt in the wounds'' created by the recession of the early 1980s, triggering the re-emergence of hunger
earlier, boston mayor raymond l. flynn told the food research and action center's annual conference that the nation needs a ``compassionate urban agenda.''
flynn, chairman of the u.s. conference of mayors' task force on hunger and homelessness, said both problems are growing, especially among families with children
the sad truth is that hunger is now more prevalent in our nation than at any time since the great depression,'' he said
the underdog hero of the winter olympics, british ski-jumper eddie ``the eagle'' edwards, has been offered a recording contract and may soon appear in commercials endorsing a brand of vodka
edwards, who became the olympics' favorite loser, flew home to a hero's welcome tuesday. he was the last man off the plane
a plasterer from cheltenham, in southwest england, edwards won the hearts of this nation of underdog-lovers by finishing last in ski-jumping events in calgary. he arrived at heathrow airport with the 100-member british team, some of whom wore ``eddie the eagle'' t-shirts
edwards, 24, trooped into the airport to be greeted by flower-throwing fans and an army of photographers, reporters and television crews
i've made it, i've made it to the olympics,'' the eagle said. ``that's all i cared about.''
alfred and catherine heath, a retired couple from wimbledon, were among the well-wishers. ``we saw him on tv,'' said heath. ``he was just wonderful.''
he's got guts,'' said john ward, a transport executive. ``he's captured the imagination of people.''
edwards was britain's first ski-jumper in the games for more than 50 years
he finished last in both the 70-meter and 90-meter events, but endeared himself to millions of armchair athletes with his gangly, bemused clumsiness, enhanced by the thick glasses that gave him a bird-like look
his hometown is planning a parade for him on thursday
edwards said he was suprised by all the publicity he received, but said: ``i'm going to try not to let it get in the way. nothing's going to change. i'm still a jumper. i'm still training.''
when he was asked if fame might go to his head, edwards replied: ``i'll try not to let it.'' he confirmed, however, he intends to cut a record titled ``fly, eddie, fly.''
edwards signed up an agent, london music promoter simon platz, who told a british tv interviewer the eagle would cut the record today. ``he says he can sing, and that's good enough for me,'' said platz
edwards also was negotiating a deal to endorse vladivar, a brand of vodka
it's great to actually have somebody who's prepared to have a smile at themselves _ and keep on coming last. that's very important,'' phil staniforth, the vodka company representative, told the interviewer
critics had said edwards should not have entered the olympic events because of the danger, but he said, ``i proved them wrong.''
i've only been jumping two years, and the trainers i've talked to say there's no reason i can't get into the top five. hopefully, i'll be a force to reckon with next year.''
but in the meantime, edwards said he wanted to get back to his job as plasterer. ``it's a nice rest, plastering,'' he said
a stamp cancellation such as the british one proclaiming that ``jesus is alive'' could not be issued in the united states, a postal service official says
the postal service's 74 division managers can approve special cancellations for events of general public interest, said dick rustin, manager of the stamp information branch
the special cancellations may not deal with things only of local interest or for political, religious, fraternal, trade or commercial purposes, he said tuesday
the british post office on tuesday began postmarking nearly all letters mailed in that country with the words ``jesus is alive!'' as part of a private arrangement financed by an evangelist
jewish leaders criticized the christian cancellation as potentially offensive
the special postmark, which also contains a small cross, will last six weeks and was paid for by paul slennet, who sells religious literature at two bookstores in southend-on-sea, east of london. he said god told him to buy the postmark
the state-owned post office said slennet paid the equivalent of $88,500 for the privilege of having every letter mailed through 68 of britain's 69 sorting offices with the jesus message
rustin said groups seeking the special cancellations have to pay $900 for the engraving of the cancellation plus about $100 for each canceling die to be used. for a large post office many dies can be required, rustin said. us</head>
the state department says it approves of efforts by opponents of panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega to freeze panamanian assets in the united states and choke off payments to the government
it's their action to take,'' state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said tuesday, calling it ``the legitimate action of the constitutional government in panama.''
panamanian opposition leader gabriel lewis, a former ambassador to washington, said legal steps were being taken to freeze the assets but he gave few details
lewis said disclosing specifics of the plan could enable panamanian officials loyal to noriega to take countermeasures
juan b. sosa, u.s. ambassador for panama's president in hiding, eric arturo delvalle, released a proclamation from delvalle calling on all panamanians not to engage in any financial transactions with the authorities who seized power from him last week
the proclamation states that payment of debts, taxes and other obligations should be withheld until constitutional government is restored in panama
the legal efforts in the united states were being handled by william d. rogers, a former assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs and an undersecretary of state for economic affairs
the panamanian national assembly, dominated by forces loyal to noriega deposed delvalle last friday after the president had attempted to fire noriega as defense chief
pentagon officials are studying a reorganization plan for the ``stars &amp; stripes'' military newspapers that could change their printing schedules, introduce advertising and cut back on staff
the reorganization plan, proposed to the pentagon last fall by an advisory task force but only recently released publicly, is now being studied by the european and pacific commands, where the two newspapers are published
the top military leaders of those commands are to file comments with the pentagon within the next week or so, allowing defense department officials to make some final decisions on the fate of the two newspapers, said william caldwell, a pentagon spokesman
ultimately, dan howard, the assistant defense secretary for public affairs, will decide whether to change the newspapers' operation in consultation with defense secretary frank c. carlucci and congress
the internal review comes at a time when the general accounting office is conducting an independent investigation of alleged censorship by military commanders at the papers. congress, at the prodding of sen. william proxmire, d-wis., ordered that investigation last december and is likely to study closely any reorganization plan
the newspapers are published for american servicemen posted overseas and date back to publication in france during world war i. the papers' chief goal is to provide the same national and international news available in the united states to troops assigned to foreign countries
although frequently referred to as one newspaper, there are two separate editions of the stars and stripes, published by autonomous bureaus in west germany and japan
the papers are staffed by military as well as civilian journalists and report to the commanders of the european and pacific commands. they are partially supported by taxpayer funds _ roughly $9 million in fiscal 1986
the pentagon formed a seven-member ``stars &amp; stripes advisory task force'' in the fall of 1986, asking for ideas on how to make the operations more efficient. named as chairman was capt. robert a. rosen, a longtime communications executive in private life who is also a public affairs officer in the naval reserve
the 55-page report produced by the rosen panel concludes that the two newspapers are ``bringing to overseas dod personnel a balanced presentation of u.s. and international news along with relevant dod and unified command news, but at a high cost.''
the task force saw areas where improvement in newspaper quality and significant cost savings could be made.''
the panel said the pentagon should consider such things as shifting from a seven-day-a-week schedule to a six-day-a-week schedule; consolidation of management and procurement; paring expenses on wire services by subscribing to only one; investing in modern text-editing computers to improve staff efficiency; and closely reviewing staff levels in any event
the newspapers are published in a similar fashion, yet the editorial staff of the european edition is twice that of the pacific edition _ 87 to 41, the panel found
the task force came away with the distinct impression that the european stars &amp; stripes, and possibly the pacific stars &amp; stripes, editorial departments were overstaffed,'' the report states
most importantly, it is time to re-think the restrictions that prevent the newspapers from accepting most forms of advertising, the panel insisted. the two papers rely now primarily on their 25-cent subscription charge
the report said: ``the task force believes that the congress and the dod must come to grips with the practical reality of what a newspaper is _ namely a manufactured product that conveys news and other information, including advertising information. ..
congress and dod must apply that reality to the stars and stripes so that the papers may better serve their readers and become economically secure with a reduced need of appropriated funds.''
if the government is not willing to do that, ``it should either resign itself to continued appropriated fund support ... or get out of the daily newspaper business,'' the panel concluded
richard gephardt stood in the bright sunshine on the steps of the capitol building and delivered the message that has carried him to the front rank of the democratic presidential field
it was tough talk about trade and the problems of american workers
his critics call gephardt's message protectionist. they decry the undeniable fact that this washington insider is running against the establishment
but the missouri congressman appears to be getting a positive response. no other candidate has a message that has caught hold so effectively with a large portion of the democratic party electorate
gephardt may fall short in the race for the democratic presidential nomination. the party may turn to gov. michael dukakis' technocratic appeal, to sen. albert gore jr.'s tough defense and foreign policy message or to jesse jackson's anti-establishment platform
but gephardt's strong run for the nomination already has delivered a message to the the party, one that might outlive his candidacy
a strong tribute to the gephardt message came in the republican presidential debate in atlanta last sunday when rep. jack kemp of new york turned to kansas sen. bob dole and accused him of sounding ``just like dick gephardt.''
when dole campaigns in south carolina he unabashedly supports legislation to restrict textile imports. so does pat robertson
the reason is simple. over 45 percent of the jobs in south carolina are in the textile industry and the state has lost 126 plants
a staple of the gepardt message is reference to an editorial in the wall street journal that referred to the trade deficits as ``just a fact of life.''
then he said he'd like the editorial writer to come with him to bettendorff, iowa, where 6,000 workers in three different industries have recently lost their jobs because of foreign competition
sit across the table as i did from live human beings and have them tell you what it's like to lose their life insurance, lose their health insurance, lose their pension, what it's like to go home and tell their families that they've lost their jobs, that they're going to stand in an unemployment line or a welfare line, to tell them it's just a fact of life,'' he said
he referred to electronics workers in new hampshire and textile workers in south carolina and said, ``ladies and gentlemen, i don't like those facts of life.''
he said it was time for america to ``get control of our economic destiny,'' a powerful message to americans who feel uneasy over the nation's enormous trade deficits
four years ago, republicans derided as protectionist, walter mondale's call for legislation that would require a certain portion of foreign products to be manufactured in the united states, so-called domestic content legislation
the label stuck. it was special interest legislation, a bad thing for the country
but during the four years since that election, the situation has not improved and more and more people are feeling they are a part of that special interest
two former governors of south carolina _ robert mcnair and richard riley _ stood with gephardt on the capitol steps and endorsed his candidacy
both felt compelled to defend the congressman against charges he is protectionist
mcnair said gephardt has ``faced up to putting america first with a fair, sound and sensible trade bill. ... it is not a piece of protectionist legislation as some have tried to portray it, but it is what is best for this country.''
dick gephardt has spoken out during this campaign on trade and some have referred to him as a protectionist,'' said riley. ``he's not a protectionist at all, he's a pragmatist.''
republican bob dole received more money from political action committees than all the other presidential candidates, while democrat richard gephardt, who has portrayed himself as anti-establishment, leads in pac contributions among his party's hopefuls
gephardt, a missouri congressman, accepted $337,698 in contributions from pacs, including those representing first republican bank fund, prudential-bache securities and e.f. hutton &amp; co., now a part of shearson lehman hutton inc
dole, a senator from kansas, has received $645,190 in contributions from pacs representing banking institutions, utility companies and other groups, according to a report issued tuesday by congress watch
vice president bush has received the second-highest amount with $559,895; rep. jack kemp has gotten $57,766, and the other republican candidate, former television evangelist pat robertson, has not accepted any pac contributions, the report said
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. was second among the democrats with $174,934 in pac money, and illinois sen. paul simon was third with $152,250. jesse jackson accepted $47,925 in pac contributions, the report said
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and former colorado sen. gary hart have said they do not accept pac money
gephardt was roundly criticized on the subject by several of his rivals in a debate monday night in williamsburg, va
and the dukakis campaign has prepared anti-gephardt ads that communications director leslie dach described this way: ``he says he is leading the little guy's fight, but his campaign is financed and supported by the big guys. his biggest contributors are america's biggest corporations.''
congress watch, which issued the report, is the legislative arm of public citizen, the liberal organization founded in 1971 by consumer advocate ralph nader. the group based its report on federal election commission documents from october 1987 and campaign contributions through jan. 31 of this year
monday night, dukakis took gephardt to task for accepting pac contributions while ``racing around the country beating up on the establishment.''
gephardt said he had often voted against the policies advocated by his contributors and ``to suggest that people have voted according to the wishes of people who have given them money, i just think is out of touch with reality. i haven't done that and i know you haven't done that.''
but jackson said gephardt's contention that he ignored the wishes of his contributors was unrealistic
lobbyists would lose their jobs if they gave money continuously against the interests of who they were working for,'' jackson said
among contributors to gephardt's campaign were the builders pac association, $5,000; first republican bank fund, $5,000; prudential-bache securities, $2,500; mercantile bank corp., $1,000, and e.f. hutton, $1,500
election law limits each pac to contributions of no more than $5,000 to any one candidate, in contrast to the limit for individual contributions of $1,000
gore received contributions from pacs representing coca-cola bottling co., $2,500; lockheed corp., $1,000; the sheet metal workers, $5,000, and pacific telesis, $1,500
dole's pac contributors included american telephone &amp; telegraph co., $5,000; h &amp; r block, $1,000; shell oil, $5,000; union oil, $5,000, and federal express, $2,000
according to fec documents released last year, dole led his senate colleagues with a total of $3.3 million received from pacs since he entered congress in 1968
of that, about $1 million was raised from pacs for the kansas senator's re-election campaign in 1986
bush accepted contributions from pacs representing citicorp, $2,250; csx transportation, $1,000, and manufacturers hanover, $2,000
bill greene of the boston globe and anthony suau of black star were chosen the top newspaper and magazine photographers of the year in the 45th annual pictures of the year competition at the university of missouri
the top photo essayist award went to herman leroy emmet, a new york city free-lancer who won for a seven-year documentary focusing on migrant workers
bill kuykendall, director of the pictures of the year competition, said tuesday that a record 1,995 photographers entered more than 37,000 photographs in what he called ``the world's largest and most significant photojournalism competition.''
the contest is cosponsored by the national press photographers association and the university of missouri school of journalism. eight experts in photography worked for two weeks narrowing the field of more than 37,000 entries in 38 categories
the winners by categories:
newspaper photographer of the year: bill greene, the boston globe, first; john tlumacki, the boston globe, second; and melissa farlow, the pittsburgh press, third
magazine photographer of the year: anthony suau, black star, first; and james l. stanfield, national georgraphic, second
newspaper spot news: david murray jr., fort lauderdale news-sun-sentinel, first; terry l. way, united press international, second; and viorel florescu, new york newsday, third
newspaper general news: scott takushi, the seattle times, first; cloe poisson, the hartford courant, second; and guy a. reynolds, baton rouge, la., state-times-morning advocate, third
newspaper feature picture: keith a. myers, the kansas city times, first; marc halevi, free-lance, second; and christine cavanaugh, san diego union-tribune, third
newspaper sports action: larry steagall, bremerton, wash., sun, first; gregory drezdzon, the wichita eagle-beacon, second; and annalisa kraft, the cincinnati enquirer, third
newspaper sports feature: anne ryan, the fort lauderdale news-sun-sentinel, first; mark edelson, hollywood, fla., sun-tattler, second; and john blackmer, the orange county register, third
newspaper portrait-personality: sara krulwich, the new york times, first; carol guzy, the miami herald, second; and lucian perkins, the washington post, third
newspaper pictorial: peter tobia, the new haven, conn., register, first; charles w. ledford, the st. petersburg times, second; and wally emerson, free-lance, third
newspaper food illustration: mary circelli, the columbus dispatch, first; craig trumbo, providence, r.i., journal-bulletin, second; and mark b. sluder, the charlotte observer, third
newspaper fashion illustration: vickie lewis, the albuquerque tribune, first; steve harper, the wichita eagle-beacon, second; and david j. phillip, the denton, texas, record-chronicle, third
newspaper editorial illustration: v. jane windsor, university of florida, first; sig bokalders, free-lance, second; and geff hinds, tacoma, wash., news tribune, third
newspaper news picture story: jimi lott, the seattle times, first; manny crisostomo, the detroit free press, second; and janet knott, the boston globe, third
newspaper feature picture story: melissa farlow, the pittsburgh press, first; bill greene, the boston globe, second; and nicole bengiveno, new york daily news, third
news sports portfolio: gary a. cameron, the washington post, first; david eulitt, university of missouri-columbia; second, and robert hanashiro, the visalia, calif., times-delta, third
newspaper one week's work: amy davis, baltimore sun newspaper, first; catharine krueger, the hollywood, fla., sun-tattler, second; and leland holder, the claremont, calif., courier, third
magazine news or documentary: maggie steber, j.b. pictures, first; jim stanfield, national geographic, second; and robert r. mercer, mercer visual communications, inc., third
magazine feature: stephanie maze, free-lance, first; rick smolan, ``a day in the life of the soviet union,'' second; and dilip mehta, ``a day in the life of the soviet union,'' third
magazine portrait@personality: anthony suau, black star, first; dwan feary, free-lance, second; and harry benson, free-lance, third
magazine pictorial: bob thayer, the providence, r.i., journal, first; neal slavin, ``a day in the life of the soviet union,'' second; and frans marten lanting, free-lance, third
magazine illustration: gary s. chapman, the louisville, ky., courier-journal sunday magazine, first; caryn levy, free-lance, second; and gary s. chapman, the louisville, ky., courier-journal sunday magazine, third
magazine science &amp; natural history: jim brandenburg, national geographic, first; jim brandenburg, national geographic, second; and frans martin lanting, free-lance, third
magazine picture story: jim brandenburg, national geographic, first; nathan benn, national geographic, second; and randy olson, the pittsburgh press sunday magazine, third
newspaper picture editing, team _ the boston globe, first; the seattle times, second; and the virginian-pilot &amp; ledger-star, third
newspaper picture editing, individual _ john rumbach, jasper, ind., herald, first; dean lindoerfer, el paso herald-post, second; and steven zerby, (minn.) star tribune, newspaper of the twin cities, third
news story editing _ donald r. winslow, the palm beach post, first; robert mayer, fort lauderdale news@sentinel, second; and randy cox, the hartford courant, third
feature story _ editing: david griffin, the philadelphia inquirer sunday magazine, first; dean lindoerfer, el paso herald-post, second; and alex burrows, the virginian-pilot & ledger-star, third
series or special section: the boston globe, team entry, first; the boston globe, team entry, second; cole porter, the seattle times, third; and fred nelson, natalie fobes, the seattle times, fourth
newspaper-produced magazine picture editing: david griffin, tom gralish, bert fox, larry price, the philadelphia inquirer sunday magazine, first; j. bruce baumann, the pittsburgh press sunday magazine, second; and lesley a. becker, dallas life magazine, third
best use of photos in newspaper _ circulation under 25,000: biddeford, maine, journal tribune, first; green river, wyo., star, second; and jackson hole, wyo., guide, third
best use of photos in newspaper _ circulation 25,000 to 150,000: torrance, calif., daily breeze, first
best use of photos in newspaper _ circulation over 150,000: the seattle times, first; the virginian-pilot &amp; ledger-star, second; and the hartford courant, third
best use of photographs by a newspaper _ zoned edition: neighbors, the philadelphia inquirer, first; neighborhoods, the louisville courier-journal, second
best use of photos in a magazine: american photographer, first; national geographic, second; and international wildlife, third
the tokyo stock exchange surged closer to pre-crash levels today, setting a new 1988 record for volume, while the dollar fell slightly
foreign buying and a bullish economy in the united states have convinced domestic investors to join in,'' said a market analyst who requested anonymity, adding that the strength of the market has been surprising
latecomers have been trying to catch the bus. i would be concerned if turnover like today's continued, though, because it could show that the market is overheating,'' he said
the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues closed at 25,682.82 points, up 246.92 points, or 0.97 percent from tuesday's close. volume in the first section was 1.7 billion shares, a record high for this year
on the foreign exchange market, the dollar closed at 128.47 yen, down 0.16 yen from tuesday's close of 128.63 yen. the dollar opened today at 128.43 yen
a currency dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said the dollar was trading in a narrow range in the absence of major market-moving news
trading on the first section of the exchange totaled 900 million shares at the end of the morning session, before closing the day 100 million shares higher than the previous 1988 record, set tuesday
prior to the october crash, the nikkei index stood at 25,746.56
institutional investors are responding positively to the favorable outlook for the economic performance of japanese firms in this fiscal year,'' said hiromi yoneyama, a dealer with wako securities
yoneyama said corporate earnings of major firms were expected to show better-than-expected results in fiscal 1987, which ends march 31
the league of women voters called off democratic and republican debates scheduled for sunday after presidential candidates in both parties showed little or no interest in attending
in essence, the candidates are snubbing nearly half the country two days before this critical election,'' said carole bucy, president of the league of women voters of nashville
the debates, which were to have been telecast from nashville by cable news network, would have come only two days before the 20-state round of caucuses and primaries on march 8, or super tuesday
league spokeswoman janice kaplan had said earlier in the day the democratic debate was definitely on and the republican debate would proceed even if there were only two candidates
the cancellation followed indications by republican bob dole that he was unlikely to join jack kemp for a two-man debate
in knoxville, where dole spoke to a downtown rally, press secretary walt riker said he doubted seriously that dole would participate in the rally without vice president george bush
bush and pat robertson, a former television evangelist, both advised the league they would not show up
ms. kaplan said rep. richard gephardt ``told us this week he did not want to debate in (tennessee sen.) albert gore's back yard, even though he has known all along the debate was in nashville.''
ms. bucy said massachusetts gov. michael dukakis had decided not to participate
gore's chief campaign spokesman, mike kopp, chided gephardt and dukakis passing up the debates here. both of them also skipped a debate last sunday in houston
kopp said gephardt and dukakis ``participated fully in the debates that preceded the iowa caucuses. now these same candidates are dodging these (nashville and houston) debates where they have to talk about the issues.''
sen. paul simon, who has said he would not campaign actively in southern-dominated super tuesday states, was apparently planning on taking part in the nashville debate
other democrats in the running are jesse jackson and former colorado sen. gary hart. delegates</head>
sen. bob dole picked up a delegate and another was slated uncommitted as wyoming's gop presidential delegation selection process got under way
republicans in two counties met tuesday to select two of the state's 18 delegates to the republican national convention
most of the rest of the gop delegates and 13 of the state's 18 democratic delegates will be selected saturday, three days before super tuesday
despite the emphasis on campaigning in the south, wyoming was getting some attention from the candidates
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis both planned stops in the state before saturday's county conventions. gary hart, who is from neighboring colorado, has visited
rep. richard gephardt bought radio ads in wyoming, the first time a candidate has advertised his candidacy over the airwaves
none of the republican candidates were expected in the state, where vice president bush and sen. bob dole were considered the frontrunners
natrona and platte counties were the first to allocate presidential delegates tuesday, with eight other counties ready to select their gop delegates on saturday
the natrona county delegate, judy catchpole, said she was committed to dole; the platte county pick, natty dodge, was uncommitted
weston county republicans planned to choose their delegate friday and niobrara county party members were to do the same on march 12
the final six presidential delegates will be selected at the state republican convention on may 7 in cheyenne. all 23 democratic presidential delegates will be selected saturday at county conventions throughout the state
gore already received the support of former gov. ed herschler and another of the state's five ``super delegates,'' who can remain uncommitted going into the democratic national convention in july. unlikely</head> bgng ``carter made ...''; to delete nunn's first name, sub 8th graf, bgng ``he said ...''</note>
former president jimmy carter said there's an even chance that none of the democratic presidential candidates will have a lock on the party's nomination before the national convention in july
carter, who has not endorsed any of the candidates, received a visit tuesday from one of the hopefuls, rep. richard gephardt of missouri, who characterized the meeting as a non-political call on ``an old friend.''
my hope is that out of the primary and caucus season will come a clear winner,'' carter said just one week before 20 states, most of them south of the mason-dixon line, hold primaries and caucuses with 1,307 delegates at stake
i'm not sure that's a likelihood now,'' he said
carter made it clear he is not one of those waiting for some other candidate to enter the race _ a mario cuomo, bill bradley or even georgia sen. sam nunn
i would not personally favor turning to someone outside the active candidate group for the nomination,'' said the former president
carter explained his decision not to endorse any of the party's contenders, saying ``it is better for us not to take a preferential position among the democratic candidates.''
he said the only democrat he might have thrown his support behind was nunn, who decided against entering the race
carter talked about the democratic race and super tuesday after meeting at his rambling brick home with gephardt, one of six democratic aspirants for the presidency
gephardt denied he had any political motive for his trip to this tiny georgia town carter put on the map
i didn't come here to try to be helped on super tuesday,'' said gephardt, who stopped in georgia on a trip from williamsburg, va., to columbia, s.c
i came here today not to enhance my prospects, but to greet an old friend,'' he said
gephardt, carter and his wife, rosalynn, stood on the front walk of the former president's home at 1 woodland road. his hair much whiter than when he left the white house in january 1981, carter wore an open-necked checked shirt, a tweed jacket and khaki pants
asked if he missed all the attention of a political campaign, carter laughed and said he and his wife had just returned from skiing in colorado
but he was also willing to answer questions as long as reporters had any to ask
carter was careful to say something nice about all the democratic candidates, and suggested that any one of them could do well in the south
i'm sure sen. (albert) gore (of tennessee) will have an advantage among some voters because he's a southerner,'' said carter. the former president's daughter, amy, has endorsed jesse jackson
amy doesn't ask me for counsel,'' he said, when asked if she had discussed her position with him
texas women extended their reign over the miss usa pageant to a fourth consecutive year as a beaming courtney gibbs took the crown in a contest marred by arrests, an assault and protests
pageant spokeswoman stacy sacco said she was stunned by the texas victory record and felt compelled to assure reporters tuesday night that the contest televised nationally by cbs was not rigged
the woman who started the winning streak in 1985, laura martinez-herring of el paso, did a little jig after ms. gibbs was crowned, and echoed the sentiments of many pageant-watchers: ``i just feel sorry for the next miss texas.''
ms. gibbs, a 21-year-old junior at texas christian university, smiled broadly when outgoing miss usa michelle royer of keller put the crown on her head
it feels fabulous,'' the blue-eyed brunette said calmly, seemingly unsurprised by her victory
one of the gifts michelle (royer) gave me was a dictionary with the word `impossible' whited out. so of course it was possible,'' she said
the pageant made the news weeks before the coronation: bob barker ended his 21-year reign as host to protest the awarding of furs to the winner and use of furs during the show. the first two miss minnesotas bowed out after it was disclosed they had been arrested. animal-rights protesters picketed the el paso convention center. and co-host tracy scoggins fought off an attacker in a hotel elevator
ms. gibbs of fort worth beat diana magana, 22, of rancho palos verdes, calif., who was first runner-up. it was one of two best possible results for guyrex associates of el paso, the company that produces the miss texas-usa and miss california-usa contests and hones those winners' pageant skills for the miss usa contest
ms. gibbs, who won about $200,000 worth of prizes, including a mink coat and jacket, will represent the united states in the miss universe pageant may 23 in taipei, taiwan. ms. magana, a brown-eyed brunette, will represent the united states in the miss world pageant
second runner-up tuesday was donna rampy, 24, of riverdale, ga.; followed by monica farrell, 23, of jacksonville, fla.; and dana michele, 20, of richmond, miss
officials did not rank the other five semifinalists: gina zordani, 23, of illinois; rowann brewer, 23, of maryland; tamara walker, 18, of oklahoma; april abel, 20, of south carolina; and stephanie potts, 23, of tennessee
the 11 judges scored each semifinalist on interviews and on the swimsuit and evening gown competitions. the five highest scorers became finalists
miss minnesota, julie nelson, was the second runner-up in her state's contest, but the first two finishers, sue bolich and jolene stavrakis, quit the miss usa pageant after it was disclosed they had been arrested in separate shoplifting incidents
about 25 animal-rights activists peacefully picketed the pageant to protest the mink awards. members of sangre de cristo animal rights contend that fur ranching and trapping are cruel to animals
bob young, director of the group's las cruces, n.m., chapter, asked co-host alan thicke to resign as barker did to protest the awarding of the fur coats. but thicke refused, saying the furs were taken from ranch-raised minks that were treated humanely
in the pre-pageant incident, the man accused of attempted sexual assault in the attack on miss scoggins last week was released on $100 bail. prosecutors usually ask for $15,000 bail for such third-degree felonies
a state judge ordered pedro concepcion padill, 35, of el paso, re-arrested and imposed $100,000 bail, which he posted
the associate municipal magistrate who imposed the original bail was suspended and is under investigation, police said. showing</head> to correct spelling of ``pronounced'' subs 4th graf, bgng ``still, the ...''; to correct spelling of ``candidates'' subs penultimate graf, bgng ``but the ... .''</note>
republican george bush and democrat michael dukakis, on new england home ground, triumphed in vermont's ``beauty contest'' primary, but jesse jackson and bob dole had reason to celebrate as well as the presidential pack headed into the final days of the super tuesday campaign
our message continues to win,'' jackson exulted after finishing a strong second in vermont, which has only a tiny black population. jackson garnered 26 percent to dukakis' 57 percent
dole, outspent and out-organized, nonetheless made an impressive showing, gaining 39 percent to bush's 49 percent in what his campaign called the vice president's ``back yard.'' bush has a summer home in maine
still, the vice president pronounced himself pleased
this win gives us three out of three in new england, and i'm hopeful we can be as successful this saturday in south carolina and on super tuesday,'' said bush, who was campaigning in florida
no delegates were at stake in the tuesday primary. delegate selection begins at local caucuses next month and representatives of the dole campaign said they would work now on organizing for the caucuses
dukakis, fresh from a weekend win in maine's democratic caucus, was buoyant about his victory
it's terrific, we're rolling 'em up,'' said the massachusetts governor, who was campaigning in baltimore. with a strong organization and the endorsement of gov. madeleine kunin, dukakis had been expected to do well here
rep. richard gephardt, who has been dukakis' chief opponent in some recent contests, trailed with 8 percent. gephardt backers said his poor showing was caused by a lack of spendng in the state by his national campaign
dukakis and jackson both made a decision to compete,'' said lt. gov. howard dean, gephardt's state chairman. ``you can't overcome national organizations with just a vermont organization.''
some political observers had predicted a tight race between jackson and gephardt for second place, but jackson stole the show. he ran a strong second in the state's largest city of burlington and actually beat dukakis in 27 communities and tied him in two
we have found the common chord that is linking the american people,'' said jackson from his mother's home in greenville, s.c
it's putting to rest once and for all that he is candidate for black people,'' said burlington mayor bernard sanders, a jackson backer. ``we are the whitest state in america. i think it's an extraordinary showing.''
in unofficial results, with 100 percent of the state's 262 precincts reporting, dukakis had 28,244 votes or 57 percent; jackson 13,030 votes or 26 percent; gephardt 3,968 votes or 8 percent; simon 2,596 votes or 5 percent and hart 2,052 votes or 4 percent
bush received 23,550 or 49 percent; dole got 18,636 or 39 percent; former television evangelist pat robertson 2,447 votes or 5 percent; rep. jack kemp 1,866 votes or 4 percent. dropouts pete du pont and alexander haig received 794 votes, or 2 percent and 327 votes or 1 percent respectively
the robertson and kemp campaigns put up little effort in the state, although robertson plans to compete in the caucuses
i really didn't contest it,'' said robertson, in orlando, fla. ``we had virtually no organization in vermont.''
in years past, vermont's primary won national media attention because of its timing. candidates could use a victory in the state to build momentum following a victories in new hampshire or iowa. or, they could try to repair an image wounded by a loss in either of those two states
but the timing element worked against the state this year. because no delegates were being allocated, the candidates practically ignored the state to concentrate on the mega-delegate race in the south
the primary was part of the state's annual ritual, town meeting day, when vermont's voters decided town budgets, road repairs and a host of other local issues. turnout was lower than expected, with just under 100,000 venturing to the polls
vermont residents used their annual town meetings to bolster efforts to save family farms and grapple with growth
one town voted to exempt silos from property taxes and another declared its population growth rate too high
the votes tuesday reflected concern that vermont's rural heritage is being gobbled up by condominiums, resort developments and vacation homes. that issue was the focus of a special commission created by gov. madeleine kunin that recommended a comprehensive package of legislation to control growth and save open land
the town meetings, a mainstay of local government in which residents vote on town budgets and perennial issues such as road repairs, took up the growth controversy during debates of zoning regulations, expansions of planning staffs and other proposals
pawlet residents voted 249-178 to exempt farm silos from the property tax, though proponents ackowledged it would mean a savings of only $200 a year for each of the town's 17 farms
it's going to be a combination of these little things that keep the farmers going,'' said state rep. perry waite
in wallingford, residents tried to go even further, approving a proposal to exempt local farms from paying any property tax on farm land or buildings
for technical reasons the vote was not binding, said board chairman robert barker
we determined, though, the selectmen have the authority to institute this program,'' he said. ``and i think there's support for it. i'm for it.''
in woodstock, residents were asked to recommend a preferred population growth rate for the community, ranging from 0.66 percent, the highest annual growth rate the town had between 1890 and 1970, to 2.5 percent, the average so far this decade
they opted for the middle range of 0.9 percent, far below the present growth rate
if the populace makes it loud and clear it doesn't want rapid growth, perhaps the town could control growth by setting up certain conservation areas, or by steering patterns of development and population densities,'' said john wiggin, a member of a group studying growth in the community
growth wasn't the only issue on the minds of voters at town meetings. in corinth, the question of the day was whether the tiny hamlet at the town center is called cookville or cookeville
town clerk jack learmonth had asked for the vote because of disagreements throughout history. ``henceforth, it will be cookeville,'' he said following the vote
jesse jackon returned to his boyhood hometown as he headed down the home stretch to the super tuesday showdown, buoyed by another strong showing in a northern state
our message continues to win,'' the democratic presidential candidate said when he learned tuesday night that he had finished second in vermont's ``beauty contest'' primary
jackson was surrounded by family, staff and reporters enjoying a home-cooked southern style meal when word of his showing reached him
we have found the common chord that is linking the american people where they are in iowa or maine or new hampshire of minnesota or south carolina,'' he said
jackson is hoping that the inroads he has made among white voters in iowa, new hampshire, minnesota and maine _ all states with 1 percent or less black voting age population _ will continue in the march 8 series of primaries across 20 states, most of them in the south
jackson is expected to run well on super tuesday, especially in the deep south with its heavy black population. but the campaign also is targeting the working class, students, gays and other minorities
jackson acknowledged upon arriving in south carolina, which holds its primary saturday, that the south is different than the states that have voted so far. but he said, ``i'm a son of the south ... i know the south and its ways.''
he said his message _ attacking multinational corporations and appealing to the economically oppressed _ would remain the same as he campaigns in the south
arriving at the greenville airport, jackson highlighted the plight of textile workers who have been hurt by u.s. industry taking its operations overseas
he said that when he was a youth, greenville was the textile capital of the world and was filled with mills, now closed down
jackson said the customs laws must be enforced to keep foreign products from entering the country illegally, and he called for adjustment of the exchange rates by south korea and taiwan so those nations cannot receive inflated prices on their goods
jackson also defended his leadership qualifications which have come under attack from democratic rival tennessee sen. al gore jr. because jackson has never held an elected or appointive government post
speaking to a baptist convention at the springfield baptist church where his mother sang in the choir when he was a boy, jackson repeated his oft-stated claim that he knows the american people better than any other candidate. he also gave a litany of foreign leaders he has met, labor strikes he has mediated and civil rights causes he has championed
i'm not propped up by aides,'' he said, adding that he can speak to the poor because ``i was born in the underclass.''
earlier, in washington, jackson met with the south african ambassador to protest pretoria's new clampdown of anti-apartheid factions and arrest of dissident religious leaders, including archbishop desmond tutu
jackson told a news conference later that the ambassador, piet g.j. koornhof, asked for a follow-up meeting with rep. ronald dellums, d-calif., who attended the meeting and who is sponsoring legislation on sanctions against south africa because of its apartheid policy of racial separation
the ambassador did not join jackson and dellums at the news conference
jackson said u.s. corporations and banks should be ordered to leave south africa. and he called on the reagan administration to convene special united nations security council session international support for full sanctions against pretoria
he also called for suupport of the frontline states around south africa and aid in constructing trade corridors so zimbabwe and zambia would not be dependent on south african trade routes
he said he had phoned national security adviser colin powell and urged that the issue be raised with north atlantic treaty organization allies
jackson said powell told him there was ``a sense of outrage'' in the administration about the recent crackdown in south africa and that reagan would so state if the matter was brought up at the nato meeting
george bush had a nearly 3-to-1 lead over rival bob dole among republicans likely to vote in super tuesday's 16 primaries, while michael dukakis and jesse jackson were battling for the lead in the democratic contests, according to poll results published today
the vice president held a strong lead in virtually all the 16 states holding primaries next tuesday, according to the washington post-abc news poll. he had the support of nearly 60 percent of the 946 likely republican voters surveyed, while the kansas senator had just over 20 percent
former television evangelist pat robertson trailed with slightly more than 10 percent and rep. jack kemp of new york had 5 percent
in a survey of 1,121 likely democratic voters in the 16 primary states, jackson had an edge in mississippi, georgia, alabama and north carolina and was roughly tied with dukakis in arkansas, florida, texas and virginia
dukakis, the massachusetts governor, held a strong lead in his home state, rhode island and maryland. tennessee sen. albert gore jr. led in tennessee and kentucky, and missouri rep. richard gephardt was ahead in his home state
louisiana voters appeared to be split among jackson, dukakis and gore, and oklahoma was a three-way contest among dukakis, gore and gephardt
when the survey was conducted feb. 17-28, dole was running even with bush only in missouri and maryland. in the next-closest states of arkansas and rhode island, he was a little more than 10 percentage points behind bush
the newspaper said the poll results had ``varying margins of error,'' but did not provide them
a pop-up scarecrow and a snowplow-proof mailbox were just some of the gizmos displayed at the second-annual north dakota inventors congress
peter konzak of devils lake rummaged through the clutter of his briefcase and found a letter to prove his scarecrow has already earned him some attention
i am still invited to the johnny carson show. it is a standing invitation,'' the 66-year-old retired farmer said
forty inventors and manufacturers, most of them from north dakota, showed off their gadgets and thingamajigs at the show, which ended tuesday
the hinged mailbox was devised by a minot man after a neighbor complained about his mailbox getting knocked down by snowplows each winter
konzak's pride and joy stood at one side of his booth on the floor of the jamestown civic center. it's a steel contraption wearing fluorescent work gloves that sports a dummy's head adorned with a cowboy hat. a battery and propane tank give it life
in a sunflower field, the clumsy-looking ``pest-scaring device'' jumps up, twirls and whistles to keep blackbirds from feasting on the seeds, konzak said monday
all you need is one on 40 acres,'' he said. ``with the buzzer in here and all the stuff, it can pay for itself in one year.''
since receiving a patent for his mechanical scarecrow in april 1986, konzak has made about 30 of them and sold them all at about $500 apiece, he said
but he said he hasn't made any money yet. ``i've just made my expenses. i put $20,000 into patenting this thing.''
when guam gov. joseph f. ada checked out of a washington hotel earlier this week, the hotel declined to take a guam government check for payment of room charges
the hotel management said it couldn't accept the check because guam is a foreign country,'' ada said tuesday during a stop in honolulu on the way home
we told them that guam is a u.s. territory where america's day begins.''
guam long has been an unincorporated u.s. territory in the western pacific, about 3,800 miles west of hawaii
they said they would give me credit because i was attending the national governors association meeting,'' he said. ``what the hotel didn't realize is that they will receive the same government check for payment.''
the president of connecticut's third-largest bank is trading his pin stripes for dancing tights to help promote corporate support of the arts
david carson, 53, president and chief executive officer of people's bank in bridgeport, will play the role of the duke of courland in the ballet ``giselle,'' to be performed march 11-12 by the connecticut ballet theater in stamford
the production also will feature stephanie saland, principal dancer with the new york city ballet
the bank has supported the theater, but i think you can support the arts with not just money, but with your presence, too,'' said carson
the ballet was looking for ``a very regal type of person,'' and it decided to approach carson, said brett raphael, the company's artistic director
it occurred to me that this was natural casting if possible, however far-fetched,'' raphael said. ``it's not every day a corporate personality takes time out of his schedule to dabble in a very different art form.''
said carson, ``it appealed to my sense of humor, and if it helps give the ballet some recognition, that's great.''
carson will do some mime and walk to music, rather than dance. but, he asked, ``when does walking in time become dancing?''
the post office today began delivering mail bearing the postmark ``jesus is alive!'' throughout britain, a move that jews, humanists, the national secular society and others called offensive to other beliefs
it is absolutely outrageous,'' said martin horwood, spokesman for the british humanist association, a national organization for the non-religious
imagine the furor if we had asked to have `jesus is dead' printed on hundreds of millions of letters. we might think these things privately, but they should not be forced on everybody else in such an insensitive way,'' he said
horwood said he is writing to post office chairman sir brian nicholson asking for the postmark to be withdrawn
christian evangelist paul slennet privately financed the arrangement with the post office. slennet, 41, sells christian literature at two bookstores in southend-on-sea, east of london. he said god told him to buy the postmark
the six-week arrangement runs through good friday, april 1, when christians mourn the crucifixion of jesus christ and easter sunday, april 3, when they celebrate his resurrection
slennet was quoted by the daily telegraph as saying he was convinced ``the lord will speak to the nation'' through the scheme, which he said was designed to mark easter
we are not trying to offend people in any way,'' the paper quoted slennet as saying
but shimon cohen, spokesman for lord jakobovits, the chief rabbi of britain, said: ``it could well cause offense and resentment. we've made our feelings known to the post office.''
the state-run post office began using the postmark on mail tuesday and the first deliveries of mail bearing it began today
barbara smoker, president of the national secular society, said she was enraged by the slogan, which she condemned as insensitive ``propaganda.''
press reports quoted ms. smoker, 64, as saying that 26 percent of britain's 56 million population are atheists or agnostics and that the society exists to defend their rights
ms. smoker was quoted as saying she plans to retaliate by stamping her own slogan ``jesus is a myth'' on every envelope she mails
post office spokesman duncan marshall said: ``the printing of this slogan in no way confirms post office approval of its contents. the slogan is not considered to be contentious but a fair and reasonable message generally acceptable to the public.''
the post office said slennet, who belongs to an evangelical group called intercessors for britain, paid $88,500 for the privilege of having every letter mailed through 68 of britain's 69 sorting offices stamped postmark ``jesus is alive!''
the 69th office, in plymouth, is already booked for a slogan celebrating england's defeat of the spanish armada in 1588
the deal includes mail sent abroad but excludes parcels, periodicals and mail stamped by businesses that do their own franking. nearly 52 million letters are mailed daily in britain
the post office said it considers each private application for a postmark slogan on its merits. revenue-boosting private-slogan postmarks usually urge support for health-research charities and other worthy causes. the postmark before the ``jesus is alive!'' slogan was a post office message reading ``pass on your postcode.''
cohen said the chief rabbi's office was ``flooded with phone calls'' after news of the slogan appeared tuesday
we recognize that this is a christian country and we have the utmost respect for the primacy for the church,'' cohen told the associated press. but he added: ``we do fear that the slogan ... is by implication addressed to non-christians and could well cause offense and resentment.''
rabbi charles emmanuel, chairman of the assembly of rabbis of the reform movement of great britain, told the ap: ``to me it is simply a question of not only an infringement of my personal rights but of my religious rights.''
but the united kingdom islamic mission, a group representing moslems, was quoted by the guardian newspaper as saying of the ``jesus is alive!'' postmark: ``there is no problem for us.''
cocaine now is the most visible target in the war on drugs, a battle that a congressional report says is costing society tens of billions of dollars a year in lost wages, law enforcement outlays and treatment programs
a study of recent changes in the drug trade by the general accounting office, the investigative arm of congress, said, ``cocaine has emerged as the widely abused drug of greatest concern.''
marijuana use has been declining, the report said, while various substances known as designer drugs have emerged as a significant phenomenon
some highlights of ``controlling drug abuse: a status report,'' include:
_in 1983 alone, drugs cost american society some $59.7 billion in crime, lost employment, criminal justice spending, prisons, reduced productivity and treatment programs
_the number of cocaine-related emergencies reported by hospitals jumped 167 percent from 1983 to 1986
_the share of high school seniors who admitted ever having used cocaine fell from 16.9 percent in 1986 to 15.2 percent in 1987. however, some experts fear this may not include all those using the newly popular ``crack'' form of cocaine, which is smoked and is highly popular among young people
_heroin seems to be widely available across the country. the number of heroin-related hospital emergencies rose 24 percent from 1983 to 1986
_marijuana use has declined, although it remains the most widely used illegal drug in the country. an estimated 61.9 million people over age 12 have used this drug at least once
_los angeles is the cocaine consumption capital of the nation, although pcp and heroin are also popular and it's a transshipment point for mexican heroin
_miami is the cocaine importation center, with many homicides related to the drug trade. the spread of the disease aids is being added to by the use of drug needles
_new york has become a center for the importation of heroin and has the nation's largest heroin addict population with the spread of aids also a major problem. the new york heroin trade is dominated by chinese immigrants
_san francisco faces a major problem with lsd and methamphetamines, with growing use of heroin and cocaine
_cocaine availability has increased sharply in washington, d.c., where pcp also is used heavily. a high per capita overdose rate is reported in the nation's capital
_chicago too is facing rising cocaine use
mayor thomas vezzetti, the badly dressed bootlegger's son who took to the streets with a bullhorn to win elections and fight the gentrification of this hudson river city, died early today. he was 59
vezzetti died of a heart attack at st. mary hospital shortly after midnight, police said
vezzetti, a lifelong bachelor, was said to have been angry tuesday night by the outcome of a special election in the 5th ward. a councilman who frequently criticized vezzetti's policies won a special election over a candidate supported by the mayor
officials said that at about 11 p.m. tuesday neighbors heard vezzetti fall in his apartment and they called for an ambulance
city business administrator edwin chius said city council would meet later today to choose a successor to head this city of 42,000
before vezzetti's election to public office, he had developed a reputation as an eccentric, sometimes wearing mismatched shoes, orange pants and a hawaiian shirt. his face was often unshaven and he sometimes carried his belongings in two paper bags
he also was a political gadfly, showing up at school board and city council meetings, complaining about the waste of taxpayers' money
he took a bullhorn in 1982 and walked up and down washington street, the city's main artery, to announce he was challenging the city council president in the next election
he won, and then used the tactic against mayor steve cappiello in 1985, hitting on the theme of stopping yuppies from sweeping the working and middle class out of the city across the hudson from manhattan
if you want to stay in hoboken, vote for me,'' he often said
he forced cappiello into a runoff, and the mayor questioned vezzetti's mental competence and wardrobe
clothes do not make the man,'' vezzetti said at a campaign debate
and he beat the three-term mayor in a major upset. supporters literally carried him to city hall
his longtime motto was ``it's not that i'm so good. it's just that they're so bad.''
thomas jefferson vezzetti and his twin sister, louise, were born in 1928
he once described his father as a ``bootlegger'' who owned five saloons. the mayor's mother was an heiress to a peanuts and dried fruits fortune
that's where i get my campaign money from,'' vezzetti once told new jersey monthly
he was one of a kind,'' said police chief george crimmins. ``it'll be a long time before he can be replaced.''
caroline kennedy schlossberg, daughter of the late president john f. kennedy, is expecting a baby, the daily news reported today
a photograph of an obviously pregnant ms. schlossberg, who married artist-author edwin schlossberg in july 1986, appeared in today's editions
the news did not say when the baby is due
ms. schlossberg, 30, was photographed monday arriving at the equitable building in manhattan to give a speech in place of her uncle, sen. edward kennedy, d-mass., who had been sidelined by a bad back
the baby would be the first grandchild for jacqueline kennedy onassis, who is 58. mrs. onassis' son, 27-year-old john kennedy, is unmarried
a condominium association rejected an attempt by a blind man to move in because of his disability, the man says
i was offended, insulted and hurt,'' larry tomacek, 35, said from his parents' home in nearby delray beach. ``i'm still trying to understand this. i'm a responsible adult and generally a good neighbor
if i was some scum off the street, i'd understand,'' said tomacek, adding that he is mobile
but the kenwick ``b'' condominium association of century village sent a letter to apartment owner donald finck saying members voted unanimously to reject tomacek ``because the applicant ... unfortunately is blind.''
his presence here would pose some very serious problems to all the owners here,'' the letter said
tomacek, who supports himself on social security and disability benefits, suffers from retinitis pigmentosa, a degenerative disease that destroys the retina of the eye cell by cell
i was very distressed,'' finck said. ``you can't do that. it's discrimination. (tomacek) is entitled to live wherever he wants.''
jim green, legal director for the american civil liberties union in florida, and harry mcgee, regional manager for the state division of the blind services, agreed that the association's letter indeed was discriminatory
florida law prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of physical impairment, green said
should charges be filed, a conviction on the second-degree misdemeanor carries a maximum 60-day jail sentence and $500 fine
condo association president david cohen declined to comment on the matter
tomacek said he no longer wanted to rent the apartment
with neighbors like that, who would need enemies?'' he said
bands of teen-agers taunted police and erected barricades in the capital's streets today as a 36-hour nationwide general strike protesting parliamentary elections got under way
police and paramilitary troops patrolled the city's streets, which were nearly empty of traffic, and guarded main intersections
shops and businesses were shuttered and most bus, train and ferry service was canceled. government offices were closed because authorities had declared today and thursday, the day of the elections, holidays
major opposition parties called the strike in an attempt to disrupt the balloting, which they are boycotting and claim will be rife with fraud. voters are to choose bangladesh's fourth parliament in 17 years of independence
president hussain muhammad ershad announced the elections in december when he dissolved parliament in an effort to end an opposition campaign seeking his ouster that began nov. 10
ershad, a 58-year-old former army general, seized power in this nation of 105 million people in a 1982 bloodless coup. he was elected president in 1986 in balloting the opposition said was rigged
dhaka was generally calm this morning, but small groups of youths briefly stoned police in some parts of the city during the afternoon
four people were reported admitted to dhaka medical college hospital suffering minor injuries from homemade bombs
youths stopped a municipal garbage truck, smashed it with sticks and clubs and set it ablaze. downtown, protesters threw up barricades of broken bricks, which riot police later removed
on a street across from police headquarters, a police van was briefly stoned, but there was no confrontation between attackers and police
near the city's main bus station, a band of about 70 youths marched through the streets chanting ``strike, strike.''
police in riot helmets watched from trucks. the government also called in 9,000 soldiers to guard against election-day violence
the mainstream opposition of 21 parties is boycotting the balloting, but between eight and 102 political parties are vying for parliament's 300 seats
the two main opposition leaders, sheik hasina of the awami league and khaleda zia, warned that thursday's vote would trigger more bloodshed
pre-election violence has claimed at least eight lives, including that of a candidate who was gunned down by suspected anti-government protesters
during feb. 10 local elections, more than 100 people were killed, by government count. the unofficial estimate is as high as 500
since the campaign seeking ershad's ouster began, at least 25 people have been killed in police clashes with mobs
a moderate earthquake hit the south flank of kilauea but was unrelated to the volcano's continuing eruption that began five years ago, scientists said
there were no reports of injuries or damage from tuesday night's quake, according to police
the temblor measured 4.5 on the richter scale, said paul delaney, a geologist at the u.s. geological survey's hawaiian volcano observatory,
the earthquake, which struck at 10:42 p.m. (3:42 a.m. est today), was centered six miles below the surface of the volcano to the southwest of where lava has been pouring from the earth since the summer of 1986, delaney said
the quake was not strong enough to generate a pacific-wide tsunami, or tidal wave, according to the pacific tsunami warning center in honolulu
it didn't even rattle the china,'' delaney said
the volcano on hawaii island began erupting jan. 3, 1983, although some early phases were marked by the underground movement of lava
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs
an earthquake of 3.5 on the richter scale can cause slight damage in the local area, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage, 6 severe damage
vietnam has begun urging the united states to play a larger role in southeast asia and to work for a settlement of the conflict in cambodia, four u.s. scholars said after returning from two weeks in vietnam
three said the push indicated that vietnam was changing and wanted to improve relations with the united states
the fourth said vietnam was just putting into practice the old chinese proverb: ``using barbarians to control barbarians.''
the four china specialists spoke at a briefing tuesday sponsored by the henry luce foundation, which supported their trip from dec. 29 to jan. 11
in all, seven american ``china hands'' took part in the trip, which included stays in hanoi and ho chi minh city, once known as saigon, and talks with high-ranking vietnamese officials
helen chauncey, a professor of history at georgetown university, said america's preoccupation with its loss of the vietnam war and with the pow-mia issue was hampering its ability to respond to a changing vietnam
we have to stop letting the past determine our actions in the region,'' agreed brantly womack, a professor of political science at northern illinois university
jonathan pollack, of the rand corporation, was not as optimistic about the changes in vietnam or about the prospects for peace in indochina
pollack contended that the fighting in cambodia was still a ``sideshow'' in a larger struggle between the soviet union and its ally vietnam against china. it will remain the scene of violence until the larger powers can sort out their problems, he said
frederic wakeman jr., a history professor at the university of california, berkeley, said he was impressed by changing vietnamese society, citing beatles songs played on a flight from hanoi and the raffish tilt of berets on the heads of communist party officials
we were astonished again and again by the candor of the vietnamese,'' wakeman said. ``intellectuals, officials, party members were all very open.''
as a china scholar, wakeman said, he was particularly interested in the entrepreneurial spirit of the ethnic chinese in ho chi minh city
we had the sense in saigon of a commercial economy waiting to break loose,'' he said
chauncey and womack said a combination of circumstances has given america a chance for a new beginning in vietnam
for the first time, womack said, vietnamese officials, including foreign minister and vice premier nguyen co thach, are talking with eagerness about leaving cambodia
vietnam invaded cambodia in december 1978, kicked out the chinese-backed khmer rouge and installed a puppet government in phnom penh
about 140,000 vietnamese troops remain in cambodia fighting a resistance coalition headed by prince norodom sihanouk that is backed by china, the united states and the free-market countries of southeast asia
but last year, sihanouk split with the coalition and began direct negotiations with hun sen, prime minister of the vietnamese-backed government
chauncey said the negotiations, supported by vietnam, were a sign that vietnam wants to end the conflict
vietnamese officials told me they want the united states to play an active role in negotiations to bring peace to cambodia,'' she said
vietnam also is trying to boost its economy, in which the average annual income is about $125. as such, it has recognized the need for foreign exchange and investment from the west
wakeman said he believed vietnam wants an increased u.s. presence to counterbalance chinese interests in southeast asia
in part, it's a very old diplomatic tactic of using the barbarians to control the barbarians,'' he said
chauncey said the united states must reassert itself in southeast asia
if it doesn't, we will be left behind in what will be a realignment of political and economic forces,'' she said
prices were mixed on the london stock exchange early today
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was 7.5 points, or 0.42 percent, higher at 1,789.4 by midmorning. the index opened at 1,783.2, up 1.3 points from tuesday's close
the rise was mainly due to gains by insurance shares, which were marked up after commercial union, a major british insurer, announced a better-than-expected 43 percent rise in pre-tax profits for 1987, brokers said
west coast members of the writers guild of america almost certainly voted to authorize a strike against movie and television producers, a former guild president said
the vote was taken tuesday night in hollywood by secret ballot, and results were not expected to be announced until thursday. the 9,000-member union also includes 2,500 east coast members who were scheduled to vote this afternoon
the guild's contract expired at 12:01 a.m. tuesday
union negotiators said a replacement contract offered by the alliance of motion picture and television producers was calculated to force a strike. the negotiators unanimously urged members to reject the offer and vote instead for a strike authorization, said cheryl rhoden, a guild spokeswoman
she said 2,400 ballots were cast tuesday night
the former guild president, mel shavelson, said that judging from the sentiments he heard expressed during the balloting, ``i don't think there was any doubt as to what the vote was.''
while a strike could begin as early as thursday, shavelson said it was unlikely a walkout would be called immediately
a strike could have an immediate impact on talk shows and soap operas, which use scripts daily and without much lead time. prime-time programs and feature films would be affected only by a longer strike
negotiators for the two sides met for just two hours before quitting tuesday afternoon
the brief meeting followed a 21-hour session that lasted until 7:15 a.m. tuesday and made progress on ``25 to 30 lesser issues,'' said herb steinberg, spokesman for the producers
steinberg and ms. rhoden said three major stumbling blocks remained. the writers are seeking more ``creative rights'' to control what happens to their scripts and higher payments when programs are distributed in foreign markets. the producers want to give writers reduced payments for domestic syndication of one-hour television programs, a shrinking market
the entertainment writers last went on strike three years ago. the walkout lasted two weeks before writers voted to accept a package offering them essentially the same terms as one they had earlier rejected
the median annual income for guild writers is $40,000, but about half of the members are unemployed at any given time, the union says
five thousand troops from half the nato countries were airlifted to the mountains and valleys of northern norway in a show of unity as leaders of the alliance gathered in brussels at a major strategy conference
u.s. transport planes on tuesday ferried in the combat units for the maneuvers, code-named ``arrowhead express,'' which climaxes in two weeks in a battle on snow-covered terrain against an ``enemy'' of 9,500 norwegian forces
the exercise mobilized the allied command europe mobile force, a brigade designed to rush to areas of potential conflict with the soviet-led warsaw pact
the maneuvers were clearly intended to serve political more than military aims, and to demonstrate the cohesion of the north atlantic treaty organization
our operational role is in peacetime, to show as many flags with as much visibility as possible in a threatened area to deter an aggressor,'' said british maj. don mclaren
if we reach the combat stage, we've failed,'' he said in a telephone interview tuesday from command headquarters in bardufoss, 1,000 miles north of oslo
although not officially tied to the summit, the exercise dovetails with president reagan's recent efforts to reassure u.s. allies of the american commitment to defend europe at the same time that it negotiates arms reductions with the soviet union
the war games also coincide with mounting norwegian concern that nato's flank in the north atlantic will become more active following the u.s.-soviet agreement to dismantle intermediate-range nuclear weapons
the inf agreement has made the norwegian and the barents seas more important,'' kaare willoch, chairman of the norwegian parliament's foreign affairs committee, said tuesday
the soviet union has built the world's greatest concentration of firepower on the kola peninsula adjacent to norway's northern border
willoch, a former conservative prime minister, said in an interview that the soviet buildup in the north had been going on for decades and had shown no signs of slackening since the disarmament accord was signed in december
the buildup proceeds. it necessitates nato countermeasures,'' while negotiations continue on further arms reduction accords, he said
the soviet northern fleet, armed with submarine-launched, long-range nuclear weapons, must pass norway to reach the atlantic fire zone, the closest point of deployment to the united states for soviet missiles
norway's northwestern coast, kept ice-free all year by the warmth of the gulf stream, also becomes more attractive to the soviets as naval warfare grows in importance in soviet military strategy, norwegian analysts say
one war scenario foresees the soviets slicing off norway's remote and nearly unpopulated northern province, challenging nato's willingness to respond. that is precisely the kind of action the allied command europe mobile force was formed in 1960 to deter, mclaren said
arrowhead express, commanded by norwegian vice admiral torolf rein, involves forces from eight of nato's 16 countries: the united states, canada, west germany, italy, luxembourg, the netherlands, britain and norway
the u.s. role in arrowhead express is limited to air support, since its units are not trained for arctic warfare. much of the maneuvering will be done on skis or snowmobiles, mclaren said
the force holds maneuvers twice a year, once in norway or denmark and once along an isolated region of nato's southern flank in turkey, greece or italy
neighbors and police worked frantically but failed to save an elderly man who was buried alive by cinder blocks when he tried to demolish a 5-foot-high wall in his yard
edward margrabia, 69, died tuesday of multiple trauma at pembroke pines hospital
he was just crushed, his kidneys and everything. oh, i tell you, it was awful,'' said neighbor ann adelson. ``poor man. he's a terrific guy. he helps everybody in the neighborhood.''
chris mccauley, whose home is behind margrabia's, said she heard the wall collapse as she fixed sandwiches for lunch
i just heard a sound like cement blocks hitting the ground ... i thought it was strange to hear a noise and see nobody there,'' she said. when she realized what had happened, she roused other neighbors to help extricate margrabia
by the time we had eight people there, we were trying to pry the wall up with pieces of wood. and as we were trying, the wall broke _ right on his back,'' ms. mccauley said
when police arrived to free margrabia with a hydraulic jack, he was unconscious, police spokesman ed plaisted said. margrabia, who was recovering from heart-bypass surgery, was trapped for about 30 minutes
a military court sentenced two polish journalists to prison after convicting them of selling information to western intelligence agencies, a government spokesman said
mariusz dastych, 46, and tadeusz podwysocki, 56, both formerly worked for the official government daily newspaper rzeczpospolita and were arrested last april on spying charges. both reported on poland's economy
a warsaw military court on monday sentenced dastych to eight years in prison after finding him guilty of selling information since 1973 to the cia on poland's ``socio-political situation,'' government spokesman jerzy urban said. the court also fined dastych $790 and ordered the confiscation of all his property, said urban, speaking at his weekly news conference tuesday
podwysocki received a 1{-year prison sentence because the court accepted his defense that he was ``unaware that information he had communicated was used for intelligence purposes,'' urban said
podwysocki, one of poland's best-known economic reporters, also was barred from working as a journalist for two years, fined $530 and ordered to pay back all the western currency he had received for the information. urban did not specify how much the journalists received for selling the information
urban said dastych and podwysocki had cooperated with ``representatives of another western intelligence service,'' which he would not name
he refused to confirm or deny reports that the second country involved was japan. according to western press reports, they were accused of passing trade secrets to japan
three boys held a gun to the head of a 9-year-old to rob her of the dollar bill her grandmother had given her to buy an ice cream cone, police and the child said
a 10-year-old boy pressed the gun to latarra william's temple and told her, ``put it down, put it down now or i'll blow you head off,'' the girl said tuesday, a day after the robbery
the 10-year-old and his two 12-year-old companions were apprehended tuesday and were carrying 12 rocks of crack cocaine, $4 and a starter's pistol, which doesn't fire bullets, said police spokeswoman connie ryan
the boys were held overnight in the broward county juvenile detention center, each charged with armed robbery and possession of cocaine, she said
after the robbery, the girl ran home to her grandmother, who called the police
strong thunderstorms rumbled across the southern plains, unleashing tornadoes, hail as big as baseballs and heavy rain
in texas, two tornadoes touched down near wichita falls tuesday, along with hail up to 1} inches in diameter, but no injuries or damage were reported. baseball-size hail fell at lake kickapoo, and winds gusted to 62 mph at lake kemp. more than 3{ inches of rain fell in six hours in wichita falls
hail as big as golf balls fell in southern and eastern oklahoma
a tornado touched down briefly near orosia, calif., southeast of fresno, but no injuries or damage were reported
in southern california, rain showers were scattered late tuesday from the valleys to the coast. up to 4 inches of snow and winds up to 35 mph were expected across the area through thursday morning
in denver, rain changed to snow late tuesday as a cold front swept across the central rockies and central plains. snow advisories were posted for colorado's front range and wyoming's southern mountains. one to 4 inches of snow was expected in denver, with up to 8 inches possible in the foothills of the colorado rockies. in southeast wyoming, up to 3 inches of snow could fall by this afternoon, with up to 6 inches possible in the mountains
snow showers also fell across sections of michigan, but much of it was light and there was little accumulation. freezing rain caused slippery roads in parts of lower michigan
today's forecast called for numerous showers and thunderstorms across much of texas, eastern oklahoma, and the lower and middle mississippi valley, with possibly severe thunderstorms in central and eastern texas, extreme southeast oklahoma, southwest arkansas and western louisiana; rain from missouri across the ohio valley and in western pennsylvania; rain or snow showers in michigan and northern illinois; rain changing to snow in northeast kansas; snow showers from eastern colorado across wyoming to western south dakota; showers and a few thunderstorms, with snow in higher elevations, in western colorao, utah and northern arizona and rain on the northwest coast
high temperatures were expected to be in the 60s and 70s from the south atlantic coast states to the gulf coast, tennessee and lower mississippi valleys and texas, with a few 80s in southern texas; the 60s along the mexican border of new mexico and arizona and in much of california; the 20s or 30s in northern new england and parts of new york state and from michigan to the upper mississippi valley and the high plains; and in the 40s and 50s elsewhere
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 8 degrees below zero at massena, n.y., to 69 degrees at brownsville, texas
other reports:
_east: atlanta 42 fair; boston 19 windy; buffalo 23 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 38 fair; cincinnati 36 partly cloudy; cleveland 39 cloudy; detroit 31 partly cloudy; miami 59 fair; new york 24 fair; philadelphia 27 fair; pittsburgh 30 fair; portland, maine 11 fair; washington 31 fair
_central: bismarck 23 snow; chicago 43 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 64 cloudy; denver 30 snow; des moines 31 fair; indianapolis 42 cloudy; kansas city 49 cloudy; minneapolis-st. paul 26 cloudy; nashville 37 cloudy; new orleans 55 foggy; st. louis 45 showers
_west: albuquerque 39 partly cloudy; anchorage 30 partly cloudy; las vegas 54 partly cloudy; los angeles 51 showers; phoenix 62 partly cloudy; salt lake city 40 cloudy; san diego 53 showers; san francisco 49 fair; seattle 47 drizzle
_canada: montreal 3 fair; toronto 23 snow
the u.s. dollar was mixed against major foreign currencies in europe early today. gold bullion rose
traders in italy and west germany said there was very little activity in exchange markets, continuing a trend of the past few days
the dollar fluctuated within a narrow range during the first hours of trading and was expected to hold steady throughout the european session in the absence of any market-related news
midmorning dollar rates in europe, compared with late tuesday:
_1.6875 west german marks, up from 1.6855
_1.3945 swiss francs, up from 1.3915
_5.7135 french francs, up from 5.7065
_1.8940 dutch guilders, unchanged
_1,244.00 italian lire, down from 1,244.35
_1.2565 canadian dollars, down from 1.2570
the british pound edged down to $1.7743 from $1.7775
the dollar eased in tokyo, closing at 128.47 japanese yen, down from tuesday's close of 128.63 yen. in later london trading today, the dollar was little changed, at 128.50 yen
london's major bullion houses fixed a recommended gold price of $431.55 a troy ounce, up from $428.70 late tuesday
in zurich, gold traded at a bid of $431.50, up from $429.50
earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid of $433.96, up from $433.80
silver bullion traded in london at a bid of $6.25 a troy ounce, down from $6.29
nuclear waste shipments from the crippled three mile island plant will be temporarily halted while the department of energy completes its investigation into a rail switching incident in the st. louis area, according to sen. john danforth
meanwhile, rep. jack buechner, r-mo., has introduced legislation that would require casks used by the doe to ship radioactive waste to meet safety standards set by the nuclear regulatory commission
danforth, r-mo., said tuesday the doe has agreed to stop the shipments from pennsylvania to a laboratory in idaho falls, idaho, until the investigation is completed. he said he didn't know how long the probe would take to complete
danforth, ranking minority member of the senate commerce, science and transportation committee, last week requested the investigation into whether there were violations of rail regulations feb. 9 when a mislabeled car was added to a conrail train carrying casks of radioactive wastes
the covered hopper car carried a placard stating it contained a flammable material, federal railroad administration spokesman bill loftus said last week. it was later discovered the car was not carrying the dangerous cargo
loftus said the investigation is looking at possible violations by the rail switching yard and the union pacific railroad, which operated the train after it left the yard, and a lime company that was shipping the car
danforth said tuesday the doe had agreed to allow the department of transportation to make a complete study of the routes used to transport the tmi material. the energy department has done such studies in the past but has always concluded that the route from pennsylvania to idaho was the best
a request by danforth not to move rail shipments in the st. louis area between the hours of 6:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. _ commuter rush hours _ also was agreed to by the doe
other agreements by the doe included a promise not to add cars to tmi trains along the route. the trains, which leave pennsylvania under conrail power, will continue to switch to union pacific when necessary but no cars will be added, danforth said
as a way to minimize the total number of shipments, all future shipments will be consolidated into three casks, danforth said
according to a statement by danforth's office, other agreements made by the doe include:
_ union pacific will assign a certified hazardous materials inspector at the east st. louis, ill., yard to assist with mechanical inspections and managers will be assigned at crew change points, inspection points and en route to monitor speed and times of day schedules through st. louis
_ the doe will post a health physicist on each tmi train
_ an fra official will accompany each tmi train to monitor speed, schedules and track and equipment. the energy department also will provide additional emergency response training to st. louis and state officials
buechner's legislation, introduced monday, would remove an exemption that allows the doe to make nuclear waste shipments without nrc safety inspections
the energy department has contended that casks it uses to ship radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuels, including the tmi shipments, will withstand even the most extraordinary transportion accident
a jetliner returned to kennedy airport after a passenger was found in a lavatory with crack and equipment to burn it for ``freebasing,'' authorities said
the man and a companion who was standing outside were arrested tuesday by federal agents who happened to be aboard, said robert stutman, head of the drug enforcement administration's new york office
a flight attendant who smelled ether discovered the man in the lavatory, along with about a quarter-ounce of crack, a torch, ether and butane, stutman said. the man outside also had crack in his possession, he said
this could have produced a real tragedy,'' stutman said. ``ether is an extremely volatile, explosive substance when it is near flames.''
richard moskowitz and jeff tofler were arrested on charges that included possession of cocaine and interference with a flight, stutman said. they were turned over to the fbi upon landing, he said
about 98 passengers were aboard eastern airlines flight 977, which left kennedy at 1:35 p.m. and was scheduled to arrive in miami at 4:24 p.m., said karen ceremsak, an airline spokeswoman
when the pilot learned about the alleged drug activity, he notified a dea agent and a u.s. customs agent who were on board to attend a trial in miami, stutman said
the ages and hometowns of the suspects were not immediately known
a powdered form of cocaine, not crack, a potent derivative, is usually used in freebasing, a process in which the powder is mixed with ether and then heated so the fumes can be inhaled, stutman said
he said there was no damage to the aircraft
a sri lankan soldier opened fire with a semi-automatic rifle and killed seven sleeping comrades before he was shot to death by his commander, military officials said today
nine other soldiers were wounded in the tuesday night attack at an army camp next to a steel mill 10 miles southeast of colombo, they said
the attacker was a member of the people's liberation front, an ultra-nationalist sinhalese group that has raided several military camps to steal weapons, the officials said
the officials, who by regulation cannot be identified, said the attack was designed to kill as many soldiers as possible and to steal weapons. they said all the victims were sinhalese, the majority ethnic group that controls the government and military in sri lanka
the officials were unable to explain why the assailant risked making so much noise by gunning down fellow soldiers if the purpose of the attack was to collect weapons and escape
a vehicle had arrived at the scene to enable the attacker to make his getaway, they said, but the escape was foiled when the commanding officer heard the shooting, rushed to the scene and killed the soldier
the driver escaped in the vehicle, the officials said
neither the soldier nor his commander was identified, but the officials said they both served in a signal corps unit
according to the officials, similar attacks have occurred in the past but this was the largest number of soldiers ever killed by a fellow soldier
the government has blamed the people's liberation front for the assassinations of at least 150 government officials and supporters since july 29, when sri lanka signed a peace accord designed to end a 4-year-old separatist war by tamil guerrillas
the front says the accord makes too many concessions to the minority tamils and has vowed to kill anyone who supports the pact
military officials said last winter that front had about 4,000 supporters in the 45,000-man army
india mediated the peace accord last summer and it now has 45,000 peackeeping troops in the island
tamils, who are mostly hindus and comprise 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people, want a separate homeland, claiming they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese buddhists
experts have started conducting tests to determine how to repair the sphinx, the ancient monument that lost a chunk of stone from its right shoulder
the limestone slab fell from the sphinx feb. 7, six days after a sandstorm buffeted giza plateau
damage to the sphinx caused heated political and scientific debate over the future of the 4,600-year-old monument and egypt's other ancient treasures
the main casualty of the unrest was ahmed kadry, until early february chairman of the egyptian antiquities organization
kadry lost his job after accusing his boss, culture minister farouk hosni, of staging the rock fall to reflect badly on kadry's stewardship of the sphinx and, by extension, the other relics of egypt's rich past
restoration work began on the sphinx on monday
the monument was fitted with sandbags for support and scaffolding to help in the early stages of the effort
a committee of experts took rock samples to test for salt content and damage and to see whether the stone is strong enough to hold iron bars that will be inserted to strengthen it
tests also are being conducted to determine what kind of mortar should be used to cement the rock in place
we're not in a hurry. we want to do things right,'' said zahi hawass, general director of the pyramids area and director of the restoration
the sphinx has the head of a pharaoh and the body of a crouching lion. many egyptologists think the face belonged to chephren, son of cheops and builder of the second pyramid on giza plateau next to cheops' great pyramid
any damage to the pyramids or the sphinx _ symbols of the past with deep emotional overtones for modern egyptians _ brings instant outcries in cairo's national press. the rock fall proved no exception, to kadry's chagrin, and charges of incompetence and corruption flooded the newspapers. pickup.</note>
vietnam today repatriated what it believes are the remains of 17 american servicemen listed as missing in action from the vietnam war, a u.s. military official said
the vietnamese also turned over written reports on three other missing americans, said lt. col. paul mather, head of the u.s. military team that flew to hanoi to receive the remains
the remains were flown to the army's central identification laboratory in honolulu for analysis after a brief turnover ceremony at hanoi's noi bai airport
the repatriation was the fourth largest since the war ended in april 1975 with a communist victory over the u.s.-backed south vietnam government. the largest was in august 1985, involving 26 sets of remains
earlier reports that 20 remains were to be returned today resulted from a misunderstanding in communications from hanoi, said mather, the head of the bangkok office of the u.s. joint casualty resolution center
the center, based in hawaii, is entrusted with resolving the fates of nearly 1,800 americans listed as missing in action, or mia
mather said some of the 17 remains and three cases on which written reports were received were on a list of 70 high priority cases that u.s. presidential envoy and retired gen. john w. vessey jr. gave the vietnamese during his mission to hanoi last august
the united states says that in these so-called ``discrepancy cases,'' there is strong evidence the vietnamese know what happened to the missing men, including photographs of them taken after their capture
mather said each set of remains was accompanied by a written report containing such information as the area where the remains were found, and what people there said about them. he said the vietnamese also turned over identification cards and ``dog tags'' _ military identification tags which servicemen wear around their necks
mather said the remains were placed in metal transfer cases and loaded onto a c-141 transport plane for the flight to honolulu. a u.s. honor guard saluted as each case, draped with a folded u.s. flag, was loaded during the half-hour ceremony, he said
a high proportion of remains returned by vietnam after a preliminary analysis are later confirmed by the u.s. army laboratory as those of mias
mather also announced that the vietnamese have set march 12 as the starting date for the next round of ``technical talks'' on mias
during these talks, which hanoi has agreed to hold six times annually, experts on both sides discuss ways of retrieving remains, locating warplane crash sites and related issues
today's turnover was the third since hanoi agreed during vessey's visit to break a long deadlock and resume efforts to account for the missing men
the united states pledged then to look into vietnam's own humanitarian concerns, and an official u.s. medical team flew into hanoi today to continue that mission, said the spokesman of the u.s. embassy in bangkok, ross petzing
it was the fourth visit by a u.s. medical team. the teams have been studying the plight of disabled war veterans and other humanitarian cases and made recommendations on how private u.s. charitable organizations can aid rehabilitation programs
petzing said the team included dr. bruce van dam, an orthopedic surgeon at the walter reed army medical center in washington, d.c.; frederick downs, the director of the prosthetics and sensory aids service of the veterans administration; and laurence kerr, the state department's desk officer for vietnam
the vietnamese have said they prefer direct u.s. government aid, but washington has refused because of its embargo on aid to protest vietnam's occupation of cambodia. grafs to correct pleas of boesky and davidoff.</note>
a millionaire stock trader charged with intending to shoot financier ivan boesky has been ordered held without bail by a judge who rejected arguments that jail would harm the trader's mental health
john a. mulheren, 38, of rumson appeared tuesday before u.s. magistrate john c. manna to face two charges of attempting to tamper with a federal witness. he was transferred to a federal prison in new york city
the magistrate scheduled a friday bail hearing over the objections of mulheren's attorney, peter bennett, who said his client suffered manic-depression
a manic-depressive such as my client back on lithium for the last five days is not a risk to himself or others,'' bennett told the judge. ``jail is detrimental to his condition. he's far better off in a private care clinic.''
bennett said mulheren was on a ``manic-crash'' the day authorities allege he intended to shoot boesky
authorities contend mulheren pulled out of his riverfront estate feb. 18 with a high-powered assault rifle and army fatigues in the back seat of his car after police had confiscated three other weapons from him
he intended to shoot boesky, 50, of new york and boesky's former chief stock trader, michael davidoff, 43, of manalapan township, according to a new jersey complaint
before the federal hearing tuesday, state superior court judge alvin y. milberg released mulheren from the county jail where he was being held on the state charges
mulheren was arrested immediately afterward by four u.s. marshals, flanked by an investigator from the u.s. attorney's office in the southern district of new york and a federal attorney from new jersey, authorities said
mulheren had been held in the county jail in lieu of $17,500 bail on two weapons charges that carry a total maximum of 15 years in prison
bennett told the magistrate that mulheren was not bailed out of the county jail for 12 days because his manic-depressive condition precluded him from cooperating with attorneys on a defense. bennett asked that bail be set at tuesday's hearing
however, manna ruled in favor of terrence flynn, an assistant u.s. attorney who said he needed more time to prepare his case
boesky, once a close friend of mulheren's, and davidoff pleaded guilty last year to a single count of securities fraud and have cooperated with the government's continuing investigation of insider trading on wall street
boesky paid a fine of $100 million to the securities and exchange commission to settle civil charges of insider trading, and will begin serving a three-year prison term march 24. davidoff faces a five-year term when sentenced
mulheren is a friend of rock star bruce springsteen. the singer, also of rumson, visited mulheren in the county jail saturday during a break in his national concert tour, monmouth county sheriff william m. lanzaro confirmed monday. picks up pvs 10th graf bgng, fitzwater told; deletes last 5 grafs to tighten.</note>
president reagan and 15 other allied leaders today began their first summit talks since 1982 in a bid to underscore the unity of the western alliance despite differences over nuclear arms strategy
reagan, the last of the leaders to arrive at sprawling nato headquarters, made no comment as he passed a crowd of reporters and diplomats for the first summit session, but nato secretary general lord carrington stressed the cohesion of the alliance
carrington said the summit will provide nato ``with sustained impetus...in a way which will reflect the fundamental solidarity which unites us in trans-atlantic partnership.''
looking toward soviet-american arms talks, carrington said an improved soviet human rights record was fundamental to creating ``the confidence necessary to proceed with a radical arms control agenda.''
he added: ``for most of us in the west that cause (of tension) is the degree of mistrust created by the denial of basic human rights and freedom to the peoples of eastern europe and the soviet union.''
carrington reaffirmed nato's commitment supporting a proposed superpower agreement to reduce long-range nuclear weaponry by 50 percent on both sides. he said nato also looked forward to ``a more serious engagement'' with the soviet-led warsaw pact on a chemical weapons ban and reducing the eastern bloc's superiority in conventional arms
central to the summit talks here was the issue of how to fill the gap left by reagan's agreeement with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev last december to eliminate ground-launched medium-range nuclear missiles from europe
while the allies agreed on the need to reduce east-west conventional forces, a dispute remained over whether nato members should quickly improve their stocks of short-range nuclear missiles
i don't look for any glossing over at all,'' said canadian prime minister brian mulroney as he arrived for the talks
as the meeting began, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater reported that ``progress is fine'' on drafting a statement of common alliance goals to be issued at the conclusion of the two-day summit
reagan, who reached brussels coughing and complaining of allergies, ws to spend 2 1-2 hours conferring with the 15 other heads of state or government. when he arrived tuesday, the president tried to allay concerns over the warsaw pact's advantage in conventional forces by promising to keep u.s. troops in europe ``as long as europeans want them to stay.''
before the summit talks began over lunch, reagan met privately with secretary of state george shultz on the secretary's recent efforts to get the peace process moving in the middle east
fitzwater told reporters that shultz has been doing ``yeoman's work'' and that united states has made clear it wants a more visible role in the middle east peace process
although fitzwater said no decision had been made, he and other officials indicated reagan is likely to send shultz back to the middle east after the summit
in his afternoon remarks to nato _ a session closed to reporters in the alliance's austere central meeting hall _ the president was to repeat his assurances of the u.s. commitment to the nato democracies and urge them to repel soviet attempts to split the pact
the heads of state and government will discuss ``overall policy and the direction of the alliance _ the big picture,'' fitzwater added
fitzwater said reagan also planned to listen to his colleagues' concerns, particularly about the new round of arms control talks and their worries that american budget restrictions might force cutbacks in the 326,000 u.s. troops stationed in western europe
we also expect them to voice support ... as the president prepares for the moscow summit,'' fitzwater said. a date hasn't been set, but the fourth meeting between reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev is expected to be held in late may or june
the spokesman said that while the nuts and bolts on issues such as troop strength would be left to lower-level aides, reagan would urge the members to push forward on talks with the east bloc on reducing its edge in conventional forces
now in a preliminary stage in vienna, the discussions over conventional force reductions are expected to begin in earnest this fall
planners on both sides of the atlantic have predicted that no major decisions will result from the nato summit. the leaders are expected to sidestep differences over such issues as modernizing their own short-range nuclear weapons arsenal, and concentrate instead on issuing final statements that emphasize the pact's cohesion and resolve. clouseau; also sent in advance as b0282.</note>
michael caine has just made his eighth film in three years and has a tv miniseries set to roll, but the oscar-winning star of ``sherlock and me'' says he still worries about being out of work
you feel uneasy if you haven't got something to do,'' caine said in an interview in north london's camden town, where the $8.5 million-movie was concluding its nine-week shoot
people say i work all the time, but i don't. what they (distributors) do is always put the bloody things out at the same time.''
the actor's on-screen good cheer has been one of the few constants in the ever-changing hollywood scene
last year, he played sally field's love interest in ``surrender'' and a british intelligence agent in ``the fourth protocol.'' he starred in films as quintessentially american as ``jaws iv _ the revenge,'' and as quintessentially english as ``the whistle blower,'' a political thriller
in 1986 he was a british diplomat romantically linked with call girl sigourney weaver in ``half moon street,'' and had vivid supporting roles in ``sweet liberty'' and ``mona lisa.''
then, too, there was his academy award last year for best supporting actor for his performance in ``hannah and her sisters.'' the erstwhile cockney, who was born maurice joseph micklewhite in 1933, the son of a porter at billingsgate fish market in london, had integrated himself into the bittersweet world of woody allen's manhattan neurotics
i'd known woody for years, and i knew new york so well,'' said caine. ``i don't have a voice which is posh british, anyway
my attitude is that i'm more like an american, coming from a working-class background. lots of americans think i'm australian, or something like that _ crocodile dundee's father.''
caine's previous oscar nominations were for ``alfie'' in 1966, ``sleuth'' in 1972 and ``educating rita'' in 1983
in his new film, he impersonates that celebrated sleuth, sherlock holmes. caine is a boozing, down-on-his-luck actor who is hired by dr. watson to play the famed fictional detective to prove him real
i get to play two parts and a particular hero of mine, which i like, because i've always been a great fan of holmes,'' he said
we have the pipe, the magnifying glass, everything,'' said caine, referring to the traditional holmes accoutrements. ``it's a chance to play a hero who i'm not really right for and to do it in an entirely different way, as a comedy.''
the film, due out in the fall from orion pictures, co-stars oscar winner ben kingsley (``gandhi'') as dr. watson, who is forced by public demand to find a real-life holmes to match the figure he has been writing about in a magazine
caine compared his creation to the part of the inimitable inspector clouseau,, created by the late peter sellers in the popular pink panther series. ``peter would have laughed at some of the physical humor i do. the character is such a putz,'' caine said. ``i'm having fun; i'll tell you that.''
on march 14, caine moves on to his next assignment: a cbs miniseries, ``jack the ripper,'' which marks his first tv work since he played horatio to christopher plummer's hamlet in a 1966 production of shakespeare's tragedy
caine will play the fictitious inspector frederick abberline of scotland yard in the $5 million show
said to be based on confidential police and government files, the show will be aired in the autumn to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the notorious mass murderer, who terrorized victorian london in the late 1880s
caine said he's made a conscious effort to vary his parts and his performances. ``it gives you cachet as someone who can play anything,'' he said
i've been a leading actor, not a movie star who comes on and does the michael caine personality performance like a cary grant or a john wayne, although i admire both of them very much.''
his salary, he joked, reflected this attitude: ``i know a lot of actors like dustin hoffman, jack nicholson, who don't do pictures for years, but they get $6 million, $7 million, $15 million a picture.''
i don't. i get $1.98 and a bollocking (a reprimand) for being late on monday morning,'' he joked. caine is one of the few british actors who reportedly commands around $1 million a movie
caine said the british had reacted oddly to his decision in june 1986 to return to his native country with his wife, the indian model shakira baksh, and their 14-year-old daughter, natasha, after living for nine years in los angeles
people here treat me as if i'd just come back from some fearsome jungle and survived,'' he said. ``americans are just like we are, except they work harder _ that's what frightens the british. you've got to get up at 8 o'clock monday morning and go out and do something; you can't just sit there.''
caine is glad to be home. he divides his time between an apartment in london's elegant knightsbridge and a 15th-century manor house in rural oxfordshire northwest of the capital city
as for the sometimes brutal english class system, caine said it's no problem
years ago, all the people who wouldn't have spoken to me are now people i wouldn't want to speak to because they're so boring,'' he said
i've gone beyond class. i go with anybody, from the queen down.''
police were searching for suspects in the cross burning near the home of a black couple in a racially integrated neighborhood
it was done so quietly that we did not hear a thing,'' mary lomax, 72, said tuesday. ``nothing like this has ever happened here in our lifetime.''
she said her 19-year-old granddaughter, who lives across the street, spotted the cross burning monday night in a lot next to the home mrs. lomax shares with her husband. the cross stood 4{ feet by 6 feet
police said tuesday they had no witnesses
it is an out-of-the way neighborhood and it suggests something local,'' said sgt. angus park. ``we know of no incident that could have triggered the cross burning.''
cross burning is a felony punishable by three years in jail and a $5,000 fine. according to the office of human rights, the last cross burning in howard county occurred in october 1984. four juveniles were arrested
the pilot of the delta airliner that crashed at dallas-fort worth international airport in 1985, killing 137 people, had a pattern of ``use and abuse'' of three tranquilizers, a government lawyer said
attorney roy krieger suggested during his opening statement at a trial to determine liability for the crash that delta capt. edward m. connors might have habitually piloted jetliners under the influence of drugs
krieger told u.s. district judge david o. belew jr., who is presiding over the non-jury trial, that prescription records will show connors took the tranquilizers dalmane in 1978, valium in 1982 and 1984 and stelazine from 1982 to 1985
the records will show ``a clear pattern of use and abuse of these tranquilizers'' over the eight years before the aug. 2, 1985, crash, krieger said
the conclusion is inescapable,'' krieger said. ``he must have been taking them on the days he was flying'' because the prescription quantities were too large to have been taken only when he was off duty
why should the day of the crash be any different than all the other days in the previous years that he was taking tranquilizers,'' krieger said
delta lawyer john martin said during a break in the trial that there is no evidence that connors was using stelazine at the time of the crash. he said too little tissue was recovered from the crash to run tests for drugs other than alcohol. those tests were negative
the medical experts will show (stelazine) is a prescription tranquilizer that would not affect a person's ability to fly anyway,'' martin said. ``there are pilots who fly taking stelazine.''
during his opening statement, martin said negligence on the part of federal aviation administration and national weather service employees caused delta flight 191 to crash
the crew of 191 found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time'' because none of the government employees did their jobs,'' he said
martin claimed faa controllers and the weather service failed to warn the flight crew of the severity of weather at the airport
a report by the national transportation safety board concluded that the crash was caused, in part, by the pilot's decision to fly the l-1011 widebody jet into a wind shear, a violent downdraft
the trial will determine whether the government must pay part of $91.2 million in claims that delta's insurers have paid so far in the crash
in december, belew ruled that about 90 lawsuits filed by individuals against delta should be parceled out from federal court in fort worth to other federal courts. about half of those suits have been settled
joe besser, a rotund member of the three stooges for two years, was found dead of an undetermined illness at his home, his publicist said. he was 80
he had been ill for some time and wouldn't even see a doctor,'' said publicist jeff lenburg. besser's body was found tuesday by a relative, lenburg said
i go back 50 years with joe besser when i played vaudeville with him,'' said comedian milton berle. ``he was one of a kind. he was very innovative, very creative. he was a darling of a man, very congenial.''
besser joined moe howard and larry fine from 1956 to 1958 and was one of several actors to replace shemp howard as the third stooge
the three stooges specialized in head-knocking, eye-gouging slapstick, pratfalls and endless buffoonery. the trio made more than 190 short films and about 50 feature-length films until the '60s, lenburg said
besser embraced his role, bouncing off his fellow stooges in a schtick that distinguised his character
no matter how light the slap, besser's invariable response was a whining, ``not so h-a-a-a-a-a-r-d.'' the stooges' preposterousness elicited from besser an exasperated, ``ooooh, you crazy.''
the original three stooges, created in the vaudeville days of the 1920s, were morris ``moe'' horowitz, who changed his last name to howard; his brother samuel ``shemp'' horowitz and larry fineberg, who used the stage name fine
by the early 1930s, shemp had left in a pay dispute and was replaced by his brother, jerome howard, known as curly. curly left the team in 1946 after suffering a stroke, and brother shemp came back to replace him. after shemp's death in 1955, he was replaced by besser, who in turn was replaced in 1959 by joe de rita, who played ``curly joe,'' when the trio began making feature films
curly howard died in 1952. moe howard and fine died in 1975. de rita, the last surviving stooge, is 79 and retired, lenburg said
the character of joe became besser's trademark and he added to it in television's ``the abbott and costello show,'' where he played the mean, whining brat ``stinky'' who liked to slap lou around
he appeared on ``the abbott and costello show'' in the 1950s and '60s, along with regular appearances on ``the ken murray show'' and ``the joey bishop show.''
besser made 250 television appearances during his 67-year career, joking with such comics as berle and jerry lewis. he also appeared in more than 40 films
before becoming a stooge, besser worked as a comedian on broadway, on radio and in motion pictures
in the 1940s, his portrayal of an exasperated, whining child earned him a spot in olsen and johnson's long-running broadway show, ``sons o' fun,'' a sequel to their ``hellzapoppin.''
besser called his association with the stooges ``the happiest years of my life in show business.'' he was on hand in 1983 when the three stooges were awarded a star on the hollywood walk of fame
besser is survived by his wife of 56 years, ernie. funeral arrangements were pending
president augusto pinochet said a chain of bombs found at the end of an airport runway were planted by leftist extremists who planned to assassinate him by destroying his plane
authorities disclosed late monday that they had discovered six homemade bombs loaded with plastic explosives and shrapnel at the city airport of la serena on the pacific coast 300 miles north of santiago
attached to each bomb were about 300 sticks of dynamite, according to a communique issued by the civil aviation office
the bombs were buried at the western end of the runway and connected to a 2,000-foot-long detonating cable that ran to a ravine beside the airport
the explosives were discovered on saturday, the communique said
pinochet was to fly to la serena on jan. 29 to appear at an agricultural fair, but canceled the visit at the last minute
on tuesday, during a tour of southern chile, he told reporters there was evidence the bombs were planted in anticipation of his visit
they knew i was going to the north and prepared the explosive material that was found,'' he said during a stop in the town of maullin, 700 miles south of the capital. his remarks were carried by santiago radio stations
he said it was only by chance that he did not travel to la serena. ``there were a series of problems that obliged me to stay in santiago,'' he said
in september 1986, pinochet survived an ambush of his motorcade by a commando of the pro-communist manuel rodriguez front, the country's main lefitst guerrilla organization. five of his bodyguards were kiilled in the attack with machine-gun and rocket fire
pinochet, commander of the army, seized power in a 1973 coup that toppled the elected government of marxist president salvador allende
a molotov cocktail was dropped off a bridge today onto one tugboat and flares were fired at another in violence stemming from a 2-week-old longshoreman's strike, police said
the incendiary device bounced harmlessly off the tugboat, which was towing a gasoline barge, and fell into the east river at 4 a.m., said sgt. raymond o'donnell
about 5:30 a.m., several flares from a flare gun were fired from a pier at a tugboat towing two city sanitation department barges, but missed all three vessels, o'donnell said. the flares were fired from a pier at newtown creek, which empties into the east river and divides the boroughs of brooklyn and queens
late monday, a molotov cocktail was tossed from the queensboro bridge onto a barge unloading 500,000 gallons of gasoline at the amoco oil storage facility. it ignited a small fire that was extinguished quickly and caused only minor damage
police have recorded more than a dozen violent incidents since the strike began feb. 16, including the wounding a week ago of a tugboat captain when shots fired at his boat shattered the glass in the pilot house
negotiations between local 333 of the international longshoremen's association and five of the nine tugboat companies being struck are to resume thursday for the first time since the strike began
at issue are concessions the tugboat companies are demanding from the approximately 2,500 affected tugboat and barge workers
al cornette, local 333 president, said earlier that union members unanimously rejected the companies' demands for the elimination of 750 jobs and for wage and benefit givebacks of up to 62 percent
five companies had locked the workers out and four had not come to terms, cornette said. those firms have been using replacement workers, he said
the union has signed with nine other companies and 10 more had unexpired contracts
mary beth whitehead-gould and her former husband will reportedly receive up to $40,000 in a settlement with the agency that brokered her contract to act as a surrogate mother in the baby m case
the agreement, signed in manhattan by u.s. district judge pierre n. leval, dismisses the case without costs or attorneys' fees, but does not reveal terms of the settlement
however, it was reported early last month that the infertility center of new york and its founder, noel keane, agreed to pay the couple $30,000 to $40,000
keane, reached tuesday at his law office in dearborn, mich., said only that ``attorneys' fees would have been much more'' than his payment to the couple
the lawyer for mrs. whitehead-gould, joel d. siegal of newark, n.j., did not return a telephone call tuesday
mrs. whitehead-gould and richard whitehead, her husband at the time the contract was signed, had charged in a lawsuit that the infertility center and keane committed fraud in the baby m contract
the suit questioned whether mrs. whitehead-gould was properly counseled before becoming a surrogate mother
after being accepted by the center, mrs. whitehead-gould signed a contract with a tenafly, n.j., couple, william and elizabeth stern
under the arrangement, mrs. whitehead-gould was to accept $10,000 to become pregnant through artificial insemination with stern's sperm, and then relinquish the baby to the couple
however, after the baby was delivered, mrs. whitehead-gould launched a long, but ultimately unsuccessful, campaign to keep the baby girl, now nearly 2 years old and living with the sterns
foreign minister bill hayden today urged poland to allow lech walesa, leader of the outlawed solidarity labor federation, to visit australia
he said he cabled poland's foreign minister, urging him to approve walesa's application to travel to melbourne to attend a four-day world congress of the international confederation of free trade unions starting march 14
the polish government said tuesday it would bar walesa and three aides from attending the congress, citing the protection of poland's ``basic political interests.'' walesa and the three other solidarity leaders have been trying to obtain passports to allow them to attend the congress
they were invited by the australian council of trade unions
but jerzy urban, the government spokesman in poland, said the solidarity delegation would be prevented from going to the congress as representatives of ``a polish trade union which was dissolved and ceased to exist legally.''
walesa's and his colleagues' trip and their participation in the australian congress would be contradictory to the basic political interests (of poland) and would be a mockery of our legal order,'' urban told reporters
polish law regulating passport affairs orders denials of passports in such cases. poland has the sovereign right to protect its legal order.''
urban criticized some australian trade union activists for threatening to cut off water and electricity to the polish consulate in sydney and the polish embassy in canberra if walesa and his aides are refused passports, saying that such threats are only ``inflaming the atmosphere.''
he said poland would not yield to the ``pressure of hooligan threats'' toward its diplomatic missions, adding that it was australia's duty ``to guarantee the functioning of polish consular offices.''
walesa has not traveled abroad since the december 1981 imposition of martial law that crushed solidarity
also invited to australia were wroclaw solidarity leader wladyslaw frasyniuk, gdansk leader bogdan lis and senior adviser bronislaw geremek
walesa, contacted tuesday at his gdansk apartment, expressed surprise and disappointment. ``now i can see that as long as urban and company are in power i have no chance. please let me know as soon as you hear about urban's end,'' said walesa, the 1983 nobel peace prize winner
i have no further comment,'' he said. ``we have to wait for the reaction of trade unions and other organizations.''
in australia, trade unionists reacted angrily to urban's comments
we have a moral duty to protest against the polish authorities' actions and to back up our verbal condemnation with a bit of action,'' said michael easson, assistant secretary of the trades and labor council of new south wales
we reject the accusation by polish authorities that australian unions were behaving like hooligans for insisting that mr. walesa by granted permission to visit australia,'' he added
charles weyman, ethnic affairs director for the federated iron workers, told his members to boycott polish ships and cut off water, gas and electricity supplies to the consul in sydney and the embassy in canberra
authorities today acknowledged ``manifestations of anti-semitism'' in a 1968 purge of intellectuals and liberals that forced thousands of jews out of the communist party, government and academia
an article in the communist party daily trybuna ludu said innocent people were harmed merely for advocating reform, but it added that ``the predominant majority of party and state activists had no part in anti-semitism.''
addressing the 20th anniversary of the march 1968 event, the 1{-page article said some conservative, nationalist party factions ``took advantage of the jewish ancestry'' of some of their political rivals
injustice was done to many people of jewish descent as they were removed from political and professional positions, irrespective of their views and conduct,'' the paper said
but, it added, all the people in the conservative faction in the intra-party struggle were not anti-semitic, and some actively disassociated themselves from anti-semitism
about 9,000 jews lost positions in the party, government, academia and other official institutions in the purge. an estimated 12,000 to 20,000 jews emigrated, the majority of the jewish population that remained after the nazi holocaust
the first word that the party was going to issue a revised history of the 1968 ``anti-zionist'' purges came at the end of january in a speech by a polish historian in jerusalem
two weeks ago, the party weekly polityka printed a chronology of the events with a critical introduction. but the trybuna ludu article, which was reported by the state-run news agency pap and television, has the authority of an official party statement
speaking more generally about the persecution of liberals at the time, the party paper said, ``identification of the pro-reformatory movement with revisionist and anti-socialist movements was a mistake on the part of the leadership.''
it said the party leadership failed to make contact with the leading intellectuals who made ``rational proposals of democratization and who sought a dialogue with the authorities'' while recognizing the authority of the party
discrimination against jews, in the guise ``anti-zionism,'' began after israel's victory in the june 1967 middle east war. but it accelerated sharply in 1968
before world war ii, poland was home to more than 3.5 million jews _ more than half the world's jewry. there are now believed to be between 7,000 and 15,000 jews, with not a rabbi among them
all the obscenities of the march (1968) propaganda campaign have been repeated, all of them,'' said adam michnik, a prominent opposition activist and historian who was a student leader in 1968 and a chief target of anti-semitic attacks
what has been done is nothing but cosmetics,'' he said in a telephone interview
a leading party theoretician and journalist, ludwik krasucki, said on polish television tuesday that the party's attempts to reconsider the history of the period were vital
he expressed hope that with a thorough re-examination of the period, in all its aspects, ``this chapter, which nevertheless can't be forgotten, shall once and for all be closed.''
less than a week ago, eric arturo delvalle was reviled in much of the hemisphere as a figurehead president of panama, a tool of the country's military establishment, a man who gave panama's political system a constitutional facade
but, in a single stroke, delvalle has carried out a remarkable political rehabilitation. he has been transformed from delvalle the meek to delvalle the martyr
much of the reagan administration's strategy toward panama over the past few days has been built around delvalle and his claim to be panama's constitutional president
he is an integral part of the administration's ``chipmunk strategy'' toward panama _ keep gnawing away at panama's economy, at military strongman manuel antonio noriega's claim to legitimacy and his reputation and base of support at home and abroad
in time, the administration hopes, noriega will wake up, find his hold on power has evaporated and depart his homeland quietly. the administration wanted a democratic symbol around whom panamanians could rally, and found one in delvalle, the man who defied noriega, the armed forces chieftain, political heavyweight and, according to a federal indictment, cocaine smuggler. for now, at least, delvalle has the earmarks of a panamanian version of corazon aquino, a democratic symbol around whom opposition to philippine president ferdinand marcos coalesced
delvalle's image as a powerless front man dates back to when he took office in the fall of 1985. noriega was unhappy with the president at the time, nicolas ardito barletta, because of an independent streak, and he forced barletta from office
delvalle was sworn in as president under the most unpromising of circumstances. in effect, he had to behave according to noriega's wishes or he would end up like barletta. he carried that burden for two years
the image he projects nowadays is quite different. a certain mystique has developed around delvalle since he tried to fire noriega and wound up out of office himself. rather than flee the country after his dismissal, he has gone into hiding, issuing proclamations to his countrymen, making videotaped messages and frustrating efforts by noriega's forces to locate him
one of his chief allies these days is gabriel lewis, a former ambassador to washington who is now a captain of the anti-noriega campaign in exile
to hear lewis tell it, delvalle had wanted to break with noriega for five months but was reluctant to do so because of ``confusing'' signals from washington
lewis said tuesday that noriega has been suspicious of delvalle's intentions for some time and kept telling the president, ``don't act against me because the gringos are behind me.''
this was based on what noriega felt were reassuring visits by emissaries from washington, including assistant defense secretary richard armitage
one turning point occurred in early january, lewis said, when a gathering of panamanian opposition leaders met in miami and delvalle sent an envoy
the emissary told us that if we gave him (delvalle) assurances that we would support him, he was ready to act and dismiss noriega,'' lewis said
we sent him back a message,'' lewis said. ``we have heard that many times. we want deeds and not words. if you fire noriega and his cronies, we will give you support.''
contacts with lewis and other noriega opponents continued, with some messages being passed by delvalle's dentist in florida. another turning point took place in early february when two florida grand juries charged that noriega was a key figure in an international drug smuggling ring
with an end to the ambiguity in washington's position, the opposition front suggested that delvalle come here to announce his break with noriega before the organization of american states. delvalle agreed and arrangements were made
but then delvalle had second thoughts, reasoning that firing noriega at oas headquarters in washington might be seen ``as acting on instructions from the united states,'' lewis said. but was delvalle getting cold feet?
at lewis' instigation, sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., called delvalle to give him encouragement. on feb. 17, delvalle was in miami and invited assistant secretary of state elliott abrams to visit him
if delvalle was ousted for trying to fire noriega, abrams assured him, the united states would support him as panama's constitutional president, lewis said. eight days later, in an important moment in panama's tumultuous history, delvalle fired noriega only to be dismissed himself hours later by noriega's allies in the national assembly
lewis said the turn of events was foreseen in an 18-point anti-noriega conspiracy crafted by the opposition coalition
he said the program is up to point six. twelve to go
george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968
police have been guarding the offices of a conservative weekly newspaper that has revived stinging attacks on a black professor and reawakened charges of racism at dartmouth college
a march through the school's fraternity row and continued picketing of several businesses that advertise in the dartmouth review were planned today, and a larger rally was scheduled for thursday
four review staff members face college disciplinary charges and possible expulsion stemming from a confrontation last week with william cole, a music professor who once sued the paper for libel
the staffers say they are being persecuted for taking strong stands on the quality of dartmouth life and education, and deny that race has anything to do with it
the independent newspaper also was at the center of controversy two years ago when 12 students, mostly review staffers, took sledgehammers to symbolic anti-apartheid shanties on the campus green. that raid sparked a semester of sit-ins, disciplinary hearings and other unrest that caused a leadership crisis for dartmouth president david mclaughlin
mclaughlin resigned in june 1987, though he said the disturbances didn't contribute directly to his decision
as tensions rise again, mclaughlin's successor, james freedman, said tuesday he would ``urge everyone in the dartmouth community to take the high road to civility of expression.''
freedman had a similar message monday when he spoke to 250 students at a rally protesting the review's attacks on cole. he defended cole's qualifications, as well as the right to freedom of speech, ``however unpopular, provocative and offensive that speech may sometimes be.''
cole sued the paper in 1983 for libel over an article that said he ``looks like a used brillo pad.'' he dropped the suit in 1985. he received no damages and both sides claimed vindication
two weeks ago the review published a cover story calling cole's teaching performance ``academically deficient'' and including excerpts from a transcript from one of his recent classes
on thursday four review staffers approached cole after a class. editor-in-chief chris baldwin said the staffers wanted to give cole a chance to rebut their article, and to demand that he apologize for allegedly calling them ``white-boy racists'' during a class
shouting ensued, and the incident ended with the professor allegedly breaking the camera flash of review photographer john quilhot. the review published a photograph of an agitated cole on its cover in its next issue with the headline, ``the truth hurts. cole explodes over review criticism.''
cole has not commented publicly on the incidents
three police officers stood guard tuesday outside the review's office above a hardware store a block from the dartmouth campus
nearby, hoisting signs that urged motorists to ``honk if you don't support the review,'' about 25 people picketed the dartmouth bookstore and other stores that advertise in the review
the four review staffers face punishment ranging from a fine to expulsion if they are found guilty of disorderly conduct, harassment, or violating cole's right to privacy. they are baldwin, a junior from hinsdale, ill.; quilhot, a sophomore from fort wayne, ind.; executive editor john sutter, a senior from st. louis; and staff writer sean nolan, a freshman from lexington, mass
the foreign ministry said today that many aspects of soviet president andrei gromyko's memoirs dealing with chinese-soviet relations are false
many of the recollections and descriptions in gromyko's memoirs relating to the history and present state of chinese-soviet relations do not square with the facts,'' ministry spokeswoman li jinghua told a weekly news briefing
she refused to elaborate on what elements in the memoirs china disputed
the new york times, quoting an advance copy of gromyko's two-volume book ``memoir,'' said gromyko claimed chinese leader mao tse-tung proposed in 1958 that the soviet union help lure u.s. troops into china and attack them there with nuclear weapons
gromyko wrote that mao was expecting a u.s. attack on mainland china because of washington's support for the nationalist chinese government on taiwan and tensions over the tiny islands of quemoy and matsu in the taiwan strait
gromyko said in ``memoir'' that he rejected the plan, proposed while he was on a secret august 1958 visit to china, according to the times
ms. li confirmed that gromyko, then soviet foreign minister, visited china in 1958. she refused to comment on the purpose of the trip or the content of his talks with mao
at the time, the soviet union had close ties with the younger communist state and provided it with economic and military aid. the two countries split bitterly a few years later over ideological and strategic differences
memoir'' is due to be distributed soon to soviet bookstores. it covers nearly 50 years of soviet diplomacy, including relations with nine u.s. presidents from franklin d. roosevelt to ronald reagan, the times said. conference set for 2:30 p.m. est; lead planned</note>
a former congressman who has accused gop presidential contender pat robertson of ducking combat duty in korea said today the candidate is ``chickening out'' by trying to drop his libel suit
he's chickening out of the trial just like he chickened out 37 years ago,'' said former rep. paul n. mccloskey jr., r-calif. ``the courtroom's a great place to learn the truth. ... now that he's up with the truth to be told and testimony under oath, he's backing off.''
robertson, who faced a trial date on super tuesday _ the day 20 states hold primaries and caucuses, said tuesday he wants to drop his $35 million libel suit against mccloskey
in order to compete in that trial, i would have to break off my campaign today and run the risk of losing florida, texas, south carolina and other parts of the south,'' robertson told reporters in sarasota, fla
that was an impossible decision for me to make and an unfair one,'' he added
but mccloskey, who insists robertson invoked his late father's political influence to avoid combat in the korean war, said he will oppose the former television evangelist's request to drop the case
i think the truth ought to be told,'' mccloskey said on ``cbs this morning.'' ``i don't know any better place to get the truth than in the courtroom. he invoked the process, he ought to go through with it.''
mccloskey said he fears that an individual who avoided combat in his youth may try to make amends in the white house
you know when you get a president in office who has evaded combat in his youth and all his advisers are saying look tough against the soviets ... i think there is a tendency to try to prove your manhood late in life,'' mccloskey said
robertson's lawyers called a news conference at their washington offices today to discuss their decision to ask u.s. district judge joyce hens green to dismiss the lawsuit
she can't force a plaintiff to continue the suit,'' robertson said
but under the civil rules of procedure, the judge could force robertson to go to trial unless he pays mccloskey's legal expenses of nearly $400,000
we are prepared to go to trial,'' said mccloskey's lawyer, george lehner, adding that the former congressman has long insisted that robertson pay his legal fees as a condition for any settlement
the case involves a 1986 letter that mccloskey wrote to rep. andrew jacobs jr., d-ind., alleging that robertson used the political influence of his father, the late sen. a. willis robertson, d-va., to get out of combat duty in the korean war
mccloskey, a decorated marine, was aboard a troop ship from which robertson was removed during a stop in japan before the ship proceeded to korea. he quoted robertson as telling fellow marines that his father had helped him get out of combat
in the letter that was published by two syndicated newspaper columns, mccloskey also said the former television evangelist was later assigned to be a ``booze officer'' to a rear-echelon unit in korea
robertson called mccloskey ``a patent liar.''
but mccloskey, a liberal republican who once sought the republican presidential nomination as an opponent of president nixon's vietnam war policies, has found a number of ex-marines who served in korea who support his story
the former congressman also said today that a. willis robertson, in letters written during the war, thanked the marine corps for assuring that his son would not be involved in combat. mccloskey's lawyers subpoenad the letters, which had been left to william &amp; mary college
a trial, as scheduled, would have resulted in extensive publicity about the allegations as robertson is trying to win votes in the presidential race. as early as last fall, robertson expressed regrets over filing the politically troublesome lawsuit, telling time magazine: ``in all candor, i think it was a bad idea.''
robertson, who had earlier called judge green ``patently unfair'' for refusing to postpone the trial, said tuesday that she ``had done everything she can to get us to drop the case.''
robertson proposed that he and mccloskey submit their case to the iowa libel dispute program run by the university of iowa's law school and the american arbitration association
if mccloskey refuses, robertson says he will seek to drop the lawsuit anyway and put the facts of the case to an unspecified panel of experts
we will prove to the american people that he truly doesn't want the truth to come out,'' robertson said
lehner called the proposal for arbitration ``a red herring,'' and noted that the idea had been rejected by robertson's own lawyers nine months ago
a 19-year-old woman could be sentenced to up to four years in jail and fined $10,000 in the deaths of her two children last summer in a locked, sun-baked car
lisa shields, of white township, pleaded guilty tuesday to reduced charges in the deaths of kristle, 3, and calvin shields, 1
washington county judge john bell accepted pleas to two counts of endangering the welfare of children, and indiana county district attorney william martin agreed to drop two counts of involuntary manslaughter. no sentencing date was set
mrs. shields' 24-year-old husband, john shields, goes on trial march 14 on charges of involuntary manslaughter and endangering the welfare of children
mrs. shields stopped her trial, which began monday, and pleaded guilty after her husband testified that he had agreed to care for the children and had locked them in the car while his wife slept
shields said he hid the car in which the children were sleeping in a sunny area at the rear of a farmhouse after a friend told him a warrant had been issued for his arrest because the car had no license plates and was not registered
he said he closed the car windows ``because it was supposed to rain'' and locked the doors because ``i didn't want anyone taking my kids.''
shields said he left the children in the car because the house was unheated and had broken windows
earlier tuesday, dr. william kenney, a penn state university assistant professor of physiology, said the temperature in the car probably reached 150 degrees, which the children could have withstood for 17 minutes
both parents have been in jail since their arrests shortly after the children's deaths in august. fifth</head>
a lawyer seeking lt. col. oliver north's testimony in a drug trial says the ex-national security council aide will refuse to answer questions by invoking his constitutional right against self-incrimination
ronald c. dresnick, who obtained subpoenas last week against north and two other figures in the iran-contra affair, said tuesday he had not decided whether to pursue his bid to compel north to appear march 15 in u.s. district court in detroit
however, the attorney said he believed north could provide information to support his claim that his client, frank ivan turek correa, of colombia, was a victim of entrapment or other government misconduct
dresnick said he wanted to question north about michael palmer, a former airline pilot whom dresnick claimed was being protected from prosecution
palmer accompanied correa and other defendants on an airplane that allegedly carried drugs from south america to michigan, the attorney said. but dresnick said he believed palmer was allowed to go free because the government wanted to conceal his alternate role in shipping food and clothing to the contra rebels trying to topple the government of nicaragua
dresnick, in court papers seeking to subpoena north, said the dc-6 airplane allegedly used to ship the drugs to michigan was once owned by vortex air international. palmer is a former executive with both vortex and southern air transport, which dresnick called a cia-backed operation
i believe the government knows about palmer and ... must be aware that palmer was involved in drug smuggling,'' dresnick said
palmer also has been subpoenaed to testify in detroit, but his whereabouts are unknown, dresnick said. the attorney said he was forced to subpoena north because of the government's refusal to produce palmer
assistant u.s. attorney robert donaldson acknowledged tuesday that palmer was not included in a sept. 24, 1987, indictment naming correa and seven other defendants. he said the government had no interest in north's testimony and declined further comment
dresnick said barry simon, a washington attorney representing north, told him by telephone monday that his client ``indicated he will take the fifth amendment.''
if that's all that's going to happen, it's a little pointless to drag him out (to detroit) to say that,'' dresnick said
simon, contacted monday night, had declined to say whether north would appear in detroit and would not answer any other questions
more than 2,000 libyan soldiers have entered northwestern sudan to launch an offensive against chad, the government radio of chad said
n'djamena radio said the troops joined thousands of other soldiers already stationed in sudan's darfour province ``with the complicity of the khartoum authorities.'' the report tuesday night was monitored in abidjan
the column included regular soldiers from the libyan army as well as mercenaries, the radio said. it added that libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi was planning an attack
chad and libya have been observing a cease-fire in their war over the disputed anzou strip, a mineral-rich area that lies between the two countries. the cease-fire was arranged by the organization of african states last september
chad frequently has accused libya of using sudan to launch attacks against it
as for khartoum and its government, chad reiterates its appeal for a sense of responsibility to avoid turning the sudanese territory into a powder keg and an aggression base against a neighboring and brotherly country. otherwise, chad will assume its responsibility,'' the radio said
a special organization of african unity committee is to meet in dakar, senegal, on april 10 to negotiate a settlement in the chad-libya conflict
deposed president ferdinand marcos said his doctors once suspected he had cancer but surgery proved the diagnosis wrong, an uncle of president corazon aquino reported today
rep. francisco sumulong said through a spokesman that marcos told him of the preliminary diagnosis when the two men met in hawaii in early february. he said marcos had thyroid surgery in october, after which doctors ruled out cancer
on tuesday, the peoples journal tonight quoted sumulong as saying that marcos was in declining health and may be suffering from cancer. a marcos spokesman in honolulu denied the report in the manila newspaper
sumulong and mrs. aquino's cousin, rep. egmidio tanjuatco, met separately with marcos earlier this year in hawaii, where the former president has lived since he was ousted in a military-civilian revolt in february 1986
marcos spokesman leonie tan confirmed the meetings but denied that the former president had used his health to strike any deals with the aquino government for his return
he's in excellent health,'' tan said. ``he has regular medical check-ups and definitely does not have cancer.''
mrs. aquino said in manila on tuesday that before marcos would be allowed to return he must return billions of dollars he allegedly took from the country he ruled for 20 years
marcos repeatedly has denied stealing money from the philippines, and tan said he had not offered to pay any money back
no deal has been struck, indeed, not a single item on the agenda has been decided,'' tan said
it is not known when negotiations for marcos return will start, ``but the desire from both sides is that talks begin immediately,'' tan said
marcos lives with his wife, imelda, in a mansion in the makiki heights section of honolulu. both have frequently expressed their desire to return to the philippines, but cannot because mrs. aquino revoked their passports shortly after assuming the presidency
the coach of the romanian bobsled team refused to return home after the winter olympic games and has asked for asylum in canada, police and olympic sources said
city police supt. len esler said tuesday a man approached two police officers at the athletes' village at the university of calgary on monday night and ``requested political asylum.''
he was taken to a police station, where immigration officers picked him up and placed him in protective custody. esler refused to say who the team official was or give his nationality ``for his safety and the safety of his family.''
but police and olympic sources identified him as dumitru focseneanu, who was listed as the romanian bobsled coach staying at the olympic village
focseneanu was in calgary last december as the 22-member team's coach during world cup competition
the romanian embassy in ottawa refused comment
wilf lindner, manager of the calgary immigration center, said the man had not yet formally applied for refugee status and would be given two or three days ``to reflect on his position without undue pressure.''
his refugee status is to be decided at a later date,'' lindner said. ``all decisions are made on a case-to-case basis. we have his request to remain in canada, nothing else.''
lindner said no other olympic-related requests to remain in canada had been received by the calgary office. but during the first week of the games, three romanian speed skaters and their coach abruptly departed amid speculation they were planning to defect
a federal judge rebuked shiloh true light church of christ for exploiting children and cited church members for contempt of court for violating federal child labor laws
u.s. district judge robert potter also ordered two companies owned and operated by church members to pay $203,272 to cover a federal investigation and litigation expenses and to pay employees back wages and interest
the actions tuesday further set back the church's campaign to stop what it calls government interference with its religious beliefs
potter ruled that church members and the two companies _ mcgee brothers co. inc. of union county and wendell's woodwork inc. of mint hill _ violated his october 1987 order to obey federal child labor laws
true light families educate their children at home. the church also sponsors a job-training program that gives youths the opportunity to earn money while learning such trades as bricklaying, woodworking and sewing
church members acknowledged during the trial they used their children, some as young as 9, at construction sites and in workshops where they carried bricks, laid foundations and more recently, operated forklifts and power saws. they said they had been doing that for at least 100 years
in october, potter ordered children to stop working for the companies. when the owners of the companies continued the program for the church, the labor department asked they be found in contempt
in separate judgments, potter ordered both companies again to obey the laws and warned that mcgee brothers would be fined $10,000 and wendell's woodwork $5,000 for each day the companies remain in contempt of his order
in addition, potter said wendell's two owners _ wendell long and herbert long _ would be fined $500 each per day that they remained in contempt of his order. the five brothers who own mcgee brothers face fines of $1,000 per day each if they remain in contempt
potter also ordered mcgee brothers to pay $133,890 in back wages and interest to employees who had not been paid minimum wages and for overtime work
calls to both companies' offices and the offices of their attorneys for comment were not returned
we feel like our freedom of religion and freedom of worship has been violated,'' said rommie purser, the church's minister. ``we just plan to go on to the supreme court and see if we aren't being denied freedom of worship.''
in a january trial, the labor department charged the owners of the two companies _ all of whom are members of the church _ with violating the federal statute against child labor
the judge wrote in his 58-page opinion that the children employed ``are children doing adult's work, and regardless of the label defendants have attached to them, i.e. `trainees in shiloh vocational training program,' they are manifestly being exploited by defendants in this case, whether or not they proclaim their purpose to be in furtherance of their religious beliefs.'' cyprus for zurich; picks up 9th graf pvs: `stening said...'</note>
two scandinavian u.n. relief workers freed from 25 days in captivity said today that their moslem abductors moved them often, did not reveal their identities and treated them well
swede jan stening, 44, and norwegian william jorgensen, 58, who were freed by their abductors tuesday night, made the comments at a packed news conference at a hotel in christian east beirut
we were very well treated during the whole period of captivity,'' said stening. jorgensen said stening was speaking for ``both of us.''
stening said neither of them had any idea about the identity of their captors, their motives or their demands
all our guards were masked,'' stening said. ``we changed locations seven or eight times. we never knew where we were held at any time.''
we were held together ... both of us were blindfolded at the beginning for an hour or so but then the blindfolds were removed and we were allowed to talk freely to each other,'' stening said. ``we were moved from one location to another at night and in the trunks of the cars,'' stening added
he said their captors ``interrogated us in a polite manner, asking such questions as the names of countries we worked at and the kind of jobs we had.''
after the news conference, the former hostages left lebanon in a u.n. helicopter from christian east beirut for larnaca, cyprus. they then departed larnaca for zurich, switzerland, aboard a regular swissair flight for their journey home
stening said four gunmen kidnapped them near south lebanon's provincial capital of sidon as they were driving in a u.n. car from their base in the southern port of tyre to beirut on feb. 5
asked whether either one could tell if the kidnappers were palestinians or lebanese, judging by their accent, stening said in english: ``no. we haven't the slightest idea. i don't know arabic.''
the two worked for the u.n. relief and works agency, which cares for 280,000 palestinian refugees in lebanon
jorgensen said ``yes'' when asked whether he would be willing to return to work for the agency in sidon after their ordeal
john fennessey of ireland,the agency's acting director, told reporters at the news conference that the two former captives ``wish to join their families as soon as possible and we're going to fulfill that'' request
the first word about the release came in a handwritten arabic statement delivered to a western news agency in beirut late tuesday
it was accompanied by a picture showing the two men. it said after they were ``proved innocent, they were released.''
the statement did not say what they had been accused of, but in earlier statements the group claimed the men were involved with the intelligence service of an unidentified foreign power. u.n. officials blamed the abductions on palestinians acting individually for personal, not political, motives
the kidnappers of u.s. marine lt. col. william r. higgins, who was abducted in south lebanon feb. 17, said in a statement released tuesday they would put him on trial. they accused higgins of working for the u.s. central intelligence agency
the organization of the oppressed on earth, which claimed higgins' abduction, said israel's crackdown on anti-occupation palestinian riots in the west bank and gaza strip and the middle east trip of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz ``make us more determined to try this criminal, higgins.''
both the united nations and the united states have denied that higgins, who served with the u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon, was a cia spy
reporters in sidon, 25 miles south of beirut, said the two scandinavians were turned over by their abductors at 8 p.m. tuesday to palestine liberation organization representative salah salah
they were then driven to beirut by the militia of leftist sunni moslem leader mustafa saad, who controlled the city since the 1975 outbreak of the lebanese civil war
higgins, 43, was abducted near south lebanon's ancient port of tyre. he heads a 76-man u.n. observer group that monitors truce violations on the lebanon-israel border under a 1949 armistice agreement
the organization of the oppressed on earth is believed to be made up of pro-iranian shiite moslems. it previously claimed responsibility for kidnapping 12 lebanese jews in west beirut and said it killed eight of them
in all, 23 foreigners are missing after being kidnapped in lebanon since march 1985. they are nine americans, four frenchmen, three britons, two west germans, an italian, an irishman, an indian and two unidentified men
held longest is terry a. anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, kidnapped march 16, 1985. word; sub final item to restore ap logo</note> ministers</head>
a newspaper poll of baptist ministers in south carolina shows former television evangelist pat robertson with a plurality of support in the influential group, despite its theological differences with the republican presidential candidate
robertson has said he has to win south carolina's republican primary saturday, three days before the super tuesday primaries in other mostly southern states. about 700,000 of south carolina's 3 million people are southern baptists, with about 2,000 ministers
a poll conducted last weekend by the atlanta journal and the atlanta constitution showed robertson with the support of 31 percent of the ministers who plan to vote saturday
vice president george bush was second at 24 percent, followed by 17 percent for kansas sen. bob dole and 10 percent for new york rep. jack kemp
although robertson is a former southern baptist minister _ he stepped down as he began his presidential campaign _ he comes from a charismatic branch of the denomination, believing, among other things, in faith-healing and speaking in tongues. most of the fundamentalist members of the denomination reject such teachings
state republican party officials say the large turnout expected for saturday's presidential primary is stretching their manpower to the limits
the party still is looking for volunteers to help man the polls and will probably have to combine some precincts, officials said
any time you try to man 1,800 precincts with volunteers, it's a lot of work,'' said state republican party executive director tony denny. ``some counties have got it licked and are in good shape, others are struggling and trying to find volunteers during the last minute
but i think we'll get the precincts open.''
the largest primary race the gop has held in the state came in the 1980 presidential campaign, which drew about 145,000 voters, denny said
he is anticipating a turnout of about 175,000 saturday. denny said regular june primary elections never have drawn more than approximately 60,000 voters statewide
the texas state teachers association has dropped its endorsement of illinois sen. paul simon, dealing another blow to a presidential campaign that a simon official said has been misconstrued as dead in the south
the tsta, tuesday switched to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis as its candidate in next tuesday's texas democratic presidential primary. tsta, with 95,000 members is the state's largest teacher organization
while sen. simon's strong national record on education prompted our endorsement, his decision not to campaign in texas forced us to reassess our position,'' tsta president charles beard said at a news conference
simon announced last week he does not have sufficient money to mount full campaigns in the super tuesday states, including texas. but bob krueger, simon's texas chairman, said tuesday that simon is running in texas and expects to earn some delegates
simon will campaign in texas on monday and tuesday, according to krueger
pat robertson apparently will be the only one of the four republican presidential candidates to hit the legal spending limit for saturday's south carolina primary, campaign officials say
about 25 percent of the money robertson is spending in south carolina will go into television advertising, which includes a 30 minute television ad expected to air thursday or friday night in greenville, charleston and columbia markets, said kerry moody, robertson's national deputy press secretary
the bulk of the money has gone into field organization efforts, including distribution of 200,000 tapes titled ``pat robertson: what i will do as president.''
in new hampshire, robertson sent more than 200,000 tapes, and in last week's south dakota race, he sent 206,585 tapes
robertson also spent the legal limits in iowa and new hampshire. the limit set by the federal election commission for south carolina is $916,099
jesse jackson has qualified to be on the ballot for indiana's may 3 democratic presidential primary
jackson supporters tuesday submitted the required ballot petitions to the secretary of state's office. at least 500 signatures from each of the state's 10 congressional districts are required to qualify for the statewide ballot
jackson became the fifth democrat to earn a spot on the ballot. also competing for the 79 delegate votes available through the primary are rep. richard gephardt of missouri, sen. albert gore of tennessee, gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts and sen. paul simon of illinois
jackson finished third in the 1984 primary behind then colorado sen. gary hart and former vice president walter mondale
senate minority leader bob dole of kansas and rep. jack kemp of new york have filed for the republican primary
gov.-elect buddy roemer, who is expected to endorse tennessee sen. albert gore jr., says he will soon announce his choice for the democratic presidential nomination
i'd tell you now if the media wasn't here,'' roemer joked when asked tuesday about his choice by a class of high school students in baton rouge. ``i'll make an announcement in a joint news conference later this week.''
he'll make the announcement thursday morning, i believe at 9 a.m.,'' an aide told reporters
gore also plans a 9 a.m. news conference thursday ``to announce a major statewide endorsement,'' according to his campaign officials
other presidential candidates are planning swings through louisiana prior to the march 8 super tuesday presidential primaries and caucuses in 20 states and american samoa
police today said they arrested a couple who planned to kidnap the son of a wealthy businessman and inject him with aids-infected blood unless a $350,000 ransom was paid
two vials of blood were found during a raid on the couple's home in the northern part of new south wales, police said
detectives said they acted on an anonymous tip that the husband and wife planned to abduct the 15-year-old son of a multimillionaire businessman outside the youth's school
the businessman was not identified
a bus slid into a river at a ferry crossing in southeastern china when its brakes failed, killing at least 22 people, according to a news report
the hong kong china news service said tuesday the accident occurred about noon saturday in wuning county of jiangxi province
the driver and five children were among the dead and two of the 63 passengers aboard the bus remained missing, said the news agency, which quoted local security officials it did not identify
the latest washington developments in the war on drugs:
education secretary william j. bennett told the white house conference on a drug-free america that the united states should consider using unilateral military force abroad to prevent the growth and manufacture of illegal drugs destined for this country. ``as the greatest military and economic power in the world, we can do more to prevent criminals in foreign nations from growing or processing illegal drugs,'' bennett told the white house conference on a drug-free america. ``it is to be hoped we can do this in collaboration with foreign governments, but if need be we must consider doing this by ourselves.'' voice</head>
rep. charles rangel, d-n.y., chairman of the house select committee on narcotics abuse and control, said first lady nancy reagan has been the only person connected with the administration to show leadership in the nation's war on drugs
sens. lawton chiles, d-fla. and pete wilson, r-calif., and rangel called on president reagan to institute stricter penalties on latin american countries that fail to cooperate with the united states in efforts to combat drug trafficking
the reagan administration warned colombia and mexico that their anti-narcotics programs will receive close scrutiny in the coming months. they were singled out in the president's annual drug report to congress as countries that are making some efforts to stop narcotics traffic but need to improve
iran, afghanistan, syria and a new entry on the list, panama, were classed as countries whose support for drug trafficking makes them ineligible for u.s. aid
a study by the general accounting office said the war on drugs is costing society tens of billions of dollars a year in lost wages, law enforcement outlays and treatment programs. in 1983 alone, drugs cost american society some $59.7 billion in crime, lost employment, criminal justice spending, prisons, reduced productivity and treatment programs, the study says
vice president vows he won't `sit out there unprotected' as dole attacks bgng ``but when...</note>
vice president george bush, buoyed by polls showing him with a comfortable lead in the south, said today no candidate can win the nomination without winning on super tuesday
you cannot design a strategy to be president of the united states without doing well in the super tuesday states,'' bush said at a breakfast with supporters here at the start of a campaign day that will take him to alabama, mississippi, louisiana and south carolina
bush said tuesday he wants to keep ``a rather high plane'' in the closing days of the super tuesday campaign
but when asked about a television advertisement in which dole attacks him on the iran-contra affair, bush told reporters: ``we'll see whether it helps him, but i think i have every right to set the record straight. you ought not to be surprised if you see some comparative ads
you know, we're not going to sit out there unprotected,'' he added
after a swing through south florida on tuesday, bush planned to breakfast today with senior citizens in pinellas county, then head on to mississippi and louisiana campaign events
bush said that he is confident but not cocky about the campaign for the march 8 super tuesday of 20 primaries and caucuses, most in the south. a washington post-abc poll released today gave him a 3-1 lead over dole
two weeks ago yesterday, the polls (in new hampshire, where he won the primary) showed me on the canvas; and the voters said different. i'm not going to get overconfident (because polls show him leading in the south),'' said bush
the vice president campaigned tuesday with former sen. barry goldwater, the 1964 republican presidential nominee from arizona, and florida gov. bob martinez
in recent days, dole has made a point of saying he is the only candidate ``tough enough'' to deal with the problems a president faces
bush replied with an appearance that played up his combat record. when he arrived at the tampa airport, a grumman avenger plane, the same model he flew during world war ii, had been brought from a nearby air museum. he climbed into the cockpit
later, bush drove a paving machine at the construction site of a north miami beach development
bush's mother, who lives in palm beach, briefly joined him. also campaigning with bush in tampa was his son jeb, who is florida's secretary of commerce. comments. picks up 11th graf pvs, `otherwise, he ...; one word cq for najib.</note>
the mediator through nearly six years of peace talks on afghanistan opened a crucial and perhaps final round today and said he was sure it would lead to the withdrawal of soviet troops
u.n. mediator diego cordovez said ``difficult'' problems remained but that he believed both sides were determined to overcome them and reach a settlement as soon as possible
cordovez said the negotiations would last as long as was necessary to forge that settlement
perhaps it will be signed earlier than you think,'' he added
i have the impression that the afghan people are tired of this conflict, that they will want peace,'' cordovez said. he did not specify what problems remained, citing a need of confidentiality that allowed the parties to be ``flexible''
cordovez spoke to reporters shortly before beginning his shuttle between the pakistani and afghan delegations, seated in separate rooms in the geneva office of the united nations
the indirect format was adopted because pakistan, representing the anti-marxist afghan guerrillas, does not recognize the soviet-backed afghan government of president najib
cordovez said he had been in contact with representatives of several countries, including the united states, the soviet union, the european community and australia, to discuss humanitarian aid to afghanistan after a settlement
i have the feeling that there will be a broad international effort,'' he said
pakistan has insisted that pullout of the 115,000 soviet troops from afghanistan be accompanied by formation of a broad-based transitional government to replace the afghan regime
the soviets intervened in 1979 to back the kabul government against moslem insurgents
pakistan's chief negotiator, minister of state zain noorani, said pakistan came to geneva with a ``constructive attitude to finalize the text of the peace package.''
the head of the afghan delegation, foreign minister abdul wakil, did not renew charges that pakistan's demand for an interim government threatens to thwart a settlement
both held separate news conferences on tuesday
wakil said he approached the talks with a ``sense of full optimism.''
asked whether pakistan would sign the peace package with the najib government, noorani said that would be decided after consultations in islamabad on sunday with ``national leaders,'' including opposition leaders
the geneva talks will recess to allow noorani to take part in those talks
noorani said pakistan would continue to press for an interim government acceptable to all afghans to be created in conjunction with a soviet withdrawal
otherwise, he said, there is a threat of new bloodshed preventing the return to afghanistan of more than 3 million refuges from pakistan and another 2 million from iran
we also seek cooperation of the soviet union,'' said noorani. ``we feel that after 8{ years of occupation, the soviets owe it to the people of afghanistan to give them a durable peace.''
wakil said afghanistan has no preconditions for the makeup of the future government
but seven pakistan-based resistance movements that claim to speak for the about 200,000 moslem guerrillas have ruled out any power-sharing with najib. last week, they presented their own plan for an ``islamic government.''
kabul immediately rejected the plan, which noorani described as a ``positive proposal.''
the talks have moved rapidly since soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's feb. 8 announcement that moscow would bring its troops home within 10 months starting may 15, provided a geneva settlement is signed by march 15
noorani said the march 15 date ``is not all that important'' and that he is sure soviet withdrawal plans would not be upset if the signing came later
he said the timetable for the pullout is now within ``negotiable range,'' but he indicated there are still considerable differences
pakistan wants at least half the soviet troops to leave during the first three months of a pullout, noorani said. gorbachev has been vague on the subject, which is directly related to the question of a cutoff in western aid to the guerrillas
the united states is reported to have given the guerrillas $700 million last year
wakil said agreements already drawn up provide for the cutoff to coincide with the start of the soviet pullout
the afghan monarchy was overthrown in 1978 and a communist government was installed. the soviets intervened at the request of the embattled new marxist government
the doctor for three aids-exposed brothers who were ostracized in their hometown has retracted his diagnosis of aids-related complex for the oldest boy
jerry barbosa testified at a hearing tuesday that he earlier made the diagnosis for 11-year-old ricky ray because he felt compelled to under a judge's order
aids-related complex, or arc, often is a precursor to acquired immune deficiency syndrome. there is no known cure for aids
the way i interpreted the order, i had no choice but to label this patient as having arc against my clinical judgment,'' barbosa told u.s. magistrate elizabeth a. jenkins
the purpose of tuesday's hearing was to clarify earlier reports that the physician had diagnosed arc in the youth weeks before reporting it to the court
on jan. 29, u.s. district judge elizabeth kovachevich modified an earlier order and required barbosa to report the progress of ``any aids, aids symptomology, or other aids-related syndrome.''
her wording prompted him to say in his feb. 2 report that ricky had developed arc, barbosa said
but ricky has not exhibited physical symptoms necessary for such a finding, although the boy's blood tests might support an arc diagnosis, the doctor said. he also cited april 1987 guidelines issued by the federal centers for disease control in atlanta that prohibit labeling any child under age 13 as having arc
it doesn't mean much to the court that somebody has or doesn't have arc,'' ms. jenkins said. ``when material changes in the boys' health occurs, it is not up to the court to try to look behind the medical reports to see what is there.''
when ms. kovachevich ruled aug. 5, 1987, that the desoto county school system had to readmit the ray brothers to regular classes, she ordered aids testing of the boys every six months and said any changes in their condition had to be reported to her
ms. jenkins told attorneys for the rays and the school board to devise an improved way to keep the court informed about the hemophiliac brothers' medical conditions. the attorneys must submit the plan by monday
ricky, robert, 10, and randy, 8, were banned from regular classes after they tested positive for the aids antibody in august 1986. doctors say the children were apparently exposed to the aids virus through infusions of blood products that aim to promote clotting
soon after the boys began school in arcadia last fall, amid a boycott and protests by other students' parents, an arsonist torched the ray home. since then, the family has moved to sarasota, where the ray children have attended public school without incident. waldheim ordering lawsuit. picks up 5th graf pvs, `a spokesman....' minor editing to conform.</note>
a group of 300 austrians has asked state prosecutors to investigate whether president kurt waldheim can be prosecuted on suspicion of murder, a spokesman for the group said today
a petition asking that waldheim be prosecuted in connection with his world war ii service as an officer in the nazi army has been circulating among intellectuals and at anti-waldheim demonstrations for the past three weeks
the left-wing vienna magazine falter today published the text of the complaint, which it said was signed by 300 people, including two prominent writers _ robert jungk and erich fried
walter oswalt, a journalist and spokesman for the group, said the complaint was sent to the vienna state prosecutor's office by registered mail and was delivered this morning
later, waldheim asked state prosecutors to sue falter on grounds of defamation and asked that it be removed from newsstands, the president's spokesman, gerold christian, said
waldheim has initiated four other similar suits, including one against the west german news magazine der spiegel, which published a document last month purportedly linking waldheim to the deportation of civilians to prison camps in 1944. the magazine later said the document was a forgery and apologized for publishing it
a spokesman for the state prosecutor's office said privacy laws prevent the office confirming the receipt of the austrian group's complaint
the complaint quoted extensively from a historians' report on waldheim's wartime service, published feb. 9, and from other material to back its request for an investigation of waldheim on suspicion of murder
it cited an article in austria's criminal code saying that ``not only the direct perpetrator commits the punishable act, but also a person who persuades another person to commit it, or who otherwise contributes to its perpetration.''
the historians' report concluded that waldheim had concealed his record as a german army lieutenant in the balkans during world war ii. it also said he was in ``close proximity'' to some nazi atrocities, knew about them and did nothing to prevent them
christian, asked for a reaction to the complaint, said only that legal proceedings were constitutionally impossible
under article 63 of the austrian constitution, a president can be prosecuted only if both houses of austria's parliament agree to it
waldheim has said the report exonerates him from accusations linking him to war crimes, but the historians left open the question of guilt
waldheim has consistently denied any links with alleged war crimes and has insisted he will stay in office despite increasing pressure to resign. he was elected to a six-year term in june 1986, three months after his service in the balkans was first disclosed
the u.s. justice department has barred waldheim from the united states as an undesirable alien
the israeli member of the historians' commission, yehuda l. wallach, has said the report could serve as a basis for an investigation of whether waldheim could be prosecuted
the west german historian on the panel, manfred messerschmidt said in an interview published feb. 25 in the munich daily sueddeutsche zeitung that legal steps could be considered over waldheim's role in the fate of british commandos executed in greece in 1944
last month, british prime minister margaret thatcher ordered a renewed investigation into that episode by british authorities
parts of messerschmidt's interview were quoted in the text of the complaint against waldheim
messerschmidt said in connection with the 1944 episode, ``i think that from the point of view of penal law, one could think about whether this was not assistance'' in murder
justice ministry spokesman gerhard litzka said that, under austrian law, the state prosecutors' office is bound to examine such a complaint and to deliver a recommendation to the justice ministry on whether or not to open legal proceedings. baghdad. other editing. no pickup.</note>
iraq said it pounded tehran with surface-to-surface missiles today for a third straight day and fired two rockets at iran's holy city of qom, seat of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's religious hierarchy
iran said it launched three long-range missiles against the iraqi capital of baghdad early today in retaliation
one iranian missile hit baghdad at daybreak, killing or wounding several civilians, including women and children, and destroying houses, shops and cars, the official iraqi news agency said without elaborating on the casualties
iraq said it had sent 19 missiles into the iranian capital since monday, including two today that iran's official islamic republic news agency said wounded 15 civilians, among them eight women and five children
iraq's news agency reported a third missile was fired into tehran in the afternoon
khomeini said iran will not bow to pressure, and that missile attacks ``make our nation stronger,'' tehran radio reported
it was the first time iraq has used surface-to-surface missiles on tehran, a city of 6 million, since the iran-iraq war began in september 1980. it marks the worst escalation of the 3-year-old ``war of the cities'' that has killed thousands of civilians
the attack on qom was iraq's first with surface-to-surface missiles on the city 80 miles south of tehran. the last time iraqi warplanes bombed qom was january 1987
iraq said the missiles used against tehran were of its own design and production, but iran said they were soviet-supplied
western military analysts believe the iraqis are using soviet-made scud-b surface-to-surface missiles with ``strap-on'' booster rockets to give them extra range to reach tehran, which is 290 miles from the iraqi border. qom is about the same distance from the border
iran also uses scud-bs to attack baghdad, but has an advantage because the iraqi capital is only 80 miles from the border
the iraqi news agency said the missiles on qom were fired just before noon, but gave no other details of the attack on the city, which it called ``the center of charlatans and hypocrites.''
the agency reported a second attack on qom in the early afternoon
the iranian news agency said no casualties were reported in the strike on qom before noon, but did not mention the later attack. irna said 15 civilians suffered wounds in the latest attacks on tehran
qom, a city of 250,000 people, is home to iran's main theological center and tomb of a shiite moslem saint. ayatollah hussein ali montazeri, khomeini's designated successor, lives in qom
although the city is khomeini's seat, the 87-year-old supreme leader of iran's fundamentalist revolution lives in suburban tehran. he told families of war victims at his residence today: ``we fear nothing. for a martyrdom-lover it makes no difference to be martyred by a missile, a bomb or anything else,'' tehran radio reported
irna said iranian artillery gunners, in retaliation for today's attacks on tehran, shelled military and economic installations in the iraqi cities of basra, ammara, badra, zorbatiya, ali sharqi and ali gharbi
iraq said it began the missile barrage of tehran to retaliate for two pre-dawn iranian rockets on baghdad on monday. iran said the missiles were in retaliation for iraqi air raids on the tehran oil refinery last week
the iraqi and iranian dispatches were monitored in nicosia
a water stoppage that took place about 30 minutes earlier than announced left a man with a burned scalp
at 7:30 a.m. monday, keith dennis, of ventnor, applied a caustic hair relaxer to his scalp. fifteen minutes later, he ducked his head under the shower, only to discover there was no water
dennis knew a new water main was being connected as part of a road reconstruction, but residents had been notified that water would be turned off about 8:15 a.m
faced with a scalp that was beginning to burn, dennis and his wife, melissa, first tried to bail some water out of the bottom of the bathtub. then they tried melting ice cubes on his head
it started burning more and more,'' dennis said
dennis considered rinsing his hair with any liquid in the refrigerator, but was worried about chemical reactions, he said
he shouted for workers on the street to turn his water back on, but said they laughed
the couple then called a poison hot line, asking for an ambulance to bring water
but the message got garbled by the time it got to emergency officials: ``the dispatcher said this guy had shampoo in his hair, and could we send a bucket of water over,'' is how fire capt. bert sabo recalls it
an ambulance was deemed unnecessary. the dennises wound up driving to a hospital, where dennis was treated for first-degree burns
a spokesman says shrimpers will defy a federal regulation requiring the use of devices designed to save endangered sea turtles, despite a federal judge's decision to enforce the regulation
to further complicate matters, louisiana wildlife and fisheries agents are prohibited by state law from enforcing the federal regulation requiring use of turtle excluder devices, which shrimpers claim could ruin their business
federal enforcement of the regulations began tuesday after u.s. district judge patrick carr threw out a suit by shrimpers that claimed that the devices cut down on their shrimp catches and aren't effective
but louisiana's department of wildlife and fisheries is bound by a state law forbidding enforcement of the federal law, said phil bowman, assistant chief of the seafood division
we'll have to consult with legal counsel before we know what to do,'' he said
tee john mialjevich, spokesman for concerned shrimpers of louisiana, vowed defiance despite carr's ruling
i don't care if he upheld it. it's a bad law, and the shrimpers ain't going to live by it,'' he said
the law also went into effect tuesday in texas, mississippi and alabama waters, and has been in effect in florida since jan. 1. louisiana waters won't open to shrimping for two months, but big boats work year-round in federal waters beyond the three-mile limit
coast guard patrols caught six shrimp boats working without the devices since the law went into effect in florida, suzanne montero of the national marine fisheries service said by telephone from st. petersburg, fla
there were no reports of violations tuesday, she said
the maximum civil penalty is $10,000, but first-time offenders will probably be fined $5,000 to $7,500, she said
under the law, most shrimpers will be required to use the cage-like devices to save turtles protected under the endangered species act. the devices, which fit in shrimp nets, have slats to force a trapped turtle out of a flap, but critics say they don't always work that way
critics said sometimes shrimp escape and debris gets caught in the frame and ruins the net
mialjevich said florida shrimpers experienced catch reductions of 35 percent to 50 percent
i'm telling you myself _ personally _ i'm not going to pull a ted (turtle exclusion device), because i can't make a living. i'll lose everything i've accumulated in 45 years. ... i can't take a 1 percent shrimp loss. how am i going to take a 35 percent loss?'' said mialjevich
carr had said in advance that his ruling would not determine the effectiveness of the devices, but would address only whether the government had followed proper procedures
the leader of the social democrats, one of five parties in the government coalition, resigned after accusations that he was involved in a kickback scandal
franco nicolazzi, 63, submitted his resignation as party secretary on monday to preserve party unity, he said. he denied wrongdoing, saying ``these hands are clean.''
the scandal involved millions of dollars allegedly paid to prominent politicans by companies in exchange for prison construction contracts. nicolazzi is under investigation but hasn't been charged
nicolazzi was public works minister in several governments from 1980 through june. during his tenure, he helped pass a decree authorizing $629 million for new prison construction
pressure to resign built last week when gabriele di palma, a close associate of nicolazzi and former head of the ministry's public construction department, was detained by swiss authorities while allegedly trying to sneak into switzerland
nicolazzi was secretary of the social democrats since october 1985
the party received 3.4 percent of the vote in elections to the chamber of deputies last june. only the liberals, with 2.1 percent, had fewer votes among the five coalition parties. the others are the dominant christian democrats, the socialists and the republicans
pier luigi romita, a senior social democrat deputy, is considered the favorite to become the new leader of the party
fire broke out today on the roof of the 26-floor london stock exchange, but officials said it was quickly brought under control and no one was injured
police closed nearby streets and scores of spectators gathered as smoke billowed from the skyscraper in london's financial district
press association, the british domestic news agency, said a few people were evacuated from upper floors, but work continued elsewhere in the building
the fire broke out in a cooling tower and appeared to have been started by a workman's blowtorch igniting trash in the area, the news agency said
the stock exchange said none of its financial services were affected
since the switch to computers on oct. 27, 1986, most trading on the london stock exchange has been done by telephone rather than on the floor of the exchange
police today searched more than 80 homes of suspected neo-nazis and made some arrests in a crackdown on extreme rightist groups, officials said
the searches were conducted in about 60 towns and cities across the country, said police in the state of baden-wuerttemburg
a police official in stuttgart, where federal authorities coordinated the searches with state and local police, said there had been ``some arrests,'' but he declined to be more specific
the official, citing department policy, spoke on condition he not be identified
the searches apparently were carried out in conjunction with the release from prison of michael kuehnen, a prominent neo-nazi
kuehnen was was freed today from butzbach prison near frankfurt after completing a 3{-year sentence for distributing banned right-wing extremist propaganda, a spokesman for the frankfurt prosecutors office said
he was kept in prison up to the last minute possible,'' the spokesman, jochen schroers, said in a telephone interview
kuehnen, a former west german army lieutenant, headed an illegal right-wing extremist group called ``action front of national socialists-national activists.''
the group was banned by the west german interior ministry on dec. 7, 1983 for advocating violence against leftists and foreigners and for promoting nazi ideology
the launch of a scout rocket from an italian facility in kenya is being delayed by one week from its scheduled march 18 date because of a defective gyro, nasa announced today
the gyro helps maintain directional control
the spacecraft, called the san marco d@l, is to carry five scientific instruments, three from the united states and one each from germany and italy. it is expected to be launched on march 25 from italy's san marco equatorial range in kenya
a powerful bomb exploded in the doorway of a downtown apartment building today, damaging property but causing no injuries, federal police said
police said the 1:50 a.m. blast at a four-story apartment building blew a heavy wooden door into the street and shattered windows in adjacent buildings
police said the objective of the attack was not immediately clear and that no political or military figures lived in the building
police said they found several leaflets at the scene bearing the initials ``o.a.s.,'' ``m.r.p,'' and the phrase ``for national liberation,'' as well as drawings of argentine independence hero gen. jose de san martin and a condor
the significance of the initials was not immediately known. no known terrorist or extremist group has used those initials in recent years. church spokeswoman; picks up graf 7, `the louisiana...'</note>
assemblies of god leaders in louisiana have rejected a request by national church officials to toughen their recommended sanctions against evangelist jimmy swaggart, a church official says
juleen turnage, spokeswoman at church headquarters in springfield, mo., said today that national church officers have not been informed of any decision by the louisiana district
the louisiana official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said tuesday the 19-member state presbytery decided at a nine-hour meeting monday in alexandria to resubmit its original recommeendation that swaggart be barred from preaching for three months as part of a two-year program of rehabilitation
the official said it would now be up to national assemblies of god officials to decide whether to accept the state panel's recommendation
the assemblies' general presbytery has a regular session scheduled march 29, but an emergency session could be convened sooner
mrs. turnage said at least three of the officers must attend any meeting of the executive presbytery. she said it would be at least thursday before three of the officials will be back in springfield
mrs. turnage said she talked by telephone tuesday night with the rev. g. raymond carlson, the general superintendent of the church, who said he believes it would be unprecedented for a state presbytery to reject the national church's recommendations
asked about reports last week from from friends of swaggart that he might leave the church if he feels the punishment is too harsh, mrs. turnage said national officers have heard nothing directly from swaggart
we're not dealing with a radical or a rebel here. if he does leave the church, it will be because his ministry can't survive without him. it will be a pragmatic decision,'' she said
i think he is very committed to the church,'' mrs. turnage said
the louisiana presbytery's original sanction was a two-year rehabilitation program that also included counseling for swaggart, who heads a ministry that reportedly takes in $150 million a year
swaggart stepped down from the pulpit feb. 21, telling the congregation at his baton rouge worship center in a tearful confession that he had sinned against his wife and god. swaggart reportedly paid a prostitute to pose nude for him and then tried to make a deal with a minister who confronted him about it
the national presbytery reportedly recommended barring swaggart from the pulpit and television for a year, with an additional year of regulation of his ministry afterward
a louisiana assemblies of god official contacted tuesday night by the associated press confirmed that the state panel stood by its previous punishment for the evangelist. the decision originally was reported by katc-tv of layfayette
when asked if louisiana officials had sent back their original censure to the church's national leaders, the source said, ``it would be correct to say that.''
cecil janway, the assemblies of god district superintendent for louisiana, had said any actions made monday by the state board would not be made public
there was no indication whether swaggart attended that meeting. the rev. jim rentz, who is substituting for swaggart at his family worship center, did attend
forrest hall, secretary-treasurer of the louisiana district council, acknowledged monday that national assemblies of god representatives also were at the meeting. killed</head>
four sheriff's deputies today forcibly evicted the last resident of the lorraine motel, where martin luther king jr. was assassinated 20 years ago
jacqueline smith, who has lived at the motel for 11 years, refused to obey an eviction order, in protest of attempts to build an $8.8 million museum at the site. she has said the project would force poor people out of the neighborhood
king was shot by an assassin april 4, 1968, while in memphis to help organize a strike by sanitation workers
you people are making a mistake. you people are making a mistake,'' miss smith said, sobbing, as four shelby county deputies carried her in a kneeling position from the balcony outside her second-floor room to the sidewalk in front of the motel
i refuse to stand up,'' she said as the deputies walked away. ``i'm trying to help the people who live in this area. we're being forced out. you people are wrong.''
miss smith has been holed up at the motel since jan. 11, when it was closed by state officials directing the museum project
she ignored a state deadline feb. 8 to move out and likened her protest to civil rights battles staged by king
before the deputies arrived, miss smith talked to reporters and about 10 other spectators through an eight-foot chain link fence that was put up around the site jan. 11
my family is here and i have a home, but that's not what i want,'' she said. ``if i can't live at the lorraine, i'll camp out on the sidewalk out front.''
randy wade, an administrative assistant for the shelby county sheriff's office, said deputies used a tire iron to force open the door to miss smith's room, just three doors down from the room where king was killed
the federal aviation administration will require the boeing co. to install 10 exit doors in its new 747 passenger jetliners, rather than the eight the company prefers, the agency's chief said today
faa administrator allan mcartor told a house subcommittee that for safety reasons, he had decided to issue a final rule that would require the additional doors and expected it to be ready by late summer
a boeing official, however, told the lawmakers that having eight doors would be safe
prudence,'' mcartor said when asked during a break in the hearing about why he had made his decision. ``just a concern of safety.''
boeing plans to soon begin building a new line of the wide-body 747s, whose first generation went into service in 1970. the aircraft, which can carry more than 500 passengers, are the most frequently used jetliners for international travel and are also commonly used for coast-to-coast flights within the united states
there are currently eight-exit versions of the 747s used by foreign airlines, but they carry only 440 passengers
mcartor told the house public works investigations subcommittee that the new rule would require a maximum of 60 feet between exit doors for aircraft flown by u.s. airlines. this would, in effect, require 10 doors in the 747s
in testimony prepared for delivery to the subcommittee, boeing vice president orvil m. roetman contested mcartor's decision
data, tests, in-service experience and analysis all show that the 747 distances between exit doors, with either eight or 10 doors on the main deck, are more than adequate for providing safe evacuation,'' he said
a businessman was accused of diverting more than $8,000 in surplus government food intended for school lunch programs to his catering business and restaurants
siinto wessman, 70, was cited tuesday in a criminal complaint in state district court with two counts of fraud
from 1981 through june 1986, wessman's catering firm, the neal bort co., had contracts with the mountain iron-buhl, biwabik and gilbert school districts to provide hot lunches under the federal child nutrition program
the contracts allowed the catering firm to obtain surplus government commodites, including cheese, hamburger and butter, for use in the school programs
the criminal complaint alleges wessman diverted the food to two restaurants, which have since closed, and to his catering business
the charges are absolutely false,'' wessman said tuesday. ``i don't know anything about it.''
the charges each carry penalties of up to 10 years in prison and a $20,000 fine. pvs, ``the spokesman</note>
president reagan, stepping up american peace efforts in the middle east, today directed secretary of state george p. shultz to return to the region for further talks with arab and israeli leaders
reagan acted after receiving a report from shultz on his four days of diplomatic shuttling in the area and a critical session tuesday in london with king hussein of jordan
all countries in the region believe it is useful for the united states to remain engaged in this process,'' reagan said. ``we will spare no effort in our search for a comprehensive settlement.''
shultz will leave from brussels after the windup of a nato summit meeting thursday. he is expected to make stops in israel, jordan and egypt before returning to washington next weekend
marlin fitzwater, the white house spokesman, told reporters earlier today, ``the president has said on a number of occasions the united states wants a more visible role in the middle east in terms of trying to be helpful, that we were willing and eager to participate in any way that could move the peace process forward.''
the u.s. spokesman said shultz was doing ``yeoman's work'' in trying to promote negotiations
a u.s. official, who demanded anonymity, said hussein had not ``thrown cold water'' on the u.s. initiative but also had not endorsed it
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir had a similar reaction
if i had to describe the situation, i would say that nobody has signed up to our proposals, but everybody wants us to keep working,'' shultz said tuesday in tel aviv
yossi ben-aharon, director-general of shamir's office, said both jordan and israel had asked shultz to continue his mediation effort, however
shultz saw reagan briefly tuesday night on the president's arrival from washingtoon, but `they really didn't get a chance'' to talk about the middle east, fitzwater said
we will see where it goes from here,'' the u.s. spokesman said. ``there is no decision at this point.''
hussein is demanding an active soviet role in peace talks and participation by the palestine liberation organization as he sole representative of the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live under israeli control in the west bank and in gaza
shamir, menawhile, refuses to deal with the plo, which is considered to be a terrorist group both by israel and the united states, and wants also to block participation by the soviets, who have backed arab positions in the past and do not have diplomatic relations with israel
shultz has made a point of emphasizing a need for u.s. communications with the palestinians, despite a ban on plo contacts. ``there's not a substitute for directly sitting down with people,'' he said tuesday. ``and that's in a sense what we've been calling for all along.''
the nation's largest dredging company will plead guilty to a charge of rigging bids on army corps of engineers' dredging projects in the gulf of mexico in 1983-84, a company officer confirmed today
great lakes dredging company of oak brook, ill., will pay $4.26 million in fines as part of a plea bargain covering bid-rigging charges filed tuesday against the company in federal courts in new orleans, philadelphia, san francisco and cleveland, said u.s. attorney john volz
as part of the agreement, a subsidiary of great lakes, north american trailing co., also will plead guilty in new orleans to 1986 charges of bid-rigging and submitting false statements to the government, volz said
north american's charges relate to bids submitted on dredging projects let for bid by the corps from 1982-84
itel corp. acquired great lakes in 1985, and with it the legal problems
gary hill, vice president for finances, said today that the plea bargain is the final step in clearing up the problems
the company has been on a `good behavior' program, so to speak, for over a year. that includes a lot of internal safeguards to make sure that never happens again,'' hill said from his illinois office. ``we set them up to establish ourselves once again as a responsible contractor.''
no company officials were named in the charges tuesday, but at least three have entered guilty pleas in the case over the last 18 months
anglican archbishop desmond tutu said today he would try to persuade western governments to break all diplomatic ties with south africa until it eased restrictions on anti-apartheid groups
we want to tell the south african government that they do not deserve to be part of a decent society,'' he said at a news conference
tutu said western nations should cut any diplomatic links with south africa and expel south african diplomats from their countries
britain and america and west germany have kept saying that sanctions hurt blacks and sanctions are not effective,'' he said. ``while not withdrawing my support for economic sanctions, i am saying to britain, west germany and other western countries, `here is your chance.'''
tutu was in the kenyan capital for a meeting of the all-african conference of churches, which he heads
he said he has called in the past for western governments to break relations with pretoria. but he said this time he intended to actively campaign for such a move
my own intention now is to challenge the west to break off diplomatic relations with south africa, to expel south african diplomats from their countries until certain conditions are met,'' the churchman said
those conditions are a lifting of the state of emergency, reversal of a feb. 25 ruling that outlawed political activity by 18 opposition groups, and the release of political detainees, especially children
tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize, and other churchmen were arrested monday when they attempted to march on the south african parliament at cape town to protest the crackdown on black opposition groups
the rev. allan boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches, also was arrested. in an interview with ``cbs this morning'' from harare, zimbabwe, he said it is clear that the government now is outlawing ``all legitimate peaceful activity,'' and that apartheid opponents have no choice but to resist
and if that means confrontation, if that means disobedience to your unjust laws then i think that is exactly what we mean,'' he said. ``we are talking about the possibility of civil disobedience.''
he said non-violent protests have ended in deaths in the past but won't be a deterrent to civil disobedience
we will have to take the risks that go with it and we will have to take the consequences that follow these actions of ours,'' he said. parade</head>
an irish republican army member convicted of killing a british army officer has been selected honorary grand marshal of philadelphia's st. patrick's day parade
after initially rejecting joseph patrick thomas doherty last week, the board of the st. patrick's day observance association reconsidered this week after some members ``vociferously voiced their feelings,'' city councilman and board member francis w. rafferty said tuesday
thomas j. gibson, this year's grand marshal and a charter member of the st. patrick's day association, and other board members had questioned whether any honorary grand marshal should be selected this year for the march 13 parade
i think it takes away from what the parade was organized for,'' said gibson, a southwest philadelphia tavern owner. ``it's a religious parade, a catholic religious parade ... and there's nothing in there (the association constitution) that says we should go in for these kinds of politics.''
doherty, 33, has been held in new york city's metropolitan correctional center since 1983 on charges he illegally entered the country using a false passport after he escaped from a belfast prison
requests by the british government to have doherty extradited have been rejected. he faces a life sentence in northern ireland
the u.s. attorney general began reviewing the case last year, according to doherty's attorney, stephen somerstein
doherty has been named honorary grand marshal in st. patrick's day parades in hartford, conn., and bergen county, n.j., in past years, said somerstein. irish solidarity day in new york was dedicated to him last year, he said
doherty's mother, maureen, is expected to attend the parade, according to vincent scully, doherty's champion in the irish community and the state vice president of the ancient order of hibernians. parade participants will be asked to wear yellow arm bands to show their solidarity with doherty, scully said
we consider him a hostage,'' said scully. ``i don't know him and he doesn't know me, but i can't tolerate another irishman treated like dirt.''
new york city subway gunman bernhard goetz jr. will inherit $140,550 from his father's estate, but the sum will hardly cover legal bills stemming from his 1984 shooting of four teen-agers, a lawyer said
besides four years worth of unpaid legal fees for the shooting in a subway train, goetz is being sued for $63 million by three of the four black teen-agers he shot
the inheritance ``won't go very far in defending him on anything,'' said joseph kelner, who has defended goetz free of charge in the civil cases
kelner also said tuesday that he planned to drop goetz as a client, saying goetz has been ``uncooperative.''
goetz last october was sentenced to six months in jail and five years probation for carrying an unlicensed gun, which he used to shoot the young men. a jury acquitted him of more serious charges, including attempted murder
he is free on $5,000 bond pending appeal
goetz, his brother and two sisters are to share the $562,200.92 remaining in the estate of their father, bernhard willard goetz sr. of orlando, orange county probate court records show
goetz sr., 78, died sept. 4, 1984, the day goetz paid $400 for two 9mm pistols at ken's firearms inc., giving his father's address as his. goetz's father had moved to orlando in 1963 from rhinebeck, n.y., where the family owned a dairy, a bookbinding company and several real estate parcels
a lawyer for one of the shooting victims, james ramseur, welcomed news of goetz's inheritance
i'm surprised,'' said ron kliegerman. ``his attorneys have been telling us all along that he doesn't have a dime. now we know there's something there.''
ramseur's suit seeks $8.5 million, paraplegic darrell cabey is suing goetz for $50 million and troy canty has brought two suits for $2.5 million _ one for negligent injury, the other for intentional injury
the amount of time that will be involved in this case and damages involved obviously will far exceed $150,000,'' kliegerman said. case</head>
the supreme court today gave cities, at least for now, additional protection from lawsuits that accuse lower-ranking city officials of violating the rights of employees
by a 7-1 vote, the justices threw out a $15,000 award st. louis was ordered to pay james j. praprotnik, a fired city architect
but the seven justices voting to overturn the award were sharply split in their reasoning. only four justices joined in the court's main opinion, leaving open the possibility that a future case could prompt a different result
today's ruling, therefore, may leave local officials confused over what standards apply in determining when cities can be held legally responsible for violating individual rights
justice sandra day o'connor, who wrote the court's main opinion, said cities may not be held liable unless those who claim their rights were violated prove the ``existence of an unconstitutional municipal policy.''
she said praprotnik cannot win his case by claiming that high-ranking city officials _ such as the mayor and city aldermen _ failed to override decisions by subordinates who may have violated praprotnik's rights
simply going along with discretionary decisions made by one's subordinates ... is not a delegation to them of the authority to make policy,'' o'connor said
praprotnik was a manager in st. louis' community development agency when in 1980 he became embroiled with his superiors over the proposed installation by the city of a controversial sculpture
praprotnik was suspended for 15 days but the city civil service commission reinstated him with back pay
then in 1982 he was transferred to another city agency, the heritage and urban design division, and his job responsibilities were reduced. the transfer also meant a loss in seniority that exposed him to being laid off
he was fired dec. 30, 1983, a day after he was released from a hospital where he had undergone surgery. the layoff cost him his income, more than 500 hours of accumulated sick leave and other pension and vacation benefits
city officials said he was fired for budgetary reasons
praprotnik then sued under a federal civil rights law, charging he was shunted to a dead-end job and then kicked out because of his appeal to the civil service commission for his suspension back in 1980
a jury awarded him $30,000. the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals reduced the amount to $15,000
the appeals court said there was sufficient evidence to support praprotnik's claim that he was fired for exercising his constitutional rights
the appeals court said the city was liable, even though the jury exonerated the individual officials sued by praprotnik
o'connor said the appeals court's ruling was too broad in allowing the city to be sued based on decisions made by those who lacked policy-making authority
federal courts are not ``justified in assuming that municipal policy-making authority lies somewhere other than where the applicable (state) law purports to put it,'' she said
in praprotnik's case, she said, that authority rests with the mayor, the city aldermen and the civil service commission
the justices ordered further lower court hearings in the case to determine whether praprotnik still has a viable case
o'connor was joined by chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices byron r. white and antonin scalia
justice william j. brennan, in a separate opinion, said he was worried that the court's main opinion embraces ``a theory of municipal liability that is both unduly narrow and unrealistic and one that ultimately would permit municipalities to insulate themselves from liability for the acts of all but a small minority of actual city policymakers.''
he was joined by justices thurgood marshall and harry a. blackmun
justice john paul stevens dissented, voting to uphold praprotnik's lower court victory. justice anthony m. kennedy, who only recently joined the court, did not take part in the decision
the case is st. louis vs. praprotnik, 86-772
conductor henry sopkin, who started with 100 high school musicians and gradually created the atlanta symphony orchestra, has died. he was 84
sopkin, who lived in palo alto for three years, died of heart failure tuesday after entering stanford university medical center last week
before his retirement in 1966, he was musical director of the symphony for two decades, overseeing more than 1,000 performances and artists including jascha heifetz and benny goodman
a native of the new york city borough of brooklyn, he studied violin as a youth and entered the american conservatory of music in chicago, where he grew up, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in music. in the 1920s and '30s, he taught at the conservatory, at high schools and at woodrow wilson college before he was hired in 1944 to direct the atlanta youth symphony orchestra
with a budget of $5,000, he developed the youth symphony into an adult professional organization with a $300,000 budget 21 years later
after he retired, sopkin was an instructor with the california institute for the arts in the los angeles area, where he lived for 19 years before moving to palo alto
sylvia, his wife of nearly 60 years, died in 1986. survivors include two sons, a brother, two sisters and a grandson. inspection results.</note>
a ship carrying incinerator ash from philadelphia won't be allowed to return to tie up here until there is an agreement about cleaning up 2,000 to 4,000 tons of ash reportedly left in haiti, a lawyer says
bruce phillips, attorney for joseph paolino &amp; sons inc., which has a contract with the city to dispose of the ash, said the khian sea would be allowed to dock at paolino's pier only after there is an agreement on cleaning up the ash in gonaives, haiti
we want an enforceable covenant that the material will be removed from haiti or disposed of in an environmentally sound manner,'' phillips said
robert cordes, president of the ship's operator, amalgamated shipping co. of freeport, bahamas, declined to comment when reached at his office by the philadelphia inquirer
phillips said paolino will not be paid unless it can show the ash has been disposed of legally
the ship had been turned away from six countries while wandering the caribbean and the atlantic seeking a dumping spot. it anchored at the mouth of delaware bay, north of lewes, del., on tuesday
in addition to the question about the ash in haiti, the ship's 80-mile voyage up the delaware river to philadelphia was delayed by inspections and a pier fire
the coast guard refused to allow the ship to proceed until it passed an inpsection by the american bureau of shipping
the coast guard said this morning that the ship passed an inspection conducted tuesday, and that the captain of the port has determined the ship is ``safe to transit u.s. waters,'' the coast guard said
no time was set for the khian sea to travel upriver. its radar system still didn't work and the coast guard said the ship is restricted to daytime traveling
the environmental group greenpeace has labeled the khian sea's cargo toxic. state tests conducted when the ash was loaded found no dangerous levels of toxins, and recent federal tests from the same incinerator came to the same conclusions
the fire department, meanwhile, is investigating a rubbish fire at the paolini pier this morning. the fire damaged a transfer station, a company official said
coast guard spokesman scott miller said the city will appoint an independent engineering firm to determine the safety of the pier and whether the khian sea will be able to dock there
paolino is expected to send the residue to an ohio landfill, where the bulk of the city's ash has been dumped for the past two years, said phillips. considers bill</head>
former first lady rosalynn carter said wednesday that mental illness was america's no. 1 health problem as a house panel opened hearings on a plan to increase spending on care and services for mentally ill senior citizens
the ``elderly mental health initiative'' advanced by rep. edward roybal, d-calif., would increase outlays for community-based services for the elderly and their families, on research into prevention, treatment and services, and on training for health care professionals
it also would lift the lifetime limit on inpatient psychiatric care paid by medicare and expand medicare to cover more outpatient and community-based mental health services. and it would require medicaid to cover community-based services as well
in addition, the roybal bill would create a consumer bill of rights and set up a national mental health education program
now is the time for federal action,'' roybal said in opening a hearing on the subject. ``for far too long, mental health care has been a neglected priority.''
the roybal bill would authorize $161 million in new spending in its first year, most of it to expand mental health grants to states. the money does not include added expenditures under the medicare and medicaid programs, for which roybal did not provide an estimate
according to a report compiled by roybal's house select committee on aging, between 15 percent and 25 percent of americans over 65, about 7 million people, have significant mental health problems. very few receive appropriate care, the report said
mrs. carter and ohio gov. richard celeste told roybal's committee the federal government needs to pay more attention to mental health needs and spend more on them
she called mental health ``america's no. 1 health problem.'' she recommended substantially higher spending channeled through states, improvements in medicare and medicaid coverage, and strengthening of patient advocacy services such as the nursing home ombudsman program
one of my most urgent pleas is for adequate insurance coverage for mental illnesses,'' mrs. carter said. ``i think the congress should do everything possible to assure this coverage. it is is another of our sadly neglected needs.''
celeste stressed the need for community-based services for the elderly and the relatives who take care of them
it is a family and community issue. it impacts on all of us at one time or another,'' he said. ``many of us here today know firsthand the responsibility of caring for an elderly family member.''
rep. claude pepper, d-fla., said more than 25 percent of all suicides are committed by the elderly, ``indicating in many cases the desperation that they feel.'' he also said more than half the patients in nursing homes have alzheimer's disease
it might have sounded corny if said by someone else, someplace else. but this was elizabeth dole, and the praise of her presidential candidate husband struck a pleasing chord with her fellow north carolinians
he kind of reminds me of a laser beam,'' mrs. dole said. ``i'm in awe of the way he can cut through the complexities of a tough issue and come up with an answer.''
the crowd responded with applause and approving smiles
standing atop a platform in the parking lot of a suburban office complex, the former transportation secretary spoke with feeling about the decision she had made days before to relinquish her cabinet post and become a full-time campaigner
this is where my roots are,'' said the one-time debutante and beauty queen from salisbury, n.c. ``this is home. this is where i draw my strength.''
george bush boasts a superior organization and pat robertson has his ``invisible army,'' but bob dole has had his own not-so-secret weapon in the battle for southern votes next week on super tuesday
the weapon, he says, is elizabeth dole _ known as liddy _ whose old-south charm and ivy league credentials propelled her from small-town north carolina to the reagan cabinet. she has shown a talent for holding crowds in the palm of her hand
she's a vivacious, bright, enthusiastic campaigner,'' said haley barbour, a mississippi consultant and former political adviser in the reagan white house. ``i think other southerners will feel a kinship to her.''
mrs. dole agreed last fall to step down as transportation secretary and hit the campaign trail, making what she said was one of the toughest decisions of her life. some feminists complained, saying she had squandered on opportunity to debunk the traditional image of the candidate's wife
but mrs. dole, 51, said there was nothing demeaning about her change of course
i mean, this is a challenging assignment to be discussing national and international issues with the press and the public,'' she said then. ``i will be lucky if i get to see bob very much at all. it is not just standing at his side and smiling.''
she spent the fall crisscrossing the south, speaking at rallies, giving interviews, lining up commitments among gop activists and raising money for the kansas senator
observers say the final vote counts on tuesday may well show vice president bush, not senate republican leader dole, the big winner in the south. but that wouldn't mean mrs. dole failed, they say
she's a charmer, but there's only so much you can do,'' said ted arrington, a republican activist and political scientist at the university of north carolina at charlotte
tim archie, the dole campaign's deputy press secretary, said, ``she laid the groundwork for our presence in the south. she represents the region, can pull in a crowd, and her experience in the administration is useful.''
she's also been credited with helping dole change the image as a slashing campaigner acquired in his 1976 quest for the vice presidency. she speaks of his compassion and courage, qualities she says are most evident close-up
campaign strategists considered mrs. dole's vote-getting potential important enough to hustle her to iowa in the weeks leading up to that state's caucuses _ which dole won
mrs. dole grew up in a small, conservative town in the north carolina piedmont, the only daughter of well-to-do parents. she was a debutante at age 18 and two years later was student body president of the women's college at duke university. she graduated from harvard law school and went to washington, where she spent two decades in various government posts including the federal trade commission
in 1976, shortly after her marriage to dole, she took a leave of absence to help him run for vice president. in 1979, she quit the ftc to join dole's presidential campaign. from outside hospital compound. pick up 5th pvs, `two physicians...'</note>
israeli troops hunting for arab protesters today fired tear gas into the reception area of a hospital emergency room, driving out dozens of elderly patients, doctors said
palestinians hurled firebombs and troops fired tear gas in scattered clashes throughout the night in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, where violent protests have occurred daily since dec. 8
violence erupted for the second consecutive day at the government-run ramallah hospital about eight miles north of jersusalem, the latest in a recent series of intense clashes at medical facilities in the occupied territories
about a dozen israeli troops outside the hospital compound were confronted by rock-hurling palestinian protesters who blocked a nearby street. one smoking canister landed in the reception area of the emergency room and another landed in a hospital courtyard, doctors said
two physicians donned gas masks and others held onions to their noses to blunt the effects of the tear gas, one doctor said. about 30 patients, including elderly people, were driven outside
even the doctors couldn't breathe, so imagine the effects on the patients inside, many of whom are seriously ill,'' said a doctor who spoke on condition of anonymity
arab doctors say injured palestinians often are reluctant to come to hospitals for fear of being arrested by israeli authorities while under treatment
but hospitals also have often become refuges for arab demonstrators fleeing arrest after violent confrontations with soldiers
soldiers detained three youths outside the hospital, including one with a gash on his forehead and bleeding from the shoulder. he was seen being dragged by a soldier
on tuesday, three soldiers had burst into the same hospital, fired tear gas and rubber bullets and struck two doctors with their rifles as they looked for demonstrators, doctors there said
an army spokesman denied soldiers entered the hospital or beat doctors. he said soldiers detained two palestinians, but that the youths were taken into custody at the entrance to the hospital
in the occupied gaza strip, officials at the shifa hospital said israeli sodliers entered the facility overnight and arrested two arab demonstrators accused by israel of trying to run over a soldier with their car
at least 76 palestinians have been killed, mostly by israeli gunfire, and hundreds wounded since dec. 8 in the territories israel seized in the 1967 middle east war
also today, three italian legislators chained themselves to electric poles near ramallah to protest the israeli crackdown. one legislator held a sign saying: ``stop the killing _ yes, to palestinian self-determination.''
israel's right- and left-wing politicians disagreed today about the future of secretary of state george p. shultz's peace initiative after hearing reports of his meeting tuesday with jordan's king hussein in london
shultz had just finished a four-day diplomatic shuttle in the middle east trying to gain acceptance of a formula for talks to deal with palestinian unrest in the occupied lands and an overall arab-israeli settlement
likud legislator dan meridor, a close aide to right-wing prime minister yitzhak shamir, today said israel ``was unhappy because of the positions we are hearing from jordan'' following talks between hussein and shultz in london
king hussein says the plo must be involved in the peace process and he wants a full-scale international conference,'' meridor said on israel television. ``if that's progress, i don't know what going backwards is.''
but former foreign minister abba eban, a legislator from the centrist labor party, said the differences between jordan and israel could be bridged
a deaf man mistaken for an auto theft suspect was clubbed with a nightstick, sparking complaints from his sister and an internal police investigation
we made a mistake, no doubt about it. i don't know what went wrong,'' police spokesman steve cole said tuesday. ``sometimes in the heat of trying to catch somebody, it's going to happen and it's unfortunate that it did
i think (the officer's) main concern was he thought he had somebody that was going to get away from him,'' cole said
jeffery johnson, 21, suffered shoulder bruises monday night
the main thing is he doesn't understand why he was struck. he keeps asking why,'' said his sister, betty matthews, who shares her home with johnson. she filed a complaint with police
the incident began when officer delier diaz gave chase to a car that had refused to pull over. the chase led to an apartment complex, where the car's two occupants parked the vehicle and fled
johnson had just helped two maintenance workers at the complex free a tractor from a ditch when diaz arrived
the officer approached johnson, who raised his hand to his ear _ the signal used by the deaf to indicate they can't hear. diaz ordered him to the ground, said apartment resident elizabeth borreo
jeff put up his hand and the cop just started hitting him,'' mrs. borreo said. ``he hit him with his stick on the leg. jeff bent down to grab his leg, and he hit him again on the left shoulder. then the cop pushed him down.''
she and her husband said diaz held johnson's hands behind his back while another officer handcuffed him and put him in a patrol car
i said, `you got the wrong guy. he lives here and i saw him not five minutes ago,''' apartment manager iris cox said. within 30 minutes, the officers released johnson
later monday, two people were arrested on charges of grand theft auto and resisting arrest without violence
after those arrests, diaz filed a report saying he mistakenly tried to apprenhend johnson, who he thought was ignored his order to lay down
president felix houphouet-boigny says his family is paying for a huge new basilica whose construction has attracted attention during the west african nation's economic crisis
houphouet-boigny told a visiting french boy's choir the government would never pay for construction of a church building because the nation was made up of many religious faiths
the government daily fraternite matin on wednesday quoted the president as saying that ``on the streets, some people are amusing themselves by saying the basilica is financed by the ivorian government.''
it will be a gift from my family to the holy see,'' houphouet-boigny said
the basilica, which will be the second-largest in the world, will be built on land donated by houphouet-boigny to the state in his native yamoussoukro, fraternite matin said
pope john paul ii is scheduled to open the church sept. 10, 1989. it will have 120 arches and a row of columns about 275 yards long. figures on its cost have not been released
the ivory coast has a budget shortfall of more than $600 million, and last year it suspended payments on its international debt
thieves stole five rare paintings from the hometown mansion of ousted president ferdinand marcos, police said wednesday
benjamin guittab, caretaker of the house in batac, northern luzon, said he noticed while cleaning on wednesday that only the frames remained
the burglars apparently climbed a tree and crawled in an open window of a second-floor bedroom during the weekend, police said. there were no suspects
the 4-foot-by-6-foot paintings by 19th century painter juan luna, a national hero, had adorned the marcoses' living room. antique collectors and the curator of the luna shrine near here say the works are priceless
batac mayor jesus nalupta said he visited marcos early this year in honolulu and the former president asked him to look after the house. marcos fled to exile in hawaii following a popular revolt in february 1986 that ended his 20-year authoritarian rule
nalupta placed the mansion under tight security wednesday. throughout; picks up pvs 6th graf bgng, but, carrington; deletes last 3 grafs pvs as outdated.</note>
leaders of the western alliance today endorsed president reagan's efforts to negotiate new reductions in nuclear arms and demanded sweeping cutbacks in the soviet union's vastly superior conventional forces in europe to rule out a surprise attack
within hours of opening their first summit talks in six years, reagan and leaders of 15 other nato nations declared that soviet conventional forces ``cast a shadow over the whole of europe'' and must be reduced sharply to ease the imbalance in east-west military strength
these proposed cutbacks, they said, ``will entail, for example, the elimination from europe of tens of thousands of warsaw pact weapons relevant to surprise attack, among them tanks and artillery pieces.''
the overall aim of the talks was to demonstrate allied unity in advance of reagan's planned moscow summit meeting with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev in late may or june. but there were nagging differences among the nato leaders over other nuclear arms issues
reagan, his voice hoarse and rasping from allergies, summoned reporters to the steps of his 19th century palace residence, the chateau stuyvenberg, to read his own statement on the nato declaration. the president called the massive soviet conventional forces ``the most direct threat to our security and to stability in europe.''
he added: ``but arms reductions are not enough. ... we also look for greater respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms on which lasting security and stability in europe ultimately depend.''
reagan seemed undisturbed by frictions among nato leaders about the future of the u.s.-supplied force of short-range nuclear weapons, most of them based in west germany
i have never seen such harmony as we have,'' the president said. he called the statement on european conventional forces ``a major step'' forward for the allies
reagan also announced he was sending secretary of state george shultz back to the middle east after the nato summit ends thursday to press his talks with arab and israeli leaders
all countries in the region believe it is useful for the united states to remain engaged in this process,'' reagan said. ``we will spare no effort in our search for a comprehensive peace settlement.''
at the opening summit session earlier today, reagan sat next to british prime minister margaret thatcher and listened intently as nato secretary general lord carrington pledged the allies' ``full support'' for reagan's drive to reach agreement with the soviets on drastic cuts in strategic nuclear weapons
but, carrington declared, ``the alliance will not rest on its laurels.''
in a six-page statement on conventional forces, the nato leaders said:
the soviet union's military presence in europe, at a level far in excess of its needs for self-defense, directly challenges our security as well as our hopes for change in the political situation in europe
thus, the conventional imbalance in europe remains at the core of europe's security concerns.''
the allied leaders spelled out demands for far bigger cutbacks in soviet conventional forces than in the west's military levels, during negotiations to begin in earnest this fall in vienna, austria, with representatives of the warsaw pact consisting of the soviet union and six east european allies
our aim will be to establish a situation in europe in which force postures as well as the numbers of deployments and weapons systems no longer make surprise attack and large-scale offensive action a feasible option,'' the nato statement said
carrington said the alliance leaders had gathered to celebrate the new u.s.-soviet ban on edium-range missiles, and for ``charting the way ahead'' as gorbachev pursues a peace offensive
one agreement which reduces some weapons, and indeed one new soviet leader who is ready to reduce some tensions, however significant, do not in themselves remove the military capability and potential of the soviet union,'' carrington said
he added that nato's ``collective determination to deploy and maintain a military capacity where necessary were what convinced the soviet union of the better route of arms control and disarmament.''
we wish president reagan and his negotiators well in the effort to secure an agreement on strategic arms reduction, which has the alliance's full support,'' carrington said
reagan was the last of the leaders to arrive at sprawling nato headquarters today for the opening session of two days of summit talks that are expected to stress alliance unity despite differences over nuclear arms strategy
at the first closed meeting, reagan reportedly underlined the u.s. commitment to europe and urged his fellow leaders to guard against soviet attempts to divide the western alliance
it was west german chancellor helmut kohl who touched on a simmering dispute over whether nato members should quickly improve their stocks of short-range nuclear missiles, most of which are deployed in west germany
the load, the risks and the responsibilities of our defense must be equally shared by all members,'' kohl said
kohl's remarks, made public by bonn officials, alluded to the fundamental issue of how the alliance can fill the gap left by the reagan-gorbachev agreement last december to eliminate ground-launched, intermediate-range nuclear misiles from europe
senior nato officials drafting a final communique to be published thursday sought to bridge differences ranging from west germany's reluctance to britain's enthusiasm for a swift decision on modernization to internal divisions over the issue within the french government
looking toward soviet-american arms talks, carrington said an improved soviet human rights record was fundamental to creating ``the confidence necessary to proceed with a radical arms control agenda.''
he added: ``for most of us in the west that cause (of tension) is the degree of mistrust created by the denial of basic human rights and freedom to the peoples of eastern europe and the soviet union.''
carrington reaffirmed nato's commitment supporting a proposed superpower agreement to reduce long-range nuclear weaponry by 50 percent on both sides. he said nato also looked forward to ``a more serious engagement'' with the soviet-led warsaw pact on a chemical weapons ban and reducing the eastern bloc's superiority in conventional arms
as the meeting began, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater reported that ``progress is fine'' on drafting a statement of common alliance goals to be issued at the conclusion of the two-day summit
reagan, who reached brussels coughing and complaining of allergies, ws to spend 2 1-2 hours conferring with the 15 other heads of state or government. when he arrived tuesday, the president tried to allay concerns over the warsaw pact's advantage in conventional forces by promising to keep u.s. troops in europe ``as long as europeans want them to stay.''
police arrested people involved in ethnic rioting in a southern republic, the official media said today, and the government acknowledged that others may have been killed during the massive unrest
a radio station and newspaper in baku, the capital of azerbaidzhan, reported also that the republic's premier, gasan n. seidov, had traveled to the affected area
the unrest has been stopped. businesses and establishments of trade and public eating are working in a normal rhythm and classes are taking place in schools and other educational establishments,'' the baku worker newspaper reported
the newspaper's article, referring to the azerbaidzhan city of sumgait, was read to the associated press by soviet foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov
order and peace have been ensured by law enforcement organs. people caught in the unrest have been detained,'' the baku worker newspaper reported
gerasimov said in a telephone interview that he could not confirm rumors circulated by armenian activists that as many as 20 people had been killed in sumgait. but he added, ``there was hooliganism and there can be deaths in such cases.''
on tuesday, gerasimov told a news briefing that authorities clamped a curfew on sumgait. he suggested the unrest in sumgait, and demonstrations and violence elsewhere in the caucasus region in which at least two people died, were due to a ``mistake'' made 65 years ago when a territory composed largely of armenians was made part of neighboring azerbaidzhan
he said ``there were certain injuries'' in sumgait, an industrial city of more than 160,000 people in azerbaidzhan where hooligans were blamed for touching off the sunday riot
the situation is calm there today, but it is tense,'' gerasimov said at the tuesday briefing
moscow-based foreign journalists have been barred from the region, and only sporadic reports from witnesses, activists and the official media have reached the soviet capital. most telephone calls placed to baku and sumgait today did not go through
a man answering the telephone at the ministry of internal affairs in baku said ``everything is over'' when asked about the unrest in sumgait. the conversation was cut off before a reporter could ask the person's name and position
baku radio, monitored by the london-based british broadcasting corp., reported today that two non-voting members of the national ruling politburo, georgy p. razumovsky and pyotr n. demichev, had visited businesses and other establishments in baku to speak to the ``working people of these multinational collectives.''
it did not say when the tour occurred or say whether the two officials also went to sumgait. they had visited the armenian capital, yerevan, last week during demonstrations there
asked about reports that soviet tanks are patrolling the streets of sumgait, that ethnic azeris are attacking armenians in the streets and that there have been at least two deaths in the city, gerasimov told the briefing,``there is a curfew,'' but that he had not heard anything about tanks being sent into the city
asked if troops remained in the city tuesday, gerasimov said: ``i don't know, but i guess so. presumably.''
the violence in sumgait, reported monday by tass, the official soviet news agency, followed earlier outbreaks 150 miles away in nagorno-karabakh, the contested region in azerbaidzhan, and massive but apparently peaceful demonstrations in yerevan, the capital of armenia
hovik vassilian said in a telephone interview today that he and other armenian activists were angry that the official media reported that the unrest had been quelled. he said he heard from travelers and from telephone calls to residents of the region that demonstrations were continuing in nagorno-karabakh and that food was in short supply
the demonstrators demanded that nagorno-karabakh, part of azerbaidzhan since 1923, be made part of armenia. more than three-quarters of the region's population of 157,000 are ethnic armenians
on saturday, a soviet prosecutor reported that two people living in a region of azerbaidzhan that borders on nagorno-karabakh had been slain in unrest caused by the territorial dispute
on friday, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed for restraint in azerbaidzhan and armenia and promised that the communist party central committee would review relations among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
predominantly moslem azerbaidzhan is the largest of three soviet republics in the caucasus. it is bordered on the west by largely christian armenia and georgia and on the north by the russian republic. the caspian sea runs for nearly 800 miles along its eastern edge
a federal safety agency filed a civil complaint wednesday seeking to force the recall of a device intended to help fishermen collect worms, but which it says could wind up electrocuting the anglers instead
the consumer product safety commission said it wants to halt sales of the worm gett'r made by p&amp;m enterprises of caldwell, idaho
directory information showed no listing for p&amp;m enterprises in caldwell
the device uses metal probes on wooden handles and is tied together by an electric wire, the commission said. when the probes are inserted into the ground, electric current passed through the wire drives worms to the surface
but the commission said the design exposes users to the bare metal charged with electricity and thus could lead to a dangerous shock
no injuries have been reported involving the device, but there have been 23 deaths since 1971 involving other brands of similarly designed worm probes, the agency reported
about 30,000 worm gett'r devices were sold nationally over the past five years at prices ranging from $8 to $30, the commission said
the commission asked that consumers who have been injured, or know of others who have had mishaps involving any type of worm probe, to call it at 1-800-638-2772. for two others.</note>
a man armed with two guns leaped out of a taxicab and opened fire on a crowded street today, wounding four people before being shot moments later, police said
witnesses said the gunman got out of a taxicab after arguing with the driver of another vehicle and began firing repeatedly about a half-block from the hyatt regency hotel, which is about five blocks from the alamo
i saw there was a confrontation with the man in another vehicle. he pulled out a gun and started firing,'' said tod tarble, 20, who witnessed the 9 a.m. incident from a bus stop about 90 feet away
there were people all around the street who were trying to get up there when everybody was being shot, but i tried to keep them back,'' he said
a 55-year-old man believed to be the gunman was being treated at medical center hospital for a gunshot wound to his left thigh, spokeswoman inez eisazadeh said. his condition was not known, she said
another victim was being treated at medical center hospital for a wound to her right knee, and another was treated at brooke army medical center for multiple gunshot wounds. a third was taken to baptist memorial hospital with a leg wound, and the fourth to nix hospital, also with a leg wound
after the initial shots, the gunman ``heard the sirens and began running. a downtown foot patrolman and a park ranger confronted him,'' police sgt. paul buske said
the man apparently was out of shells in one of his guns, and was trying to reload while attempting to shoot with the other one,'' he said. ``the officers returned fire, and the man was struck in the upper leg.''
buske said he didn't know whether bullets from the officers' guns or from the gunman's struck the man
tarble said that when the gunman, who was a passenger in the taxi, began firing, the taxi driver and the driver with whom the gunman had argued both tried run away
the gunman got out of the car, shot a passer-by in the leg, fired two shots at a woman trying to hunker down in her car's front seat and fired again at a passing station wagon, hitting the driver
he then went around a corner, shot at another person and was then felled by gunfire, buske said. third day</head> add details of zuniga's arrest. pick up 8th graf pvs: `he was...' edits thereafter to conform</note>
doctors stopped treating patients and industry and construction halted today as a strike protesting the rule of gen. manuel noreiga picked up support despite a violent crackdown on tuesday
most stores in the downtown commercial zone were open, but many outside the area closed
in washington, a lawyer for a panamanian opposition group said the state department was preparing to notify all u.s. banks where the panamanian government has deposits not to engage in any transactions with the regime that seized power last week
william d. rogers said the state department action would require the banks to make payments only to the ambassador who represented the deposed government of president eric arturo delvalle. the state department did not immediately confirm rogers' statement
on tuesday, security agents armed with shotguns ransacked a radio station that defied censors by broadcasting news and backing the strike. a former presidential candidate also was roughed up
the raid by a score of state security agents shattered the uneasy calm that had marked the organized protest strike that began monday to seek the ouster of noriega, panama's military strongman
the station was totally destroyed,'' said the owner, carlos ivan zuniga, who ran unsuccessfully for president in 1984. ``it will return to the air when there is democracy in panama.''
many doctors appeared to have joined the strike today. most of the main hospitals were staffing only their emergency rooms, a check of major hospitals and clinics showed
zuniga was seen being arrested with his son, carlos, and two other people
security agents pulled zuniga by the hair, forced his head down and shoved him hard into a vehicle. his shirt was almost torn off as he struggled against the agents
the car was blocked by another vehicle and zuniga, a white-haired man of about 60, fled down the street with his torn shirt fluttering and security men in pursuit
he was captured and later released and said he was unhurt. the other three were kicked, punched and beaten with truncheons
at least three people were wounded by birdshot, none seriously
security agents confiscated the exposed film of several news photographers, including the tampa tribune's allyn divito, who had a pistol held to his head until he surrendered his film
at a news conference following his release, zuniga called the attack an ``act of official state gangsterism.'' he estimated damage to his station, radio mundial, at $100,000. the station is also known as radio 10-fm
shortly before the attack, zuniga said, the station broadcast an appeal to residents of the capital to demonstrate peacefully against the government by waving white hankerchiefs, honking their car horns and banging on pots and pans each day at noon and 6 p.m
that was in defiance of government censors' orders that the station only play music
about 15 people were handing out anti-government leaflets outside the station when the security agents arrived suddenly in four four-wheel drive vehicles with darkly tinted windows
the agents bolted from the vehicles, firing shotguns and revolvers in the air, quickly dispersed the leaflet distributors and charged into the station, smashing equipment and furniture
the station is housed in the offices of the popular action party, which zuniga heads, and is in a middle-class neighborhood. at the first sounds of gunfire, about 150 neighbors poured into the street, many of them waving white banners and taunting the agents
young men threw rocks at the security men and set up barricades of burning trash on the street outside the station and several sidestreets. order was not restored for several hours
as word of the attack on radio mundial spread, barricades went up on streets elsewhere in the city, but there was no further violence
leaders of the national civic crusade, a wide coalition of business, professional, labor and political groups that organized the nationwide strike, claimed tuesday night that the action halted 85 percent of the country's economic activity
crusade leaders said they would meet today to decide whether to continue the action
after noriega's former second-in-command went public last june with charges the general was involved in vote fraud, corruption and political assassination, the crusade organized several large demonstrations
noriega, chief of panama's 17,000-member defense forces, sent troops into the streets with guns, billy clubs and tear gas to break up last summer's protests. three people were killed and scores injured
crusade leaders deny their goal is to restore delvalle to the presidency. national assembly ousted delvalle on friday for trying to fire noriega
noriega, who has run the country since 1983, was indicted in the united states last month for trafficking in colombian cocaine. delvalle had said last thursday that the general should step down while the charges were investigated
until he tried to fire noriega, delvalle was widely seen as the general's puppet. the reagan administration says it still recognizes delvalle's presidency
hours after he was dismissed, delvalle went into hiding. he has not been seen publicly, but has issued statements calling for an international trade embargo against panama to stop the cash flow. up 6th graf pvs: this by-election ...</note>
an extreme right-wing party opposing all concessions to blacks was favored today as voters began the process of filling two vacant seats in the white chamber of parliament
the conservative party was expected to win the seats in the districts of standerton and schweizer-reneke, despite an aggressive campaign waged by president p.w. botha's governing national party
the turnout was expected to exceed 70 percent in both districts. more than 15,000 people were eligible to vote in schweizer-reneke and more than 22,000 in standerton
the conservative party seeks to reinstate all rescinded apartheid laws and charges that botha is capitulating to the country's 26 million black majority through his limited reforms in recent years
the conservatives have been gaining ground in standerton and schweizer-reneke, rural districts in transvaal province, at the expense of the national party. in parliament's white chamber, the national party has firm control with 133 seats to 20 for the conservatives
in last may's whites-only general election, the conservative party captured both the standerton and schweizer-reneke seats, but they became vacant when the incumbents resigned
this by-election campaign illustrates the degree to which white politics has become a struggle on the right. the anti-apartheid progressive federal party did not field candidates and demands of black activists and foreign critics are dismissed as irrelevant
the choice is between bad and worse,'' said business day, the leading financial daily. ``it may be an appalling thought, but the growing power of the extreme right is so serious a threat that we believe the conservative party has to be opposed at every turn, even if it means voting for nationalists.''
the star of johannesburg described schweizer-reneke as an area ``where blacks are seen and not heard. when they are seen it is largely in terms of service to whites.''
both parties campaigned aggressively, revealing the widening rift among right-wing afrikaners
last year, the conservative party drew 26 percent of the vote nationwide and its support is growing, particularly in rural areas. it is favored to win another special election in transvaal later this month
the conservative party has close links to the afrikaner resistance movement, a paramilitary, white-supremacist group which is taking an increasingly confrontational stance against the government
last saturday, 5,000 movement members, many armed and wearing khaki uniforms, staged a boisterous rally in pretoria and then marched to government buildings with a petition demanding creation of a whites-only state
conservative party leader andries treurnicht, in a televised debate monday, refused to repudiate the movement
treurnicht told f.w. de klerk, a cabinet minister who heads the national party in transvaal: ``i defend the right of an organization to join me in resisting the dangerous course you are taking.''
the national party, in power since 1948, says the conservative party's goal of returning to strict apartheid is unrealistic. botha advocates limited power-sharing, with blacks gaining a say in national politics while whites retain control. under apartheid, the white minority controls the country and keeps blacks in separate districts, schools and health services
speaking last week in standerton, botha called for unity among afrikaners _ who comprise 3 million of the country's 5 million whites _ and said the national party would protect white interests
we are not prepared to sell out south africa to marxist revolutionaries,'' botha said. ``we are prepared to fight for our country
why are we (afrikaners) cutting each others' throats when our enemy is waiting?'' he asked
in an hour-long speech before about 1,000 people, botha did not mention the government bans imposed last week that forbid political activity by 18 black opposition groups. nor did he speak of any future race reforms
the star said in an editorial tuesday: ``to pacify right-wingers, the government has cracked down on black activists .... the nationalists have abandoned any commitment to reform.''
treurnicht spoke in standerton the same night as botha, drawing a crowd of about 1,400. he said the national party was capitulating to the 26 million black majority
when you share power you are no longer in control,'' treurnicht said. ``we don't want blacks in our parliament and we don't want to sit with them in theirs.''
south africa's parliament has separate chambers for whites, asians and people of mixed race. blacks are excluded
treurnicht dismissed the recent crackdown as an election gimmick, saying it was too little, too late
botha, meanwhile, said he was not a ``bad afrikaner'' simply because he was willing to meet with ``reasonable'' black leaders
one has to be realistic,'' he said. ``this country consists not only of whites ... is there a farmer who can produce without black labor? is there an industrialist who can produce without black workers?''
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan said today that deep cuts in ``entitlement'' programs, which include social security and medicare, may be the most realistic way for cutting the federal budget deficit
greenspan, testifying before the senate budget committee, also called for a 15-cent-a-gallon increase in the federal gasoline tax
but he said that, in general, tax increases do not appear to be a feasible way for trimming the budget shortfall, which was $150 billion last year
there are upside limits to the share of income that can be taxed,'' greenspan said
he also said he saw little opportunity for further major cuts in military spending, or in crucial federal programs such as the prison and air control system
that leaves little left for budget cuts beyond entitlement programs, which now make up about half of the federal budget
entitlement programs are automatic-benefit social programs, in which increases are tied to the rate of inflation
simple arithmetic points clearly to those areas where the scope for action is greatest,'' greenspan testified
even though trimming social security and other benefit programs would be politically difficult, greenspan told the panel that ``entitlement programs offer substantial opportunities for long-term budgetary savings.''
all the alternatives are known. the choices are political, not economic,'' greenspan testified. he appeared as the panel considered president reagan's $1.09 trillion budget for the fiscal year that begins next oct
in other testimony, greenspan said:
_ trade deficit improvements, led by higher import prices and surging exports, would continue even at current exchange-rate levels of the dollar
_ there was some danger of increased inflation in the coming months from higher prices, but that these increases do ``not appear to be on the order of a magnitude that should cause concern.''
_ that ``there are no secret agreements'' among industrial nations involving interest rate levels in the united states that might be needed to support the goal of stabilizing the u.s. dollar at its current exchange-rate value
an aids-stricken prostitute was acquitted today of two counts of attempted poisoning for selling his tainted blood to a blood bank
as the verdict was announced, joseph markowski, a 29-year-old transient, rolled his eyes upward and nodded to his attorney, guy o'brien
jurors, who deliberated seven hours over two days, came to a decision tuesday, but the verdict was sealed until today because o'brien was unable to be in court
markowski was charged with two counts of attempted poisoning for selling his blood for $10 to plasma production associates on june 22 and for trying to do so again june 25
he was arrested june 23 after screaming, ``kill me! kill me! i have aids!'' in a hollywood bank while trying to grab a security guard's gun. when police arrested markowski, they found the receipt for the plasma center
deputy district attorney antonio barreto jr. said markowski knew his blood could infect others but didn't care
but the defense said he had no intention of harming anyone
he made these donations for one reason and one reason only. he was broke and he was destitute and he was homeless and he was desperate,'' o'brien said
district attorney ira reiner originally charged markowski with attempted murder. but superior court judge ronald coen dismissed those counts, saying the law required a specific intent to kill that was not present in the case
markowski, who has acknowledged being a homosexual prostitute, was tested positive for the presence of the deadly aids virus. he has appeared pale and emaciated during his trial
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primaries tuesday

2,184 of 4,368 precincts reporting - 50 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,815 of 2,815 precincts reporting - 26 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

433 of 4,329 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
undecided, 234,567 - 12 percent

252 of 2,526 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,240 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
kay, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
martin-trigona, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,235 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
ahern, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
kay, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
martin-trigona, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,568 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,193 of 2,193 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
didonato, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,864 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent

408 of 4,079 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
duke, 234,567 - 12 percent
kay, 234,567 - 12 percent
koczak, 234,567 - 12 percent

238 of 2,378 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

237 of 2,372 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
doty, 234,567 - 12 percent
koczak, 234,567 - 12 percent

531 of 531 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,415 of 2,415 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

6,856 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
dennerll, 234,567 - 12 percent
doty, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent
williams, 234,567 - 12 percent

196 of 1,958 precincts reporting - 10 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
larouche, 234,567 - 12 percent 
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primaries tuesday

2,184 of 4,368 precincts reporting - 50 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,815 of 2,815 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

433 of 4,329 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

252 of 2,526 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,240 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

324 of 3,235 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

1,568 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,193 of 2,193 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,864 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

408 of 4,079 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

238 of 2,378 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

237 of 2,372 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
masters, 234,567 - 12 percent

531 of 531 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,415 of 2,415 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

6,856 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

196 of 1,958 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses tuesday. the votes in each jurisdiction may differ in meaning, depending on state rules and level of caucus

1 of 1 precincts reporting - 26 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

103 of 201 precincts reporting - 52 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

45 of 45 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent

917 of 917 precincts reporting - 100 percent

babbitt 234,567 - 12 percent
biden 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt 234,567 - 12 percent
gore 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted 234,567 - 12 percent
note: no timely results are available from the washington democratic precinct caucuses
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential caucuses tuesday

6,176 of 6,176 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
here are the latest, unofficial delegate results in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses tuesday

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 56

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 3

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt 10
biden 10
dukakis 10
gephardt 10
gore 10
jackson 10
uncommitted 10
dennerll, 10
duke, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 38

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
undecided, 10
total at stake - 136

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 77

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 20

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 18

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
kay, 10
larouche, 10
martin-trigona, 10
total at stake - 55

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
ahern, 10
duke, 10
kay, 10
larouche, 10
martin-trigona, 10
total at stake - 63

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 67

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
larouche, 10
didonato, 10
total at stake - 98   

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 40

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
dennerll, 10
duke, 10
kay, 10
koczak, 10
total at stake - 77

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 16

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 82

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
dennerll, 10
doty, 10
koczak, 10
total at stake - 46

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 22

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 70

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
dennerll, 10
doty, 10
larouche, 10
williams, 10
total at stake - 183

26 percent of precincts reporting
babbitt, 10
dukakis, 10
gephardt, 10
gore, 10
hart, 10
jackson, 10
simon, 10
uncommitted, 10
larouche, 10
total at stake - 75
here are the latest, unofficial delegate results in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses tuesday

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 38   

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 27

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 82

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 48

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 38

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 41

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 41

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 52

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
total at stake - 31

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 47

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
no preference, 10
total at stake - 54

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
masters, 10
total at stake - 36

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 21

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 33

26 percent of precincts reporting
bush, 10
dole, 10
du pont, 10
haig, 10
kemp, 10
robertson, 10
uncommitted, 10
total at stake - 111
no delegates are at stake in the virginia gop primary
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday

babbitt, 67
dukakis, 67
gephardt, 67
gore, 67
hart, 67
jackson, 67
simon, 67
uncommitted, 67
others, 67
total at stake in 21 events, 1,307
here are the delegates won by each candidate in the republican presidential primaries and caucuses on tuesday

bush, 67
dole, 67
du pont, 67
haig, 67
kemp, 67
robertson, 67
uncommitted, 67
others, 67
total at stake in 17 events, 712
like many of his fellow cuban-americans, agustin aguero is republican and staunchly anti-communist
the vice president and manager at florida national bank's little havana branch calls himself a moderate conservative and voted for president reagan in 1980 and again in 1984
but aguero is among the growing ranks of well-educated and politically sophisticated cuban-americans who will require more from presidential candidates than fierce anti-communist rhetoric
we cubans are anti-communist, but that isn't our only goal,'' said aguero, who left behind cuba and fidel castro 17 years ago
in the waning days before super tuesday, when 20 states including florida will hold presidential primaries and caucuses, cuban-americans are weighing their options with a heavy tilt toward vice president george bush
more than two-thirds of the 165,274 cuban-american voters registered in dade county are republicans, according to the dade county elections department
since the 1984 presidential elections, the republican party in dade has added more than 42,000 cuban-americans to its rolls
in tampa, the cuban-american community, made up mostly of second-and third-generation cubans and some who have been around since the turn of the century, tends to vote democratic, according to the hillsborough county elections department, which keeps no record of the ethnic breakdown among parties
but the much larger and politically mobilized cuban-american community in miami is clearly dominated by republican fervor
here, bush appears to be the ticket for most cuban-americans. he has made regular forays here and has a strong organization headed by gov. bob martinez and his son, jeb, who is the state secretary of commerce
bush could conceivably capture about 70 percent of the cuban vote, said dade county republican party chairman carlos salman. a recent poll of south florida hispanics showed bush the choice of 81 percent, with the other gop candidates far back in single digits
pat robertson cannot be counted out, however. he has made a serious pitch for the cuban-american vote, criticized castro as a ``butcher'' and his claim that there are soviet nuclear weapons in cuba fell on receptive ears here
but the former television evangelist's recent anti-communist appeals apparently aren't being taken very seriously, and some say his impact on the cuban vote will be negligible
i think the cubans are very sophisticated ... they can see when people are saying things just to cater to them,'' said jaime suchlicki, director of the institute of inter-american studies at the university of miami. ``they prefer truth and candor, not political sloganism.''
bush's ties to the reagan administration could hold negatives, suchlicki said
there has been an enormous amount of disillusionment vis-a-vis nicaragua,'' he said
as well, immigration policy also has been a sore point, with a reversal in the special treatment once accorded cubans by the immigration and naturalization service
there is definitely a great deal of disappointment,'' said eddie levy rodriguez, former president and founder of the cuban american democrats association, ``with the way immigration (officials) and the state department are treating the cubans from mariel and ... the fact that (cuba and the united states) are talking constantly, even though reagan promised he would never deal with castro.''
foreign policy remains a top concern of cuban-americans, but increasingly they say their other interests are not being addressed, including but not limited to, issues such as the economy, housing and unemployment
aguero said the new generation of cubans, who don't harbor notions of ever going back to cuba, simply have different ideals. they consider themselves americans first and cubans second, he said
levy said the number of cuban-american democrats is growing, and he said massachusetts gov. michael dukakis should fare well among them
but most of the cuban-american population still votes republican
we feel the republicans have done more for the things we like,'' salman said. ``since ronald reagan is president of the united states we have not lost one country to communism. we also are interested in being able to have better lives, better jobs, low interest, low inflation and high employment. republicans do this more often and better than the democrats.''
a mutiny broke out on among usually meek and patient london commuters, with passengers refusing orders to leave their delay-plagued subway train until its driver took them to their destination
only about a dozen rebellious passengers were involved in the tuesday night incident on the ``tube,'' as the subway system is known, but london regional transport said it was unprecedented, given the meek and humble nature of the british commuter
to the london evening standard newspaper, it was ``the great tube revolt,'' and the mutineers' unidentified leader was ``a superhero in the clark kent mold _ quiet, mild-mannered and unassuming.''
the excitement generated by the incident reflected not only the frustrations of riding the system's aging northern line, but the amazement of londoners at the prospect of british commuters abandoning their fabled reserve and making a public fuss
a similar incident occurred in new york city's subway system in april 1985, when about a dozen commuters refused to leave a disabled train until they were taken from it by transit police
london regional transport accused the tube mutineers of being selfish
spokesman david morris said the problem began with delays caused by a signal failure. passengers bound for high barnet, at the end of the northern line, were told to disembark five stations before their destination and wait for the next train
they started filing off, but then, according to the standard, a ``mild-looking and well-dressed'' passenger declared: ``i've had enough. i'm staying put. if we all do it, they'll have to take the train on.''
about a dozen passengers got back into the train, it said. more passengers followed, and after hurried consultations the staff bowed to the pressure and sent the train on
morris said that had the passengers done as they were told, the next train would have taken them to high barnet, while the first train could have turned back to collect passengers in central london who had been delayed by the earlier signal failure
we had an overall picture of what was happening,'' he told the associated press. ``those passengers had only a narrow and selfish view and put their needs above others.''
passenger sheila golding of high barnet was quoted by the standard as saying the mutineers were cheering and laughing, because ``we knew that if everyone did it _ and stayed put _ there wasn't anything they could do about it.''
another passenger, maria gama, was quoted as saying: ``everybody was just totally fed up. the waiting room was freezing and nobody could tell us why the train was stopping where it did. but when everybody climbed back on, it was a marvelous moment.''
the northern line, parts of which are more than a century old, carries 700,000 passengers a day and serves 50 stations between south and north london
dubbed ``the misery line'' by newspapers, it is attacked for defective trains and equipment, last-minute schedule changes, signal failures and dirty stations. it is to have a major modernization in the 1990s
morris denied the line was worse than others but conceded that some employees can be rude. ``they know what they're up against and they probably don't look forward to coming to work any more than passengers look forward to using the line,'' he said
by putting new emphasis on the threat to europe from soviet tanks and troops, western leaders hope to blunt moscow's drive to capitalize on splits within nato on nuclear arms strategy
in a joint statement wednesday, leaders of the western alliance called on the soviet union and its allies to begin negotiations aimed at eliminating the east's capability for launching a surprise attack in europe
they said soviet non-nuclear forces facing nato are far in excess of moscow's needs for self defense and ``cast a shadow over the whole of europe.''
president reagan called the declaration ``a major step forward for the alliance.''
the idea is to portray the north atlantic treaty organization as united in calling for fewer non-nuclear weapons at a time when the alliance members cannot agree how far to go in scrapping atomic arms
the nato initiative also shifts the public spotlight away from west germany's dispute within the alliance over whether and when to replace very short-range nuclear weapons with new, more effective ones. most of these weapons, if used, would strike german soil, east or west
the main nato theme is that the soviet-led warsaw pact's numerical superiority in conventional weapons and troops _ not the existence of nuclear arms in europe _ is the greatest danger to western security
according to western estimates, the warsaw pact holds about a 3-to-1 advantage in tanks and artillery and nearly a 2-to-1 edge in combat aircraft and troops, including reserves in the soviet union. moscow contends that east-west conventional forces are roughly equivalent
the stress on conventional arms, nato hopes, will steal some of the momentum from soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's campaign to woo the european public with calls for ridding their continent of all nuclear weapons
nato leaders agree that some nuclear arms are needed in europe to deter attack
gorbachev appears to have significantly improved his public image in western europe by agreeing last year to a longstanding u.s. proposal to eliminate all intermediate-range nuclear weapons, based mostly in europe
the 16 nato nations have strongly endorsed this deal, known as the inf treaty. the senate is expected to ratify the treaty this spring
but in the aftermath of the inf deal, the alliance has fallen into disagreement over whether to press immediately for east-west negotiations to reduce a large soviet edge in short-range nuclear missiles. west germany, which is most directly threatened by these weapons, wants such talks to start soon; most of the other nato allies do not
the brussels nato summit was not expected to discuss this quandry in detail, much less find a solution. instead, a key aim of the meeting was to turn the public's attention to other aspects of east-west relations, including human rights and non-nuclear arms talks
the nato members and the seven warsaw pact nations have been working for a year to agree on the framework for a new set of negotiations to establish a more stable balance of conventional forces in europe
these talks, likely to begin this fall, would replace a narrower set of east-west negotiations on cutting troop levels, which began in 1973. after 15 years, these talks have not produced a single agreement
nato members hope the new negotiations would focus more directly on warfighting equipment as well as troops. these talks also would encompass the full european area, from the atlantic to the ural mountains. the old troop talks were limited to the central front
even though the western allies acknowledge that it may take years to reach a meaningful agreement on conventional forces, they hope the drive to reach the bargaining table will put nato back on the diplomatic offensive
organization for the associated press. abuse</head>
children at a hare krishna commune have been subjected to sexual abuse and forced into communal marriages, according a court petition filed by a former sect member seeking custody of her children
the petition was filed with the state supreme court, which gave no immediate answer tuesday to the appeal by christina mills, a former hare krishna member who claims her children are in danger at the religious sect's west virginia commune
mills alleges that new vrindaban, the nation's largest krishna community, is fraught with polygamy, child molestation and sexual abuse, her lawyer told the court tuesday
mills, now a legal secretary in san antonio, texas, is asking the high court to remove her three children, ages 2, 3 and 6, from their father's care at new vrindaban
these children have no protection today but in this court,'' lawyer david gold told justices
the northern west virginia community is the target of several federal and state investigations
a family law master had ruled that the children were in jeopardy at the commune, but a circuit judge stayed that order at the request of the children's father, dennis gorrick. mills is appealing that stay
gorrick's attorney, james lees, said the family law master has issued a gag order on the case and he could not discuss it
members of the commune have faced criminal charges, including murder and manslaughter charges against fringe members of the commune, and child molestation charges against two former commune teachers. the sect's leader, kirtanananda swami bhaktipada, recently was found innocent of arson charges, although another commune member was convicted in the case
the krishnas have denied any wrongdoing and have accused authorities of harassment
mills' petitions make a broad range of allegations against the krishna community
gorrick ``has been simultaneously `married' to the petitioner and other women, said marriages being ordered by the swami,'' according to the petition
children at new vrindaban ``have been subject to sexual abuse by the very teachers entrusted with their safety and well-being. said abuse includes the repeated and systematic oral and anal homosexual rape of school children at said school by the headmaster,'' according to the court petition
parents who have confronted the swami about said sexual abuse have been advised by said swami that, `sex is sex,''' the petition states
authorities at (new vrindaban) regularly contribute to the delinquency of minors, by forcing girls ... to drop out of school and marry ... as young as the age of 12 years,'' the petition states
gorrick, whom mills calls the commune's chief fund-raiser, ``has directly caused or contributed'' to the alleged practice of using commune children as young as 11 to solicit donations, according to the petition
a juvenile court judge ordered a psychiatric evaluation for a 13-year-old boy who chopped off his uncle's hand at the uncle's request
juvenile judge kenneth turner said tuesday that the youth was charged with mayhem, the crime of cutting off a body part of another, after he chopped off his uncle's hand sunday at the man's home in lakeland, near memphis
shelby county sheriff's department inspector buck wood said the uncle, james veazey, 33, had a history of treatment for mental problems. wood said the man told his nephew he had rabies in the hand and asked him to chop it off
sgt. travis taylor said the youth had said veazey had repeatedly asked him to cut off the hand. ``i got tired of listening to it and got on with it,'' taylor quoted the youth as saying
the boy used a single-blade ax to cut off the hand and then threw it into a garbage can, retrieving the hand only when a neighbor doubted his tale of cutting it off
veazey had prepared a bucket of hydrogen peroxide and water to treat the stump of his arm, taylor said
neighbors called an ambulance and the sheriff's department after they were shown the hand
veazey was taken to the regional medical center for surgery, then transferred to memphis veterans medical center
taylor said relatives told him veazey had himself chopped off a finger of the hand in the shelby county jail last year
the severed hand could not be reattached, taylor said
vietnam on wednesday returned to the united states what are believed to be remains of 17 american servicemen missing in action in the vietnam war, a u.s. official said
the vietnamese also turned over written reports on three other missing americans, said lt. col. paul mather, leader of a u.s. military team that received the remains in a ceremony at hanoi's noi bai airport
the return was the largest in two years and the fourth largest since the war ended in april 1975 with a communist victory over the u.s.-backed south vietnam government
the largest return was in august 1985, when 26 sets of remains were returned
mather said some of the remains received wednesday involved cases of highest priority to the united states
mather said a u.s. honor guard saluted under chilly, overcast skies as the metal caskets of remains, each draped with a folded american flag, were loaded onto a c-141 transport plane for the flight to hawaii. the names attached to the remains were not released
they will be analyzed there by the army central identification laboratory to see if they belong to any of the nearly 1,800 americans listed as missing in action from the vietnam war
mather said some of the names that the vietnamese provided, along with the remains and written reports, are among a list of 70 that the united states considers of highest priority
retired gen. john w. vessey, acting as a u.s. presidential emissary, handed over the list of names during a mission to hanoi in august
the united states says that in these ``discrepancy cases,'' there is compelling evidence that vietnamese authorities at some level know what happened to the missing men. evidence includes photographs of captured americans who never emerged from prisoner of war camps
mather said the remains were mostly of airmen. most missing airmen were shot down during bombing missions in north vietnam
the vietnamese told mather they would start the next round of ``technical talks'' on mias on march 12. during these talks, which hanoi has agreed to hold six times annually, experts of both sides discuss ways of retreiving remains, locating warplane crash sites and related issues
wednesday's turnover was the third since hanoi agreed during vessey's visit to break a deadlock and resume efforts to account for american mias
the united states pledged then to look into vietnam's own humanitarian problems. an official u.s. medical team flew to hanoi on wednesday to continue that mission, said the spokesman of the u.s. embassy in bangkok, ross petzing
three previous medical teams have studied the plight of disabled war veterans and other humanitarian cases and made recommendations on how private u.s. charitable organizations can aid rehabilitation programs
washington has encouraged private assistance but refused vietnamese requests for direct u.s. government aid. the united states has withheld diplomatic recognition and official aid to protest vietnam's military occupation of cambodia
the 3{-year-old girl who received five organs in a landmark transplant operation is progressing ``with no major bumps'' in her recovery four months after the surgery, hospital officials said wednesday
tabatha foster, from madisonville, ky., was reported still in serious condition in a private room of children's hospital of pittsburgh
tabatha underwent surgery ending nov. 1 to replace her liver, pancreas, small intestine and parts of her stomach and colon. she suffered from short gut syndrome, a congenital defect, and would have died without the transplant, according to doctors
her recovery has really been somewhat uneventful,'' said hospital spokeswoman lynn mcmahon. ``she is really progressing fine. there have been no major bumps along the way.''
tabatha is still being fed intravenously, through a special pump to her stomach, and by mouth with a special baby food formula, according to miss mcmahon. the girl has never eaten solid food
tabatha's surgeons said they have no precedent for feeding such a patient. two other patients underwent similar operations in the united states in recent years, but they died within a few days
her mother, sandra, is at her bedside daily, miss mcmahon said
president reagan appealed for donations and prayers for the girl in his weekly radio address jan. 23. reagan also contributed $1,000 to a special fund for her medical bills
eds: tabatha foster fund, heritage national bank, 401 smithfield st., pittsburgh, pa 15222
a judge who orders some juvenile offenders to go to the library and read as a condition of probation says he harbors no illusions that it will help everyone. he'd settle for one out of four
i understand that a good number of young people will laugh at this,'' baltimore circuit judge john carroll byrnes said in a recent interview. ``some will try, but will fall by the wayside when they get back in with their buddies in their environment. and others simply won't be able, intellectually
but i'm convinced that a significant minority, once coerced into reading, will be so attracted by the experience that it will change their lives. i'm optimistic that we can do it. if we can reach 25 percent of the youthful offenders we see, i'd call this plan a roaring success.''
the judge, who splits his time between juvenile court and the city's circuit court, said he has made reading a part of probation since he came on the bench about five years ago. an ad hoc committee of librarians, educators and parole and probation officers was formed a year ago and hopes to have a formal list of suitable titles, basically from the junior high school level, by the end of the year
some of the suggested titles include ``i am the darker brother'' by arnold adoff, ``westmark'' by lloyd alexander, ``anna to the infinite power'' by mildred ames, ``curse of the blue figurine'' by john bellairs, ``sounder'' by william a. armstrong, and ``are you there god? it's me, margaret'' by judy blum
byrnes also said he has restricted television viewing as a condition of probation in some cases. ``it's interesting _ no matter what you say before that, they shudder when i come to the one about television,'' he said
police on wednesday arrested a bricklayer in connection with a mafia-linked shooting that left two men dead and two injured in a coffee bar, italian media reported
police said they weren't sure how many attackers burst into the bar, in a central square, on tuesday night and began shooting, first at giuseppe postorino, 43, who fell mortally wounded, then at three others, the ansa news agency reported
investigators speculated that the target was postorino, who police linked to the 'ndrangheta, the version of the mafia here in calabria, a region at the ``toe'' of the boot-shaped italian peninsula
the other dead man was identified in news reports as francesco cosma, 27
felix the ferret was scheduled for execution this week, but a public outcry resulted in a pardon from the mayor
we are going to ferret out a solution,'' said farmers branch mayor john dodd, who spared the animal monday
the fuzzy, pink-eyed ferret was caged at the city's animal shelter
farmers branch police officer rodney wallace spotted the animal friday during patrol. when he opened the door of his car and whistled, the ferret jumped into his lap and snuggled against him
wallace took the ferret to the animal shelter in the dallas suburb and attached a note to his cage that said, ``please do not destroy. if no one claims it, i want it back.''
because of a city ordinance prohibiting exotic animals, officials said the ferret would be destroyed if his owner was not found. as news spread of the ferret's plight, the animal shelter was deluged with requests to adopt the creature
animal control officer mike worsham said his department could not take responsibility for placing felix for adoption because there is no approved vaccine for ferrets and the animals sometimes bite
but dodd promised monday to ``cut through the red tape.'' the mayor said he spoke to the owner of an animal rehabilitation center about taking the animal. the center has a state license to keep wild animals, which will prevent the ferret's death
he's got a reprieve,'' dodd said. offer</head> tender offer; picks up 15th graf pvs, `they can...' version moved financial wires.</note>
federated department stores inc. announced today its board had accepted a multibillion-dollar acquisition bid by r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. over a competing offer from campeau corp
but campeau refused to give up its quest for federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer
federated and macy signed a definitive agreement to create a new company, macy's-federated inc., said jim fingeroth, a spokesman for macy, which has nearly 100 department and specialty stores
the agreement provides for macy to begin a cash tender offer of $74.50 a share for about 80 percent of federated's 89.6 million outstanding shares, or a total of $5.25 billion, fingeroth said. the remaining federated shares would be exchanged for stock in the new company
campeau had offered $68 a share in cash for all federated shares, or $6.1 billion
after the agreement was announced, campeau said it would proceed with a $66 cash tender offer for federated
macy's bid is not competitive and we intend to prevail in the marketplace,'' a campeau statement said. ``it is now up to federated's shareholders to decide.''
trading in federated stock was halted on the new york stock exchange prior to the federated announcement. after trading resumed, its stock rose 50 cents per share to $67.50
macy's bid came to light monday as federated directors met to consider whether to accept the campeau offer
campeau began its bid jan. 25, offering $47 a share. the bid was rejected as inadequate, and campeau sweetened the offer several times before arriving at the $68 bid
late last week, federated officials decided to negotiate an agreement with campeau, and the toronto-based developer's offer was still on the table as the macy bid was considered
macy originally offered $73.80 per share and then increased its bid before the agreement was signed
wall street analysts said tuesday the rival bids were attractive for different reasons
campeau is sitting there with cash, and macy's walked in the door with some cash but the opportunity for the company to enjoy future growth _ as opposed to campeau's potential breaking up or dismantling of the company,'' said thomas tashjian, an analyst with seidler amdec securities inc. in los angeles
he referred to the fact that campeau sold off most of allied stores corp.'s divisions after he bought the company in december 1986
new york-based macy, which is privately held, is the nation's 10-largest retailer
a federated acquisition represents for macy's a chance to control some of its major competitors, such as bloomingdale's, and to increase its market share at the same time, said michele davis, of the investment firm oppenheimer &amp; co
they can position bloomingdale's at one price point and macy's at another price point such that they don't compete head on with each other,'' she said
the deal also would give macy more outlets for its extensive line of private label merchandise, said monroe greenstein, of the investment firm bear stearns &amp; co. inc
campeau was fighting for federated because it does not want to lose the opportunity to gain the foothold into major u.s. shopping centers that federated stores would provide, greenstein said
moreover, that entree could go instead to macy board member a. alfred taubman, himself a shopping mall developer, greenstein said
the agreement between macy and federated called for the new company's board to include significant representation from the existing federated board
macy, one of the nation's biggest and best-known retailers, was taken private by a management group in a $3.6 billion leveraged buyout in 1986. its stores rang up $5.21 billion in sales during the fiscal year ended aug. 1
federated took in $11 billion last year from its more than 650 department stores, supermarkets and other outlets nationwide, including bloomingdale's, abraham &amp; straus, filene's, burdine's, lazarus, bullock's and rich's department stores; gold circle discount stores and ralphs supermarkets
in december 1986, campeau acquired giant allied stores, whose operations still include the jordan marsh, stern's and ann taylor chains
a judge today ruled the confession by a man to the slayings of seven women in his apartment could be admitted at trial and rejected a claim of illegal arrest
common pleas judge robert latrone denied a defense motion to suppress the confession and all physical evidence seized by police in harrison graham's home last august. defense attorney joel moldovsky also had sought to have graham's arrest declared illegal
latrone said the validity of the statement will be up to the jury
moldovsky and assistant district attorney roger king then met with latrone to discuss the start of jury selection. no date was immediately set
the ruling ended a 14-day pretrial hearing for graham, accused of killing seven women after luring them to his apartment with liquor and drugs. police found human remains in and near graham's apartment
moldovsky is mounting an insanity defense for his client. he claims graham has three personalities: frank, a foul-mouthed junkie who kills women during sex; marty, an easy-going, mother-worshiping guy who confessed to the murders; and junior, a mute, bad-mannered 2-year-old who and likes cartoon characters
graham's full name is harrison frank graham jr
moldovsky last week asked for new psychiatric evaluations of graham when the suspect described how he punched another inmate during a fight at the detention center
frank did it,'' said graham, describing to latrone how he responded to an inmate who had kicked him
king has dismissed the multiple-personality claim as ``just smoke.'' he says graham is a shrewd, street-smart faker who deserves the electric chair
king fahd on wednesday inaugurated the king fahd international stadium, the largest free-span structure in the world
the official opening of the stadium coincided with the ninth gulf cup soccer championships in which seven teams from arab countries are participating
in a ceremonial message, king fahd said ``this is eloquent proof of the progress which this country has made in all fields.''
there have been hints in the pro-government media that the kingdom would like to be a host for the olympic games
the multimillion-dollar stadium can accommodate 75,000 spectators, with the design owing something to the traditional shape of a bedouin tent but merged with the most advanced engineering technology
the exterior of the stadium is in the shape of a circle with a diamater of 290 yards. the bowl contains the playing field with natural grass, imported from kenya, the 400-yard running track, the long jump pits, pole vaulting area and javelin throw run
the roof membrane is stretched between 24 tent-shaped peaks, each supported by a 60-yard vertical mast. the covering is a teflon-coated fabric
the royal and vip pavilion, with six floors of exclusively furnished rooms for royal receptions, seats 750
the grass is watered from a 15-inch-deep water underground reservoir
bands of youths hurled bombs, burned cars and trucks, and shouted anti-government slogans wednesday during a general strike called to disrupt parliamentary elections. at least eight people were injured
teen-agers and children, several appearing younger than 10 years old, stopped a city garbage truck in downtown dhaka, smashed it with clubs and set it ablaze
we set fire to ershad's throne!'' the youngsters chanted, referring to president hussain muhammad ershad
demonstrators stoned and taunted police burned election banners, along with at least one scooter and a taxi
the opposition called the strike to protest thursday's parliamentary elections. many here believe the elections have more potential for violence than for halting the stalemate between ershad and his foes
eight people were reported hospitalized with injuries from small bombs, and two were in serious condition, police and hospital officials said
but no major confrontations erupted between police and protestors, and the city was calm overall
in the southern port city of chittagong, witnesses said at least 50 people were injured in clashes between protestors and police. the witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said protestors threw bombs at the office of the local municipal corporation and damaged several vehicles
in the capital, the strike appeared successful, shutting down shops and businesses and chasing from the streets the bicycle rickshaws that make dhaka traffic a nightmare
but the strike appeared to have little effect outside dhaka other than stopping trucks and buses from running
it was the 24th strike called by the opposition since nov. 10, when it began its campaign to oust ershad
in a move to compromise with his opponents, ershad dissolved the 330-seat parliament last december, 3{ years before its term was to expire, and scheduled new elections. but opposition leaders have said no election conducted under ershad can be fair, and they are urging a voter boycott
at least 33 people have been died since nov. 10, either in clashes, by police gunfire, or in campaign-related violence
sheik hasina of the opposition awami league said wednesday that she expected only 5 percent or 10 percent of the 47.8 million voters to cast ballots
more than 900 candidates from 102 political parties are running for parliament. eighteen candidates, all from ershad's jatiya party, have already been declared elected for lack of opposition, and voting in one district was canceled because of the slaying of a candidate
in addition to the parliamentary election, municipal elections will be held in the cities of dhaka, chittagong, khulna, and rajshahi
in similar polling for town and village councils across the country three weeks ago, more than 100 people were killed in battles between supporters of candidates
ershad seized power in a bloodless coup in 1982 and won election in 1986. he ordered 9,000 army troops and about 290,000 local police and paramilitary troops deployed to ensure security for the elections
the state department is preparing to notify all u.s. banks where the panamanian government has deposits not to engage in any transactions with the regime that seized power in panama last week, a lawyer for a panamanian opposition group said today
william d. rogers, an attorney for the arnold &amp; porter law firm, said the panamanian government is believed to have deposits in five u.s. banks and that law suits are being drawn up to ensure bank compliance with the measure
rogers told a news conference the state department action would require the banks to make disbursements only to the ambassador who represented the deposed government of president eric arturo delvalle
later, state department deputy spokeswoman phyllis oakley said the department was preparing documentation certifying that persons designated by delvalle are the legitimate representatives of the panamanian government
but she did not say what the legal consequences of the certification were or why it was being prepared
ambassador juan b. sosa, who has maintained that delvalle's ouster was unconstitutional, said he had no precise figures on the amounts of money in the panamanian accounts but estimated the number to be $50 million
in new york, lawyers for delvalle sued in federal court today to block a new york bank from turning over millions of dollars to new government in panama
a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order, blocking the republic national bank of new york from transferring an estimated $10 million
a hearing on the matter is slated for monday before u.s. district judge lloyd f. mcmahon
the lawsuit seeks to establish title to the funds held in the republic national bank account and ``to prevent their transfer into the hands of a military dictatorship ... which has attempted to seize power and overthrow the lawful authorities of the republic of panama,'' according to court papers
in washington, sosa said the state department is seriously considering withholding from panama the next payment on the fees the united states gives panama for use of the panama canal. he estimated that figure at $8 million
ms. oakley confirmed that a request from the delvalle government to put the funds in escrow had been received and that the state department was consulting with other agencies on how to proceed
delvalle fired military strongman manuel antonio noriega last thursday but the defense chief ignored the order and rallied his allies in the national assembly against the president. on friday, the assembly voted to oust delvalle and installed education minister manuel solis palma in his place
noriega has been indicted on drug smuggling charges by two florida grand juries and has been under heavy diplomatic, economic and political pressure by the reagan administration to step aside and open the way for civilian-led constitutional rule
among the banks listed by rogers which would be affected by the order are marine midland, irving trust, bankers trust and the republic national bank. he said all have headquarters in new york
every dime we can find is in those banks,'' rogers said. he added that any bank which ignores the order could be liable for whatever payments it makes to the current panamanian government
the coalition of opposition leaders believes that the panamanian government is facing a grave cash flow problem and is extremely vulnerable to economic pressure from the united states
unlike other countries, panama cannot cover its cash shortages by printing new money because the dollar is the national currency
sosa said international opposition to the new government was evident earlier this week when, he claimed, only eight ambassadors showed up for a state of the union address. from the western hemisphere, he said, only cuba and nicaragua attended
three people have been arrested in a roadside robbery in which a deputy minister was shot, it was reported wednesday
aggrey suit, deputy minister for energy and technology, was driving tuesday with his 6-year-old daughter through a suburb of kampala when three gunmen drove from the roadside, blocked his vehicle and demanded the keys, the government-owned radio uganda said
during a scuffle, one of the gunmen opened fire hitting suit in the leg. the girl was not injured
the gunmen fled with suit's four-wheel drive vehicle, which was found abandoned at jinja, 50 miles east of kampala
driving through the streets of this diplomatic capital, one would never guess that the leaders of the western world are in town to chart the future course of the nat0 alliance
but then, brussels tends to take its summits in stride
there are no banners, no curious onlookers and few flags to bear witness to the presence of president reagan and 15 other government leaders for the two-day nato summit that began wednesday
except for occasional motorcycle escorts leading official limousines on a weaving course through traffic, the city's normal routine has not been disrupted noticeably
security is tightest for reagan, who is staying in the 19th century chateau stuyvenberg on the outskirts of the city, next to the royal palace. the chateau's wooded grounds are patrolled by guard dogs and mounted police
it is a fortress,'' said one police official, who spoke only on condition that he not be identified. ``everything is tiptop in order.''
brussels is a stolid, middle-class city that for decades has played host to the european economic community, the north atlantic treaty organization, several offices of the european parliament and numerous international lobbying groups
strict security for highly placed officials is a routine and unobtrusive element in this city of about 1 million people. brussels handled its last summit, for the eec, only three weeks ago
the pace of the city is geared toward international meetings. taxi drivers ask their customers whether they prefer a normal or a fast trip out to the sprawling nato headquarters in the quiet suburb of evere
the only sign of summit-induced chaos was seen wednesday at the nato press center, where an estimated 2,000 journalists jostled each other for copies of official statements, draft beer and interviews with the few official sources willing to brave the crush
reflecting the belgian taste for good living, beer began to flow from the press center taps at about 11 a.m
a minor incident occurred when a nato security agent tried to grab a microphone from an american television network crew member while the nato leaders posed for a group photograph
a u.s. security agent accompanying reagan stepped in with the admonition, ``do not manhandle journalists,'' and the nato agent backed off
police spokesman jacques devaux said 500 uniformed belgian policemen were working around the clock ``with uncommon vigilance'' to protect every nato leader. a brussels newspaper said they were being reinforced by about 500 state security force personnel
days before the summit opened wednesday, police guards were reinforced and additional metal detectors were installed at zaventem international airport. areas where summit leaders were to arrive were swept repeatedly for explosives, but none was found
the summiteers, who brought their own security forces along, were staying in hotels and embassies scattered throughout the city. overall security was being coordinated at a command center in the interior ministry
police detained 20 anti-nuclear protesters for identity checks after they tried to demonstrate outside nato headquarters without a police permit
the government said wednesday it won't release a recording of the conversation between a control tower and a south african airways jumbo jet that crashed nov. 28 in the indian ocean, killing all 159 people aboard
the announcement was made by supreme court justice cecil margo, head of an international board that began meeting monday to investigate the cause of the crash on a flight from taipei, taiwan to johannesburg
the boeing 747 went down minutes before it was due to refuel in mauritius
reports at the time had quoted mauritian officials as saying the pilot reported fire or smoke in the cockpit
south african officials took over the investigation from mauritian aviation authorities, and no further information was released. the south african officials said at the time that quotes from the recording would not be released because they might be misunderstood and some people might believe they were being accused or blamed
margo said the recorded conversation was indistinct in parts and experts had disagreed about what was said, so no official transcript or sound from the recording would be released
margo said the board had decided wednesday that the cockpit voice recorder, flight data recorder and other pieces of the jet must be recovered ``at all costs'' from the crash site 14,520 feet under the ocean north of mauritius
aboard the jet were 71 south africans, 47 japanese, 30 taiwanese, and one or two passengers from australia, mauritius, hong kong, the united states, holland, britain, germany, denmark and south korea. only 11 bodies were recovered
here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers throughout the nation
feb. 29
the albuquerque (n.m.) tribune on gen. manuel antonio noriega of panama:
gen. manuel noriega, panama's drug-running strongman, seems still to be in control of his troubled nation
washington has been trying for months to figure out a way to depose noriega, who recently was indicted in miami on charges of drug trafficking. obviously, the u.s. government was involved in president eric arturo delvalle's attempt to dismiss noriega from command of panama's defense force
the maneuver may eventually contribute to an erosion of support for noriega among the country's military officer corps. but so far, most of those in the echelons below noriega either are in cahoots with the general or too afraid to buck him
noriega also faces strong opposition from the public, many of whom rioted last summer because of the country's declining economy and reports of corruption at the top
noriega has got to go, and the united states should do all it can to hasten that event. this should include an economic squeeze, by washington and other capitals, that could cause increased resentment against the general
feb. 29
baltimore sun on military spending:
when a secretary of the navy jumps ship or walks the plank, it is fitting that he made a big splash
james e. webb has done just that by unleashing a petulant attack on defense secretary frank c. carlucci, a veteran public servant who has taken on the tough, thankless job of bringing pentagon spending and planning into the realm of reality. ..
in the end, carlucci ordered the scrapping of 16 aging frigates as part of a $12 billion cut in fiscal 1989 navy spending. this was a sensible decision, in keeping with plans for a lean but tough defense establishment. ..
webb's spectacular manner of departure may have one beneficial effect. it could trigger a defense debate that most washington politicians would prefer to put off until the november elections
the next president and the next congress need to avoid sharp peaks and valleys in military spending and to devise a defense strategy that is compatible with the nation's resources, commitments and priorities
feb. 24
salem (ore.) statesman-journal on jimmy swaggart:
a repentant jimmy swaggart has confessed and apologized publicly for sins of sexual misconduct. ..
with this latest scandal, the tendency among much of the public may be to condemn all radio and television religious ministries
that would be understandable, but it also would be a mistake. some of these programs, a few dating back for 40 years or more, have a clean record of service and financial accountability. nevertheless, they often are smeared with the same broad brush
swaggart, (jim) bakker and other dimming stars of the glitzy world of television evangelism need our compassion, but they also need to clean up their lives and their organizations
feb. 26
the mcpherson (kan.) sentinel on the arrest of an absentee senator:
we had thought that house speaker jim wright had sunk to the bottom depths in congressional decorum a couple of months ago when he had the effrontery to make time stand still in order to gain passage of a bill he wanted
but after senate majority leader robert byrd's actions (last) week, wright is barely running a close second
we have often thought that congress resembled a circus more than it resembles the world's greatest deliberative body, but byrd made it complete with keystone kops ... when he ordered the arrest of republican bob packwood in order to get a quorum
we hope, of course, that byrd's tactic ... was worth such despicable conduct, because byrd has certainly degraded both himself and the senate
somehow we can't help but doubt that it was
feb. 25
the times of trenton, n.j., on the new tax laws:
there's a variation of the popular tv game show ``jeopardy!'' that you can play by calling your local internal revenue service offices. ask them a technical question about the 1986 tax law changes that go into effect this year
what's the ``jeopardy'' part? well, one fourth of the time the answer will be wrong. ..
but if you rely on that answer when you file your return, and underpay your tax as a result, you're still subject to a penalty and interest for underpaying
a year ago ... the new tax witholding forms ... turned out to be so arcane that the (irs) had to waive deadlines and develop new forms
it's hard to figure out how a law that was so widely understood and welcomed _ as an effort to make the tax code more fair, logical and efficient _ could have spawned such confusion
feb. 24
the new ulm (minn.) journal on pat robertson:
republican presidential hopeful pat robertson has a problem with making outrageous statements that he can't back up with facts
he labeled planned parenthood supporters as people trying to create a master race just because birth control pioneer margaret sanger dabbled in eugenics back around the turn of the century
he warned us that there are nuclear missiles in cuba and offered as proof that ``no one can prove there aren't missiles there.''
now he has the gall to suggest, though he admits he has no proof, that the george bush campaign is behind tv preacher jimmy swaggart's fall from grace in an attempt to discredit robertson, a former tv evangelist trying hard to distance himself from that past
robertson doesn't need anyone to discredit him. he appears to be doing a fine job of it himself
feb. 24
the knoxville (tenn.) news-sentinel on playing politics with appointments:
ohio's democratic sen. howard metzenbaum has gotten himself all twisted out of shape over the justice department's refusal to release certain of its files to the senate judiciary committee
the files relate to the department's investigation of reports that former u.s. ambassador to switzerland faith ryan whittlesey mishandled some entertainment funds
she was said to have entertained american friends with privately donated money that was intended to be used to fete foreign officials. the justice department said there was no evidence to produce a ``viable criminal case.''
that wasn't good enough for metzenbaum. he wants to come up with something politically damaging to the reagan administration
metzenbaum is holding up senate confirmation of four reagan appointees to federal court judgeships
this isn't just playing politics. it's hostage-taking, and it ill becomes a senator of the united states
feb. 29
sioux falls (s.d.) argus leader on president reagan's budget:
however else he is remembered, ronald reagan will go down as the biggest spender in the history of the presidency
the $1.1 trillion national budget he proposed recently would only increase military spending about 2 percent
in addition, reagan has an agreement with congress to run up only $136 billion more debt during the next budget year. in fiscal 1987, they accumulated $148 billion in debt
minor concessions like that will not erase the fact that reagan, more than any other president, has led the nation into what seems like a bottomless pit of overdue bills
of course, reagan is not entirely to blame. every democratic and republican representative and senator who has served in congress since reagan took office in 1981 must shoulder part of the blame for the nation's spending problems
reagan, the candidate who promised to balance the budget, has failed financially. he has less than a year remaining in his term _ not enough time to balance the budget
the good news is that this is an election year. taxpayers and voters have the opportunity _ and an obligation _ to hold presidential candidates accountable on that issue
feb. 28
the orange county (calif.) register on the supreme court parody decision:
when the u.s. supreme court hands down a unanimous decision, you might figure it was a cut-and-dried case. not so with last week's decision upholding hustler magazine's disgusting parody of the rev. jerry falwell
while the court seemed to grant almost absolute protection to speech that is intended as satire, it left blurred the line that distinguishes fact from fiction, parody from portrayal
at issue was a 1983 takeoff of a well-known liquor advertisement in which famous people describe the ``first time'' they tasted the product. in hustler's version, falwell was depicted as having sex with his mother in an outhouse
outraged, the televangelist and founder of the moral majority sued publisher larry flynt for $45 million for libel, invasion of privacy and infliction of emotional distress
a lower court had no trouble discerning that the parody was fiction. thus falwell did not have a case for libel. ... but it awarded him $200,000 for emotional distress
it took the supreme court to rule that awards for emotional distress require ... (proof of) factual falsehood, the standard for libel. ... and now the court rules draw a distinction between satire, which is absolutely free, and seriousness, which is not
free speech should mean just that. ... in the marketplace of ideas and public opinion, truth almost always will win out
feb. 27
charleston (w.va.) daily mail on foreign-held patents:
the u.s. patent and trademark office issued 89,385 patents last year. a stunning 46.6 percent of them went to people who are not u.s. citizens
americans are inventing more things than they used to, say officials at the patent office. but non-americans are inventing at a faster pace
in the past two decades, the share of u.s. patents awarded to foreigners has more than doubled. from the patent office's figures, the chief competitors of the future will be the japanese, who claimed 17,288 patents, and the west germans, who registered 8,030
it seems likely that more of the next generation of americans will be paying license fees, and more inventors in other nations will be sitting back collecting royalties
feb. 24
the asheville (n.c.) citizen on jimmy swaggart:
so one more television evangelist falls. jimmy swaggart is one of the biggest, but the country has become accustomed to seeing tv ministers stumble because of worldly pleasures
the only remarkable thing about the swaggart case is the extent to which everyone is focusing on his physical sin, that of consorting with a prostitute. in the eyes of his church and his followers, that was his greatest offense, and they already have begun forgiving him
give swaggart credit _ he knew what he had to do. he prostrated himself before the elders of the assemblies of god denomination, his congregation, his tv audience and god himself. swaggart blamed no one else
he admitted sinning, took full responsibility and begged forgiveness. most of his sympathizers were not just touched, they were overwhelmed
amid all this glorious healing, it seems almost unkind to note that swaggart did not admit his sin until he had no choice _ until it was reported by a fellow tv evangelist and competitor whom swaggart had helped discredit and drive out of business
he did not confess until his worldly empire was at stake. where were swaggart's humility and repentance during all those months or years before he was found out?
feb. 29
palm beach (fla.) post on the supreme court's parody decision:
the supreme court decision in the case of falwell vs. flynt is a reassuring vote of confidence in the principle of freedom of speech
in a decision significant for its unanimity, the justices said the rev. jerry falwell may not collect $200,000 in damages from publisher larry flynt and hustler magazine for a parody. ..
there is no question the parody was putrid. it also was painful for moral majority founder falwell
still, to condemn it because it breaks all boundaries for sleaze is one thing. to rule it is libelous is another
if a public figure cannot prove he has been libeled, he can't recover damages for even the most extreme embarrassment
in this case, that would have meant proving the parody contained statements known by the author to be false, which could be considered true. it's impossible to imagine that anyone considered the parody true
feb. 25
honolulu star-bulletin on the supreme court parody decision:
the american democratic system requires that the fullest possible leeway for comment, even comment that is unfair and in the worst taste
that description applies to the hustler spoof. because it could not have been reasonably interpreted as stating facts about (jerry) falwell, his claim of libel failed. at that point the first amendment took over
many of us committed to the first amendment would feel more comfortable rallying behind a worthier champion than hustler magazine. but great principles of justice can sprout from unseemly roots
the supreme court, by extending constitutional protection for parody and satire, has advanced the cause of freedom
feb. 25
the sun, westerly, r.i., on the long supreme court vacancy:
two-thirds of a year have gone by from the time a supreme court vacany occurred until judge anthony kennedy was sworn in ... as the ninth justice
the question whether it was worth the wait will be variously answered, depending on one's opinion of kennedy and the prior nominees who were rejected
no one, however, can dispute the assertions that kennedy was a compromise candidate after the administration had failed with judge robert bork and douglas ginsburg
the senate deemed bork too controversial for his narrow constitutional stance, ginsburg not only flawed in character but of inadequate judicial stature. ..
kennedy, in contrast to his predecessors before the senate in its process of advice and consent, was readily approved _ perhaps in part out of relief that a conservative yet not rigidly doctrinaire nominee was at least offered; but in any case, approved
some liberals, especially women's rights advocates, still have their doubts about how justice kennedy will perform. on the whole, however, he appears to be an excellent choice. and it is good to have a full court again after a long hiatus
feb. 28
the oshkosh (wis.) northwestern on educational testing:
while it is edifying that wisconsin leads the rest of the nation on american college testing (act) scores, ... wisconsin ranks near the bottom in the percentage of students taking that or the scholastic aptitude test (sat)
that does not mean that the high score is somehow invalid. but it does suggest that it may be artificially high in comparison to other states where the average is lower but the percentage of students taking the test is higher
as ratings experts have long counseled: do not read too much into the test scores data. it can't be used to prove the quality of a state's educational product
it may point to some extra efforts if the average fluctuates greatly from one year to the next. but it is not universally taken and thus there are too many other factors involved in assessing the quality of education which those tests can not depict. in miami</head>
billions of dollars in bank deposits are being taken out of panama for safer havens in the wake of the political turmoil following the drug indictment of military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, financial experts say
some of that money has wound up in miami, where federal regulations adopted earlier this decade allow ``offshore'' banks to escape the scrutiny that domestic banks undergo
panama in the 1980s had come to be known as the switzerland of latin america, offering banking secrecy and stability to the region's investors and depositors. banks there are unfettered by high taxes or cumbersome rules, providing a safe haven for both legitimately and illegitimately earned money
but a deposit flight began last year when street demonstrations broke out in panama, accelerating after noriega's indictment last month
this certainly has destabilized panama as a banking center,'' said gonzalo valdes-fauli, senior vice president and manager of the miami office of london-based barclay's bank
valdes-fauli said some foreign banks are moving their operations to other caribbean or central american nations
credit suisse, the third-biggest u.s. bank, announced tuesday that it was closing its panama office at the end of april, and said its offshore business has already been transferred to branches in miami and the bahamas
one unidentified top banking expert told the miami herald that from june to october panamanian banks lost $7 billion of the $36 billion they held
some of that money began trickling back, but since noriega's indictment and the subsequent political upheaval, panama banks are losing the funds once more, the herald reported wednesday
foreign deposits in miami increased 39 percent in 1987 to $6.2 billion, although it was not known how much of that represented deposits from panama banks
the deposit flight from panama could be accelerated by an expected state department notification to u.s. banks not to transact business with the central american nation's current government
a judge has given postal inspectors the go-ahead to seize mail orders for ``fat magnet,'' a pill nationally advertised as the ``lazy way'' to lose weight
u.s. district judge terry hatter jr. issued a preliminary injunction tuesday against the company after assistant u.s. attorney george wu argued it may be fraudulently promoting the pill, which it claims absorbs fat and flushes it out of the body
the pill does not have federal drug administration approval
the u.s. postal service had requested the injunction, which allows the postal inspectors to continue seizures they began three weeks ago. a decision on the charges will be made at an administrative hearing in washington, d.c., within 60 days
postal inspector jim harbin said the postal service already has seized between 8,000 and 10,000 pieces of mail addressed to the company in beverly hills and will keep the mail, including checks for purchase of the product, until a fraud hearing is held
attorneys for fat magnet said the product not only works, but is a food for special dietary use, a category recognized as between food and drugs that does not require fda approval
we certainly agree that this product has not been approved by the fda,'' said kirkpatrick dilling, a company attorney. ``it's not necessary.''
dilling said the pill's two main ingredients, fiber and purified bile, do not qualify fat magnet as a new, unapproved drug
but wu responded that there are questions about how well fat magnet works, if it works at all, and serious consumer safety concerns about its use
like rip van winkle, north tarrytown has been asleep to its heritage for years, and will awaken to a new and better life if its name is changed to sleepy hollow, some residents say
it's a part of history that we're sleepy hollow,'' said chris skelly, a member of the village of sleepy hollow committee. ``it's not a made-up name. it gives us the potential to be famous because everyone's heard of sleepy hollow.''
in the washington irving story, sleepy hollow was the town where the headless horseman rode. rip van winkle, another irving character, slept for 20 years in the catskills
skelly said irving, for whom nearby irvington was named, didn't make up the name, but reached back to 17th century dutch descriptions of the area as ``slaeperingh haven'' and ``slaeperingh hol,'' or sleeping harbor and sleepy hollow. the names meant it was easy to dock there and spend the night
now, skelly and others want to bring the dutch name back to distinguish north tarrytown from neighboring tarrytown and try to revitalize the village of 8,000 beset by financial and social woes
residents will decide the matter during village elections march 15
opponents of the measure, such as edna belanich, a founder of concerned citizens against changing the name of north tarrytown, say it would be confusing and costly and wouldn't accomplish anything
it'll be a panacea, not a cure,'' she said. ``history will not pay the bills or solve the problems. we can keep history in our hearts.''
skelly says history can go a long way to attracting new business, particularly tourism, to the village, which boasts the sleepy hollow cemetery, an old dutch graveyard, and philipsburg manor, the home of an early english settler
we are not a suburb of tarrytown,'' he said. ``we're in different towns. we have different histories. we are the older, more historic village and the name should reflect that.''
a report done by mayor janet gandolfo estimated the cost of the name change to range as high as almost $40,000, including a new seal, new badges for police and firefighters and new administrative costs
but mrs. belanich said the cost would be higher because it was difficult to determine hidden expenses
and it's not necessary,'' she said. ``they think changing the name will solve our financial problems and the social problems. they just don't want to be associated with them.''
the village suffered a major racial disturbance in 1986 when problems in the hispanic community brought in officers from several neighboring communities and led to a countywide evaluation of hispanic problems
financially, the village has been running in the red since it agreed to lower the property tax assessment for the general motors plant, which had threatened to sue
originally called beekmantown, the village became north tarrytown in 1874, three years after tarrytown was incorporated
skelly said north tarrytown felt threatened by the town of mount pleasant, so it aligned itself with tarrytown
now we're just tarrytown's poor relation. we don't get enough attention and we deserve it because we're world-famous,'' said skelly. ``it's a very powerful name and image. it's a potential gold mine.''
new home sales fell 9 percent in january, pushing sales activity to its slowest pace since the end of the last recession, the government said wednesday as the housing industry continued to stagger following the october stock market collapse
a downturn in housing has often been the harbinger of the onset of a recession, but analysts said they believed falling mortgage rates offered the hope of a rebound in home sales in coming months
in january, the commerce department said that sales of new single-family homes fell for the third consecutive month, dropping to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 535,000 units, 26 percent below a year ago and the slowest pace since the last recession was ending in december 1982
in a second lackluster economic report, the commerce department said orders for manufactured goods fell 0.6 percent in january to a seasonally adjusted $212.6 billion
while this was the first decline in five months, analysts noted that it followed an unusually large 2 percent december increase, a gain which reflected a big jump in demand for jet airplanes
analysts said the one-month setback did nothing to change their view that american manufacturers are continuing to enjoy a sales boom led by increased demand for exports
analysts said they were surprised by the sharpness of the decline in home sales, especially since sales had already fallen by 6.8 percent in december and 3.4 percent in november
the decline in new home sales followed other reports showing a big decline in construction starts for new homes in january and the third consecutive monthly decrease in sales of existing homes
it looks like housing is bearing the brunt of the stock market decline, but i believe lower interest rates can solve a lot of problems in this industry,'' said bob villanueva, director of economic forecasting for the national association of home builders
analysts noted that fixed-rate mortgages have fallen into the single-digit range again, averaging 9.87 percent last week, compared to 10.6 percent when the year began
james christian, chief economist for the u.s. league of savings institutions, said with ``mortgage rates moving in the right direction'' sales for all of 1988 should rebound to around 650,000 units, only 3 percent below the 1987 sales pace
but other analysts said it remained to be seen whether the drop in mortgage rates will be enough to attract new buyers. they noted that sales have been strong for the past three years and a lot of pent-up demand has been exhausted
we simply don't have the demand for housing that we had in the first part of the recovery,'' said michael sumichrast, an economist and publisher of a construction industry newsletter. ``the south, which accounts for almost half of all new homes sold, is still weak and you won't see any significant improvement until that area turns around.''
analysts, however, said they were not ready to forecast an end to the current economic recovery
we are seeing a shift away from economic growth driven by housing and other domestic sectors and toward growth in manufacturing and other export sectors,'' said warren lasko, executive director of the mortgage bankers association
the 9 percent decline in new home sales in january was the steepest decline since a 10.9 percent drop last may. the big decline in sales was accompanied by a sharp rise in prices
the median, or mid-point, price of a home shot up 9.7 percent to $120,000 while the average home price rose to $149,000, an increase of 10.5 percent
economists said that while home prices have been outpacing rises in overall inflation in recent months, the january surge was skewed upward by the fact that sales rose in the northeast, a high-priced section of the country, while they were down sharply in the less-expensive south
sales dropped 24.4 percent in the south to an annual rate of 177,000 units. sales were off 13.7 percent in the midwest to a rate of 88,000 units
sales rose 23 percent in the northeast to an annual rate of 91,000 units, but this big increase followed a much larger 53 percent december decline. sales edged up 0.6 percent in the west to an annual rate of 179,000 units
the falling of a piece of rock from the crumbling body of the sphinx has caused an avalanche of debate over the future of the 4,600-year-old monument and egypt's other ancient treasures
the principal casualty of the uproar has been ahmed kadry, formerly chairman of the egyptian antiquities organization
kadry lost his job after accusing his boss, culture minister farouk hosni, of staging the falling rock incident to reflect badly on kadry's stewardship of the sphinx and the other relics of egypt's rich past. hosni did not reply to the accusation
the limestone slab fell from the sphinx's right shoulder on feb. 7, six days after a sandstorm buffeted giza plateau
a restoration plan is in the works. the sphinx has been fitted with sandbags for support and scaffolding to help in the early stages of the effort, and a committee of experts has taken rock samples for analysis to help decide what steps to take
the sphinx, which is 66 feet high and 160 feet long, has the head of a pharaoh and the body of a crouching lion. many egyptologists think the face is that of chephren, son of cheops and builder of the second pyramid on giza plateau next to cheops' great pyramid
a similiar accident six years ago brought down kadry's predecessor, fouad oraby, and a sphinx-restoration project that kadry began as antiquities chairman remained unfinished when the latest rock fell
zahi hawass, general director of the pyramids area and archaeology adviser to hosni, will direct the latest restoraton and conservation efforts
the earliest restoration of the sphinx began 3,600 years ago
two hundred years from now all our monuments will be finished,'' hawass told the associated press
in the past the monuments were safe from many factors that destroy them because they were buried in the sand. the monuments were not subjected to pollution, the environment, tourists, the things that are ruining them now.''
the emergency work on the sphinx should be finished by late march, with fallen pieces of limestone replaced and weak places beneath the neck and shoulders treated, hawass said. made of weaker limestone than other parts, the neck long has been considered a chronic problem
after the emergency work, experts will draw up an overall restoration plan, hawass said
a major problem, said omar el-arini, cairo representative of the washington-based national science foundation, is that previous restorers have not learned why the sphinx continues to decay
in a nutshell, we have been looking at symptoms of the problems, not the problems themselves,'' he said
we have been treating it as a rock carved 4,600 years ago, but the limestone is 40 million years old. our approach should be to look at an object of 40 million years.''
one of the problems facing the team will be how to rid the monument of salt, which is visible on many portions of the body
shawky nakhla, chief restorer for the antiquity organization, said restoration efforts in the 1940s and 1950s added to the sphinx's salt problem
they used cement, and a lot of salt started appearing,'' he said. ``we don't know if a high water table level below the sphinx is a real cause of the salt problems, or whether the salt is coming out of the limestone itself.''
pat robertson won a one-sided preference poll victory in alaska's republican caucuses, nearly doubling the support given vice president george bush, party officials said today
robertson, the former television evangelist, claimed 47 percent of the votes compared with bush's 24 percent in a poll of 2,020 precinct delegates. sen. bob dole took third with 20 percent
the preference poll was not binding, though it gave an indication of the feelings of the delegates who will attend 27 gop district conventions march 18-26. at those meetings, 400 delegates will be chosen to attend the state convention in late april, when the state's 19 gop delegates will be named to attend the national convention
a hint of robertson's strength was suggested tuesday when party spokesman linda shafer noted that republican regulars had noticed new faces in the precinct caucuses that began saturday
in other early-contest states, robertson supporters have signed up thousands of new party members to participate in caucuses
there were people new to the political process,'' said shafer. ``you could tell by their political platforms _ things like anti-marijuana and anti-abortion _ that they were church folks.''
many of the delegates had been expected to back robertson, shafer said. but robertson had competition on the religious front. a baptist preacher, the rev. jerry prevo, organized members of his anchorage church to attend the caucuses and support bush
the caucuses were open to any registered republican
precinct and district delegates have been known to shift allegiances, but the gop delegates to the national conventions never have abandoned their chosen candidates, state republican chairman jim crawford said
crawford said the alaska gop is trying to link up with other western states in hopes of gaining clout, especially in selecting a vice presidential candidate
the democratic party's delegate selection, similar to that of the republican party, is scheduled to begin in alaska with precinct caucuses in 10 days
here are capsule profiles of some of the major figures in gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial:

frank x. gordon jr. _ chief justice of the arizona supreme court and presiding officer in the senate trial. democrat, a self-styled moderate, 59; described as the epitome of a small town lawyer and judge, friendly, open, straight-forward. scored 100 percent for integrity in a poll of 300 arizona attorneys in 1986. arizona's youngest superior court judge when he was appointed to that bench in may 1962. born in chicago in 1929, came to arizona with his parents as a child. graduate of stanford university in 1951, received law degree from the university of arizona in 1954. kingman city attorney in 1955-56. appointed to the state supreme court in 1975 by then-gov. raul castro. became chief justice in 1987

william p. french _ lead prosecution attorney. hired by the house in october to investigate mecham's $350,000 campaign loan and other allegations. french, 56, presented a report on jan. 15 outlining possible grounds of impeachment and conducted the subsequent hearings that led to the feb. 5 impeachment. former presiding judge of the maricopa county superior court's criminal division. worked for the u.s. justice department as a prosecutor in the organized crime section

jerris leonard _ hired one week before the impeachment trial began to head mecham's defense team. accustomed to defending controversial people, but forced to resign from his washington, d.c., law firm because it didn't want to be involved in representing mecham. former head of the law enforcement assistance administration and the justice department's civil rights division under president nixon. former wisconsin senate majority leader. leonard, 57, headed united sciences of america, a company accused by the new york state attorney general of engaging in an illegal pyramid-type scheme to sell vitamins. the company agreed to a financial settlement in october

fred craft _ a mecham friend and the subject of two major disputes between mecham and the legislature in 1987. mecham wanted to hire him as the governor's washington, d.c., lobbyist, but the legislature refused to appropriate the money. mecham eventually decided to hire craft anyway and paid his salary and expenses from the governor's office budget. mecham also was accused of pressuring a state panel to choose craft as its lobbyist for arizona's bid for the federal superconducting super collider. the panel eventually chose another lobbyist. craft resigned as arizona's washington lobbyist shortly after impeachment turned the governorship over to arizona's secretary and state and forced mecham to step aside as governor at least temporarily. craft ad leonard are longtime friends, and craft brought leonard into the impeachment trial

ralph milstead _ the man mecham is accused of ordering not to cooperate with the state attorney general's investigation of a death threat allegation. director of the department of public safety since 1980. given a new five-year contract in 1985. previously spent 20 years in the phoenix police department, reaching the rank of major. mecham has been rumored at various times to have wanted to replace milstead, 48, but by law he cannot be fired at will by the governor

donna carlson _ mecham's former special assistant and liaison to the legislature. a former state senator and unsuccessful congressional candidate. she resigned in october 1987, saying the controversy surrounding mecham's administration had made it impossible for her to do her job. ms. carlson, 50, was scheduled to testify before the state grand jury regarding mecham's failure to report a $350,000 campaign loan when she allegedl became the subject of a death threat by then-state official lee watkins

peggy griffith _ the woman who reported then-state official watkins had voiced threats to the life of carlson. mrs. griffith is director of the governor's office of women's services. she told the department of public safety on nov. 13 that watkins had told her her friend, ms. carlson, had better keep quiet or ms. carlson might go on a ``long boat ride'' and not come back. mrs. griffith earlier had been close friends with ms. carlson, but ms. carlson said the two had become somewhat distant at the time the alleged death threat was made
a state health department study indicated about one in every 116 women giving birth in new york state carried the aids virus, far higher than the 1 in 476 results in a similar massachusetts study
the new york study, conducted in november, showed 161 positive tests from 18,700 infants examined in the state. in new york city, there were 148 positive test results from 9,000 infants examined _ a rate of one in 61. the figure was even higher in the city's poorer neighborhoods, with a figure of one in 43 in the bronx
an infant's immune system reflects its mother's system. an infant testing positive for the presence of aids antibodies almost always got the virus through an infected mother
the massachusetts study found that one of every 476 women giving birth, or 2.1 for each 1,000, were infected with the aids virus. at three inner-city boston hospitals, eight per 1,000 were infected _ a rate of one per 125 births
a week ago eric arturo delvalle was reviled as a figurehead president of panama whose chief purpose was to provide a democratic fig leaf to the military forces who ran the country
now delvalle the meek has become delvalle the martyr. in the reagan administration's view, he could become a panamanian version of philippines president corazon aquino, the lightning rod for democratic opposition to former philippines president ferdinand marcos
much of the reagan administration's strategy toward panama over the past few days has been built around delvalle and his claim to be panama's constitutional president
he is an integral part of the u.s. ``chipmunk strategy'' toward panama. the state department wants to keep gnawing at panama's economy, at military strongman manuel antonio noriega's claim to legitimacy and his support at home and abroad
noriega is the chieftain of panama's armed forces, and, according to a federal indictment handed up in miami, a cocaine smuggler
eventually, in the administration's hopes, noriega will find his hold on power has evaporated and pack up
in defying noriega and ordering him stripped of power, devalle provided a democratic symbol around whom panamanians could rally
delvalle's image as a powerless front man dates back to when he took office in the fall of 1985. noriega was unhappy with the president at the time, nicolas ardito barletta, because of an independent streak, and he forced barletta from office
delvalle was sworn in as president under the most unpromising of circumstances. in effect, he had to behave according to noriega's wishes or he would end up like barletta. he carried that burden for two years
a mystique has developed around delvalle since he tried to fire noriega and wound up out of office himself. rather than flee the country after his dismissal, he went into hiding, issuing proclamations to his countrymen, making videotaped messages and frustrating efforts by noriega's forces to locate him
one of his chief allies these days is gabriel lewis, a former ambassador to washington who is now a captain of the anti-noriega campaign in exile
to hear lewis tell it, delvalle had wanted to break with noriega for five months but was reluctant to do so because of ``confusing'' signals from washington
lewis says noriega has been suspicious of delvalle's intentions for some time and kept telling the president, ``don't act against me because the gringos are behind me.''
this was based on what noriega felt were reassuring visits by emissaries from washington, including assistant defense secretary richard armitage
a turning point occurred in early january, lewis said, when panamanian opposition leaders gathered in miami and delvalle sent an envoy
the emissary told us that if we gave him (delvalle) assurances that we would support him, he was ready to act and dismiss noriega,'' lewis said
we sent him back a message,'' lewis said. he said the message was: ``we have heard that many times. we want deeds and not words. if you fire noriega and his cronies, we will give you support.''
contacts with lewis and other noriega opponents continued, with some messages being passed by delvalle's dentist in florida. another turning point took place in early february when two florida grand juries charged that noriega was a key figure in an international drug smuggling ring
with an end to the ambiguity in washington's position, the opposition front suggested that delvalle travel to washington to announce his break with noriega before the organization of american states
delvalle agreed, but had second thoughts. he reasoned that firing noriega at oas headquarters in washington might be seen ``as acting on instructions from the united states,'' lewis said
but was delvalle getting cold feet?
at lewis' instigation, sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., called delvalle to give him encouragement. on feb. 17, delvalle was in miami and invited assistant secretary of state elliott abrams to visit him
if delvalle was ousted for trying to fire noriega, abrams assured him, the united states would support him as panama's constitutional president, lewis said
eight days later, in an important moment in panama's tumultuous history, delvalle acted
editor's note: george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968
director oliver stone and producer edward pressman have agreed to trim a slur against puerto ricans from the home video version of ``wall street'' following complaints from the hispanic community
state sen. olga mendez said wednesday the comment during dialogue between actors charlie sheen and sylvia miles will be missing when the movie is released on video
it took just a week for negotiations to remove it,'' said mendez. ``it shows very clearly they are very sensitive to people's feelings.''
according to mendez, ex-deputy mayor kenneth lipper acted as mediator in the negotiations to remove the line in question. lipper, who also served as a technical advisor to the film, said the line was included to demonstrate the greed and bigotry of the miles' character, a real estate agent
in the box office hit, sheen is trying to sell his new york apartment. miles, explaining that will be no easy task, tells him, ``the only things moving in new york are puerto ricans and cockroaches.''
pressman, in a letter to mendez, agreed to trim the comment
as you know, oliver stone and i are identified with such progressive films as `the revolutionary,' `walker,' `salvador' and `platoon,''' he wrote
a man who has been on the lam for nearly four years with a pair of 3{-ton elephants says he'll come in from the cold if he is assured that tory and duchess will not be returned to two men he alleges brutalized them
arlan seidon raised the indian elephants from infancy and then sold them to edward drake. in may 1984, he and the 7-foot-high beasts disappeared in a tractor-trailer
he surfaced last week when he called a newspaper from an undisclosed location to say he'd surrender if guaranteed that the elephants will not be returned to drake and his father, richard
i want to make sure where they are going to. i don't feel that i'm going to spend this much time trying to protect them so they end up back with the drakes,'' seidon told the star-ledger of newark
i know i sound like a crazy old man but i'm not,'' he said
the elephants' owners and the president of a national animal trainers group say the animals were not harmed, and both sides accuse each other of lacking an elephant-like memory about the incident
edward drake says seidon sold him the elephants for $80,000 in 1981, when the drakes owned an exotic animal ranch in tehachapi, calif., about 200 miles north of los angeles
drake said tuesday that seidon acted as his booking agent for animal shows after the sale but began cheating, taking money and finally the elephants while a circus was in new jersey
seidon told the star-ledger he exercised the terms of the sale contract by repossessing the elephants when the drakes fell behind in their payments
while waiting for money at a colts neck township farm, seidon said, he discovered the animals had wounds caused by hooks piercing their skin during training. on may 4, 1984, after a superior court judge in monmouth county ordered the elephants returned, he fled with them
his attorney, estelle strauss, said tuesday her client never stole money and that he only wanted to help tory and duchess
the elephants' condition was never aired at the trial,'' said ms. strauss. ``he had an agreement that he could repossess the animals if they were abused. his position has not changed.''
but edward drake, who like his father is now out of the animal business, said seidon's story about the elephants' treatment is ``so far-fetched it's unbelievable.''
john cuneo, president of the illinois-based national congress of animal trainers and breeders, said the drakes did not abuse their animals. ``they had beautiful elephants. i even wanted to buy one,'' he said
cuneo said anyone concerned about an animal's condition can alert state, federal and private monitoring authorities
seidon has forsaken his fordland, mo., farm and his career preparing animals for circus and television appearances to care for his 25-year-old elephants, who eat about 200 pounds of hay a day
ms. strauss said she does not know where or how seidon conceals the elephants. he calls her periodically to check on his case, she said
she said he would come forward to face criminal charges _ third-degree theft carrying a sentence of up to five years in prison, a $100,000 fine or both _ if he wins a safe haven for the elephants. the attorney filed a court motion last week to overturn the judgment awarding the animals to the drakes
county assistant prosecutor alton kenney said he was not ready to discuss any deals for seidon and had not heard from ms. strauss
the communist party said wednesday a sweeping political purge of two decades ago showed ``manifestations of anti-semitism,'' but it added that most party members took no part in the religious bias
more than 9,000 jews lost official positions in the 1968 ``anti-zionist'' purge, and an estimated 12,000-20,000 emigrated, more than half the jews then living in poland
the acknowledgement of anti-semitism by the party newspaper trybuna ludu carried the authority of an official statement. it also was repeated by the state-run news agency pap and reported prominently on state tv and radio
but one leader of the 1968 student protests which sparked the purge said the newspaper's article did not go far enough in its condemnation of anti-semitism and that it repeated past slanders against jews
it ``amounts to drawing wool over people's eyes,'' said adam michnik, a writer and prominent leader of poland's anti-government opposition
the article in trybuna ludu, the official daily of the polish united workers (communist) party, was timed to coincide with the 20th anniversary of the 1968 ``events.''
discrimination against jews, in the guise of ``anti-zionism'' which had begun after the june 1967 israeli victory in the middle east war, accelerated sharply after march 1968 student demonstrations around the country against censorship
the purge, which began within the party, soon spread to the government, army, academia, press and other official institutions,
the newspaper said some conservative, nationalist party factions at the time ``took advantage of the jewish ancestry'' of their political rivals
they did not realize then that they were being manipulated by various political factions which in different ways made use of their actions.''
some western histories have charged that students were provoked by conservative factions using them to provide a pretext for a purge
poland was home to about 3.5 million jews before the war, who represented about 10 percent of the population. estimates vary, but the number of jews in the country now is believed to be between 7,000 and 15,000
explaining the origins of the anti-semitism, trybuna ludu referred to support of israel expressed by some polish jews after the 1967 war and prominent roles held by jews during the stalinist period of the late 1940s to early 1950s
polish people preserved the memory of unlawful conduct, of violation of law and order, and of the perpetrators of those offenses. it was easy in 1968 to use that memory as a background for presenting the `alien ... group' as the source of all evil,'' it said
but the article added that these explanations ``by no means'' could excuse anti-semitic acts in poland
michnik, referring to the explanations, said, ``all the obscenities of the march (1968) propaganda campaign have been repeated, all of them. what has been done is nothing but cosmetics.''
a leading party theoretician and journalist, ludwik krasucki, said tuesday on polish tv that the party's attempts to reconsider the history of the period were vital
he expressed hope that by thoroughly reexamining the 1968 events, ``this chapter, which nevertheless can't be forgotten, shall once and for all be closed.''
negotiators on wednesday launched their latest and possibly last round of afghanistan peace talks, and the u.n. mediator said he was confident of forging a settlement to end soviet involvement in the country
this was a good session,'' pakistan's acting foreign minister, zain noorani, said as he emerged from the first closed-door meeting late wednesday. ``we are cautiously optimistic.''
pakistan is representing the afghan guerrillas in the talks
afghanistan's foreign minister, abdul wakil, told reporters that his meeting with mediator diego cordovez was ``very nice.''
cordovez has been the go-between since the indirect negotiations began nearly six years ago. because pakistan refuses to recognize afghanistan's soviet-backed government, the delegations sit in separate rooms, with cordovez shuttling back and forth
before the talks opened, cordovez told reporters he believed both sides had the ``political will'' to work out an agreement
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev announced last month that if a settlement were signed by march 15, the withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 red army troops from afghanistan could begin by may 15
the soviets intervened in 1979 to back the kabul government in its war with moslem guerrillas
pakistan wants any settlement to be accompanied by formation of a transitional government, replacing the present one headed by president najib
it argues that only a broad-based government could prevent new bloodshed in a country where war has already claimed more than a million lives
cordovez said the new talks would ``last as long as necessary'' to reach an agreement and added, ``perhaps it will be signed earlier than you think.''
he said some ``difficult'' problems remained but said he was sure they could be resolved soon
cordovez didn't say what those problems were, but reports have suggested they focus on the timetable for the soviet withdrawal and the timing of the cutoff of military aid to the warring sides
the united states last year gave an estimated $700 million worth of military assistance to the 200,000 insurgents fighting the soviets and the smaller afghan forces
noorani said pakistan will decide next week whether it is prepared to sign a settlement with the present afghan leadership. the decision will come after consultations sunday between prime minister mohammed khan junejo and political leaders, including those from opposition groups
pakistan has argued that under current conditions, the more than 3 million afghan refugees in pakistan and another 2 million in iran could not return home
cordovez said, ``civil strife is part of the way of life there,'' and he said there was a ``posibility'' that it would continue. but he added that he believed that the ``people of afghanistan are tired of this conflict, that they want peace.''
cordovez said he had been in contact with representatives of several countries, including the united states, the soviet union, the european community and australia, to discuss humanitarian aid to afghanistan after a settlement
i have the feeling that there will be a broad international effort,'' he said
the sense of optimism was not shared by iran, which is not participating in the talks. tehran has refused to participate as long as the moslem resistance is not invited
iranian ambassador sirous nasseri told reporters that iran attaches ``no significance to the settlement as it is being forumulated here.'' he said the main problems were related to formation of a government acceptable to all afghans and the phasing of the soviet pullout
i doubt very much that this could be solved here,'' he said
gov.-elect buddy roemer is testing his influence by backing a candidate to take his old seat in the u.s. house of representatives, but so far his favorite is running no better than second
state sen. foster campbell, the front-runner in the field of 10, says he has not worried about roemer's endorsement of stan tiner, former editor of the shreveport journal
i'm just trying to see folks and i'm taking it day by day,'' said campbell, a democrat
if no candidate wins a majority of the non-partisan vote on march 8, a runoff between the top two would be held on april 16
the winner will fill roemer's unexpired term and faces re-election this fall. roemer resigned the seat effective march 14, the day he takes office as governor, replacing edwin edwards
the field also includes state rep. claude ``buddy'' leach, who lost the seat to roemer in 1980 after one term during which he was acquitted of charges in a vote-buying scandal. leach later returned to the state house but lost a race last year for state treasurer
the other candidates include jim mccrery, the lone republican and formerly roemer's top aide; june phillips, an administrator at southern university-shreveport and the only black in the race; mayor gene byars of minden; shreveport lawyers troy bain and marshall jones; charles martin, a retired shreveport businessman; and mitchell e. marsh, a fencing contractor from mansfield
recent polls by the journal and joint polls by the shreveport times and ksla-tv have shown campbell ahead. in the journal poll published feb. 19, campbell had the support of 26 percent, followed by tiner with 16 percent and mccrery and leach close behind
the times-ksla poll released on feb. 26 had tiner running third, five points behind leach
campbell, a state senator since 1976, would not predict who would be in the runoff with him
whoever i'm in a runoff with, i can beat,'' he said
roemer, who insists he hasn't formally endorsed anyone, recently appeared at a fundraiser for tiner and gave him a campaign contribution
that's it,'' roemer said of his efforts. ``i said publicly, the truth. `who am i going to vote for?' i said stan tiner. we're 20-year friends
but frankly, i've got other friends in that race. june phillips, great person. jim mccrery, great person. i'm leaving five people out and i shouldn't have gotten into this.''
a harvard student who contends she is being excluded from the breeding grounds of power is challenging the membership policies of nine exclusive all-male student clubs
in her complaint before massachusetts commission against discrimination, lisa j. schkolnick argues that the fly and eight other ``final clubs'' may be violating state laws prohibiting sexual discrimination in public institutions by refusing to admit women
schkolnick said in a recent interview that she picked the fly at random as the target of her suit, and considers it representative of the other clubs. the commission, a quasi-legal entity, has the power to investigate cases, award damages, and seek injuctions
the clubhouses are located in some of the most expensive real estate holdings in and around harvard square, discreetly shielded by tall hedges and unmarked doors. some have separate entraces for women visitors
they were originally called final clubs to distinguish them from waiting clubs _ less exclusive, now extinct organizations. evolving from fraternities to eating clubs in the past century, they became social meeting places by the 1950s. past members have included both franklin and theodore roosevelt and several members of the kennedy clan
harvard formally severed ties to the clubs in 1984, after members refused a university demand to admit women. but schkolnick's case rests on the argument that the clubs remain an integral part of student life and cannot be considered private
the issue has become a major topic of debate on campus
the undergraduate student council last week narrowly rejected a proposal to endorse schkolnik's cause, but voted to reimburse $250 in office costs to a lawyer who offered to help her without a fee
harvard law professor alan dershowitz expressed moral support, urging council members to back schkolnick
i think it's the first major challenge to what have been very entrenched institutions at harvard,'' dershowitz said in an interview. ``these finals clubs are the minor leagues for the power clubs in the major cities, the all-male ones.''
dershowitz, a former yale student, compared the clubs to yale groups ``so secret i didn't even know about them until i graduated,'' and to princeton university's two remaining all-male eating clubs, now appealing a state order to admit women
barbara bolten, vice president of public relations in the boston chapter of the national organization for women said, ``we support the philosophy of what she's doing totally, and i hope she wins.''
schkolnick, a 21-year-old philosophy senior from princeton, n.j., said she was the target of a rash of crank calls, ``some obscene, others frightening,'' for several weeks after she filed her complaint dec. 14
she suggested that the clubs serve as old-boy networks to the detriment of women
these are power centers, and these people are being fed into powerful positions, and women are being excluded,'' she said. ``i'm going to be a lawyer one day, and i could have used some of these positions that members are exposed to.''
the clubs, in turn, deny that their members gain undue advantage through networking and argue they are strictly private organizations which should be allowed to decide on membership
there are some people in the clubs established in business, but it's definitely not an institutionalized process through which you secure interviews through alumni,'' said stan novak, former president of the fox final club
novak, who graduated last year, was the only one of several final club members polled on the controversy willing to go on the record. judith malone, a lawyer retained by the fly, declined comment
the clubs do not publicize their membership rolls. but several students estimated that more than 10 percent of harvard's undergraduate males belong. total undergraduate enrollment is about 6,400
novak said membership didn't help him in his job search
the fact that after being president for a year, i was still sitting around from june till jan. 1, that will give you an idea about ... how effective alumni ties are,'' said novak, of barrington, r.i
the supreme court was urged on wednesday to block states from recouping the costs of keeping criminals behind bars by seizing money which prison inmates receive in federal benefits
lawyers representing the reagan administration and a former prison inmate attacked an arkansas law that let authorities seize for state use an inmate's social security or veterans administration benefits
they said the law, similar to those enacted in four other states, conflicts with federal laws specificially barring any legal action aimed at diverting benefits away from designated recipients
congress could have made an exception for state institutional care,'' argued justice department lawyer richard j. lazarus. ``but congress has not done so here. in our view, that is simply the end of the issue.''
thomas m. carpenter, a little rock lawyer representing former state prison inmate george bennett, also contended that the arkansas law ``must fall.''
the issue before the high court is not whether those inmates with available money may be charged for their imprisonment but whether states may get at money the inmates receive in federal benefits
the impact of the justices' decision, expected by july, has been blunted somewhat by laws passed by congress in 1980 and 1983 withholding or limiting benefits otherwise due imprisoned felons
the justices asked few questions, and what had been scheduled as a hour-long argument session was over in 35 minutes
bennett had served 11 years of a 21-year sentence at a pine bluff prison for second-degree murder when he turned 62. he started receiving $275 a month in social security retirement benefits. bennett was released from prison in late 1984 but is seeking to recover $3,600 in benefits confiscated by the state
the arkansas legislature in 1981 had passed an inmate care and custody reimbursement act. under it, state authorities may seek court approval to seize an inmate's estate _ income from any source
similar laws have been enacted in michigan, ohio, oklahoma and tennessee
reagan administration lawyers had told the justices in briefs submitted previously that the rationale used by the arkansas supreme court in upholding the 1981 state law ``would seem to validate the attachment of social security and va benefits paid to persons confined in state mental hospitals or in other institutions where they are provided care by the state.''
they said it is important for the arkansas law to be invalidated so the growing number of states asking prison inmates to help foot the bill of their imprisonment will not seize federal benefits
arkansas attorney general steve clark told the justices wednesday that arkansas merely was trying to prevent ``windfall benefits'' for prison inmates who receive their food, clothing and medical care at state expense
clark said congress' intent of protecting people ``from the rigors of poverty'' was ``not frustrated by the arkansas statute at all.''
responding to clark's contention that the state had not ``created any kind of hardship,'' carpenter said his client could make good use of the money wrongly withheld from him
carpenter described bennett as ``a 69-year-old man who can't get a job'' and who would be destitute if he had not been cared for by relatives
the case is bennett vs. arkansas, 86-6124
a nine-day sit-in by minority students at hampshire college ended wednesday with the signing of a 16-point agreement designed to encourage racial harmony at the small private school
the acceptance of our demands by the administration is both an acknowledgment of institutional indifference and neglect and of the immediate need for redress,'' anita fearman, a spokeswoman for the protesters, told a gathering of 150 students
the group watched as college president adele simmons and two other administrators signed the document outside the dormitory office occupied by an estimated 40 protesters since feb. 23
the six-page settlement provided for a dean of multicultural affairs, an adviser for the group that occupied dakin house office and at least $4,500 in yearly funding for the group
the adminstration also agreed to take no disciplinary action against the students and to allow them to make up work they missed during the sit-in
i think the institution won,'' simmons said after the signing. ``for the last several years we've been working to improve student life and this represents a finishing of the old agenda
a number of the things they asked for were already in place, but i think the occupation strengthened the institution,'' she said
dean of students trey williams said the occupation had taken a toll on many at the liberal arts school, where about 100 of the 1,100 students are minorities
the students are exhausted, the president is sick. but it's better that it took us only one week than forever,'' he said
the occupation was prompted by what students described as the school's longstanding indifference to their concerns
they were claiming this is a multiculturally diverse community, which isn't true,'' said protester penny predmas
college officials said the allegation was a surprise, given the school's image as a progressive alternative to the sort of traditional liberal arts education offered at nearby amherst, mount holyoke and smith colleges. hampshire students design their own courses of study and graduate after passing three divisional examinations requiring them to complete individual research projects and some classwork
we're way in front in transforming curriculum to be much more global,'' said faculty dean penina glazer, ``but we're lagging in recruiting of minority students and we're trying as hard as we can.''
the agreement came two weeks after the end of an occupation at nearby university of massachusetts that was sparked by campus racial violence. that takeover ended when chancellor joseph duffey agreed to increase funding of minority student programs and other demands
a university disciplinary hearing began tuesday into allegations that five white male students assaulted two black male students on feb. 7, said spokeswoman jeanne hopkins
protesters at hampshire said racial violence is rare on their campus, but said there have been several instances of harassment and discrimination since a cross was found burning on a building lawn 11 years ago
the protesters said, however, that the sympathy shown them by students and faculty during the occupation had changed their minds about warning minorities away from the school
i really would tell them to come here,'' said predmas
a few white students watching the signing ceremony said they supported the protesters' aims, but disagreed over the wisdom of occupying the dormitory office
there basically was a lot of friction,'' said paul trunnell. ``the feeling was, `either you're in or out. either you support us or you don't.' well, no two of us agreed on this campus, but it's important that we band together to solve these sorts of problems.''
vice president george bush called himself ``the most stable'' candidate wednesday, crediting himself with good judgment that sets him apart in the presidential race
you want steadiness. you want judgment. you want even temperament,'' bush said. he added that a president ``can't make these outrageous claims.''
bush didn't elaborate, but in recent days he has disputed rival gop candidate pat robertson's contentions concerning soviet missiles in cuba, robertson's knowledge of u.s. hostage whereabouts in lebanon and the possibility the bush campaign tried to hurt robertson by manipulating the timing of allegations against tv evangelist jimmy swaggart
in a much-publicized iowa flap one month ago, a bush aide questioned dole's temperament, calling him ``mean-spirited.''
bush commented wednesday after seeing u.s. navy warships in drydock at the ingalls shipyard here. he was accompanied by former navy secretary john lehman
the vice president told the shipyard workers that democratic candidate michael dukakis wanted to reduce the number of navy battleships. bush called that ``a dumb idea.''
beginning his day in clearwater, fla., bush talked of his five children _ including florida secretary of commerce jeb bush _ and 10 grandchildren, and also said his support of prayer in the schools is of long standing
they ought to take a look at my family and what i epitomize in this regard,'' bush told reporters
bush also served boiled crawfish at a small rally in biloxi, miss., spoke briefly to supporters at the mobile, ala., airport and planned to participate in a cajun feast in baton rouge, la., before heading to greenville, s.c
at the shipyard here, bush saw the uss stark, the navy ship damaged last year by iraqi missiles in the persian gulf. it is being overhauled and repaired. he also toured the first of a new class of amphibious assault ships called the lhd class
he spoke of the expansion of the navy under the reagan administration and lehman
on tuesday, bush was accompanied through florida by former sen. barry goldwater of arizona
goldwater is right when he says george bush will be the best president,'' bush said in mobile. ``i can think of no single endorsement more helpful than that of barry goldwater.''
the bush campaign plans to use a goldwater endorsement commercial in some of the southern states voting in the march 8 super tuesday primary
democrat jesse jackson didn't have a paid staff, much money or very high hopes in overwhelmingly white vermont, but his campaign pulled off a strong second-place finish in tuesday's presidential primary
it has a tremendous significance on a symbolic level,'' garrison nelson, a university of vermont political science professor, said wednesday. ``this is exactly what jackson hoped for. he can now say he appealed to more than just blacks going into super tuesday.''
jackson finished with 26 percent, behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, whose 15-person paid staff and 60-plus volunteers helped him capture 57 percent of the vote. vice president george bush won the gop primary
this is a home-grown campaign where people have worked all the time, constantly on the issues,'' said chris wood of the jackson campaign. ``we're working on issues that jackson is talking about.''
wood said many of those who worked for jackson also were active in grass roots organizations supporting low-income vermonters and the state's financially distressed dairy farmers. many also have protested apartheid in south africa
jackson raked in three times as many votes tuesday as he did in 1984, when he won 7.8 percent of the vote
according to unofficial results, with 100 percent of the state's 262 precincts reporting, dukakis had 57 percent, jackson 26 percent, rep. richard gephardt 8 percent; sen. paul simon 5 percent and former sen. gary hart, who won vermont in 1984, 4 percent. sen. albert gore jr. was not on the ballot here
on the republican side, bush received 49 percent, sen. bob dole 39 percent, former television evangelist pat robertson 5 percent and rep. jack kemp 4 percent
political observers had predicted a tight race between jackson and gephardt for second place, but jackson stole the show
he ran a strong second in the state's largest city of burlington and actually beat dukakis in 27 smaller communities and tied him in two
it depended really on volunteers,'' said eric davis, a political science professor at middlebury college. ``they weren't putting up lawn signs _ they weren't doing mailings. to get almost 30 percent of the vote just on grass roots says something about jackson's appeal.''
jackson's campaign was propelled by the alliance of the rainbow coalition of vermont and the progressive coalition and its most prominent member, burlington mayor bernard sanders
sanders, a socialist, endorsed jackson during one of his recent visits to the state. jackson was one of the few candidates to actively campaign in vermont in the last days before the election
the fight for vermont's delegates to the national convention begins in april with local party caucuses. marjabelle young stewart, which moved in am-brites for wednesday ams.</note>
british politician neil kinnock tried to sweep his colleagues off their feet wednesday when he serenaded them with a vacuum cleaner in the house of commons
the opposition labor party leader played a few notes on the vacuum cleaner at a news conference to promote a summer concert series in wales, which will include a piece with the familiar domestic device
the vacuum will be featured at a july 22 fthe past three decades marked the golden anniversary by quietly sketching another adventure
it's just another day for me,'' said curtis swan, 68, who has been drawing superman since the mid-1950s
swan, who prefers anonymity to adulation, said he is amazed that the cartoon character's popularity has sustained and even grown over the years
he also said he plans to keep drawing
i'm never going to retire. i want to keep those fires burning,'' he said. ``discipline and work is what keeps you going,'' swan said monday, superman's 50th anniversary
several years ago, dc comics decided to revamp superman's character for the 1980s
they are trying now to make superman vulnerable to certain things, to work out his problems on a mental basis without muscle,'' swan said
they (the editors) are trying to show that superman has his limitations. he's more intimate with the ladies, especially lois lane, and clark kent is more of a yuppie ...''
former federal reserve chairman paul volcker is going back to school _ as a professor
volcker was named wednesday to a professor's post at princeton university's woodrow wilson school of public and international affairs
he was graduated from the woodrow wilson school in 1949 and is the first incumbent of the frederic h. schultz class of 1951 professorship of international economic policy
i'm somewhat intimidated by the fact that i'm having to go back and do a little teaching. i'm hoping for a little assistance to help me through those early stages,'' volcker said
the former fed chief, whose ambitions had remained unclear following his departure from the job last august, said he declined professor offers from other universities, including harvard, where he received a master's in political economy in 1951
i felt comfortable (at princton). the school combines my interest in the public service and in economic policy.''
volcker said he has not severed ties with wall street and that his business connections will prevent him from teaching full time at princeton
during the 1988-89 academic year he plans to teach both semesters at the graduate and undergraduate levels
banks recorded their least profitable year since the great depression in 1987, but a top federal regulator said wednesday he sees better days ahead
the nation's federally insured commercial banks earned $3.7 billion last year on assets of $3 trillion, down from $17.5 billion earnings in 1986, said l. william seidman, chairman of the federal deposit insurance corp
that amounted to a return on assets of only 0.13 percent last year and was the lowest level since the fdic, which insures deposits of up to $100,000, was established in 1934
the year-to-year drop in earnings was due entirely to large banks adding to reserves to cover anticipated losses on loans to third world countries, seidman said. nine of the 10 largest banks and 17 of the 25 largest reported a loss for 1987
absent the extraordinary reserving for (developing country) loans ... net income would have been roughly equal to 1986's level,'' seidman said in the fdic's bank profile for the fourth quarter of 1987
seidman said he believed there was a good chance that banks could avoid further large additions to reserves for bad third world loans and said, ``the outlook for 1988 is cautiously optimistic.''
barring any new shocks, loan loss provisioning should be lower than usual this year, and profitablity at money center and regional banks will be much improved,'' seidman said, predicting that bank profits this year could return to about the 1986 level
he also said office occupancy rates and other signs appear to indicate that the economy of the southwest, which accounted for more than half of last year's bank failures, may have hit bottom and be on the rebound. but he cautioned that much of the region's health depends on oil prices remaining stable or rising
the oil-producing states of texas, louisiana and oklahoma accounted for 95 of last year's 184 bank failures, the most recorded since 1933. twenty-eight banks have failed in the first two months of this year, 16 of them in the three oil states
the number of federally insured commercial banks, which is shrinking because of failures and mergers, dwindled from a peak of about 14,500 in 1985 to about 13,700 last year, the lowest number since 1971
the results for all of 1987 masked a more positive fourth quarter. despite loan loss provisions of $7.7 billion for the quarter, banks posted a $3.2 billion profit, 25 percent higher than the last quarter of 1986
seidman said banks were especially strengthened in the fourth quarter by a flood of new deposits as investors after the oct. 19 stock market crash pulled their money out of stocks and put it into insured bank accounts
the crash also triggered a surge in loan demand from stock brokerages and other financial service firms, the fdic chairman said. and, because the federal reserve pumped money into the economy in response to the crash, banks are enjoying lower interest rates
another encouraging sign, seidman said, was the drop from 1,609 to 1,559 during the last half of 1987 in the number of banks on the fdic's problem list
in addition, the number of banks losing money fell for the first time since 1980. the fdic estimated that 2,366 banks were unprofitable last year, down from 2,784 in 1986 and 2,453 in 1985
in a report earlier this week, the fdic said its insurance fund held steady in 1987 despite the heavy load of bank failures. the fund finished the year at $18.3 billion, up modestly from $18.25 billion at the end of 1986
the slight gain was posted despite a provision for the second-largest bank rescue ever by the fdic. shareholders of first city bancorporation of houston are scheduled to vote friday on a restructuring package that would involve nearly $1 billion in government assistance
the supreme court on wednesday made it more difficult for people to win lawsuits against a city government based on claims that low-ranking officials violated their rights
but the decision in a st. louis case yielded no clear-cut majority view and left some key questions unanswered
by a 7-1 vote, the justices threw out a $15,000 award st. louis was ordered to pay james j. praprotnik, a fired city architect
but only four of the seven justices voting to overturn the award joined in the court's main opinion, creating the possibility that a future case could prompt a different result
justice sandra day o'connor, who wrote the court's main opinion, said generally only the highest ranking city officials can commit constitutional violations that make the city liable
in the case of st. louis, that is limited to the mayor, city aldermen and the civil service commission, she said
cities may not be held liable unless those who claim their rights were violated prove the ``existence of an unconstitutional municipal policy,'' o'connor said
a city cannot be sued successfully based on the claim that high-ranking officials failed to override a subordinate's decision that violated someone's rights, she added
simply going along with discretionary decisions made by one's subordinates ... is not a delegation to them of the authority to make policy,'' o'connor said
she also said that state law, and not a jury's examination of the facts in a particular case, determines who the policy makers are in a city
justice william j. brennan, in a separate opinion, said o'connor's opinion ``turns a blind eye to reality'' in assuming who makes policy in a particular community
brennan said o'connor's opinion ``ultimately would permit municipalities to insulate themselves from liability for the acts of all but a small minority of actual city policy makers.''
brennan's opinion was joined by justices thurgood marshall and harry a. blackmun. nonetheless, all three voted with o'connor and three other justices to throw out praprotnik's $15,000 award. they said a st. louis official who transferred praprotnik to a job that led to his firing lacked policy-making authority
o'connor's opinion was joined by chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices byron r. white and antonin scalia
justice john paul stevens dissented, voting to uphold praprotnik's lower court victory. justice anthony m. kennedy, who only recently joined the court, did not take part in the decision
praprotnik was a mid-level manager in st. louis' community development agency when in 1980 he became embroiled with his superiors over the proposed installation by the city of a controversial sculpture
praprotnik was suspended for 15 days by a superior for having accepted outside employment without prior approval. but after he appealed to the city civil service commission, he was reinstated with back pay
then in 1982 he was transferred to another city agency, and his job responsibilities were reduced. he was fired, in what the city said was a budget-cutting move, on dec. 30, 1983
praprotnik then sued under a federal civil rights law, charging he was shunted to a dead-end job and then kicked out because of his appeal to the civil service commission for his suspension back in 1980
a jury awarded him $30,000. the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals reduced the amount to $15,000 while ruling he was fired for exercising his constitutional rights
the appeals court said the city was liable, even though the jury exonerated the individual officials sued by praprotnik
the justices on wednesday ordered further lower court hearings for praprotnik to determine whether he still has a viable case
in another ruling, the justices, by a 4-4 vote, ruled that an airline may be forced to continue to collect union dues from workers after its contract with employees has expired
the court upheld rulings that forced trans world airlines to continue the dues check-off for replacement employees during a strike by flight attendants in 1986. twa also was forced to collect dues from the strikers once they returned to work
the ruling was not accompanied by any written opinion or by any indication of how each individual justice voted
the commerce department said wednesday that orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell 0.6 percent in january, the first decline in five months, but private economists said the setback was not serious
the report said orders for both durable and non-durable goods dropped to a seasonally adjusted $212.6 billion in january, down $1.25 billion from december, when orders had posted a huge 2 percent increase
it was the first setback in orders since a 1.4 percent drop in august, but economists discounted the decline, contending that it reflected a swing in the volatile transportation category
transportation orders declined 8.8 percent in january, erasing an 8.9 percent december increase, which had reflected a big jump in orders for passenger jets
without the large swings in transportation, factory orders would have climbed 0.8 percent in january following a 0.9 percent december rise
manufacturing has been enjoying steady increases over the past year as american producers enjoy booming export sales spurred by the decline in the value of the dollar
lawrence chimerine, president of the wefa group, a private forecasting firm, said that the january factory orders showed more strength than analysts had been expecting
he said manufacturing demand is holding up well despite a large increase in business inventories during the final three months of the year. the big inventory rise has raised concerns that orders will need to be cut until the backlog of unsold goods is reduced
the inventory scare may be somewhat overblown. if it was that serious, we would probably see orders weakening more sharply,'' he said. ``while the economy is not booming, manufacturing is still on an upward trend and we are likely to miss a recession.''
the reagan administration is counting on continued strength in export sales to provide almost half of the expected growth in the overall economy this year
the january decline in manufactured goods included a 1.5 percent drop in demand for durable goods. an advance report a week ago put the january decline in durable goods at 2.8 percent. orders for non-durable goods, items not expected to last at least three years, rose 0.5 percent in january, erasing a 0.5 percent december decline
demand for military equipment fell 3.8 percent in january following a 7.1 percent drop in december
orders for non-defense capital goods, a key category which reflects industry plans to expand and modernize, rose 2.6 percent in january following a 12.6 percent december advance
shipments of manufactured goods fell 1.7 percent in january to $207.7 billion following a 2 percent december increase. change in ap style.</note>
at least one person was killed in ethnic riots in a southern republic but the violence was short-lived, a soviet television employee in the region said wednesday
the violence occurred sunday in sumgait, an industrial city of more than 160,000 people in azerbaijan. the newspaper in baku, the republic's capital, did not mention casualties in its report wednesday, but said arrests were made
order and peace have been ensured by law enforcement organs. people caught in the unrest have been detained,'' said the newspaper, bakinsky rabochy. it did not give the number of arrests
trouble between armenians and azerbaijanis began when ethnic armenians in nagorno-karabakh, a region assigned to azerbaijan, began demonstrating for union with the neighboring caucasian republic of armenia. the protest spread to armenia's capital, yerevan
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said tuesday he could not confirm reports by armenian activists that up to 20 people were killed in sumgait, but added: ``there was hooliganism and there can be deaths in such cases.''
the television worker reached by telephone mentioned a ``small number of victims.'' he identified himself as a duty officer at the baku broadcast studios but would not give his namem,
pressed for a figure, he said one or two people were killed. he said he did not know the circumstances of the deaths, but gave a description of how the riots began
about 50 to 60 young ethnic azerbaijanis who live in armenia traveled to sumgait last weekend and spoke of ethnic problems in armenia, he said
they were frightened,'' said the television employee, who said he was half armenian and half azerbaijani. ``when they told their relatives, and friends at the vocational school, everyone got very excited.''
a group of ``young hooligans'' then went on a rampage, he said. ``it's not a nationality problem, it's just hooliganism,'' he declared, adding that the violence was limited to sunday
the official media have not reported on causes of the disturbance. they said wednesday that sumgait was calm
the unrest has been stopped,'' the baku paper said. ``businesses and establishments of trade and public dining places are working in a normal rhythm and classes are taking place in schools.''
gerasimov read the newspaper article to the associated press over the telephone. copies of the paper itself won't reach moscow for several days
it and baku radio said azerbaijan's premier, gasan n. seidov, had traveled to sumgait
gerasimov told the news briefing tuesday that authorities put sumgait under curfew. he suggested the unrest there and elsewhere in the caucasus was due to ``mistakes'' made 65 years ago when a territory inhabited largely by armenians was made part of azerbaijan
more than three-quarters of the 157,000 people in nagorno-karabakh are ethnic armenians
predominantly moslem azerbaijan is the largest of three soviet republics in the region, bordered on the west by largely christian armenia and georgia and on the north by the russian republic. the caspian sea runs for nearly 800 miles along its eastern edge
foreign journalists based in moscow have been barred from the region and only sporadic reports from witnesses, activists and official media have reached moscow. few telephone calls got through to baku and sumgait on wednesday
a man answering the telephone at the azerbaijan interior ministry in baku said ``everything is over'' in sumgait. the conversation was cut off before a reporter could ask his name and position
baku radio, monitored by the british broadcasting corp., said two non-voting members of the national communist party politburo, georgy p. razumovsky and pyotr n. demichev, visited businesses and other establishments in baku to speak to ``working people of these multinational collectives.''
it did not say when they were there or whether they went to sumgait
hovik vassilian said by telephone from yerevan on wednesday he had learned from travelers and telephone calls to residents that protests continued in nagorno-karabakh and food was in short supply
a soviet prosecutor reported saturday that two people living in a part of azerbaijan bordering nagorno-karabakh had been slain in unrest linked to the territorial dispute
on friday, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed for restraint, and said the central committee would review relations among the soviet union's more than 100 nationalities
the last resident of the small motel where martin luther king jr. died refused orders from sheriff's deputies to leave the rundown building wednesday and was carried sobbing to the sidewalk
you people are making a mistake. you people are making a mistake,'' said jacqueline smith, 37, who had been holed up at the lorraine motel since it was closed by state order jan. 11 to make way for an $8.8 million civil rights museum
deputies evicted ms. smith after forcing open the door to the room where she had set up residence. a picture of king and an american flag decorated the large front window of her room, about 25 feet from where the civil rights leader was felled by an assassin's rifle slug
they carried her to the sidewalk outside the chain-link fence surrounding the motel, put her down and walked away
i refuse to stand up,'' she said. a few moments later, however, she moved to a straight-back wooden chair retrieved from her belongings stacked nearby under a sheet of black plastic to keep off a light rain
if i have to sit out here on this street, i refuse to go,'' she said. ``i'm not going anywyere.''
ms. smith, who has lived and worked at the lorraine for 11 years, said the museum project will speed efforts to gentrify her low-income neighborhood
i'm trying to help the people who live in this area. we're being forced out,'' she said
ms. smith said she has relatives in other parts of town, but does not want to move from neighborhood. she said she cannot afford to rent an apartment in the area
she said the lorraine should be turned into housing for the homeless
her eviction was watched by a crowd of news reporters and about a dozen spectators. several well-wishers spoke with ms. smith after the deputies left
king was killed at the lorraine on april 4, 1968 while helping organize a strike by city sanitation workers
james earl ray, a prison escapee from missouri, pleaded guilty to the killing and is serving a 99-year sentence at the southeast tennessee regional prison
the lorraine, which has fallen into disrepair over the years, was bought at a foreclosure auction in 1982 by a citizens group pushing plans for a civil rights museum at the site
the state has appropriated $4.4 million for the project and city and county governments have agreed to match that amount. the state has title to the property and will build and operate the museum, scheduled to open in 1991
ms. smith repeatedly ignored requests to move, and the state obtained a court order tuesday directing sheriff's deputies to evict her
when deputies arrived, ms. smith retreated to her room and refused to open the door
randy wade, an administrative assistant to the shelby county sheriff, pleaded with her to leave peacefully
we're just doing our job,'' wade shouted to ms. smith as deputies prepared to force open the door
bernhard goetz jr. has inherited $140,550 from his father's estate, but the man known as the new york subway gunman has huge legal bills that will quickly eat that up, and more, his attorney says
that won't go very far in defending him on anything,'' said joseph kelner, an attorney defending goetz in three civil cases asking a total of $63 million in damages
goetz, 40, was sentenced last october to six months in jail and five years' probation for carrying an unlicensed gun, which he used to shoot four teen-agers on a subway in december 1984. three of the four are suing him for injuries and punitive damages
goetz, who claimed the shootings were in self-defense, is free on $5,000 bond while his case is appealed
his father, bernhard willard goetz sr., died in 1984, and his estate was recently settled in orange county probate court. after payment of taxes, there was $562,200 to be split between the younger goetz, his brother and two sisters
the estate's attorney, jerome bornstein, said wednesday that all money had been distributed to the heirs within the past few days
the elder goetz moved to orlando in 1963 from rhinebeck, n.y., where the family owned a dairy, a bookbinding company and real estate. he joined his brothers fritz and ludwig in developing a subdivision in east orange county
kelner said tuesday that goetz, an electronics specialist, can't afford to take a taxi from manhattan to the bronx for civil court appearances. it's dangerous for goetz to use public transportation, the lawyer said
one of the shooting victims, james ramseur, seeks $8.5 million; another, troy canty, has filed two suits for $2.5 million. darrell cabey, who was left a paraplegic from the incident, is suing goetz for $50 million
kelner, who is working for goetz free of charge, said his client has countersued for $1 ``as a matter of principle because they foisted this entire incident on him 2{ years ago _ ruining his life, his business, all of it.''
ramseur's lawyer said he was surprised at goetz's inheritance
his attorneys have been telling us all along that he doesn't have a dime,'' said the lawyer, ron kliegerman. ``now we know there's something there.''
goetz has refused to talk to the press in recent weeks
new rules are being prepared to help farmers pay off loans owed to the farmers home administration, including provisions that allow the agency to write off some of the debt so that families can stay on the land, officials said wednesday
joe o'neill, an fmha spokesman, said the new rules probably will be ready by june. in many cases, over-burdened borrowers could have much of their debt written off, trimmed back to reflect their assets in hopes of keeping them in business
however, o'neill said he had no estimate of how much debt the fmha might write off under the new rules
there's just no way of knowing,'' he said. ``it'll be each individual case all the way through.''
at the end of the 1987 fiscal year on sept. 30, o'neill said, 261,291 fmha borrowers owed the agency about $26 billion. of that, 127,671 were delinquent, owing $6.6 billion, including principal and interest
the new rules are a result of a bill passed by congress in december calling on the fmha, an agriculture department agency that serves as a ``lender of last resort'' for the nation's farmers, to go easier on borrowers who are behind in their payments
the new law requires the agency to do whatever possible to restructure loans in order to keep fmha borrowers in business
our attitude is going to be different,'' fmha administrator vance l. clark told the new york times. ``we want to make the new act work, and we're going to have a lot of room to maneuver to restructure these loans.''
lynn hayes, an attorney with the farmers legal action group in st. paul, minn., said, ``i'm thrilled they are apparently taking this legislation seriously and are trying to make it work.''
her group has been active for years in challenging fmha policies aimed at tougher enforcement of agency collection policies, including a 1983 lawsuit that led to a suspension of foreclosure actions until regulations were redesigned to let borrowers know their alternatives
congress, partly at the prodding of the activist organizations, agreed that fmha should slow down and overhaul its policies
as a last resort, the new rules would let fmha write off debts in excess of a borrower's assets, o'neill said. for example, if a farmer's assets were $150,000 and debts totaled $500,000, the write-off could be as much as $350,000 if the fmha determined the farmer could handle the remainder by staying in business
it makes sense, then, to keep that person in business and write off the difference between what they owe and their assets _ if the government stands a chance of retrieving more by keeping that farmer going,'' o'neill said. ``we're trying to carry out the intent of congress in the agricultural credit act of 1987 as closely as we can.''
the state department's legal adviser said wednesday that the senate should not revise the arms pact with the soviet union to bind future administrations to the current understanding of its intent
i don't think it is necessary or desirable to do that kind of thing,'' legal adviser abraham d. sofaer said in an interview with the associated press
but an aide to sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said that based on discussions cranston has had with senators from both parties, he expects ``there to be language in the ratification resolution addressing the treaty interpretation issues.''
few people disagree over the meaning of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty signed at the u.s.-soviet summit in washington last december calling on the superpowers to destroy their nuclear missiles with ranges of 300 miles to 3,000 miles
the heart of the dispute, rather, is interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. sofaer is the author of the ``broad interpretation'' of the abm treaty which would allow wider testing of components of president reagan's strategic defense initiative, known as star wars
cranston's legislative aide, gerry warburg, said the language expected in the inf resolution ``would contain a more broad statement concerning the intepretation of treaties generally,'' including the abm pact
cranston, along with sen. sam nunn, d-ga., the chairman of the senate armed services committee, and sen. joseph biden, d-del., a member of the senate foreign relations committee, have been discussing the issue with secretary of state george p. shultz but have not reached agreement, warburg said
sofaer said inclusion of restrictive language in a resolution ratifying the inf treaty would not be binding on the soviet union, and could complicate rather than resolve the issue
i know that they are not going to get a settlement of the abm dispute this way,'' sofaer said
it is a potential problem for inf ratification, and i think overwhelmingly people support inf ratification,'' he said
sofaer noted that shultz had sent the senate the 31-volume negotiating record of the inf pact and also had agreed that any testimony by administration officials would be ``authoritative'' and reflect the president's understanding of the treaty
those practical things have been achieved,'' sofaer said
while the senate can bind the administration to a particular interpretation of either the inf or the abm treaties, he said, it cannot bind the soviet union, unless the treaties are renegotiated
the treaty reflects two relationships,'' he said. ``it reflects a relationship between two sovereign nations, and then it also reflects the relations betwen the united states executive branch and the senate.''
when you talk about the meaning of a treaty, you are talking about the international relationship. you are talking about what binds the two nations,'' he said
an american artist said wednesday he signed an agreement with the soviet union to launch what could be the first sculpture in space: a huge ring with ``peace'' written on it in different languages
arthur woods said he signed the agreement last week with dmitri poletayev, a representative of the soviet space agency glavkosmos, to launch the sculpture in 1990 or 1991
he said the ring, with a diameter of 20 feet, would be transported on a proton rocket to the mir space station, from which it would be deployed
woods will be responsible for financing the launch and sculpture, at an estimated cost of $300,000. funding is to come from private contributions of at least $35 each, said woods, who calls the project ``orbiting unification ring satellite,'' or ours
this project is a gesture of getting the public involved in something that could send a sentiment of world peace'' into space, said woods, 39
woods said he asked nasa if it wanted to launch a similar sculpture but had not received a reply
woods said the ring would be a ``prototype'' for another project in the works _ a 3,300-foot-diameter sculpture that he hopes will be put in orbit by the year 200. he said it would be visible from earth
woods said the sculptures would be made of a foil-like substance which would be inflated in space and then become rigid when exposed to sunlight. he said the technology, known as isrs for inflatable, space rigidized structures, had been developed by a swiss company, contraves. he said he was collaborating with contraves on the projects
woods said he grew up near cape canaveral and worked there for two summers while he was a student. he moved to switzerland in 1974 and describes himself as a painter and sculptor. accidental</head>
the death of a 12-year-old boy, whose nude body was found in a portable dishwasher by his mother, appears to have been accidental, officials said wednesday
it's a strange situation,'' said brown county sheriff's department commander david zasada. ``right now we're not looking at this as foul play.''
michael conard's body was discovered by his mother, jean, when she returned home from work tuesday afternoon, zasada said. the commander said investigators were trying to determine whether there was forced entry or any sign of a struggle
i would certainly not at this time say there was a suicide,'' zasada said
the portable dishwasher was found hooked up to the kitchen sink and running, zasada said, and the mother turned it off and found the body of her son inside
an autopsy was planned to determine the cause of death, zasada said
conard, of humbolt, was a sixth-grader and member of the wrestling team at luxemburg-casco elementary school. terry dejaeger, guidance counselor at the school, said students and teachers put aside their normal routine wednesday to talk about the boy's death
some of the kids are crying. some are in shock. most of them are having a tough time functioning today,'' dejaeger said
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., on wednesday unveiled a $266 million democratic plan to bolster the government's emergency food programs, saying ``we cannot afford to do less'' to battle hunger
kennedy, chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, said the bill would increase funding for federal programs for food stamps, school breakfasts, child care food and summer food service
we have to ask what the cost of not doing this will be,'' kennedy said at a news conference
sen. patrick j. leahy, d-vt., said the question of hunger is ``a moral issue'' and ``a test of america's conscience.''
rep. leon panetta, d-calif., introduced companion anti-hunger legislation in the house
kennedy said domestic hunger had been largely eradicated by the late 1970s, but that the recession of the early 1980s, coupled with sharp cuts in social programs under the reagan administration, has brought it back at record levels
the emergency hunger relief act of 1988 would focus on the government's food stamp program, a program started under kennedy's brother, john f. kennedy, in 1961. the senator argued that benefits for many families are running out well before the end of the month
for a typical family of four, the bill would increase benefits by about six meals per month per person
eligibility modifications would add about 1 million people to the food stamp program, kennedy estimated. there now are 18.6 million recipients
the bill also would:
_ allow other non-profit organizations besides schools and local governments to operate the summer food service program. the current limitations have denied thousands of children nutritious lunches during the summer when schools are closed, the lawmakers said. kennedy said an estimated 170,000 additional children would be receive benefits under the plan
_ extend the temporary food assistance program and authorize $50 million annually for the distribution to the needy of corn, wheat and other surplus commodities
_ increase to $10 million a year the authorization for the community food and nutrition program, which funds soup kitchens and relief centers. the current authorization is at $3 million annually
_ increase school breakfast funding by 3 cents per meal so children can have eggs on most mornings
the bill calls for $266 million in new spending in fiscal 1989 and $675 million in 1990
we could obviously do more, but we cannot afford to do less,'' kennedy said. ``the measure ... is designed to be a new declaration of war on hunger, and this time we intend to see that the war stays won.''
moslem leader inamullah khan, named wednesday as winner of the templeton prize for progress in religion, said his lifetime goal is to heal discord among different faiths
he is the first moslem to win the $390,000 prize, the largest in the world and about $40,000 more than the nobel prizes
my life has been spent in the service of mankind seeking peace where there is war, reconciliation where there is conflict, harmony where there is discord,'' khan said
khan, 73, of karachi, pakistan, a founder and secretary-general of the world moslem congress, added in a message from his home city:
i do this from my religious conviction and will continue to work with people of different races and religions and with those of different views within the same religion.''
he was cited for his ``tireless work as coordinator for peace between moslems, christians and jews.''
at a news conference at the church center of the united nations where the winner was announced, a jewish colleague voiced ``great appreciation'' for khan's leadership
norma levitt of new york, who serves with him as one of nine regional presidents of the world conference on religion and peace, said the reward was a sign of hope that people of good will can ``live together and advance together in harmony, in justice and in peace.''
khan is chairman of the executive committee and also a regional president of the world conference on religion and peace
khan, born in burma of indian parentage, was editor of burma's moslem daily until 1942 when burma was occupied by japan. he then moved to india, settling in karachi when pakistan was established in 1948
there, he was a founder of the world moslem congress, with its offices initially in his home
the annual prize, established in 1972 by american investment counselor john templeton, is to recognize those ``who through original and pioneering ways advanced the knowledge and love of god.''
this year's prize is to be presented may 10 in london by princess alexandra
previous winners included 13 christians, one hindu and one buddhist
templeton, who resides in nassau, bahamas, said the award is intended to encourage people to ``take religion more seriously, to get excited about the new thinking in it.''
he told the news conference the prize was purposely kept higher than the nobel prizes because religion was more important than other fields
he said world expenditures for scienctific research amount to $1 billion every day, and ``i'm not saying it's not worth the results,'' but ``it should be equaled by research in the spiritual realm.''
a teen-ager testified wednesday that his 14-year-old friend plotted the murder of a classmate, saying he wanted ``to know what it was like to kill someone.''
robbie peterson, 16, told a hushed courtroom how he was twice shown the body by rod matthews and even accompanied matthews and another friend to a pizza parlor to eat after viewing the victim
matthews, 15, went on trial wednesday as an adult for the murder of shaun ouillette, 14
the body remained near a lonely wooded hilltop for three weeks before another friend wrote an anonymous letter to police
rod said not to say anything,'' peterson said. ``he said it could happen to us. he said, `you never know.'''
norfolk county assistant district attorney peter casey told the jury of 12 men and four women that matthews plotted the death of his schoolmate for more than a month
he was deliberate in the plan and put it into effect efficently and effectively,'' he said
in opening arguments, defense attorney john philip white jr. said his client suffered from a ``psychiatric illness of major proportions'' and was not in contact with reality
white said matthews was affected by his use of ritalin, a stimulant used to calm hyperactive children
peterson testified matthews began talking about killing someone around halloween 1986. he refined his plan to lure a victim to a deserted area known as ``the pits,'' then beat him with a baseball bat. peterson said matthews also planned to cut off his victim's legs ``and toss them.''
i said why? he said he wanted to know what it was like to kill somebody. he said `just for the heck of it,''' said peterson
the teen-ager, testifying in a barely audible voice, told how matthews named several potential victims before settling on ouillette, an overweight high school freshman
he said he (ouillette) would be the least missed, that he didn't have that many friends,'' peterson said
peterson said he had warned other potential victims not to go to matthews' home. although he knew of matthews' plan to lure ouillette into the woods with the promise of fireworks, peterson said he only suggested to ouillette that he have matthews bring the fireworks to school
peterson said the day of the murder he saw matthews walking down the street with a baseball bat and asked if he killed ouillette. he said matthews hestitated before admitting to the killing, then agreed to take peterson to the murder scene after leaving a large knife in peterson's room
peterson said matthews explained how he walked in ouillette's footsteps in the snow, then hit him with a bat
he said shaun fell down and said `help me' and rod hit him again.''
ouillette's mother, jeanne quinn, sobbed as she heard the description of her son's murder. matthews was expressionless
white portrayed his client as a youth from a troubled home obsessed with personal hygiene and fascinated by fire. he told of a note matthews wrote to a health teacher a canton high school which warned of his plans to kill
according to white, the note read in part, ``my problem is that i like to do crazy things ... lately i want to kill people. i hate and i want to set houses on fire.''
white said the teacher made note of the letter on a file card, but did nothing until after matthews was arrested
eleven more people have died after eating improperly prepared soybeans in the central java district of banyumas, bringing the death toll to 34, a medical official said wednesday
koentoro, head of the district health office in banyumas, said the latest victims died tuesday after eating soybean cakes contaminated with poisonous acid. the poisonings occurred in dermaji, 300 miles southeast of jakarta
a health ministry official in jakarta said tuesday that 260 people had been hospitalized in dermaji over the past two weeks after eating the soybean cakes, known locally as tempe bongkrek
the official said poverty had forced villagers to ignore a government ban on eating the cheap food, which sometimes contains the poisonous acid bongkrekik
koentoro said 33 people still were hospitalized, some in grave condition
two people who allegedly produced and sold the cakes have been arrested, the ministry official said. companies</head>
a state judge has accused the cuomo administration of blacklisting construction companies that fail to comply with affirmative action rules, and then allowing the companies to ``buy'' their way off the list
quoting from a section of federal law defining extortion, state supreme court justice harold hughes said he was referring the case to federal and state prosecutors and to the state's commission on goverment integrity for review
the ruling, in a lawsuit filed by a paving contractors group against the state, was made public wednesday
in the court's view, a judge is under a duty to report potential criminal activity that comes to light in the course of a proceeding pending before him,'' said hughes. ``this is especially so when government officials are involved.''
hughes did not charge that crimes had been committed, and he said his referral to the prosecutors had been recommended by the state's attorney in the case
administration officials denied wrongdoing or that a blacklist existed
it would appear to be somewhat of a strange decision and our counsels will be reviewing it with the (state) attorney general's office,'' said anne crowley, a spokeswoman for gov. mario cuomo
the suit was filed by the new york state asphalt pavement association, a group representing 34 contractors, against state department of transportation commissioner franklin white and state office of general services commissioner john egan
it asked that white and egan stop imposing restrictions on member companies other than what was written in law
in denying a state motion to dismiss the association's lawsuit, hughes said one construction company, to get off the blacklist, had agreed to pay $150,000 to ``a not-for-profit organization or other support entities, whose purpose is to provide support to the (state's) disadvantaged, minority, women's business enterprise program.''
compelling contractors to enter into such agreements constitutes unethical and possibly criminal conduct, the judge said
the lawsuit stems from an attempt by white, one of the highest ranking blacks in the cuomo administration, to crack down on contractors who are not meeting state and federal requirements for hiring minorities, who have established ``front'' companies that falsely claim to be minority owned, or who have engaged in criminal activity such as bid-rigging
white spokesman timothy hulbert told the albany times union that the judge's ruling was ``inflammatory and inappropriate.''
there is nothing illegal about barring contractors from doing business with the state if they have violated state laws or regulations, hulbert said. such action was taken only on a ``case-by-case basis'' and no blacklist was maintained, he said
hulbert also said there was nothing illegal about having the companies pay money to improve minority hiring programs as part of any agreements for them to get back in the state's good graces. claims</head>
the army's claims that it does not plan the highest-level of experiments at a proposed biological testing laboratory drew skepticism wednesday from utah gov. norm bangerter
bangerter, who toured the western desert installation's current biological test lab wednesday, told reporters that officials had given him a different message than he received when he met with defense department representatives last month in washington
he said officials had told him then that ``there's a high likelihood they're going to be bl-4 (the highest level of biosafety containment). if they really think they're going to do b-l4, that's what they ought to clear for,'' the governor said
however, army officials maintained wednesday the proposed $5.3 million lab at dugway proving ground had plans only for b-l3 experimentation. dugway spokeswoman kathy whitaker stressed that the new lab's mission would be defensive _ testing soldiers' protective gear against various biological agents
the plan is to do b-l3 work. we're overbuilding for the added safety it gives us,'' she said, noting that the proposed facility would feature three pressurized labs and double-layered walls over 1,540 square feet
dugway director of material test col. wyett colclasure said another reason for building the new lab complex to b-l4 guidelines was cost
while the project cost $600,000 more as a b-l4 than b-l3 complex, trying to upgrade the facility later would cost much more, he said. colclasure did not say how much more, however
colclasure said the soviet union's endeavors in biological testing made the project a neccessity
i believe the soviets are working very diligently on a biological warfare capability. we must be sensitive to that,'' he said
the army released an environmental impact statement on the lab complex in january, saying that construction and operation of the facility posed no danger to employees, the public at large or the environment
the present b-l2 level test facility at dugway was established in 1952. although it has been modified over the years, the facility has become inadequate for present-day testing needs because operators are unable to conduct the full range of tests required, officials said
sen. jesse helms withdrew objections wednesday to senate confirmation of army maj. gen. william f. burns to head the arms control and disarmament agency in a move linked to the lawmaker's battle against the new u.s.-soviet arms treaty
helms, r-n.c., told the senate he never had any objectios to burns or to his qualifications, which he said are ``excellent.''
the senator said he had delayed action on the burns nomination in order to provide ammunition for his fight against the new intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, which bans u.s. and soviet missiles with ranges of 300 miles to 3,000 miles
he announced he has wrested a promise from the reagan administration to promptly release two reports bearing on alleged soviet violations of arms control treaties and the effectiveness of proposed verification of soviet compliance with the new treaty
but helms demanded the administration also prepare a third report _ confirming whether or not the soviet union has violated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty _ and make it available before the senate acts on the inf pact
i would strenuously object to the senate moving on this treaty until we get this information,'' helms told reporters. ``i think the senate would go off half-cocked if it had no capability to assess these violations. they would be simply swept under the rug in an atmosphere of euphoria.''
complaining the administration has ignored a treaty provision calling for such a review of compliance every five years, helms drafted legislation declaring the united states ``is violating the abm treaty.''
he first offered it as an amendment to pending legislation restricting the use of lie detectors in private businesses, then withdrew it, saying he will offer it later if necessary
helms contended a review of soviet compliance would require the united states to protest ``at least one material breach of the abm treaty by russia.''
the united states has long complained that the soviets may be violating the abm treaty by building a radar system at krasnoyarsk in the central soviet union
helms made public an exchange of letters with president reagan and colin l. powell, reagan's national security adviser, in which the senator stated that burns appears to be ``an excellent nominee.''
but he also complained that the arms control agency's failure to produce the three reports ``clouds the current hearings'' over the inf treaty
he said he has also ``received reports from witnessess that large quantities of documents were shredded late last week'' in arms control and disarmament agency offices ``under investigation by the fbi and ga0.'' the government accounting office is the investigative arm of congress
replying for reagan, powell said burns has given personal assurances he will cooperate fully with the fbi and gao investigations. but powell did not comment on the alleged shredding of documents as such
he said the arms control agency's report on treaty violations will be sent to congress on march 8 and that the report on treaty verification will be delivered march 14
but powell said the administration believes it has until next october before reviewing soviet compliance with the terms of the abm treaty
helms called that a ``ruse'' and said the review was required to be completed last oct. 2. he said he believes the review has been delayed so as not to interfere with senate ratification of the inf pact
burns is currently principal deputy assistant secretary of state for politico-military affairs. he served for four years as the pentagon's representative at the u.s.-soviet negotiations on the inf treaty
he would succeed kenneth l. adelman, who announced his intention to retire last july. picks up 3rd graf pvs, ``israeli ambassador ...</note>
the united nations today voted 143-1 for the united states to submit to binding arbitration on whether it can shut down the plo observer mission
the united states did not vote, and israel cast the only negative vote
assembly resolutions are expressions of international will but are not legally binding and there is no mechanism to enforce them. they are often ignored or defied
israeli ambassador benjamin netanyahu said the palestine liberation organization is a terrorist group that has no place in the united nations
netanyahu stalked out of the chamber when the plo representative, zehdi labib terzi, said israel's vote showed contempt for the world body and ``the norms of civilized behavior.''
soviet ambassador aleksander belonogov said in an interview after the voting that the dispute with the united nations was a ``self-inflicted wound'' on american prestige and peace efforts in the middle east
the assembly also voted 142-0 for a resolution asking the world court in the hague for a ruling on whether the united states has the right to refuse arbitration. neither israel nor the united states voted on the measure
the arbitration would be conducted by an independent three-member panel, with the united states and the united nations each appointing one member and the third appointed jointly
the united states, which has not yet moved to close the plo mission, said it considered the emergency meeting of the 159-nation assembly ``premature and unnecessary.''
the united states has rebuffed arbitration on the same grounds
it remains the intention of this government to find an appropriate resolution to this problem in light of the charter of the united nations, the headquarters agreement and the laws of the united states,'' u.s. ambassador herbert okun told the assembly after the vote
the resolutions were sponsored by the soviet union, which accused the united states of ``lawlessness,'' several soviet allies and satellites, members of the movement of nations professing non-alliance with either superpower and the philippines, a u.s. ally
the resolutions say closing the mission would violate the 1947 treaty under which the united states became u.n. headquarters. the pact provides for binding arbitration
the plo has non-voting, observer status in the general assembly and exercises considerable influence at the united nations, which regards it as the only legitimate representative of the palestinian people, many of whom live under israeli occupation
the plo mission, a four-story townhouse on manhattan's fashionable upper east side, has a staff of three political officers and two secretaries
scores of organizations and nations, including most of america's closest allies, said during the three-day emergency session that closing the mission would undermine the independence of the world body
many said the move is further eroding the already diminished u.s. prestige at the world body. others warned it could cripple american peace efforts in the middle east
the state department agrees with the united nations that the anti-terrorism legislation ordering the mission closed violates the headquarters agreement. but attorney general edwin meese iii reportedly said he plans to enforce the measure anyway. he is expected to announce his decision later this month
the state department closed down the only other plo office in the united states, an information office in washington, in what turned out to be a futile attempt to forestall the legislation
underlying the bitter confrontation over the mission is the nagging question of what the united nations can do to achieve peace in the middle east
the world body has repeatedly called an international peace conference that would include the plo and the soviet union, among others. the united states, which wants direct talks, and israel, which refuses to deal with the plo, resist this plan
several speakers in the assembly debate noted that the united states has never accused anyone accredited to the mission of terrorism or expelled anyone attached to the mission
in december, the assembly passed a resolution 145-1 asking the united states not to close the plo mission. israel, which regards the plo as a terrorist group bent on the destruction of the jewish state, cast the only negative vote
two scandinavian relief workers came home to the emotional embraces of their sobbing families on wednesday and recounted their harrowing abduction in lebanon and 25 days of fear and captivity
jan stening of sweden and norwegian william jorgenson greeted their wives and children at a downtown vienna hotelslightly more 24 hours after being freed by their unknown kidnappers
jorgenson said he feared he would die in the ordeal that began with his feb. 5 abduction
my only thought was of my wife,'' said jorgenson, pausing to collect himself as his daughter, sessil, began crying. his wife, gerd, and son, kurt, also were at the news conference
stening, 44, and jorgenson, 58, were working with the vienna-based u.n. works and relief agency that cares for some 280,000 refugees in lebanon when they were kidnapped
giorgio giacomelli, head of the vienna-based agency, giacomelli said both men were in relatively good shape
it's the end of a very sad story, which luckily had a happy conclusion,'' giacomelli said
in beirut on wednesday, a group called the holy warriors of freedom claimed responsibility for the jan. 27 kidnapping of west german engineer ralph schray and said it may release him soon
the claim was made in a typewritten arabic statement from the group, which is believed to be headed by a brother of two men already linked to a 1985 hijacking and to the kidnappings
the statement was released to a western news agency in beirut along with a photograph of schray. the picture showed a bearded schray in blue jeans and a dark blue sweater looking directly at the camera
giacomelli noted the other kidnap victims in lebanon and said their plight tempered the happiness over the return of stening and jorgenson
including schray, there are 23 foreigners missing after being kidnapped in lebanon since march 1985. they are nine americans, four frenchmen, three britons, a west german, an italian, an irishman, an indian and two unidentified men
the longest held hostage is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
our common joy doesn't allow us to forget other colleagues who are still missing. we hope they will join us again soon,'' giacomelli said
among those missing is u.s. marine lt. col. william r. higgins, who was abducted feb. 17 in south lebanon
a statement released by the abductors, the organization of the oppressed on earth, said israel's crackdown on palestinian unrest in israeli-occupied territories and the middle east trip of secretary of state george p. shultz ``make us more determined to try this criminal, higgins.''
both the united nations and the united states have denied that higgins, who served with the u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon, was a cia spy
higgins, 43, was abducted near south lebanon's port of tyre on feb. 17. he heads a 76-man u.n. observer group that monitors truce violations on the lebanon-israel border under a 1949 armistice agreement
stening said at a morning news conference in beirut that four gunmen kidnapped the two u.n. workers near south lebanon's provincial capital of sidon as they were driving from their base in the southern port of tyre to beirut
the two men were moved to various locations in lebanon
the first word about the release of stening and jorgenson came in a handwritten arabic statement delivered to a western news agency in beirut late tuesday. the statement was accompanied by a picture showing the two men. it said ``after they were proved innocent, they were released.''
most of the u.n. relief group's services to the refugees were suspended after the abudctions. giacomelli did not say if they would be resumed
at one point during his captivity, jorgenson said he was convinced he and stening would be killed when what looked like an explosive was brought into one of the rooms where they were held
jorgenson said their clothes were cleaned and the two men were given a chance to wash the day before they were released
on tuesday, with his new freedom, jorgenson said he started smoking again
i'm a free man and i can cough when i want to,'' he quipped. week</note>
a growing amount of tax money withheld from workers' paychecks is being misused by employers, often never finding its way to the government, the internal revenue service said wednesday
the total of these delinquent social security and income taxes rose by 49 percent from 1982 through 1987, to almost $3.73 billion, said william m. wauben, irs assistant commissioner for collections. about 338,000 employers have failed to pay or account for that sum
because withheld taxes account for 69 percent of all federal revenues, ``even a slight decline ... can have a devastating impact'' on the government, wauben said at a news conference
the irs also announced that although fewer individaul taxpayers are filing their returns early this year, the pace is picking up. through feb. 26, 30.2 million returns had been filed, down 4.9 percent from a year ago. but last week, the irs received 6.7 million, up 3 percent from the same week in 1987
the irs speculates that taxpayers are delaying filing this year because of all the changes caused by a sweeping tax revision enacted in 1986
the number of returns qualifying for refunds is down 4.5 percent, to 7.55 million this year, but the average refund has risen to $793, from $735 a year ago
wauben said employers' failure to forward taxes withheld from workers' checks often is caused by ignorance of the law, although in some cases withheld taxes are kept out of greed. often as not, he said, the problem is traced to a failing company's efforts to stay afloat
when employers find they are no longer able to keep their business operating on the cash available and they ... are unable to borrow from a bank or other lending institution, some begin using the funds withheld from their employees' wages as their own,'' wauben said
employers are required to turn over withheld taxes to the government at least once a quarter. some big companies pay the irs every three days; most employers file these employment-tax returns weekly or biweekly
an employer's misdeed does not necessarily cause a problem for workers. even though workers' withheld taxes might never be turned over to the government, their accounts will be credited by the government so long as they file an income tax return
the rise in delinquent withheld taxes is attributed to the fact that total payrolls and social security taxes have been increasing steadily. wauben said there has been a disproportionate increase in areas of the southwest, where oil prices and real estate values have dropped sharply
wauben said a new irs program aimed at another route of tax evasion has produced good results. this involves the practice of some employers of wrongly classifying some employees as independent contractors
that means the employer does not withheld social security and income taxes from these workers, although they are required to make quarterly estimated tax payments. but many such workers understate their earnings, and some don't even file returns, the irs says
during a two-year study in 26 areas of the nation, irs collections officers audited 1,196 employers suspected of misclassifying workers as independent contractors. as a result, 9,004 delinquent quarterly employment-tax returns were filed and the irs hit 92 percent of the audited employers with tax bills averaging $3,000
because of those findings, the irs has assigned nearly 400 collections officers to concentrate on investigating similar cases
here are the final unofficial results in the republican presidential primary in vermont
262 of 262 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 23,550 - 49 percent
dole, 18,636 - 39 percent
du pont, 794 - 2 percent
haig, 327 - 1 percent
kemp, 1,866 - 4 percent
robertson, 2,447 - 5 percent
here are the final unofficial results in the democratic presidential primary in vermont
262 of 262 precincts reporting - 100 percent
dukakis, 28,244 - 57 percent
gephardt, 3,968 - 8 percent
hart, 2,052 - 4 percent
jackson, 13,030 - 26 percent
simon, 2,596 - 6 percent
construction workers stayed off the job throughout nicaragua for the third day wednesday to demand higher wages and to protest the sandinista government's new economic measures
the opposition general workers confederation said 4,000 workers had been on strike since monday, paralyzing 53 construction projects nationwide. the labor ministry said the strikes involved 600 workers at 12 work sites
the workers are demanding a 200 percent salary increase and an end to wage scales that are fixed for almost all jobs. construction workers earn the equivalent of $412 a month. apprentices make $266
these salaries don't meet the basic food needs,'' said carlos salgado, secretary-general of the general workers confederation, in an interview
citing runaway inflation, the government announced a series of economic measures feb. 14. a new version of the currency, the cordoba, was issued and valued at 10 to the dollar. prices set by the leftist government for most products soared
the old currency was fetching 20,000 to $1 on the legal exchange and more than 50,000 to the dollar on the black market
president daniel ortega said the measures were intended to fight inflation, which he said was running at 1,300 percent. unofficial estimates put the figure at 7,000 percent
under a new wage scale, salaries range from the equivalent of $50 a month to $753. the price of a pound of meat rose from about $1 per pound to $3.50. eggs went from just over $1 a dozen to $2.50
angel reyes palma, regional director of work inspection for the labor ministry, called the construction workers' strike illegal
he said a legal strike requires a petition and naming of a special judge to determine the merits of the case
they want to boycott the economic measures, and while they stay on strike there is no negotiation,'' reyes said
strikes were illegal in nicaragua under a state of emergency the government imposed in 1982, shortly after the war with the u.s.-backed contras heated up. the restrictive measures were withdrawn in january as part of the government's compliance with a regional peace plan
threats against tawana brawley may soon motivate the family to end a stalemate and begin cooperating with state prosecutors, according to a report published wednesday
the family of the black wappingers falls teen-ager who claims she was kidnapped and sexually assaulted by six white men in november is increasingly concerned about her safety, the poughkeepsie journal, said, quoting an anonymous source said to be close to the family
on the advice of her lawyers, c. vernon mason and alton maddox jr., the family has thus far refused to cooperate with attorney general robert abrams, whom gov. mario cuomo appointed as a special prosecutor
the lawyers want abrams ousted and a permanent special prosecutor named to investigate race-related crimes
mason and maddox did not immediately return telephone calls to their office wednesday
the rev. al sharpton, a new york city minister who has been advising the brawleys, denied that the family was on the verge of cooperating with authorities and refused to comment on reports there had been threats against miss brawley
sharpton confirmed that he had taken miss brawley from the home of matthew strong, the uncle with whom she had been staying since the attack. he would not say where miss brawley was staying
a woman who answered the phone at the brawley's house wednesday said neither glenda brawley, miss brawley's mother, nor juanita brawley, the girl's aunt, were available. she said the family had no comment
miss brawley, 16, was found wrapped in a garbage bag after being missing for four days last november. excrement was smeared on her body and ``kkk'' and ``nigger'' were written in charcoal or black ink on her body
strong had vowed to ``march tawana down to abrams' office'' if the stalemate did not end in the next few days, the journal quoted the source as saying. strong has been critical of the lawyers' handling of the case, according to several published reports
a 23-member grand jury was empaneled monday to investigate the case, and jurors heard an opening statement from abrams. sharpton called the attorney general's participation monday ``a good sign.''
the panel is not expected to hear evidence this week
the centrist social democrats and liberals will unite on thursday after a stormy courtship during which they ran as the alliance in two elections but were proccupied with their own quarrels
the new social and liberal democrats party hopes to end the dominance of the governing conservatives and the socialist labor party, the main opposition
in a mail referendum, social democrats voted 18,722 to merge and 9,929 against, or slightly under 2-1. liberals approved the union 46,376 to 6,365, or more than 7-1, said to the london-based electoral reform society, which counted the votes
separate party conventions approved the merger last month
only 55.5 percent of the 52,000 social democrats and 52.3 percent of the 90,000 liberals voted. protracted infighting over the merger had split both parties
liberal leader david steel and robert maclennan, the social democrat leader, toasted each other with champagne
steel, who is expected to be elected leader of the new party, said he looked forward to ``success and the future.'' maclennan described the vote as ``clinching.'' the party is to be officially launched thursday
david owen, who resigned as social democrat leader in opposition to the union, had urged members to boycott the vote and called it a ``fiasco.'' he plans to continue the social democrats as a separate party
the two parties began the merger process after placing a distant third in last june's general election, won by prime minister margaret thatcher's conservatives
jody powell is volunteering the public relations skills he practiced in the white house to fight plans for a shopping mall near fields where his confederate ancestors fought
powell, who was president carter's press secretary, is putting the resources of his firm, ogilvy &amp; mather public affairs of washington at the disposal of groups joined in the save the battlefield coalition
powell said tuesday the fight to preserve the site near the manassas battlefield national park is worthwhile because encroaching development is a problem at many other battlefields and historic sites as well
goodness, if you can't stop something this bad, then what hopes do you have of fending off more creeping sorts of problems, where a park gets nibbled to death?'' powell said
ten of his family members fought at the battle of second manassas in 1862, part of which was waged on land where the hazel-peterson cos. of fairfax plan to break ground for william center
one of powell's ancestors was mortally wounded just before the battle, as confederate maj. gen. thomas ``stonewall'' jackson raided the union supply depot at manassas junction
on the site where gen. robert e. lee built his headquarters during second manassas, hazel-peterson and the edward j. debartolo corp. of ohio plan to build a 1.2 million-square-foot shopping mall. delegates</head>
republican presidential candidate george bush picked up 24 delegates in new york this week by virtue of his opponents' failure to file delegate slates in eight of the state's congressional districts
and successful challenges to non-bush delegate slates in other districts, if upheld by the courts, could leave the vice president with at least two dozen other delegates running unopposed
the board of elections on tuesday wiped two slates of delegates supporting bob dole off the the april 19 primary ballot, one day after stripping the kansas senator's slate and one backing new york rep. jack kemp from the ballot
the petitions were rejected mainly because they did not contain the required 1,250 signatures of registered republicans, or were signed by republicans living outside the congressional district the petitions were filed for
while bush slates remain on the ballot in 33 of the state's 34 congressional districts, kemp will be able to field delegate slates in only 12 districts, dole in 11 and robertson in nine
having delegate slates on the ballot is all-important in new york where registered republicans will not vote for any of the candidates, but for the delegates who pledge to support them at the national convention in new orleans
the candidates that the delegates back will be listed next to the delegates' names on this year's ballot
at stake in new york are 102 delegates, three from each congressional district. the republican state committee will designate 34 other delegates after the primary
the vice president's campaign has managed to get 10 dole slates knocked off the ballot, as well as six slates supporting pat robertson and five backing kemp
decisions disqualifying nominating petitions can be appealed to state courts, and bush opponents say they will pursue that course in most cases
meanwhile, in the early round of the wyoming caucuses, dole gained one delegate while another remains uncommitted. caucuses in the state continue through saturday
a mentally ill prostitute who sold his blood even though he is infected with aids was acquitted wednesday of charges of attempted poisoning
jurors said they had decided that joseph markowski lacked the intent required for a conviction under state law, frustrating prosecutors who said the 29-year-old drifter ``can go out and do this again.''
what this has told us here today is that the law in the state of california does not make it a crime to sell aids-contaminated blood. and that's unfortunate,'' said los angeles county district attorney ira reiner
markowski, a homosexual prostitute who has tested positive for the aids virus, nodded to his attorney, guy o'brien, as the jury found him innocent of two counts of attempted poisoning
he had been accused of selling his tainted blood for $10 to plasma production associates last june 22 and of trying to do so again june 25. one of the ways aids can be spread is by transfusion of infected blood or blood products. he would have faced up to seven years in prison if convicted
i'm delighted and i'm a little surprised'' by the verdict, said o'brien, who had argued that markowski, homeless and destitute, had sold his blood in desperation
i was afraid the jury wouldn't have the courage to follow the letter of the law. i thought the fear of aids ... would preoccupy the jury.''
markowski, originally from michigan, was first arrested june 23 after screaming, ``kill me! kill me! i have aids!'' in a hollywood bank while attempting to grab a security guard's gun. police found on him a receipt for the plasma center
deputy district attorney antonio barreto jr. argued at trial that markowski knew his blood was tainted. he said the drifter sold it knowing it might contaminate the plasma pool but didn't care
juror bill ferguson of echo park said that even though markowski knew what he was doing, he was doing it for money, not to poison
right now you have to prove specific intent. you have to be able to prove that a person went down there willfully to poison the supply. that was not the case in this case,'' ferguson said
the legislature has been sitting on their duff in this area for some time,'' said barreto. ``we need legislation on this. he can go out and do this again today, as long as he said `i just did it for the money.'''
prosecutors tried last year to have a law passed that would make it a felony to knowingly sell or donate aids-contaminated blood. the assembly failed to approve it, and reiner said he will push for it again this year
mr. markowski is today free to do what he did when he was arrested for the crime,'' reiner said. ``will he do it again? perhaps. all he needs to do now is adopt an alias.''
markowski had allegedly admitted to police that he sold his blood because he needed money and didn't care about the public, but superior court judge ronald coen ruled the statement inadmissible because police had not read markowski his rights to remain silent and wait for an attorney
the detective who interrogated markowski said he committed the error because he was so shocked by what markowski had done
deliberations began monday after a 10-day trial before coen. jurors returned the verdict tuesday after deliberating for seven hours, but it was sealed until wednesday because o'brien was unable to make it to court
reiner originally charged markowski with attempted murder. but coen dismissed those counts, saying the law required a specific intent to kill that was not present
o'brien said markowski suffers from mental illness and carries the aids virus but has not developed the disease. the attorney said markowski will be placed in a halfway house
the long-term prognosis at this point is not good. i'd say the outlook is guarded,'' he said
boys playing in an abandoned railroad station discovered a dog hanged by its neck from a pipe, the latest of several such incidents in the area, authorities said wednesday
the dog, a german shepherd mix, had been dead for five or six months, animal control officer john holmes said
it would have to be some type of nut that would take an animal like that and hang him from a pipe,'' holmes said
the schoolboys told holmes on tuesday that they had discovered several dead dogs in the crumbling pawtucket-central falls station
three years ago, holmes said, he found a hanged dog in the same place in the depot. similar cases have been reported in cumberland, lincoln, and attleboro, mass
in 1986, a 26-year-old pawtucket man was charged in connection with a rash of dog hangings in cumberland, but he skipped bail before trial
here, at a glance, are developments in the economic picture wednesday:
new home sales fell 9 percent in january. sales activity was the slowest since the last recession ended in december 1982
analysts were surprised by the decline, since sales had already fallen 6.8 percent in december and 3.4 percent in november
the sales downturn was accompanied by a sharp rise in prices. the median price of a home shot up 9.7 percent to $120,000
orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell 0.6 percent in january, the first decline in five months
orders for both durable and non-durable goods dropped to a seasonally adjusted $212.6 billion following a big 2 percent increase in december
it was the first setback in orders since a 1.4 percent drop in august, but economists said it showed a return to more normal demand following the placement of several large orders for jet aircraft in december
the stock market settled for a small gain after a broad early advance faded. the dow jones average, up about 15 points at its best level of the day, finished with a .83 gain at 2,071.29
the tokyo stock exchange surged closer to pre-crash levels. the nikkei stock average closed at 25,682.82 points, up 246.92 points, or 0.97 percent from tuesday's close. before the october crash, the index stood at 25,746.56. volume in the first period of trading was 1.7 billion shares, a record high for this year
in london, the dollar gained against the british pound when the bank of england sold pounds to keep the british currency below 3.0 west german marks as the mark fell against the dollar. at the end of the day, one pound cost $1.7680, cheaper than $1.7775 late tuesday
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 128.47 japanese yen, up from 128.30 tuesday
alan greenspan, federal reserve board chairman, said deep cuts in ``entitlement'' programs, which include social security and medicare, may be the most realistic way for cutting the federal budget deficit
greenspan, testifying before the senate budget committee, also called for a 15-cent-a-gallon increase in the federal gasoline tax
but he said that, in general, tax increases do not appear to be a feasible way for trimming the budget shortfall, which was $150 billion last year. woman; inserts 4 grafs after graf 7, ``michael,'' with statement from company's lawyers, picks up graf 8, ``richard''; subs 2nd graf to clarify that pacoima is a district of los angeles.</note>
convinced they had won a $2 million sweepstakes offered by a california mail-order company, kathy and dale work bought a pickup truck and a new car and were about to quit their jobs. then they learned they hadn't won a thing
i guess it seems like we're a couple of country hicks,'' said mrs. work. ``we'd made all kinds of plans. i don't know what we're going to do now.''
the united states purchasing exchange, a company based in the pacoima district of los angeles that sponsored the sweepstakes, said mrs. work has not won anything _ at least not yet
the u.s. postal service said wednesday it had received complaints about the company and had forwarded them to the federal trade commission for investigation
a man who answered the telephone at a uspe telephone number said the sweepstakes is still in progress and that mrs. work is one of thousands with a chance at the top prize, said to be more than $2 million. the man would not give his name and would not respond to other questions
mrs. work is not the first person to be confused by the sweepstakes. debra long of pearl city, mich., woman told reporters she recently quit her job and vacationed in las vagas before learning she had not won $1.7 million, as she thought
michael flitcraft, a chardon, ohio, truck driver, said he thought he had won the contest after receiving a letter from the company on monday
david carlin of loeb &amp; loeb, a new york law firm representing uspe, issued a statement that disputed the michigan woman's claim but did not comment on mrs. work's claims
it is been reported that a prize in excess of $1 million was won by miss debra long of pearl city, mich., in a sweepstakes sponsored by united states purchasing exchange,'' carlin's statement said. ``miss long reported that she was notified by a certified letter from the company and she subsequently confirmed her winnings in a telephone conversation to the company on feb. 15, president's day
it appears that miss long is involved in a trick or hoax perpetrated by unknown parties, because the company does not notify winners by certified mail, the company's offices were closed on president's day, the company does not request bank account numbers from winners nor does it require the other information miss long claims was requested of her.''
mrs. work said the company also had requested her bank account numbers
richard eppstein, president of the toledo chapter of the better business bureau, said the bureau has received at least 20 complaints about uspe's contest over the last few years
the mail is just chock-full of these kinds of sweepstakes,'' eppstein said. ``and they are so ... worded that some people think they have won something when they have not.''
we have received a lot of complaints about the company, mostly from people who had not received merchandise they ordered from the company,'' said linda russo, occupational support specialist with the u.s. postal service in california
dave plottner of the regional office of the federal trade commission in cleveland declined comment on whether the agency is investigating uspe
mrs. work, who lives in stony ridge, 10 miles southeast of toledo, said she she received a letter from the company in october that read: ``we are pleased to inform you that you have been designated to receive certified bank checks from the united states purchasing exchange for $1,894,876 ... your winnings in our multimillion dollar sweepstakes when you are the grand prize winner.''
a few weeks later, another said her winnings stood at $2,024,464
then she received what she thought were two checks: one for $2 million and one for $24,000. she was asked to endorse them and send them back to the company along with her social security and bank account numbers
at that point, the works thought they were millionaires
however, the company's mailing said, ``certified bank check for this amount ... will be drawn and issued to kathy work upon verification that the kathy work entry has been selected by the independent judging organization as the prize-winner in accordance to the rules and regulations set forth and established.''
the mailed material does not indicate when the sweepstakes winner will be announced, mrs. work said
mrs. work, who has three children and runs the country girl beauty salon in her home, said she planned to close her business and her husband considered quitting his job as a crew chief at manville corp. in waterville
it doesn't look good, but i'm happy inside,'' she said. ``i know good is going to come to pass.'' from reviewer, picking up 16th graf ``j. charles''</note>
a bill to require licensing of restaurant reviewers has been introduced in the legislature after an owner complained that her establishment was savaged by a critic who didn't know a bolognese sauce from bottled tomato sauce
lawmakers give the measure little chance of passage because of concerns that it would violate the first amendment right of free speech. however, the restaurant industry says debate over the bill helped accomplish its main purpose
we wanted to provide a message to reviewers, the public and some editorial people that ... some of the persons providing the reviews are less than capable,'' carroll j. hughes, executive vice president of the 700-member connecticut restaurant association, said wednesday
hughes persuaded lawmakers to draft the bill after lucille trzcinski, co-owner of casagrande restaurant in wallingford, complained that two ``grossly inaccurate'' reviews last month caused her business to drop 15-20 percent
hughes said he gets a dozen complaints a year from restaurant owners about reviews. no state licenses restaurant critics, he said
we have to stand helplessly by while people are allowed to make unfounded, unsubstantiated and gratuitous remarks,'' mrs. trzcinski told a legislative committee tuesday. ``the damage that these reviews do numbers in the millions of dollars. it is our business and it is our livelihood.''
alan neigher, an attorney who specializes in media law, called the proposal ``preposterous.''
it's nothing more than a temper tantrum by some lobbyists and their clients who don't have an elementary understanding of what the role of free speech in a free economy is about,'' neigher said. ``the courts have repeatedly struck down attempts to license the press.''
mrs. trzcinski, who has operated casagrande with her husband for 11 years, said her restaurant previously received high marks from some of the toughest critics in the state for its northern italian cuisine
she complained that two recent reviewers made numerous mistakes, even when praising aspects of her menu
one mistook a fine loin of veal for a veal pattie and complained about her bagna cauda, an elegant oil-and-anchovy dip, because he was expecting a more pedestrian dip, she said
another incorrectly suggested that her bolognese sauce was tomato based and flavored with cheese, when it's actually a pork sauce flavored with a little tomato, mrs. trzcinski said
i would say he probably couldn't recognize a proper bolognese because he's familiar with ragu,'' she said
the reviewer also made an ethnic joke about the restaurant's having a polish chef, she said
the reviewer, who uses the pen name r. alan richards in restaurant reviews for the new haven register, said he thought his review was ``fairly positive'' and blamed the dispute over the bolognese sauce on semantics and misinformation supplied by a waitress
licensing opinions is kind of silly,'' said richards, who has been reviewing restaurants for seven or eight years. neither he nor the new haven register would reveal his real name
j. charles mokrisky, an attorney and the part-time food critic who complained about the bagna cauda, defended his opinion
i call 'em the way i see 'em,'' said mokrisky, who calls himself a ``food fanatic.''
under the proposal, restaurant critics would have to be licensed through the department of consumer protection. a critic could be fined $500 for reviewing without a license
the proposed license requirements include experience in food-service operation and management, graduation from a recognized culinary arts degree program, or a combination of at least six years of experience and formal training
i have sympathy for her,'' said rep. john wayne fox, co-chairman of the general law committee that held a public hearing on the bill. ``but i just was not convinced it was a serious enough problem that we as a legislature ought to regulate it.''
a farmer-lawmaker is hoping his colleagues will hop to it and approve a bill that would give a tax break to frog farmers
farms for frogs should be exempt from local property taxes, just like any other place that has ``livestock,'' conservative michael colvin told a house of commons committee studying a local finance bill
as now written, the bill defines livestock as ``any mammal or bird kept for the production of food or wool, or for the purpose of its use in the farming of land.''
that's fine for mammals and birds, but where does the frog, an amphibian, fit in? asked colvin
the definition of livestock is most unclear. times have changed in agriculture,'' he said, suggesting that the bill substitute ``creatures'' for ``livestock.''
it would be a sad day if any government started imposing a tax on frogs,'' said colvin
getting the attention of the wausa high school girls basketball team is easy. just shout ``anderson!'' and the five starters will turn their heads
the anderson girls _ only two of them related _ may be the first quintet with the same last name to assemble on court in a nebraska high school basketball game
the lady vikings, 22-1, play exeter on thursday in the opening round of the state high school basketball tournament in lincoln, and fans will get a chance to see the five andersons and their eight teammates
everyone notices it,'' said becky anderson, a 5-foot-11-inch junior who plays center and forward
becky and her cousin lori are joined by collette, tiffany and laura anderson in the starting lineup
senior laura is the team's star, averaging 16 points per game. she says having the same name as four other players on the team hasn't caused the players any problems. but it's another matter for announcers
they get mixed up once in a while,'' she said
it's easy to tell them apart,'' said charles haag, the team's assistant coach. ``but we definitely have to use first names.''
ballet fans beware: a california legislator is trying to make the west coast swing, a space-saving variant of the jitterbug, the official state dance
under state sen. quentin kopp's bill, the west coast swing would join the ranks of gold, serpentine rocks, the desert tortoise, dog-faced butterfly and the saber-toothed tiger _ all officially recognized symbols of the golden state
gold is the state mineral, serpentine the state rock, desert tortoise the state reptile, dog-faced butterfly the state insect and the saber-toothed tiger the state fossil
west coast swing is an intricate dance, requiring a great deal of coordination, good timing and intelligent application,'' kopp, a san francisco independent, wrote to fellow lawmakers recently
according to oakland businessman walter harmon, who approached kopp with the idea of honoring the dance, west coast swing is a variation of the jitterbug, a jazz dance
the variation was developed because it takes up less room than the freewheeling jitterbug, and thus more couples can dance on a smaller floor, said harmon
it's a very complex, very beautiful dance,'' said harmon, legislative liaison director for the united states swing dance council
he also claims it is the only indigenous california dance to survive in essentially its original form, and is thus worthy of historical recognition and preservation. trail sted swift trial and fix typo in `assignment' in lead. picks up 5th graf pvs, `he now ...'</note>
john ehrlichman, a former white house aide who spent time in prison for his role in the watergate scandal, says his assignment covering the impeachment trial of gov. evan mecham for rolling stone magazine is ``a match made in heaven.''
i'm working on a novel and it has an impeachment scene in it, so i was going to come over and and take a look at this, anyway,'' ehrlichman said tuesday. ``it's a ready-made opportunity to observe. secondly, it's a subject that intrigues me. i certainly have some feel for the underlying issues.''
ehrlichman, a former top-ranking official for president richard nixon, resigned from his white house post in april 1973 and was convicted in 1975 for obstruction of justice, conspiracy and perjury in the attempted cover-up of the watergate burglary
ehrlichman, 63, spent 18 months at swift trail camp, a minimum-security federal prison south of safford, ariz., and was released in 1978
he now lives in santa fe, n.m., and is working on his seventh novel, a story about a fictional u.s. president
ehrlichman said he sees few correlations between the problems of nixon and mecham
here is a fellow (mecham) with a criminal proceeding, an impeachment and a recall all going on at the same time, all pretty much bottomed on the same facts,'' said ehrlichman. ``i think it's very different (from watergate). it raises all kinds of interesting legal questions about double jeopardy and things like that.''
more than 60 anti-apartheid demonstrators were arrested wednesday following a peaceful protest in front of the south african embassy
the arrests followed a rally protesting the south african government's decision to outlaw public dissent, which led to the arrest last week of nobel peace prize winner archbishop desmond tutu in johannesburg
randall robinson, a leader of the free south africa movement which has organized similar protests at the south african embassy since 1984, told a crowd of about 300 people that the demonstration marked ``the beginning of a new phase of the battle against apartheid.''
the rally was held down the street from the embassy to avoid violation of a district of columbia ordinance prohibiting demonstrations within 500 feet of foreign embassies
following remarks by members of congress, representives from the national organization for women, the afl-cio and other groups, a group of ``messengers'' approached the embassy
among those arrested were rep. john lewis, d-ga.; del. walter fauntroy, d-d.c.; u.s. civil rights commissioner mary f. berry; and robinson, who heads transafrica, a washington-based lobbying group on africa and the caribbean
robinson said the free south africa movement would continue to push for complete disinvestment of u.s. firms in south africa and urge congress to enact stronger sanctions
he said america needs to move ``the u.n. security council toward global sanctions and a president who will take the lead with our allies ...to totally isolate south africa.''
robinson said he hoped the new wave of protests would force presidential candidates to take a public position on south africa. he said only jesse jackson has been vocal on the issue thus far. 5th graf, ``the comnmissioner;'' inserts 3 grafs after 17th graf, ``most of,'' with bristol myers comment and background on existing ads</note>
prodded by the food and drug administration, pharmaceutical companies agreed wednesday to avoid any advertising that claims aspirin can help prevent a first heart attack, despite a report in a medical journal that drew this conclusion
fda commissioner frank e. young announced the agreement after he met for more than an hour with company representatives who came to his office in this washington suburb after he sent a letter reminding of the fda's power to regulate
at a news conference, young said he had told the manufacturers that if they promoted their products for a use not supported by an fda analysis, they could be guilty of mislabeling, and ``this mislabeling can lead to regulatory action by the fda.''
he said the manufacturers agreed to ``exercise voluntary restraint'' and to refrain ``from further promotion'' of aspirin as a protection against first heart attack. but young insisted that the action was not in response to ads that already have run
the commissioner said he was ``so busy'' in his job that he never read, listened or watched advertising and thus did not know if any ads run that violated the fda position have been run
he also said that no one had brought such ads to his attention
william c. macleod, director of consumer protection at the federal trade commission, which regulates drug advertising, refused repeatedly at the news conference to say if his agency had taken any action regarding ads by aspirin manufacturers. nor would he confirm that inappropriate ads had been run
young said the meeting was prompted by the publicity surrounding a study published jan. 28 in the new england journal of medicine
in the study, more than 11,000 physicians over the age of 40 took one aspirin every other day, while another group of physicians took placebos, or fake aspirin. at the end of 57 months, the study showed that those taking aspirin had a 47 percent fewer heart attacks
while refusing to say if the action was prompted by any ad that has run, young said the drug manufacturers had agreed to voluntarily ``refrain from further promotion of the study results.''
in a feb. 24 letter, young ``invited'' the drug manufacturers to attend a meeting at his fda office to discuss the aspirin findings
he wrote of his concern that ``the dissemination of certain types of information is clearly premature'' until the fda has analyzed the aspirin study and established ``appropriate'' labeling for use of the over-the-counter medication for the prevention of first heart attacks
the invitation letter also cited the federal law that forbids mislabeling of drugs
young said he told the manufacturers that all ads making any claims for uses of aspirin not approved by the fda were to be halted
from this time forward, any ads in the pipeline will not be grandfathered (escape enforcement),'' said young
both young and mcleod repeatedly declined to say if any advertising was being canceled as a result of the fda action, and the agerncy did not identify the drug manufacturers attending the meeting
most of those leaving the private meeting refused comment. an exception was dr. edward henry of squibb pharmaceutical products, who would say only, ``we're all in agreement. it was a very good meeting.''
marie-claude stockl, public affairs director for bristol-myers, said in a statement later: ``we agree with the fda that the final results need to be reviewed by the agency before communicating the use of aspirin for primary heart attack, and our actions to date have been consistent with that position.''
several drug companies have produced ads that promoted the use of aspirin to help prevent a second heart attack. these were based on a 1985 study that was analyzed by the fda. this earlier study has been incorporated in the agency's professional labeling statement on aspirin
but the study announced in january was the first to show evidence that aspirin could help prevent a primary, or first, heart attack
young said his concern is that the aspirin study involved a narrow group _ all physicians in good health _ and that an analysis of the study had not been completed
the fda said the aspirin therapy is not appropriate for everyone and ``could do more harm than good'' for some. young said the study showed that some subjects experienced stroke
he also said the aspirin therapy could harm the health of people with high blood pressure, gout, kidney or liver disease or peptic ulcer. aspirin also can cause intestinal bleeding, he said
this study used a healthy population of phsycians who could take their own blood pressure and who knew how to recognize intestinal bleeding,'' said young, and widespread use by patients without medical supervision could lead to serious complications
young said it will take about six months for the fda to analyze the study and then publish new professional labeling for aspirin
ford motor co. will comply with a court order and withhold profit-sharing checks scheduled to go to about 1,850 workers who are behind on child support payments, the automaker said wednesday
we're not a stakeholder in this. it's strictly between the individuals involved and wayne county,'' said ford spokesman mike moran
the order was issued by circuit judge richard kaufman on tuesday, four days after friend of the court of wayne county filed suit to obtain profit-sharing money in an effort to improve child support collection
friend of the court, which is involved with domestic relations cases and is affiliated with circuit court, ``has an obligation to insure compliance with child support orders,'' said its director, gerhard f. ritsema
the checks are to be distributed tuesday and are expected to average a record $3,700. more than 160,000 ford employees received the previous record profit-sharing checks of $2,100 in 1986
according to the court order, friend of the court will have eight weeks to settle the 1,850 cases
ritsema said eight weeks would be sufficient for wayne county's 35 circuit court judges to decide how much of each profit-sharing check will be given to the agency, adding that he hoped some people would opt to settle without a hearing
about $155 million in child support was collected in 1987, but 80 percent of the 225,000 parents supposedly paying child support are in arrears, ritsema said. he said the agency's action against ford employees could bring in as much as $4 million
kaufman's action disappointed many ford workers. four employees told the judge that child support already is being deducted from their pay. they said the agency should increase the deduction from their regular paychecks instead of going after their profit-sharing checks
the profit-sharing check is what we've realized after going eight years without a raise and turning ford motor company around,'' said robert morris jr., a 10-year ford employee
friend of the court is considering increasing the amount deducted from regular paychecks, ritsema said. but he said any such action would be in addition to pursuing profit-sharing money
friend of the court in washtenaw county has also moved to obtain profit-sharing money from ford workers who are behind on child support payments, moran said
he added that ford has rejected all 150 names on a list submitted by the southeastern michigan county agency, saying that not enough data was supplied for the automaker to verify the agency's claims
the army said wednesday it had stopped random drug testing for civilian workers to comply with a court ruling, but was asking the justice department to appeal the judgment
the service, in a brief statement, said it would limit its civilian drug testing for the time being to those instances in which ``there is a reasonable suspicion that a specific employee is under the influence of drugs while on duty.''
testing on a random basis, however, has been halted for now, the service added
the move follows a decision in u.s. district court in washington on tuesday in which a judge ruled that random drug testing amounted to an unreasonable search prohibited by the constitution
u.s. district judge thomas f. hogan said random checks of employees in so-called sensitive positions could not be justified by safety concerns, because the urine test used by the army did not indicate whether an employee was using drugs on the job
the army has asked the department of justice to appeal the ruling,'' the service said in its statement. ``the army has also requested that justice ask for a stay of the judge's order during the appeal process.''
hogan's ruling had no effect on the right of the armed forces to conduct random drug tests of active-duty personnel. delete redundant reference to higher prices.</note>
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan told congress on wednesday it should consider trimming social security and other entitlement programs as it searches for ways to reduce the federal budget deficit
saying that such guaranteed-benefit programs ``account for nearly half of total outlays,'' greenspan held out little hope for major deficit reductions in other areas _ although he did propose a 15-cent gasoline tax
several rounds of deficit-reduction efforts already have taken care of the easy cuts,'' greenspan told the senate budget committee, which is considering president reagan's $1.09 trillion budget request for the fiscal year that begins oct. 1
greenspan said entitlement expenses, which include social security, medicare, medicaid and various forms of welfare, will rise dramatically in the early 21st century because of the ``increase in the beneficiary population.''
sen. kent conrad, d-n.d., told greenspan: ``baby boomers are going to be in for a big surprise when it's time for them to start collecting social security.'' baby boomers is the phrase given to the bulge in population from those born after world war ii and into the mid-1960s
greenspan, who as a private citizen chaired a bipartisan commission that helped overhaul social security financing in the early part of this decade, did not specify exactly which programs he would cut
but he said the effect of cuts in entitlement programs made now would be amplfied in years to come. he noted that some 38 million americans, or about 15 percent of the poplulation, ``are collecting social security retirmenet or disability benefits.''
despite the political problems associated with trimming benefit programs such as social security, greenspan told the committee: ``all the alternatives are known. the choices are political, not economic.''
i wish you well. and i don't think you need me to tell you how to go about it,'' he said
the reagan administration has projected a fiscal 1988 budget deficit of $146.74 billion. the congressional budget office, however, says it's likely to be about $157 billion, substantially above the $144 billion target called for in the gramm-rudman budget-balancing law
president reagan's budget recommendations for 1989 projects a 1989 deficit of $129.5 billion
social security spending is projected to reach $214.7 billion for the year, compared with $202.4 billion for 1987
other health and human services programs, including medicare and medicaid, spent $50.51 billion in the first four months of 1988, compared with $49.43 billion in the same period of 1987
interest payments on the $2.2 trillion national debt are expected to total $210.06 billion in fiscal 1988, accounting for 20 percent of total federal spending
greenspan suggested that not much more could be expected in the way of deficit reduction from further defense cuts or general tax increases
defense spending is approaching ``maintenance levels,'' greenspan said. and, as to new taxes, he testifed, ``there are upside limits to the share of income that can be taxed.''
for several decades, the overall federal tax bite has been fairly flat, at a bit less than 20 percent of gross national product. ... this stability is not a coinicidence but is indicative of the public's aversion to rising tax burdens.''
however, he suggested that a new 15-cent-a-gallon levy on gasoline prices would help ease the deficit in a small way, and might even promote more energy conservation
in other testimony, greenspan said:
_even if the fed wanted to drive down interest rates sharply at this time, ``we would find we would fail,'' because markets would likely resist such a move and ``would run away from us
_trade deficit improvements, led by higher import prices and surging exports, would continue even at current exchange-rate levels of the dollar
_there was some danger of increased inflation in the coming months, but higher prices do ``not appear to be on the order of a magnitude that should cause concern.''
_``there are no secret agreements'' among industrial nations involving interest rate levels in the united states that might be needed to support the goal of a stabilizing the u.s. dollar at its current rate of exchange. updating with new quotes in top 15 grafs, picking up in 12th graf pvs, mccloskey commenting</note>
pat robertson wants to drop his libel suit against a former congressman who questioned his war record because going to trial now would ``sacrifice his presidential campaign,'' his lawyer said wednesday. but robertson's accuser declared, ``he's chickening out of the trial just like he chickened out 37 years ago.''
former rep. paul mccloskey, r-calif., who has accused robertson of using his father's political influence to avoid combat duty in the korean war, has said in recent weeks he wouldn't settle the suit unless robertson paid the costs, which mccloskey estimates at $400,000, of defending against the suit
the trial, set to begin on tuesday, when robertson hopes to do well in delegate-rich southern primaries, would force him off the campaign trail for three weeks, attorney douglas rigler said
in dropping the lawsuit ``robertson does not intend to back away at any time from his denial of the charges that mr. mccloskey made,'' rigler said
he said that ``it is quite possible that mr. robertson will be asked to pay a substantial amount of court costs'' to cover the expenses of taking depositions from more than 50 witnesses
but rigler said he would likely appeal any such decision by u.s. district judge joyce hens green. he also suggested the $400,000 defense estimate of costs ``may be an artificial figure'' that includes lawyers' fees that robertson should not have to pay
mccloskey's lawyer, george lehner, said that, if anything, the defense estimate of its costs is ``artificially low.''
lehner said he will ask the judge to order robertson to go to trial on tuesday or force him to pay court costs as well as attorneys' fees
rigler said robertson will ask dismissal of the lawsuit because ``he is being asked to sacrifice his presidential campaign in order to vindicate his personal honor.''
robertson, in south carolina, said wednesday he wanted to press ahead with the suit but couldn't be in court and out campaigning for the republican presidential nomination at the same time
if the judge will give me about another month, i'd love to go into it,'' robertson said
the judge in january refused roberton's request to postpone the trial until june 20
i can't understand why a respected judge did it,'' rigler said. ``we think it is unfair.''
under rules of civil procedure, a plaintiff cannot drop a case without the defendant's consent once the lawsuit has been answered or without a court order dismissing the case
mccloskey, commenting wednesday on cbs-tv, said, ``the courtroom's a great place to learn the truth. now that he's up with the truth to be told and testimony under oath, he's backing off.''
i think the truth ought to be told. i don't know any better place to get the truth than in the courtroom. he invoked the process, he ought to go through with it,'' mccloskey said
the lawsuit was filed in 1986 following publication of mccloskey's allegations that robertson used the influence of his late father, sen. a. willis robertson, d-va., to avoid combat duty in the korean war
mccloskey, a decorated marine combat veteran who was aboard a troop ship from which robertson was removed in 1951 during a stopover in japan, also charged that robertson later served as the ``booze officer'' to a rear echelon unit after he did go to korea
a number of former marines have come forward since the lawsuit was filed to support mccloskey, though other witnesses deny that robertson invoked his father's political influence to be get his temporary reassignment to a special training unit in japan
mccloskey said wednesday that one reason he made the charges was that he feared a person who had avoided combat might try to make amends by becoming more warlike in later years
when you get a president in office who has evaded combat in his youth and all his advisers are saying `look tough against the soviets' ... i think there is a tendency to try to prove your manhood late in life,'' he said
a man like robertson wants to take on the commies anywhere they are, anywhere in the world,'' mccloskey said. it's ``a little dangerous to have a man like that in the white house.''
rigler invited mccloskey to submit the dispute over robertson's war record to an independent arbitrator, saying, ``if he refuses to agree to arbitration, it is mr. mccloskey who is afraid to have a determination of the facts.''
lehner said tuesday that robertson's attorneys rejected the idea of arbitration last fall when he informally suggested it. poison books</head> found on a library shelf.</note>
fingerprints found in a book about poisons match those of a woman accused of killing her husband by putting cyanide in a non-prescription drug, according to court papers released wednesday
a memorandum filed by u.s. attorney gene s. anderson also said stella nickell had failed a lie-detector test ``on whether she was the excedrin killer'' and that she apparently forged her husband's signature on life insurance applications
mrs. nickell is charged in the deaths of bruce nickell, 52, and susan katherine snow, 40, both of auburn. both died in june 1986 after swallowing tainted capsules of extra-strength excedrin. authorities have not suggested any other links between the victims
mrs. nickell was indicted in december on two counts of causing a death by product tampering and three counts of tampering with a product involved in interstate commerce. she has pleaded innocent
mrs. nickell checked out a book on poisoning from a library in mid-1984 without returning it, and pages on cyanide poisoning in a book titled ``deadly harvest'' that was found on a library shelf bore 84 fingerprints and three palm prints belonging to mrs. nickell, court documents said
the prosecutor's memo said the defendant and her husband, bruce nickell, had experienced ``intensified marital discord'' just before his death _ an assertion strongly disputed by ms. nickell's court-appointed defense attorney
in accompanying documents, federal public defender thomas hillier ii also disputed the government's claim that the polygraph test was conclusive
the maximum penalty on each death count is life, and the other charges carry maximum terms of 10 years. trial has been set for april 18
the prosecutor's memo, filed in support of the government's motion that mrs. nickell remain in custody pending trial, and accompanying documents had been sealed by u.s. district judge william s. dwyer because of concern that release of the information might make it harder to obtain an unbiased jury
the seattle times, seattle post-intelligencer and morning news tribune of tacoma appealed the order, which was overturned monday by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals
tainted capsules of pain relievers were found in both victims' homes and in bottles on the shelves of two stores in the suburbs between seattle and tacoma
mrs. nickell had sued excedrin's manufacturer, bristol-myers, and two stores where tainted capsules were found after an insurance carrier refused to pay benefits on her husband's death
shortly before he died, nickell obtained a life insurance policy that would pay his wife $31,000 if he died of natural causes and $136,000 for an accidental death
in september and october 1985, ms. nickell applied for two other life insurance policies for a total of $40,000, with she and her husband each the beneficiary of the other
handwriting examination has definitely concluded that bruce nickell did not sign what purports to be his signature,'' anderson's memo says. ``bruce nickell's fingerprints were not found on either insurance application
stella nickell's fingerprints were found in one of the two applications, and handwriting analysis conclusively established that she signed her husband's name to one application and probably signed his name to the second application.''
a state prosecutor and a former u.n. human rights delegate from nicaragua announced their defection wednesday and accused the sandinista government of torture, keeping political prisoners and rigging the judiciary
ivan villavicencio said he had been an appeals prosecutor in the district of managua, the capital, since march 1983
norman jose miranda, a foreign ministry official for eight years, was an alternative representative at the u.n. human rights commission in geneva during 1985-87 and said he left nicaragua to avoid holding the same post this year
the two men called a news conference to announce their ``resignation,'' timed to coincide with the u.n. commission's annual session
both said they remained sandinista supporters, but were disillusioned with the leftist government's ``deception'' of the nicaraguan people
they said they moved to the united states, where they have family and friends, in the last three months and would resign officially shortly
villavicencio said nicaraguan jails hold 8,600 political prisoners and said torture is used against peasants opposing government policies
he said a ``reprehensible permanent alliance'' exists between police and judicial authorities and judges are pressured to convict on the basis of fabricated charges. the government is pushing a pilot project to hand over the administration of justice to political commissars, he said
miranda said nicaragua is undergoing a ``stalinist social drama.''
he said the nicaraguan delegation at the human rights commission in fact took instructions from delegates of allies, such as cuba
the sandinistas came to power in nicaragua in a 1979 revolution that toppled dictator anastasio somoza. u.s.-backed rebels have been fighting the government since 1981
the decision by gop presidential hopeful pat robertson to seek dismissal of his libel suit against a congressman who questioned his war record calls into play an arcane provision of civil procedure in federal courts
rule 41 governs the dismissal of lawsuits by plaintiffs once the defendant has answered the complaint
a plaintiff can obtain dismissal of the suit voluntarily if he gets a signed stipulation from the defendant
without such a stipulation, as in robertson's lawsuit against former rep. paul n. mccloskey jr., r-calif., the plaintiff can ask for a court-ordered dismissal
robertson's lawyers said wednesday they will ask u.s. district judge joyce hens green to order dismissal of the case under this provision which provides that the case can be dismissed ``upon order of the court and upon such terms and conditions as the court deems proper.''
robertson's lawyer, douglas rigler, said his client expects to be ordered to pay mccloskey's court costs to cover the expenses of taking depositions from witnesses
but rigler said he doesn't believe his client should pay such costs or attorney's fees and he would likely appeal such an order if it were made by u.s. district judge joyce hens green
mccloskey's lawyer, george lehner, says the judge has the discretion to order robertson to pay both his client's court costs and attorney's fees. lehner says if the judge refuses his request to go to trial on tuesday, he will ask her to order robertson to pay both court costs and attorney's fees, which he says total more than $400,000
rigler conceded that an award of attorney's fees is always a possibilty but he said robertson's lawsuit doesn't ``fall within that category of cases'' in which such an award is appropriate
such cases includes lawsuits that are brought in bad faith or to harass the defendant
the judge has already refused to dismiss the case in mccloskey's motion to dismiss the case, ruling that robertson is entitled to go to trial on his charges that he was libeled by the former congressman
robertson charges that mccloskey defamed him by charging he used the political influence of his late father, sen. a. willis robertson, d-va., to avoid combat during the korean war. missile fired wednesday, bringing day's total to eight; picks up 4th graf pvs, ``fear not ... ^by martin marris</note>
iraq and iran battered each other's capitals with long-range missiles for a third day wednesday and the first iraqi rockets of the 7{-year-old war crashed into qom, seat of the iranian religious hierarchy
iran reported no casualties in qom, a holy city of 250,000 where ayatollah ruhollah khomeini once made his home. the 87-year-old revolutionary patriarch has lived for several years in jamaran, a northern tehran suburb
the iraqis said they fired eight surface-to-surface missiles wednesday, two of them into qom, bringing the total for three days to 24. iran said it hit baghdad with three missiles, for a total of eight in the same period
fear not,'' khomeini told iranians in remarks quoted by the official islamic republic news agency. ``it does not make any difference for a people who seek martyrdom whether they are killed by missiles, tanks or artillery.''
both sides reported civilian casualties in their capital cities, and iran said iraqi warplanes also raided a village near rasht 150 miles northeast of tehran. irna said ``several civilians'' were killed wednesday in tehran and bombs destroyed the mosque in the village
baghdad's official iraqi news agency said the iranian rockets killed or wounded civilians and demolished houses and shops in residential neighborhoods of the arab capital, but was not more specifics
iran said wednesday's hits on tehran wounded 15 people, bringing the total to 115. before the general report about casualties in tehran, it had reported 27 killed in the capital and five in the village near rasht
it said casualties included two newlyweds killed in the village and an 80-year-old woman wounded in tehran
western military analysts believe iraq uses soviet-made scud-b missiles fitted with strap-on boosters enabling them to reach tehran, which is 290 miles from the border. qom is roughly the same distance from the frontier
iran's weapons also are scud-bs, provided by its arab allies syria and libya, but without boosters because baghdad is only 80 miles from the border
this week's attacks by iraq are its first on tehran and qom with surface-to-surface missiles. president saddam hussein's government declared in august it had acquired missiles that could reach the iranian capital, a city of 6 million people
the iraqi air force, which has an estimated 8-1 advantage over iran's, has made many raids on iranian cities and bombed qom repeatedly in january 1987
thousands of civilian lives have been lost in the ``war of the cities,'' the periodic rounds of bombing and missile attacks in a conflict that has claimed at least 1 million casualties since it began in september l980
iran said its artillery batteries, in response to the rocketing of tehran, shelled military and economic installations in the iraqi cities of basra, ammara, badra, zorbatiya, ali sharqi and ali gharbi
dispatches from iraq said its warplanes bombed the western iranian town of dezful and karaj, a city near tehran, setting their targets ablaze. iran did not report the raids
iraq said it began the missile barrage of tehran in retaliation for two iranian rockets that hit baghdad before dawn monday. iran described the missiles as a response to iraqi air raids on the tehran oil refinery last week
a group of citizens asked for a ruling wednesday on whether president kurt waldheim's war record warrants murder charges, and waldheim ordered the seizure of a magazine that published the complaint
the left-wing weekly falter printed a text of the complaint by the 300 austrians along with three articles critical of the president, who has been accused of committing war crimes while serving as a german army lieutenant in the balkans during world war ii
under article 63 of austria's constitution, the president cannot be prosecuted unless both houses of parliament approve
waldheim's office said he instructed the state prosecutor's office to impound copies of the magazine on grounds the issue damaged his honor
police said late wednesday they had not yet received a judge's order to act
waldheim says he is innocent of war crimes
walter oswalt, a journalist and spokesman for the group making the complaint, said it was delivered to the prosecutor's office wednesday morning. a spokesman for the office said privacy laws prevented him from confirming such a document was received
gerhard litzka, spokesman for the justice ministry, said prosecutors must investigate any such complaint and tell the ministry whether there are grounds for legal action
as grounds for an investigation of possible charges, the complaint cited a law that says both those who commit crimes and those who assist in them can be held responsible for criminal acts
it quoted extensively from the report last month by an international panel of historians saying waldheim was in ``close proximity'' to nazi atrocities, knew of them and did nothing to stop them. the historians said they found no proof that the former u.n. secretary-general committed war crimes, but left the question of guilt open
waldheim has said the historians exonerated him from the accusations of war crimes which arose during the presidential election campaign two years ago
the complaint also quoted from an interview printed feb. 25 by the munich daily sueddeutsche zeitung with manfred messerschmidt, a west german historian who served on the panel
messerschmidt, who has legal training, said steps could be considered in connection with waldheim's role in the fate of six british commandos executed by the nazis in greece in 1944. prime minister margaret thatcher ordered british authorities last month to reopen an investigation of the case
israeli historian yehuda l. wallach said feb. 9 he thought the panel's report could serve as the basis of an investigation of whether to prosecute waldheim
a national lawyers group wednesday joined a challenge to federal sentencing guidelines that require judges to impose prison terms of particular lengths for certain crimes
the guidelines, established by a congressional commission, violate the constitution's separation of powers doctrine, says a friend-of-the-court brief filed by the national association of criminal defense lawyers
the association joined a challenge filed by assistant federal public defender stewart abrams, who represents a woman with no criminal record who under the guidelines must receive at least 6{ years in prison for smuggling cocaine
a judge may go outside the guidelines, which create a 43-level system of punishment based on the crime and defendant's record, only in extreme cases
u.s. district judge james king, chief of the southern district of florida, said all 15 federal judges in his district will rule together on the matter to avoid discrepancies from courtroom to courtroom. no hearing date has been set
it will be the first time the judges have sat together since they considered the immigration of 125,000 cubans to florida during the 1980 mariel boatlift
the sentencing guidelines have been challenged on constitutional grounds three times in the southern district of california since feb. 18 with different results, said nacdl representative benson b. weintraub
in the test case, beverly bogle, 21, was arrested after her arrival at miami international airport from jamaica on nov. 11 with 1.9 kilograms of cocaine she was carrying for someone else, abrams said
she was not profiting from it,'' he said. ``she was doing it for a person she perceived to be a friend.''
ms. bogle pleaded guilty to importing cocaine and has been jailed while awaiting sentencing march 25
under the anti-drug abuse act of 1986, congress set a minimum sentence of five years in prison for the offense
however, the u.s. sentencing commission, created in 1984, set a guideline ranging from six years and seven months to eight years and one month in prison for the crime, abrams said. the guidelines apply to crimes committed after nov. 1
in ms. bogle's case, the federal probation office wants to use the commission's guidelines, abrams said
note that a0885, am-robertson-libel, 2nd ld-writethru, makes an important correction. robertson's lawyer did not say the candidate is ready to pay court costs
the ap</head> with new campeau offer; adds 3 grafs to update with federated chairman announcing plans to retire, $3 million `golden parachute' and to add four largest retailers.</note>
version moving on business wire
federated department stores inc. on wednesday chose r.h. macy &amp; co. over a rival suitor, agreeing to a marriage that would put famous retailers such as macy, bloomingdale's and bullock's under one enormous corporate roof
a rejected campeau corp. said it would proceed with its bid for federated, the nation's fifth largest retailer
federated said in a joint statement with macy, the nation's 10th largest general retail concern, that the two companies had signed a definitive agreement to create a new company, macy's-federated inc
macy operates 96 stores in 14 states, while federated has 650 stores _ including bloomingdale's, bullocks and filene's _ in 36 states
federated's choice of macy over campeau came as no surprise
analysts noted that the macy bid offered federated the opportunity for future growth, while campeau would bring with it a history of having bought and broken up allied stores corp
no matter who ends up controlling federated, the new owner is expected to sell its gold circle discount stores and ralphs supermarkets
several of federated's department store chains, which include burdine's, i. magnin., rich's, abraham &amp; straus and lazarus, also are expected to be sold after a purchase by either macy or campeau
abraham and straus and rich's were considered likely candidates for a sale by macy, because they are direct competitors with macy stores in new york and atlanta, respectively
the agreement provides for macy to begin a cash tender offer of $74.50 a share for about 80 percent of federated's 89.6 million outstanding shares, or a total of $5.25 billion, the companies said
the remaining federated shares would be exchanged for stock in the new company
federated's current management would have a strong voice in the new company, filling 40 percent of the seats on its board of directors
campeau, a toronto-based real estate developer and retailer, through its allied stores division, owns the jordan marsh, stern's, ann taylor and maas brothers chains
the retailer said in a statement that macy's bid was ``not competitive and we intend to prevail in the marketplace.''
late wednesday, campeau said it was amending its previously announced $66 cash tender offer. it said it would pay $75 per share in cash for 80 percent of federated's shares, and after a merger would pay $44 per share for the remaining 20 percent
campeau said its latest proposal, which was to expire march 15, had a combined value of $68 per share and a total value of $6.1 billion
the amended campeau bid was announced after the close of trading on the new york stock exchange, where federated stock fell $1 a share to $66.75
earlier, campeau repeated a charge that the macy offer was highly speculative because of the unknown value of the stock. macy is currently privately held, and it is difficult to know how much its shares are worth
wall street analysts said they found it hard to predict what shareholders would do, given the problem of putting a value on the stock portion of the offer
if you don't know that, it's really tough to figure out which is a better deal,'' said joseph ronning, a retail industry analyst with brown brothers harriman &amp; co
macy's bid, which came to light monday, was originally for $73.80 a share in cash plus stock, but the offer was increased before the agreement was reached
macy was taken private by a management group in a $3.6 billion leveraged buyout in 1986. its stores rang up $5.21 billion in sales during the fiscal year ended last aug. 1
federated chairman howard goldfeder said at a news conference wednesday he would resign after helping macy chairman edward finkelstein implement the merger
goldfeder said he expects to be paid $3.06 million when he leaves the company under a ``golden parachute'' approved by federated's directors. similar departure payments are due other top federated officers
the nation's four largest retailers are sears, roebuck and co., with $30.21 billion in sales during fiscal 1987; k mart corp., $25.63 billion; wal-mart stores inc., $15.96 billion, and j.c. penney co. _ $13.98 billion
here are the latest unofficial returns in the democratic races for the u.s. senate

157 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 10 percent

kaufman, 234,567 - 12 percent
sarbanes, (i) 234,567 - 12 percent
sweatt, 234,567 - 12 percent

186 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 10 percent

dowdy, 234,567 - 12 percent
fountain, 234,567 - 12 percent
molpus, 234,567 - 12 percent

686 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bentsen, (i) 234,567 - 12 percent
sullivan, 234,567 - 12 percent 0462</first> ...'' to update with volkswagen comment and adds 1 graf at end with additional volkswagen comment.</note>
federal regulators' failure to require volkswagen of america to make public reports of sudden acceleration in audi 5000 cars appears to be a case of intentional deception, a new york congressman said wednesday
rep. george hochbrueckner, d-n.y., in letter to the national highway traffic safety administration and volkswagen, demanded the documents be turned over to congress, bypassing the agency responsible for the audi investigation
as a result of nhtsa's apparent cooperation with (volkswagen), the public has been denied the opportunity to study significant evidence which might highlight the ineffectiveness of a shift-lock device in the audi 5000 to curtail sudden acceleration incidents,'' hochbrueckner wrote. ``i find this deceptive behavior a shocking departure from the established practices in these matters.''
nhtsa in january 1987 ordered a recall of 255,336 1978-86 audi 5000s for installation of a device to fix reported throttle problems on the cars
the agency has received 1,750 complaints of alleged sudden acceleration in audi 5000s, resulting in 1,269 accidents, 430 injuries and five deaths
hochbrueckner said nhtsa requested the incident reports in june 1987. however, the documents were never turned over to nhtsa, which instead received summaries from vw, hochbrueckner said, calling the arrangement unprecedented
volkswagen issued a statement in response saying that ``nhtsa has not given us any special concessions, neither have we been relieved of any of the burden of responding to the agencies' requests for information.''
a nhtsa memorandum filed in the audi case said that at vw's request, ``the source documents were reviewed by (nhtsa) personnel and the summaries were found to be accurate summations of the very bulky source documents.''
an nhtsa official said wednesday there had been other instances in which the agency had requested summaries of complaints rather than the complaints themselves. the official, speaking only on condition he not be named, was unable to say how common the practice was
volkswagen's spokesman at its u.s. headquarters in troy, mich., joseph bennett, did not return calls for comment
hochbrueckner asked volkswagen to give congress all the owner reports, consumer complaints, surveys, investigations, field reports or other sources ``received or authorized by volkswagen, or of which volkswagen is otherwise aware'' during and after the recall
congress has no power to compel the documents be turned over, said andy kennedy, an aide to hochbrueckner
volkswagen said it ``will comply with congressman hockbreuchner's request for the data by making available to him all the data which we furnished to nhtsa on the same schedule.''
leftist guerrillas killed 14 people in three raids this week, part of the rebels' biggest offensive yet in colombia, authorities and news accounts said wednesday
about 100 rebels attacked pelaya town, about 250 miles north of bogota, on tuesday night, alfredo araujo said in a broadcast interview with the colombian radio chain rcn
araujo, administrative assistant to the cesar state government office, said the attackers stormed a police station, killed two officers and injured five people
the daily el tiempo of bogota reported that leftist guerrillas murdered eight peasants tuesday in the santa marta mountains in northern colombia
el tiempo quoted peasants there as saying the pro-soviet colombian revolutionary armed forces killed the eight for refusing to cooperate with the rebels
the santa marta mountains are on colombia's caribbean coast
araujo said that last sunday the national liberation army, or eln, attacked san jeronimo, another town in cesar state, and killed four ranchers for refusing to pay what the guerrillas call a revolution tax
the guerrillas also gathered townspeople in the town square and exhorted them not to vote in the march 13 nationwide mayoral elections
in the first two months of 1988 rebels kidnapped 14 mayors, attacked a dozen towns, killed 31 soldiers, 28 police and 80 other people, blew up oil pipelines and electricity cable towers and attacked oil company drilling camps
two of the mayors _ luis alberto gonzalez of pitalito and anibal pena of san agustin _ were freed in army attacks friday on guerrilla encampments near the southern town of san agustin, the defense ministry said
san agustin is popular with foreign tourists because of the many pre-columbian statues in an archaeological park there
the mayors were kidnapped feb. 25 by the national liberation army, which freed 12 mayors previously after telling them to do more for poor people in their districts
political violence has been worst in southern caqueta state, where 40 local leaders of the governing liberal party were killed in the last three months
party leaders said the rebels were trying to terrorize it into withdrawing from mayoral elections so the leftist patriotic union party will win
antonio serrano duarte, a congressman from the state, was shot and wounded tuesday night in florencia, the state capital, national police said in a communique. it said serrano was out of danger in a hospital
there are five leftist guerrilla groups in colombia
three members of the patriotic union party were murdered in caqueta state in the last month. right-wing death squads were blamed for killing nearly 500 of the party's workers in the last two years
it's not always the big names in the music business who capture the coveted grammy award as wednesday night's announcement of first-time winners showed: actor jack nicholson, veteran rocker frank zappa, ex-righteous brother bill medley and the south african vocal group, ladysmith black mambazo
first of all i thank god and then paul simon,'' said joseph shabalala, ladysmith's lead singer. the group performed on simon's breakthrough ``graceland'' lp, and simon produced the group's ``shaka zulu'' album which won for best traditional folk recording
nicholson won his grammy for best recording for children for his narration of ``the elephant's child.'' the actor was not at radio city music hall to accept the award bestowed by the national academy of recording arts &amp; sciences
joining him in the winner's circle for the first time was medley, who thanked god for his ``nine lives'' in the music business
i've waited 26 years for this,'' said the bass singer after winning best pop vocal performance by a duo or group for ``(i've had) the time of my life,'' a song he did with jennifer warnes
zappa defeated his son, dweezil, earning his first grammy _ for best rock instrumental performance _ after a career spanning more than two decades. bruce springsteen was also a runner-up to zappa in the category
the awards, announced off-camera prior to the televised show, also included a posthumous first-time grammy for reggae star peter tosh, who was murdered in his jamaica home last year
it is so unfair that peter tosh is not here. he deserved this very much,'' said his cousin pauline burgess, who accepted the award
professor longhair, the new orleans piano player, also won his first grammy with ``houseparty new orleans style,'' which won as best traditional blues recording
the union representing 6,700 northwest airlines flight attendants instructed members wednesday to begin a slowdown by doing everything by the book
the attendants have remained on the job since a deadline for a new contract passed friday
keep them busy, keep them guessing, keep them confused,'' jeff musto, a spokesman for teamsters local 2747, said in a recorded message on the union hotline
remember you have to have all luggage stowed before you can give permission to close the front boarding door. i think you get the idea,'' he said
northwest spokesman redmond tyler said the airline operated normally wednesday. ``we have seen no evidence of any disruption or attempt at disruption,'' he said
no talks are scheduled. the main stumbling block to a contract is a company proposal to delay the promotion of lower-paid workers to the higher bracket
linda mcmahon, operations manager for the five aaa travel agency offices in minneapolis, said she had not noticed any effect on business or service from slowdown tactics
i haven't heard any specific complaints at this point. i was certainly apprehensive when i heard about the `guerrilla warfare' this morning. everything seems to be going pretty much as usual,'' ms. mcmahon said
the threat of a strike has not deterred many travelers from flying northwest, she said
a lot of times there isn't comparable service on another carrier. they will take their chances that northwest will be operating because they want to fly non-stop,'' ms. mcmahon said
many business travelers are making alternate arrangements in case of a strike, but vacationers who bought discount tickets in advance have little recourse, she said
the unions representing the pilots and machinists, who are trying to negotiate separate contracts, have not said whether they would honor flight attendants' picket lines. picks up 13th graf pvs bgng, `the restoration'</note>
the house overwhelmingly passed a landmark civil rights bill wednesday that would broaden protections for women, minorities, the elderly and the handicapped, but president reagan has vowed to veto the measure
the civil rights restoration act, considered by many lawmakers the most significant civil rights measure in 20 years, was sent to the white house on a 315-98 vote. the senate passed it by an equally lopsided 75-14 vote in january
both chambers passed the bill by the two-thirds margin needed to override a presidential veto, but it was unclear whether the huge margins would hold up following reagan's vow wednesday to reject the measure
the restoration act was designed to reverse a 1984 supreme court decision that narrowed the scope of four major civil rights laws meant to prevent taxpayer financing of discrimination
supporters of the act said hundreds of discrimination complaints had been dropped or restricted since the decision
we have suffered far too long in waiting for this great and important day,'' said rep. john conyers, d-mich
in letters delivered wednesday to several house republicans, reagan said flatly he will veto the measure ``if it is presented to me in its current form.''
in the letters, sent from brussels, belgium, where reagan is attending a nato summit, the president said the bill ``dramatically expands the scope of federal jurisdiction over state and local governments and the private sector'' and ``poses a particular threat to religious liberty.''
in the case brought by grove city (pa.) college, the supreme court held in a 6-3 opinion that title ix _ a law barring sex discrimination in federally funded education programs _ applies only to specific programs or activities receiving federal assistance and not the institutions of which they are part
the restoration act clarifies that entire institutions and government agencies are covered if any program or activity within them receives federal aid. the broad coverage also applies to the private sector if the aid goes to a corporation as a whole or if the recipient principally provides education, health care, housing, social services or parks and recreation
the bill also says farmers getting crop subsidies, people on food stamps and other individuals receiving federal assistance are not required to comply with the anti-discrimination statutes
sponsors of the restoration act said congress always intended broad civil rights protections on the theory that ``those who dip their hands in the public till should not object if a little democracy sticks to their fingers,'' as rep. augustus hawkins, d-calif., put it
but opponents claim the bill goes far beyond restoration. like reagan, they complained that it is too intrusive into the private sector and religious organizations
the wording of the law is going to bring about unintended consequences like you could never imagine,'' said rep. george gekas, r-pa
house leaders provoked controversy by bringing the senate's version of the civil rights bill directly to the floor wednesday, bypassing house committees and limiting amendments to one gop substitute for the entire bill
we need a voting rights act for congressmen,'' sputtered rep. henry hyde, r-ill
but other members said there had been more than 40 committee hearings on the grove city bill since 1984. hawkins, chairman of the house education and labor committee and a senior member of the congressional black caucus, said 2,500 amendments had been offered over the years
all the compromises that can possibly be made have already been made. certainly all the ideas that could ever have been thought of have already been expressed,'' said hawkins. ``the time (to act) is now.''
the gop substitute, sponsored by rep. james sensenbrenner, r-wis., would have limited the bill's impact on corporations and allowed more educational institutions to escape compliance with the sex discrimination ban on religious grounds
sensenbrenner said he offered it in ``a spirit of reconciliation'' to end the four-year congressional ordeal over the bill. but it was defeated 266-146
an anti-abortion amendment adopted by the senate says nothing in the bill or in existing law requires institutions to perform or pay for abortions. the amendment invalidates 1975 regulations that bar discrimination against women who have had abortions or sought them and require college health plans to treat abortions like other temporary disabilities
feminists considered the amendment a setback but did not actively oppose the civil rights bill in the house. the national right-to-life committee called the amendment a great victory, saying wednesday that ``congress has emphatically rejected the legal doctrine that anti-abortion policies are a form of sex discrimination.''
the restoration act applies to the four civil rights laws affected by the supreme court ruling: title ix of the 1972 education amendments, barring sex discrimination in federally funded education programs; the 1964 civil rights act, barring racial discrimination in federally-assisted programs; the 1973 rehabilitation act, barring discrimination against the handicapped in any program or activity receiving federal aid; and the 1975 age discrimination act, barring employment discrimination against older people
the house passed the restoration act in similar form on a vote of 375-32 in 1984, shortly after the court decision. the bill was bottled up in a senate committee until last year. update with ministers reaching compromise on statement on short-range missiles. picks up 5th graf pvs bgng: according to ...</note>
nato leaders on wednesday demanded huge cutbacks in warsaw pact tanks and artillery that ``cast a shadow'' over europe, and endorsed president reagan's efforts to negotiate strategic arms reductions with the soviet union
defining strategy for a new set of east-west negotiations, nato leaders said soviet conventional forces pose the threat of a surprise attack and must be slashed to rectify an imbalance in military strength
the soviet cutbacks would entail, for example, ``the elimination from europe of tens of thousands of warsaw pact weapons relevant to surprise attack, among them tanks and artillery pieces,'' a nato communique said
meeting behind closed doors at alliance's heavily guarded headquarters, the leaders of the 16 alliance countries attempted to accentuate agreement. they did not want to highlight differences about the pace of modernizing short-range nuclear missiles left in europe after the elimination of longer-range weapons covered by a new u.s.-soviet arms treaty
british sources speaking on condition of anonymity said nato foreign ministers late wednesday agreed on compromise language for a final declaration thursday on the modernization issue
the summit participants will call for the short-range nuclear missiles to ``continue to be kept up-to-date where necessary,'' the sources said, a statement that avoids the word ``modernization,'' to which west germany objects
according to his spokesman, reagan quoted benjamin franklin, telling the nato leaders, ``if we do not all hang together, we will assuredly hang separately.''
security was so strict that a nato guard attempted to eject a reporter who asked reagan a question as the leaders posed for a ``family photo.''
emphasizing alliance unity, reagan said, ``there are no great fundamental differences there. i have never seen such harmony and togetherness as we have.''
reagan mixed nato summitry with middle east peace efforts. he ordered secretary of state george p. shultz to make a whirlwind return to the middle east after the summit windup thursday night to continue his efforts to set up arab-israeli peace talks
first, shultz will stop in london to see jordan's king hussein, and on friday will visit israel, egypt and syria, returning to washington early saturday morning
the nato meeting is the alliance's first summit since 1982
accompanied by their foreign ministers, the leaders gathered at a long, walnut-brown oval table in a conference room shortly after noon to hear an opening statement by lord carrington, nato's secretary general
for a minute or so, carrington's remarks were obscured by a loud hum on the translation earphones, causing foreign officials and their aides to pull the earplugs out briefly and switch channels for a clearer sound
carrington said reagan's effort to secure a 50 percent cut in u.s. and soviet long-range missiles ``has the alliance's full support.''
he spoke of soviet leader mikhail gorbachev as a man ``who is ready to reduce some tensions'' but expressed concern about the kremlin's military might and ``the denial of basic human rights and freedom to the peoples of eastern europe and the soviet union.''
the leaders held nearly three hours of formal talks, in addition to a luncheon and dinner, and issued a communique demanding that the soviet union reduce its advantage in conventional, or non-nuclear forces
the document highlights an issue of broad agreement within the western alliance _ directing the focus away from west germany's reluctance to move ahead with an alliance decision to modernize short-range nuclear weapons
west germany, which is most threatened by short-range weapons, is pressing for talks with the soviets to reduce the kremlin's large edge in those weapons
most of the other nato leaders _ including the united states and britain _ oppose such talks now, fearing they could lead to demands for eliminating all of the weapons, leaving europe exposed to the soviets' superior conventional forces
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said most of the leaders, in their private remarks, touched on the issue of modernizing the short-range weapons. ``everybody has some feelings about that issue, some more supportive than others.''
a white house official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said west german chancellor helmut kohl spoke most directly on the issue, but that even his remarks were muted
on the question of conventional forces, there is no dispute in nato that the warsaw pact has an advantage: about 3-to-1 in tanks and artillery and nearly 2-to-1 in combat aircraft and troops, including reserves in the soviet union. moscow contends that east-west conventional forces are roughly equivalent
lt. gen. colin powell, reagan's national security adviser, said the conventional arms negotiations ``will perhaps be more difficult than any of the nuclear arms talks that have been held so far because we're talking about large asymmetries, we're talking about a large imbalance between our forces and those of the warsaw pact.''
reagan repeatedly denied there were any differences in the talks, but powell, in an interview with nbc-tv, suggested otherwise
he said that with 16 leaders, ``certainly there will be differences and there will be heated debate and discussion from time to time
however, powell said ``there was a sense of unity that was overwhelming
and any minor dispute that might exist, or some of the debates that are going on as to how one should characterize the modernization issue (with short-range nuclear forces), pales in comparison to the overall sense of unity that was conveyed at the meeting today,'' he said
in a six-page statement on conventional forces, the nato leaders said:
the soviet union's military presence in europe, at a level far in excess of its needs for self-defense, directly challenges our security as well as our hopes for change in the political situation in europe
thus, the conventional imbalance in europe remains at the core of europe's security concerns.''
the document sets the stage for negotiations to begin in earnest this fall in vienna, austria, with representatives of the warsaw pact consisting of the soviet union and six east european allies
our aim will be to establish a situation in europe in which force postures as well as the numbers of deployments and weapons systems no longer make surprise attack and large-scale offensive action a feasible option,'' the nato statement said
the new set of negotiations would replace 15 years of talks that have failed to produce agreement. nato wants the new talks to encompass the full european area, from the atlantic to the ural mountains, whereas the old talks were limited to the central front. ...'' to update with d'amato, kerry meeting with opposition leaders.</note>
the united states is taking legal action to prevent panama's military-dominated regime from withdrawing panamanian government funds from u.s. banks, a lawyer representing opposition forces said wednesday
meanwhile, assistant secretary of state elliott abrams raised the possibility that the united states will withhold the next payment due to panama for tolls, fees and services for panama canal operations
the two developments indicated reagan administration interest in accelerating a campaign of economic denial against the panamanian regime, dominated by the chief of the panamanian defense forces, gen. manuel antonio noriega
william d. rogers, a lawyer for ousted panamanian president eric arturo delvalle, told a news conference about the alleged u.s. effort to freeze panamanian government funds deposited in american banks
although no firm figures were available, $50 million was said to be involved
the state department had no comment on the reported action, but other officials, speaking only on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the measures outlined by rogers were being taken
asked about the u.s. position on that issue, abrams told the cable news network, ``we know who the legitimate government of panama is. if the government of president delvalle says to american banks, don't pay money to noriega, then all those banks are going to come to the state department and say, `who's got the authority here? noriega or delvalle?'
we're going to answer that question. delvalle is president of panama. and noriega has been fired and he does not have legitimate authority here.''
rogers, of the arnold &amp; porter law firm, said the administration action was being carried out to ensure that the banks may make disbursements only to the panamanian ambassador who served under delvalle, juan b. sosa. delvalle was ousted last week after he tried to fire noriega and has been in hiding in panama
rogers said the state department was issuing ``formal certifications'' that it regards sosa as ``the accredited representative of the recognized government of the country.''
state department deputy spokeswoman phyllis oakley said only that such certifications were being prepared. she declined to specify their purpose
at issue is the status of panamanian government deposits at five american banks. the attempt by sosa and his allies to prevent the transfer of these funds to the new panamanian government is part of an ambitious plan of economic warfare aimed at toppling noriega
delvalle was forced out last week after noriega, under federal indictment on drug smuggling charges, ignored delvalle's attempt to replace him
rogers said the banks believed to have panamanian government deposits are marine midland na, irving trust co., bankers trust co., the republic national bank and the bank of boston
every dime we can find is in those banks,'' rogers said. he added that any bank which ignores the order could be liable for whatever payments it makes to the current panamanian government
marine midland and irving trust refused comment on the purported state department action. another new york banking source, insisting on anonymity, questioned the legitimacy of the effort to block transfers of funds
sosa said the state department is seriously considering withholding from panama the next payment, due march 15, of the fees the united states gives panama for use of the panama canal. he estimated that figure at $8 million, but other sources said it was closer to $7 million
mrs. oakley confirmed that a request from the delvalle government to put the funds in escrow had been received and that the state department was consulting with other agencies on how to proceed
abrams indicated that no such request had been received but that the united states would respond positively if asked
if they ask us to pay the canal payments into a different account or delay it, i think we'd do that. we'd respond to president delvalle
if he tells us he doesn't want that money going to noriega, then we're not going to give it to noriega.''
several members of the house merchant marine committee, which has jurisdiction over the panama canal, called on president reagan to withhold the payment and threatened to legislate that step if he refuses to go along
rep. billy tauzin, d-la., said, ``they (the panamanian authorities) are in dire need of funds. if this payment is denied to them, the noriega regime will have great difficulty maintaining itself.''
the legislators said nearly $80 million a year is paid to panama by the united states under terms of the panama canal treaties
in new york, lawyers for delvalle sued in federal court to block the republic national bank from turning over millions of dollars to the new panamanian government
the lawsuit was dropped after the bank agreed to transfer the money, estimated at $10 million, to the federal reserve bank for safekeeping
in related matters wednesday:
_sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y. said the cia is conducting an internal investigation into allegations that it was the source of personal and political information on u.s. senators forwarded to noriega
the allegations of the cia-noriega link were first made at a congressional hearing last month by jose i. blandon, a former top panamanian intelligence official. u.s. law prohibits the cia from engaging in domestic spying on american citizens
two officials who identified themselves as being with the spy agency's office of the inspector general interviewed blandon last week, d'amato said
_ after meeting at the capitol with panamanian opposition political leaders, d'amato and sen. john kerry, d-mass., said they will offer on the senate floor on thursday ``a progressive plan of increased economic pressure'' against the noriega regime
ricardo arias calderon, president of panama's christian democratic party, said the campaign to restore democracy will prevail by combining ``peaceful people power'' in panama, international public opinion and ``the growing economic pressure that is being exercised on the illegitimate regime of gen. noriega.''
_financial experts in miami said billions of dollars in bank deposits have been taken out of panama for safer havens in the wake of noriega's drug indictment in miami last month
this certainly has destabilized panama as a banking center,'' said gonzalo valdes-fauli, senior vice president and manager of the miami office of london-based barclay's bank
one unidentified top banking expert told the miami herald that from june to october, panamanian banks lost $7 billion of the $36 billion they held. panama in the 1980s had come to be known as the switzerland of latin america, offering banking secrecy and stability to the region's investors and depositors
unlike other countries, panama cannot cover its cash shortages by printing new money becuase the dollar is the national currency
a 7-year-old born with no external eyes underwent surgery wednesday in another of a series of operations to create eyelids and sockets and allow her to see
dilek erdogan of turkey was born with a nose and a mouth, ``and that's it for her face,'' said dr. allen putterman, who performed the surgery at the university of illinois hospital eye and ear infirmary. her eyes are below the skin
dilek's left eye, which will always be sightless, will be replaced with an artifical one, but doctors hope to enable her see out of her right eye, putterman said
in august, putterman slit the skin over her right eye and placed a temporary insert between the skin and the eye to create some space around the eyeball. he then sewed the slit closed
on wednesday, he reopened the slit and began forming an eyelid. putterman said he also began the insertion procedure on the left eye
dilek was bought to this country for treatment more than a year ago
thunderstorms pounded oklahoma, arkansas and northern texas on wednesday, while snow fell from the rockies and the plains to michigan
more than a half-inch of rain fell during a half-hour in fort worth and aledo, texas, and flash-flood watches were posted over west-central and southwest arkansas, southern oklahoma, and northwest texas
colorado got heavy snow tuesday night and wednesday morning, with 10 inches reported near rockport, 7 near new raymer and 6 near wellington. up to 4 inches of snow fell wednesday in parts of nevada, new mexico, wyoming, upper michigan, nebraska, kansas, the texas panhandle
rain fell across parts of kansas, missouri, oklahoma, eastern texas, arkansas, tennessee, kentucky, indiana, ohio and pennsylvania
snowfall during the 6 hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 3 inches at denver and 2 inches at cheyenne, wyo. heavier rainfall during the same period included 1.20 inches at fort sill, okla., .86 inch at gage, okla., .75 inch at altus, okla., .65 inch at waco, texas, .60 at wichita falls, texas, and .59 at dallas
temperatures at 2 p.m. est ranged from 10 degrees at baudette, minn., to 83 degrees at fort myers southwest regional airport in florida. the morning low was 9 degrees below zero at massena, n.y
thursday's forecast called for rain along the oregon coast, rain and occasional thunderstorms from southeast arizona across texas, most of the southeast, the ohio valley and from the middle-atlantic states to southern new york, snow over the lower great lakes and cloudy skies over the upper great lakes, new england and the northern rockies
high temperatures were expected to reach the 20s and 30s from new england across the great lakes, the upper mississippi valley, the eastern half of the dakotas and the texas panhandle, the 40s and 50s from new jersey across the virginias, the ohio valley, from central missouri across arkansas, over the remainder of the northern and central plains, oklahoma and northern texas, the rockies, the northern plateau, the great basin and the pacific northwest, the 80s across southern texas and much of florida and the 60s and 70s elsewhere. updating with shamir comments attacking jordan. picks up 25th graf pvs, the haaretz ...</note>
israeli troops fired tear gas inside an arab hospital wednesday, forcing doctors to don gas masks and sending dozens of choking patients fleeing with their faces covered by arab headdresses
soldiers clubbed a palestinian teen-ager suspected of throwing rocks at troops from a barricade erected about 10 yards from the hospital's emergency room
an associated press photographer saw soldiers throw the youth head first down a flight of stairs, then sit on his stomach while beating him with a wooden truncheon
troops detained 20 arabs suspected of participating in demonstrations in ramallah, israel radio said
president reagan, meanwhile, ordered secretary of state george p. shultz to return to the middle east on thursday for further talks with arab and israeli leaders
in jerusalem, police detained 27 israeli students from the bezalel art school after their parade for the jewish holiday of purim turned into a protest against the israeli handling of unrest in the territories
defense minister yitzhak rabin defended israel's policy of using blows to subdue arab protesters, saying that of several thousand soldiers serving in the occupied territories, only 2 percent to 3 percent had commited excesses, the itim news agency reported
as a matter of policy, the army does not release exact figures on troop deployment
in ramallah, eight miles north of jerusalem, soldiers fired at least six tear gas canisters at palestinian protesters who used rocks and twisted metal to block a street outside government-run ramallah hospital and hurled stones at a dozen soldiers
one smoking canister landed in the emergency room reception area and a second in a hospital courtyard
two doctors donned gas masks and others held onions to their noses to counter the effects of the gas. about 30 coughing patients, including old men with canes, used arab headdresses to cover their faces
even the doctors couldn't breathe, so imagine the effects on the patients inside, many of whom are seriously ill,'' said one doctor, who declined to identify himself
soldiers detained three youths outside the hospital, dragging away one of them with a gash on his forehead and a blood-drenched shoulder
the tear gas attack was the second on the hospital in two days. on tuesday, three soldiers burst into the hospital, fired tear gas and struck two doctors with their rifles as they searched for demonstrators, the hospital director said
an army spokesman denied soldiers entered the hospital or beat doctors in tuesday's incident
palestinian protesters have used hospitals, schools and sacred mosques as hideouts to elude arrest and as staging grounds for anti-israeli riots, according to israeli officials and eyewitnesses
also in ramallah wednesday, police briefly detained three italian legislators who chained themselves to electric poles outside a refugee camp and distributed anti-occupation leaflets, israel radio said
in the gaza strip, palestinian organizers permitted merchants to open their stores for three hours a day following a three-month commercial strike, an arab reporter said
but the army forced the stores to remain closed, saying storekeepers were being intimidated, and the army would only permit them to resume business when they did it of their own free will. in the past, soldiers repeatedly tried to force stores to open to break the strike
on the diplomatic front, right-wing legislators said jordan's king hussein had gone back on previous understandings with israel by insisting the palestine liberation organization be involved in peace talks
king hussein says the plo must be involved in the peace process and he wants a full-scale international conference,'' likud legislator dan meridor, a close aide to prime minister yitzhak shamir, told israel television. ``if that's progress, i don't know what going backward is.''
foreign minister shimon peres agreed the plo should not be included in talks
shamir himself on wednesday accused jordan of siding with ``the most extreme elements in the arab world'' and said the ultimate goal of all arab leaders was to destroy israel
he spoke to members of the conference of presidents of major american jewish organizations
the haaretz daily reported that, in order to prevent excesses by soldiers, the army decided troops should not serve in the occupied territories for more than 1{ months at a time
the newspaper said the army believed frustration and anger built up during more than two months of serving in the territories had caused four soldiers photographed by cbs news to beat two bound arabs with stones last week
shamir said he was considering further restrictions on media access in the occupied territories, saying journalists have harmed israel. he did not say what steps he might take. soldiers now are authorized to temporarily close parts of the occupied territories to reporters
shamir also called on american jewish leaders to quell any criticism of israel within their ranks, saying it was ``non-jewish to join an anti-israeli front of non-jewish people.''
republican presidential hopeful bob dole implied wednesday there was a connection between vice president george bush's tenure as head of the central intelligence agency and speculation that panamanian strong man manuel antonio noriega was on the cia payroll. that drew a sharp response from bush
dole appeared with a dancing pineapple before a crowd of about 300 at a windy, rain-threatened rally in downtown new orleans
at least twice dole implied that bush, who was head of the cia from 1976-77, might have had some dealings with noriega
there's some evidence (noriega) was on the cia payroll as far back as 1966. that's all i know,'' dole said. he would not discuss what the evidence was or what he knew
bush, campaigning in baton rouge, la., criticized dole for bringing up the subject
i find it amazing that a united states senator will talk about cia matters. i took an oath of office to protect sources and methods of intelligence and i would never discuss anything i was doing at the cia that would affect the national security,'' bush said
there has been one charge after another in this campaign and i have just decided not to respond to mr. dole's charges.''
however, bush pointed to noriega's recent indictment on federal drug charges
i would point out that it's the reagan-bush administration under which mr. noriega is being indicted in florida for drugs.''
dole has grown increasingly critical of bush in the final days before the super tuesday round of caucuses and primaries in which the vice president has a comfortable lead
i need to convince a lot of people in the next few days there's only one candidate tough enough to do the job, and that candidate's bob dole,'' dole said
dole said if elected he would force his desire for a line-item veto into the courts
when the appropriations bill comes down, i'd line-item veto a few things ... and send it back to congress. then we'd have a constitutional question,'' dole said, which would throw the issue into the courts
if congress won't approve a balanced budget amendment, dole said he would go to the american people and call a constitutional convention to get one
dole also pledged to support american interests in the panama canal zone after the year 2000, when the united states is supposed to turn over control of the canal to the central american country
i sure am glad i voted against the panama canal treaty. that vote looks better every day,'' he said. ...'' to update with customs service to seize passports.</note>
two big obstacles in the war on drugs are low-level bureaucrats who don't have their hearts in the effort and an overbearing congress, two top administration officials contended wednesday
attorney general edwin meese iii, one of four cabinet officials appearing on a nine-member administration panel at the white house conference on a drug-free america, asserted there is no problem of leadership at the top
he called for more state and local financial assistance, less congressional meddling and more determination by federal employees to get with the programs outlined by their superiors
responding to written questions submitted by some of the estimated 2,000 people attending the conference, meese said there is no need for a federal drug czar to coordinate the battle
i thik this idea has been so discredited there is nobody that really believes in that any more,'' he said. ``what has happened is there is a drug czar in the united states, and that is the president of the united states.''
meese acknowledged that with several different agencies involved ``you're going to have differences of opinion,'' but he said there are mechanisms for resolving interagency disputes and that he is ``not worried about the organizational aspects.''
however, he continued: ``i am extremely concerned about the fragmentation that goes on in congress, the fact that we have 32 different committees in the congress with cognizance over the drug problem so that too many of the leaders who are seated on the stage here are spending their time testifying in front of congressional committees instead of leading the forces that ought to be out in the field working on the drug problem.''
william von raab, commissioner of the u.s. customs service, said too many bureaucrats lack enthusiasm for fighting the drug war
i have been flat out told by many bureaucrats that just because the president is supporting an effort it doesn't mean that money goes with it,'' he said. ``we don't need a bunch of bureaucrats that will deal with this war on drugs the way they dealt with the war in vietnam. we need heart in this effort ....''
there are still too many people who work for us _ in my organization as well _ who still have their noses too deeply buried in their old books,'' the customs chief said. ``these are the conscientious objectors, the shirkers and the fourth columnists in this war.''
meese associated himself with those remarks, but neither he nor von raab identified the people they were talking about
responding to another question, meese discounted any implication that he does not favor continued federal financing for federal drug treatment programs. but he said state and local officials need to do more
von raab said that starting march 15, the customs service will begin taking the passports of americans who try to re-enter the country with drugs. the passports are to be seized as evidence of a crime and forwarded to the state department, said customs service spokesman edward kittredge
among the other administration participants at the congressionally ordered conference was education secretary william bennett, who embraced the long-simmering idea of making more use of u.s. military forces to interdict the flow of drugs into the united states
as the greatest military and economic power in the world, we can do more to prevent criminals in foreign nations from growing or processing illegal drugs,'' bennett said
it is to be hoped we can do this in collaboration with foreign governments, but if need be we must consider doing this by ourselves,'' he said. ``and we should consider broader use of military force against both the production and shipment of drugs.''
congress has considered legislation since 1983 to authorize military intervention against drug shipments. the measure has passed the house in one form or another on three occasions, but has never passed the senate
the latest congressional action on the issue called for the general accounting office to study the impact on military readiness of having the defense department play a lead role in the anti-drug effort
during wednesday's session, new york mayor edward i. koch was rebuffed when he attempted to ask a question about the role of the military in the drug war from the floor rather than submit it in writing as others were required to do
what i saw was a lot of back-scratching,'' koch said later of the preceedings. ``it is incredible ... that they would stifle debate and not allow questions from the floor. it is a disservice to the mission.''
but koch, who said he was speaking for the u.s. conference of mayors, told reporters he liked what he heard from bennett and von raab _ especially the idea of using military forces against foreign drug dealers
we'll take care of the communists later,'' he said. ``they're not now seeking to invade the united states. it's the drug dealers.'' 8 grafs with hawaii endorsements</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis fulfilled a boyhood ambition wednesday as he detoured from the beaten political campaign trail to make a pilgrimage to the boston red sox spring training camp
he didn't forget politics, also making a speech at a florida high school, celebrating his victory in tuesday's non-binding vermont primary and crowing in miami that ``we must be coming on strong folks'' when told that republican candidate george bush had criticized him in another southern state
bush, in mississippi, said dukakis wanted to reduce the number of navy battleships, which bush called a ``dumb idea.''
we'll have a strong, well-equipped navy, but we're not going to spend $36 billion on two super carrier task forces,'' dukakis said
the massachusetts governor began airing a new television commercial attacking rep. richard gephardt and mocking gephardt's populist slogan, ``it's your fight too.''
the advertisement says gephardt is taking campaign contributions from ``big establishment power brokers'' and adds: ``kinda makes you wonder, is dick gephardt fighting your fight or theirs?''
in winter haven, unlike ordinary tourists, the governor even got a turn in the big league batting cage, although he had little to show for it
the one-time freshman catcher on the brookline, mass., high school squad donned red sox jersey no. 1 and took 10 swings against a batting practice pitcher. he fouled off three balls, popped one into the batting cage, hit five grounders and whiffed once
i want you to work on your swing,'' advised outfielder dwight evans
at least i made contact,'' said the 54-year-old governor. he acknowledged to reporters, ``i'm a little rusty, as you can see.''
the self-described ``long-suffering'' red sox fan said, ``it's a great thrill to be here. i've never been to spring training. it's something all boston kids want to do.''
i'm very optimistic about the campaign and the red sox,'' he said. ``if we could both win our world series, that would be a (great) 1988.''
dukakis is doing well in many polls heading into tuesday's round of 20 primaries and caucuses, primarily in the south, but he said the red sox, like himself, should ``just keep working and don't pay any attention to the polls.''
outside a high school in apopka, fla., dukakis said, ``we're going to do well across the south'' with a campaign emphasizing ``jobs, good health care, the environment _ things that people care about in the south and all over the country.''
referring to rival albert gore jr., the tennessee senator who has geared his campaign to the south, dukakis said, ``if you put all of your eggs in one regional basket ... it becomes a lot more crucial that you do exceedingly well.''
he got an enthusiastic welcome at an assembly of apopka high school's 460-member senior class, but there were a few groans when dukakis defended his stands against aid to the contras and the strategic defense initiative
when dukakis asked, ``is it going to be star wars or housing for the homeless, is it going to be mx missiles or housing for the homeless?'' some of the teen-agers replied, ``star wars, mx missiles.''
nearly one-fifth of apopka's students are in a marine rotc program and several seniors wore their dress blues
dukakis also got a campaign boost in the super tuesday state of hawaii, where gov. john waihee has thrown the support of the state's democratic party leadership behind him
waihee had maintained an uncommitted stance until now
i think the game is on the line tuesday. we can stand on the sidelines and watch, or we can get into the game,'' waihee told a news conference wednesday in honolulu
the announcement came with dukakis listening in from miami, fla., on a telephone conference call
i'm sitting here glowing,'' dukakis said. he called waihee ``a man who has shown great wisdom in his choice of presidential candidates.''
waihee said the dukakis endorsement has the backing of hawaii's sens. daniel inouye and spark matsunaga and rep. daniel akaka, lt. gov. ben cayetano and other democratic leaders
hawaii's super tuesday precinct elections will include a presidential preference vote that will be binding on at least 20 of hawaii's 28 delegates to the democratic party national convention
before the dukakis endorsement, party leaders said they had expected jesse jackson to gain a plurality in hawaii's precinct elections, with dukakis and ``uncommitted'' splitting most of the balance. liaison and add that carlson was a former aide.</note>
a senator complained wednesday that gov. evan mecham sent an ``inappropriate'' letter proclaiming his innocence to every member of the arizona senate, which is sitting as judge and jury at his impeachment trial
an irate sen. jesus ``chuy'' higuera arose at the close of the third day of the first-term republican's impeachment trial and held up the letter
i hope governor mecham understands the oath we have taken,'' said higuera, urging other senators not to read the document. ``i hope mr. mecham would understand it's inappropriate to try to communicate with us.''
the five-page document was a copy of mecham's statement from a saturday news conference during which the governor pleaded his case and claimed it was unfair to try him on impeachment charges before a criminal case can be resolved
a cover memo on the governor's official stationery accompanied each copy
mecham, 63, was impeached by the house on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, borrowing $80,000 in state funds for his auto dealership and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat against a former aide
he also also faces a march 22 trial march on charges of concealing the loan and a may 17 recall election
one of mecham's lawyers, tom crowe, told the associated press he considered the governor's sending the letter appropriate
it's a political proceeding,'' said crowe. ``the senators have received communications from many people pro and con. i don't see why the governor should be any different.''
some senators who had voted to delay the impeachment trial said they had received notes from mecham thanking them for their support
in recent weeks, senators have asked that mecham stop making phone calls to their offices during the impeachment proceedings. they said they consider the calls inappropriate and did not talk the governor, who is suspended from office
on tuesday, a flap arose when it appeared that mecham had tried to contact a witness, but the governor later said the phone call was placed by mistake
during testimony earlier in the day, an attorney for mecham suggested that the alleged death threat to a grand jury witness was ``a political matter,'' not a crime
mecham's former security chief, testifying for a second day, said he considered the incident a potential felony and told mecham a crime could be involved
the criminal nature of it was primary in my mind,'' said department of public safety lt. charles ``beau'' johnson. ``i did not really think of it in the political sense.''
didn't you also believe this could be a political matter?'' defense attorney fred craft asked
i don't recall that that crossed my mind,'' johnson said
johnson and another former member of the governor's security detail have testified they were told that mecham's aide, lee watkins, threatened in november that the governor's former legislative liaison, donna carlson, might ``go on a long boat ride'' if she didn't stop testifying before a grand jury investigating mecham
mecham is accused of instructing the head of the dps not to cooperate in the attorney general's probe. watkins has denied threatening ms. carlson, and he has not been charged
mecham, who stayed away from the trial for a third day, has said he didn't know all the details of the incident, contended that he didn't know a potential felony was involved and blamed his security officers for not fully informing him
i told him it was a felony to tamper with a witness,'' johnson said. ``i didn't say the words `death threat.' but i said `tampering with a witness.' i have no doubts about that ... i was not hiding anything from the governor.''
he also said he thought the matter was ``being taken too lightly'' by the governor and his staff
when you took it to fred craft did he take it seriously?'' craft asked, referring to himself. craft was formerly mecham's lobbyist in washington
yes,'' said johnson. ``but i think the focus of your concern was embarrassment to the governor.''
craft's participation as defense attorney as well as a principal in the disputed events raised protests from some senators
republican majority leader robert usdane accused craft of misleading senators about his role when they agreed to let him join the defense. his participation as a lawyer bars him from being called by either side as a witness, although some senators believe they could call craft to testify
earlier, the trial's presiding officer, arizona chief justice frank x. gordon, said he would not allow the defense to introduce an affidavit intended to discredit a key witness by alleging he had an affair with an employee in 1982
the prospective witness, dps director ralph milstead, has said the allegations are ``ridiculous.''
i don't think it's necessary to go into old past history about someone's past sexual liaison, and he denies it,'' said gordon. ``it has no value to prove anything material to these issues.''
a two-thirds vote of the senate would be required to convict mecham on any count and remove him from office. the senate could, by another two-thirds vote, then bar mecham from holding any state office again. update with abrams comments. pickup 13th pvs: `cochez said ...</note>
an opposition leader said wednesday that gen. manuel antonio noriega was purging his army of suspected opponents, and doctors joined businesses in a general strike aimed at ousting the military strongman
guillermo cochez, a national legislator and vice president of the opposition christian democratic party, told reporters that noriega apparently had fired two senior colonels and two majors suspected of being disloyal
cochez said they included col. marcos justines, who as chief of staff was no. 2 in the panamanian defense forces and next in line to succeed noriega
for a second day, the strike was marked by violence in a middle-class neighborhood near the banking district. on tuesday, security agents destroyed an opposition radio station in the neighborhood, apparently because it broadcast an appeal for anti-noriega demonstrations
demonstrators gathered wednesday along the four-lane street in front of the station, set up barricades of burning trash, and set fire to a minivan and a car
anti-riot police chased the protesters into side streets and apartment buildings. chunks of concrete were hurled down at police from at least two of the apartment houses
police fired tear-gas grenades and pumped tear gas into the buildings from portable tanks, filling the entire neighborhood with the acrid, stinging fumes
the officer in charge stood in the middle of the street and shouted to residents, ``you'll come out like cockroaches!''
none did, and reporters on the scene saw no one injured
a spokesman for the panama canal commission said anonymous telephone callers warned tuesday and wednesday that a bomb was planted in commission headquarters
spokesman franklin castrellon told the associated press the building was evacuated and searched both days but no bombs were found
in washington, meanwhile, william d. rogers, a lawyer for a panamanian opposition group, said the state department was taking legal action to keep noriega's regime from withdrawing panamanian government funds from u.s. banks. about $50 million was said to be involved
assistant secretary of state elliott abrams raised the possibility that the united states will withhold the next payment due to panama for tolls, fees and services for panama canal operations
abrams also told the cable news network that ``if the government of president (eric arturo) delvalle says to american banks, don't pay money to noriega, then all those banks are going to come to the state department and say, `who's got the authority here? noriega or delvalle?'
we're going to answer that question ... noriega has been fired and he does not have legitimate authority there,'' abrams said
cochez said he could not ``absolutely confirm'' the firings, but several diplomatic sources said they also had heard the reports and tended to believe them
justines was chosen by president devalle on feb. 25 to replace noriega, but devalle's attempt to fire noriega backfired. noriega supporters in the national assembly instead voted to oust delvalle
justines then joined other ranking officers in pledging their loyalty to noriega, who is under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges
cochez said col. elias castillo, the army chief and the no. 4 man in the military hierarchy, also was fired, along with two majors, moises del rio and fernando quesada
i think the purge is good for the democratic process because it will show the other officers that he (noriega) is not interested in the institution, but only in himself,'' cochez said. ``most officers are supporting noriega because they consider it an institutional problem.''
the armed forces press office said it could not confirm the reported removals of officers
noriega has headed the 15,000-member defense forces, which includes the army, navy, air force and police, since 1983. he was seen as the real power behind delvalle's civilian government
most of the capital's doctors appeared to have joined the nationwide strike against noriega, which began monday
ap reporters visited four hospitals and clinics around the capital wednesday and found them taking new patients only on an emergency basis
the government, which through official media has been calling the strike ``a complete failure,'' tacitly admitted health care problems. the health ministry issued a communique calling on all unemployed physicians to report to ministry offices for assignment
calls to areas outside the capital indicated mixed participation in the strike
in colon, the country's other major commercial center, daniel delgado of the chamber of commerce said economic activity had proceeded almost normally monday and tuesday. but he said the chamber called on members to join the strike for 48 hours beginning thursday
in chiriquii province, on the costa rican border, the chamber of commerce reported a significant reduction in activity, with virtually all branches of capital-based stores and businesses shut down
in chitre, 90 miles southwest of panama city, horacio rodriguez, director of the association of executives, said about 60 percent of the city's economic activity was shut down
the national civic crusade, an alliance of about 200 business, labor, professional and political groups, claimed tuesday night that the strike had succeeded in shutting down 85 percent of the country's economic acivity. nicaragua without mediator; picks up 9th graf pvs, ``he also ...</note>
president daniel ortega on wednesday proposed holding the third round of nicaraguan cease-fire talks without the country's roman catholic leader, saying the mediator had failed to produce results
ortega said the talks, scheduled for next week, should be held in the nicaraguan town of sapoa, near the costa rican border. it was the first time the leftist sandinista government has agreed to talk to the u.s.-backed rebels in nicaragua
cardinal miguel obando y bravo has been mediating the talks on ending the 7-year-old war
ortega said his government decided ``to take the bull by the horns'' because obando y bravo's mediation had not produced any results
the cardinal himself had suggested some time ago that a direct meeting, and in our country, would be very important,'' ortega said
i told him that today i have decided to name the member of the national directorate of the sandinista liberation front and defense minister, gen. humberto ortega, as the chief of the (sandinista) delegation,'' he added. the defense minister is the president's brother
the contra rebels sent a message to the cardinal earlier wednesday, agreeing to his proposal to hold new talks on march 10-11
the last round of negotiations broke off feb. 19 in guatemala after the cardinal said the two sides had reached an impasse
after making his proposal, president ortega said: ``in this manner, we are testing whether there really exists the will to work for peace on the part of the so-called directorate of the counter-revolution, since it can no longer give any excuses.''
he referred to the directorate of the contra umbrella organization known as the nicaraguan resistance
ortega spoke with reporters shortly after meeting with obando y bravo in the evening, but there was no immediate comment from the cardinal
the sandinistas previously refused to hold the talks in nicaragua, saying the rebels should seek a government amnesty before being able to enter the country
obando y bravo sent a letter to ortega earlier wednesday hammering at the need to resume cease-fire negotiations
during the february talks, the cardinal increased his role by proposing a peace agenda. besides calling for a laying down of arms, he asked the sandinistas to grant total political amnesty, restore full press freedoms, revise the military draft law and reopen talks with the opposition political parties that remain active inside nicaragua
he also suggested the contras be permitted to enter designated cease-fire zones with their arms for a one-month truce
in their message wednesday accepting the new round of talks, the contras reiterated their acceptance of the agenda proposed by the cardinal, said jorge rosales, a spokesman in miami for the rebel coalition, known as the nicaraguan resistance
the sandinistas maintain they will not discuss political issues with the contras. they say amnesty will be granted after a cease-fire agreement is reached
talks with the internal political parties broke off in december when opposition members insisted on constitutional changes
the cease-fire and internal dialogue are outlined in a regional peace plan signed last august by the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, costa rica and honduras
the sandinistas want talks with the contras to center on the mechanics of how and where the rebels should lay down their arms
the government asked obando y bravo last november to mediate the talks. the church backed the successful sandinista struggle to overthrow the right-wing, pro-american somoza dynasty in 1979, but later became a firm critic of the sandinista government
the cardinal acted as go-between until january, when the sandinistas softened their position and agreed to hold direct talks with the rebels
in other developments, the defense ministry said wednesday that its intelligence sources reported increased u.s. military activity in central america and american troop movement along its borders
a u.s. embassy spokesman in tegucigalpa, honduras, said no american troops were near the border with nicaragua. the spokesman added, however, that engineering-training projects _ carried out annually in the dry season _ had temporarily increased the number of flights out of palmerola air base and the number of troops in honduras
he spoke on condition of anonymity
the ministry communique said ammunition and explosives were transferred recently from u.s. military installations in panama to costa rica, nicaragua's neighbor to the south
the communique said 1,000 u.s. army troops, including some from the 82nd airborne division, were moved to the nicaragua's northeastern border with honduras. it said special forces units were moved to the northwestern border
there've been no border troop movements,'' the embassy spokesman said
u.s. troops that participate in combined honduran-u.s. exercises are prohibited by u.s. law from going within 20 miles of the border with nicaragua
winners at the 30th annual grammy awards waxed poetic, gushed, cried, giggled and gave thanks to the music industry, their record companies, friends, family and god as they accepted their prizes wednesday night
i can't tell you how i feel,'' said a bubbly whitney houston backstage at radio city music hall after winning best female pop vocalist for her single, ``i wanna dance with somebody'' from her second lp, ``whitney.''
it's just so emotional. ... i'm nervous, very proud, very honored, excited; it's very great,'' said houston, who was a grammy winner two years ago for her platinum debut album
jody watley, who was named best new artist, thanked ``everybody at mca, my manager, i thank god, my producers ... my video director ... my publicist ... my attorney.''
veteran rhythm and blues performer little richard, who helped define rock 'n' roll more than three decades ago, stole the show by declaring himself the winner before opening the envelop to reveal watley's name
y'all never gave me no grammys and i've been singing for years,'' he shouted, strutting about the stage for an amused audience. ``i'm the architect of rock 'n' roll. ... being a brown jew from georgia, i had to tell the truth.''
little richard, who dropped out of the rock life years ago to become an evangelist, announced two years ago that he had converted to judaism
bono, lead singer of the irish rockers u2, whose politically introspective lp, ``the joshua tree,'' won two grammys including album of the year, said: ``we set out to make music _ soul music. ... that's not about being black or white. ... it's a decision to reveal or conceal.''
george michael, on tour in australia to promote his hit lp ``faith,'' was thrilled that he had won a grammy in the rhythm and blues category for his duo with soul queen aretha franklin
winning the r &amp; b category with aretha validates the tremendous influence r &amp; b music has had on my music, songwriting and creative process,'' michael said through his spokesman, phil lobel. ``not bad for a brit with soul.''
one of the best acceptances at the awards show came from pianist vladimir horowitz who walked off the stage with a twinkle and no comment after being handed the prize for best classical album for his ``horowitz in moscow.''
earlier, the esteemed artist thanked the national academy of recording arts &amp; sciences for president's special merit award: ``i am so very happy that classical music still has an appreciation.''
ray benson, leader of ``asleep at the wheel,'' a five-man band that plays western swing, said: ``it feels great. it feels amazing. it's like you've been down 10 to nothing in the 9th inning and winning.''
the band won for best country instrumental performance for the song ``string of pars,'' which benson said was for golfers. the band last won 10 years ago in the same category for ``1 o'clock jump,'' a count basie song in western style
he said it's sometimes difficult keeping a band together. ``everyday, if you're asleep at the wheel, you're in danger of a lot of things.''
suzanne vega, who was nominated for three grammys for her touching song about an abused child, ``luka,'' talked backstage at radio city music hall after learning she had lost the trophy for best female pop vocalist and song of the year. she also was nominated for record of the year, but didn't win
i was hoping it would win, but i was prepared for anything to happen,'' she said. ``i'm a little disappointed i guess.''
cynthia weil, who with barry mann won song of the year for writing the sweet ballad, ``somewhere out there,'' said: ``we wrote it for the mice. we didn't even think about a pop record when we wrote it.''
the song was written for the animated movie, ``an american tail,'' the story of an immigrant mouse family. it was recorded as a duet by linda ronstadt and james ingram, who were nominated as best pop performance by a duo or group. when asked if winning the grammy made up for losing an academy award last year for best song, weil said, ``it does. it's nice to win an award that comes from the music industry _ that's our home.''
weil and mann are the last songwriting team creating from the legendary brill building in new york, once a haven for american song
said narada michael walden, who won the producer award for the lp, ``whitney'': ``i think the world wants new faces in a way. ... whitney is an angel and it's purity, like this flower.'' he was carrying a red rose
i felt this was a very special year. my competition is my friends. quincy (jones, who co-produced the michael jackson lp, ``bad'') i love. u2 i admire very much. i think we are all great music lovers. i think we bring the spirit down. we are all brothers.'' news digest: brussels, belgium _ am-nato rdp; brussels, belgium _ am-nato summit-arms; new york _ am-grammys; undated _ am-political rdp; baton rouge, la. _ la congress; washington _ am_civil rights; toledo, ohio _ am-sweepstakes losers; phoenix, ariz. _ am-mecham; london _ am-ferry disaster; hartford, conn. _ am-restaurant critics.</note>
israeli troops fired tear gas inside an arab hospital wednesday, forcing doctors to don gas masks and sending dozens of choking patients fleeing with their faces covered by arab headdresses
soldiers clubbed a palestinian teen-ager suspected of throwing rocks at troops from a barricade erected about 10 yards from the hospital's emergency room
an associated press photographer saw soldiers throw the youth head first down a flight of stairs, then sit on his stomach while beating him with a wooden truncheon
president reagan, vowing to ``spare no effort'' in the pursuit of peace, ordered secretary of state george p. shultz on wednesday to return to the middle east for more talks with arab and israeli leaders
reagan made the decision to re-commit u.s. prestige to an effort that so far has not produced visible results after shultz reported on four days of diplomatic shuttling and a session tuesday in london with king hussein of jordan
it is clear all countries in the region believe it is useful for the united states to remain engaged in this process,'' reagan said. `we will spare no effort in our search for a comprehensive peace settlement.''
an opposition leader said wednesday that gen. manuel antonio noriega was purging his army of suspected opponents, and doctors joined businesses in a general strike aimed at ousting the military strongman
guillermo cochez, a national legislator and vice president of the opposition christian democratic party, told reporters that noriega apparently had fired two senior colonels and two majors suspected of being disloyal
cochez said they included col. marcos justines, who as chief of staff was no. 2 in the panamanian defense forces and next in line to succeed noriega
the united states is taking legal action to prevent panama's military-dominated regime from withdrawing panamanian government funds from u.s. banks, a lawyer representing opposition forces said wednesday
although no firm figures were available, $50 million was said to be involved
the state department had no comment on the reported action, but other officials, speaking only on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the measures outlined by attorney william d. rogers were being taken
prodded by the food and drug administration, pharmaceutical companies agreed wednesday to avoid any advertising that claims aspirin can help prevent a first heart attack, despite a report in a medical journal that drew this conclusion
fda commissioner frank e. young announced the agreement after he met for more than an hour with company representatives who came to his office in this washington suburb after he sent a letter reminding of the fda's power to regulate
at a news conference, young said he had told the manufacturers that if they promoted their products for a use not supported by an fda analysis, they could be guilty of mislabeling, and ``this mislabeling can lead to regulatory action by the fda.''
a study of massachusetts women who gave birth found that one in 500 was infected with the aids virus, and researchers projecting their findings nationwide say several thousand aids-infected babies could be born in the united states each year
most surveys of aids infection have concentrated on male homosexuals, drug addicts and others at high risk of catching the disease. estimating the prevalence of the virus in the general population has been difficult
this paper gives a more accurate way to judge the scope of the epidemic in women,'' said dr. rodney hoff. ``nothing else comes close to this in being able to measure the prevalence in the united states.''
pat robertson wants to drop his libel suit against a former congressman who questioned his war record because going to trial now would ``sacrifice his presidential campaign,'' his lawyer said wednesday. but robertson's accuser declared, ``he's chickening out of the trial just like he chickened out 37 years ago.''
former rep. paul mccloskey, r-calif., who has accused robertson of using his father's political influence to avoid combat duty in the korean war, has said in recent weeks he wouldn't settle the suit unless robertson paid the costs, which mccloskey estimates at $400,000, of defending against the suit
the trial, set to begin on tuesday, when robertson hopes to do well in delegate-rich southern primaries, would force him off the campaign trail for three weeks, attorney douglas rigler said
iraq and iran battered each other's capitals with long-range missiles for a third day wednesday and the first iraqi rockets of the 7{-year-old war crashed into qom, seat of the iranian religious hierarchy
iran reported no casualties in qom, a holy city of 250,000 where ayatollah ruhollah khomeini once made his home. the 87-year-old revolutionary patriarch has lived for several years in jamaran, a northern tehran suburb
the iraqis said they fired seven surface-to-surface missiles wednesday, two of them into qom, bringing the total for three days to 23. iran said it hit baghdad with three missiles, for a total of eight in the same period
negotiators on wednesday launched their latest and possibly last round of afghanistan peace talks, and the u.n. mediator said he was confident of forging a settlement to end soviet involvement in the country
this was a good session,'' pakistan's acting foreign minister, zain noorani, said as he emerged from the first closed-door meeting late wednesday. ``we are cautiously optimistic.''
pakistan is representing the afghan guerrillas in the talks
new home sales fell 9 percent in january, pushing sales activity to its slowest pace since the end of the last recession, the government said wednesday as the housing industry continued to stagger following the october stock market collapse
a downturn in housing has often been the harbinger of the onset of a recession, but analysts said they believed falling mortgage rates offered the hope of a rebound in home sales in coming months
in january, the commerce department said that sales of new single-family homes fell for the third consecutive month, dropping to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 535,000 units, 26 percent below a year ago and the slowest pace since the last recession was ending in december 1982
a mutiny broke out on among usually meek and patient london commuters, with passengers refusing orders to leave their delay-plagued subway train until its driver took them to their destination
only about a dozen rebellious passengers were involved in the tuesday night incident on the ``tube,'' as the subway system is known, but london regional transport said it was unprecedented, given the meek and humble nature of the british commuter
to the london evening standard newspaper, it was ``the great tube revolt,'' and the mutineers' unidentified leader was ``a superhero in the clark kent mold _ quiet, mild-mannered and unassuming.''
once again good news has intruded on the gilded dreams of gold investors, whose hopes for wealth depend on fears of inflation or economic collapse
the price of gold has fallen from $500 an ounce in mid-december to $430 an ounce this week, making it a particularly bad investment so far in 1988
what went wrong is that too many things went right in the aftermath of october's stock market collapse
jeffrey a. nichols, president of american precious metals advisors inc., ticks some of them off:
low inflation, a stronger dollar, stable world equity markets, a stronger u.s. bond market, rising confidence in the economic outlooks around the world, and, very significantly in the last couple of weeks, rising confidence in the federal reserve and chairman (alan) greenspan.''
good news for the general public, but bad news for gold bugs
so with good times breaking out, why is nichols still predicting that gold will reach $500 an ounce again within the next 12 months, and go ``perhaps significantly higher''?
an excess of supply that marked the first few months of 1988 is likely to end, nichols argues
he says the soviet union probably will sell less gold from now on because it has raised a large portion of the foreign currency reserves it will need for the year
mining companies will ease up on the downward pressure they put on gold prices through their sales of gold for future delivery in forward contracts, nichols says
and the spate of ``gold loans'' is likely to ease up somewhat, nichols said. newmont mining corp. dumped 1 million ounces of gold onto the market this year when it borrowed against future production and then sold the gold to raise cash and pay off debts acquired in a successful takeover defense
although an additional 2 million ounces' worth of gold loans are already in the pipeline, nichols said, the flood should diminish after that
on the demand side, investors in japan and elsewhere in the far east have taken a new interest in gold. the japanese imported 40 tons of gold in february alone, nichols estimates. the appetite for kilobars _ 31 ounces of pure gold _ is so great in the far east that he says fabricators cannot keep up
indians imported 100 tons of gold last year even though it is illegal to bring gold into india because of foreign-exchange controls, nichols said, declining to divulge where he got the information
new gold coins from the american eagle and canadian maple leaf to the chinese panda are increasing investors' and collectors' interest in gold, while various banks and investment houses have created accumulation plans that allow people to buy gold on schedule
and there is always the chance of more bad news _ which, of course, is good news
trouble in south africa tends to push up gold prices by threatening to cut off supplies at the source
and any hint that the next president will be fiscally irresponsible would do wonders for gold
even republicans can be fiscally stimulative, as we've seen from ronald reagan. but generally democrats have a reputation for not being fiscally conservative,'' said john norris, a citibank vice president in charge of precious metals
if somebody like jesse jackson ever had a chance of being elected, i think you'd see gold really start to move up,'' norris said
here are broadway's new and current shows. ticket supply as of march 4 is indicated as difficult or available. credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling telecharge, teletron or ticketron
telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated. teletron's number is 212-246-0102. ticketron is 212-977-9020
for 24-hour information on theater, dance and music performances, call the theater development fund's new york city@on stage, 212-587-1111
when calling theaters directly, use new york area code 212. advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject to change
_ ``a chorus line,'' the longest-running musical in broadway history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line members. shubert, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``anything goes,'' a revival by the lincoln center theater of the 1934 cole porter musical. vivian beaumont, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``a streetcar named desire,'' blythe danner as blanche du bois and aidan quinn as stanley kowalski in a revival of the tennessee williams classic. now in previews, opens march 10. circle in the square, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``a walk in the woods,'' sam waterston and robert prosky star in lee blessing's two character-play about nuclear arms control negotiators in geneva. golden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``breaking the code,'' derek jacobi stars in a play about the man who broke the nazi enigma code during world war ii. neil simon, 757-8646. teletron. available
_ ``broadway bound,'' neil simon's autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers. broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``burn this,'' john malkovich and joan allen star in lanford wilson's contemporary romantic comedy. plymouth, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``cabaret,'' joel grey stars in a revival of the landmark harold prince musical set in berlin of the 1920s. minskoff, 869-0550. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``cats,'' musical based on t.s. eliot's cat poems, music by andrew lloyd webber of ``evita'' fame. winter garden, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. available
_ ``fences,'' billy dee williams stars in a black family drama by august wilson. winner of the 1987 tony award for best play and the pulitzer prize for drama. 46th street, 221-1211. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``42nd street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical classic. st. james, 398-0280. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``into the woods,'' bernadette peters stars in a stephen sondheim musical about what happens to several fairy tale characters after they live happily ever after. martin beck, 246-6363. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``les miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic victor hugo novel. winner of the 1987 tony award as best musical. broadway, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. ticketron. difficult
_ ``me and my girl,'' jim dale stars in the 1930s english musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society. marquis, 382-0100. teletron. ticketron. available
_ ``oh! calcutta!,'' long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex and swinging and such. edison, 302-2302. available
_ ``penn &amp; teller,'' hip vaudeville and magic tricks from two young comedians. ritz, 582-4022. teletron. available. closes march 20
_ ``sarafina!,'' a south african musical about high school students in a black township. cort, 239-6200, same number as telecharge. available
_ ``starlight express,'' an andrew lloyd webber-trevor nunn roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the united states. gershwin, 586-6510. teletron. available
_ ``the nerd,'' a comedy by larry shue, author of ``the foreigner,'' about the limits of friendship. helen hayes, 944-9450. teletron. ticketron. available. advertising ``last weeks.''
_ ``the phantom of the opera,'' the lavish andrew lloyd webber musical about a deformed composer who haunts the paris opera house and the young soprano he loves. majestic, 239-6290, same number as telecharge. difficult
in the 1964 film, ``topkapi,'' peter ustinov and melina mercouri played thieves who descended into a museum in istanbul through a skylight to steal a jewel-encrusted dagger
that plot was repeated with stunning accuracy last month when burglars broke into manhattan's colnaghi art gallery through a skylight, shinnied down a rope and plucked 27 old master paintings and drawings off the walls
the stolen artwork was valued at $6 million, making it the biggest art heist in new york history. the most valuable pieces stolen were two panels by the 15th century italian renaissance master fra angelico worth $4 million
but unlike the cunning thieves in ``topkapi,'' those who broke into the colnaghi gallery on feb. 8 appear to have been unschooled burglars who had no clear idea of what they were stealing
if so, their fate is ironic: their booty may be impossible to sell at anything resembling its face value
art theft, long romanticized as a genteel form of larceny, is on the rise. some law enforcement officials and other experts believe it may rank second only to narcotics trafficking in value of ill-gotten gains
if you're talking about dollar value, it probably is,'' said one justice department official who specializes in crime statistics. he stressed that he was only speculating since art theft is not recognized as a separate category in federal statistics. he declined to give his name
it began to increase in the late '50s and the early '60s when the art market began to rise,'' said milton esterow, editor and publisher of artnews magazine. ``more and more thieves began to wake up and say, `hey! there's a lot of money here!'''
if there was a lot of money then, there's more now
masterworks often cost many times the value of the mansions where they're hung. vincent van gogh's painting, ``irises,'' set a record last november when it was sold for $53.9 million
art thieves usually fall into one of three categories, experts say
one is the professional thief who is commissioned to steal specific works of art
mr. jones might have fallen in love with one of these paintings and he wants it so bad he can just taste it, so he goes out and hires someone to steal it,'' explained retired insurance claims investigator jim mellors, who specialized in fine art claims
in these cases, mellors and others said, the stolen item may wind up in a private collection for years _ or even generations _ and no money changes hands except the fee paid by the collector to the thief
less common is the collector who steals art himself, such as the philadelphia doctor who was arrested in 1982 for ``shoplifting'' hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of art from new york galleries for his lavish personal collection
and then, probably most common of all, is the professional thief who steals art and tries to fence it. sometimes the thief is knowledgeable about art; often he is not, as appears to be the case in the colnaghi break-in, law enforcement officials say
it's no secret that thieves who are knowledgeable about art don't steal well-known pieces,'' said esterow, who is the author of the book, ``the art stealers.''
detective thomas moscardini, the new york police department's full-time art crimes investigator, agreed that the colnaghi thieves may have blundered when they chose works by fra angelico, jean baptiste simeon chardin and other old masters
i think it would be difficult to dispose of them because they were somewhat noted pieces,'' he said. ``you're dealing with 15th-16th century works of art (and) that in itself would bring some attention.''
according to the experts, smart thieves steal mid-range art, preferably works that are similar to others by the same artist. these works can be sold to unscrupulous or unwitting dealers who don't conduct thorough background checks. sometimes they are used in place of currency in drug transactions
the international foundation for art research maintains a list of art reported stolen. the list now contains 278,000 items and is regularly sent to law enforcement agencies, museums and galleries. between 150 and 300 items are added every month
in the case of a major theft like that from the colnaghi gallery, the foundation puts out a worldwide alert, complete with photographs of the missing pieces. the glare of publicity makes it hard for a thief, particularly one without connections in the art world, to sell the stolen goods except at an extreme discount to a crooked dealer _ or to an insurance company
what are you going to do with a fra angelico?'' asked esterow. ``how are you going to get rid of it, except by making a deal with the insurance company?''
esterow's remark brings up one of the touchiest subjects for those who deal with art theft
insurance adjusters routinely deny that they ever pay ransom to get back a work of art. ``no, no, no, they don't pay ransom,'' said independent claims adjuster william smith, who specializes in the fine arts. ``they pay rewards, which are a different thing. they will pay to retrieve property under acceptable circumstances. ... if, for example, an innocent (party) comes forward and gives them information that leads to recovery.''
but others say that policy is not strictly followed
in europe, (artworks) have been held for ransom for the insurance company to pay,'' said manhattan art dealer arnold herstand. ``that's arranged frequently. it's even arranged in new york city. that's fairly common.''
in the colnaghi case, the gallery has announced that its insurance company was offering a reward _ 10 percent of the value of the stolen pieces _ for their return
final determination of eligibility for payment of the reward will be made by the donor, not by the new york city police department or any other party,'' the announcement said
a spokesman for the gallery, vice president alan wintermute, said he couldn't say if the thieves were among those eligible for the reward, which could amount to $600,000. it was up to the insurance company, he said
the recovery rate for stolen art is probably no greater than 10 percent, experts say. enforcement is spotty. new york and los angeles each have one full-time police officer investigating art crimes; the fbi has one and the u.s. customs service has one. they represent the nation's war on art crime
it is a big business,'' said charles koczka, a retired u.s. customs agent who was that agency's specialist in fine art crimes. ``it has a minimal risk of being caught or, if you are caught, of going to jail. and unfortunately, if you are a victim, you're very unlikely to recover your property.''
members of the mormon tabernacle choir and church president and prophet ezra taft benson attended the inauguration of arizona gov. evan mecham, himself a former mormon bishop. mecham's beliefs are closely tied to church doctrine; his ties to church leadership strong. so when a storm of turmoil engulfed the governor, arizona's mormon community found itself at the center
steve benson has been a life-long mormon, active in church affairs. he is the grandson of church president and prophet ezra taft benson. few would question his devotion
few, except impeached gov. evan mecham and some of his supporters
benson happens to be the award-winning cartoonist for the arizona republic _ and a relentless critic of the embattled governor. mecham happens to be arizona's first mormon governor and an unwavering believer in conservative church doctrine
in arizona these days, politics and religion are mixing in the mormon community. mormon critics of mecham have been scorned by other mormons, who say they are not true to their religion. mecham even once told steve benson his salvation was in jeopardy because of the biting cartoons
sides have been taken and swords drawn,'' said the cartoonist. ``there have been instances of shunning. letters have been written questioning one's devotion to the church _ whether one has the moral rectitude to remain in the flock.''
with the turmoil have come fears that the brouhaha will damage the image of mormons, whose roots trace back to the settling of arizona
officially, the church has remained neutral on the governor's plight. some members say the only mentions of mecham from the pulpit have been reminders of neutrality, and the strife is limited to a small group of mormons
is the church worried? i think not. it's a matter that will pass in the next few months,'' said phoenix attorney dave udall, a church leader designated as the official spokesman
still, individuals within the community say passions run deep. some say families have been split by the issues
ed pagan, a mormon who is a history graduate student at the university of arizona and who criticized mecham in a letter to the editor, called the turmoil ``gut-wretching'' for church members
in a sense, his platform and ideology have the veneer of unofficial church position,'' said pagan, whose criticism drew letters questioning his own faith. ``there are those who say if you criticize mecham, you're ultimately criticizing god.''
an unofficial church newspaper, the latter-day sentinel, has supported mecham, and its editor, crismon lewis, is a sharp critic of the republic's benson. ``most of the church is extremely disappointed in him,'' lewis said
one cartoon that rankled mecham's mormon supporters showed an angel atop the mormon temple in salt lake city, utah. at the end of the angel's trumpet was a banner reading, ``resign, ev.''
some remember the controversy that surrounded benson's grandfather during eight years as agriculture secretary under president eisenhower
his grandfather was attacked so much by the press that he offered his resignation, but eisenhower kept him,'' said lewis. ``now, a couple of decades later, you've got the grandson doing the same thing.''
benson says his grandfather, a personal friend of mecham's, has never pressured him to back off. church-related pressure in arizona, he said, comes from an ultra-conservative sect of the church _ not the mainstream
some individuals _ and it's not unique to my religion _ unavoidably mix religion with politics and as a result think any mormon who does not agree with a fellow latter-day saint who happens to be governor is endangering his position in the church,'' benson said
it's intolerant, and it's silly.''
and benson has support among mormons _ even among some who support the governor
he's got his job to do,'' said republican state rep. jack brown, who voted against mecham's impeachment. ``he can do that and still be a good member of the mormon church.''
mecham, a 63-year-old native of duchesne, utah, was impeached feb. 5 by the arizona house of representatives on allegations of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from a special fund and attempting to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat involving a state official
trial on the impeachment is under way in the state senate. if convicted, mecham would be removed from office. he also faces a criminal trial on the campaign loan charge march 22, and a recall election set for may 17
the ultra-conservative governor took office 14 months ago and immediately plunged himself into controversy by rescinding the martin luther king holiday for state workers and making statements that have offended women, homosexuals, jews and japanese
mormons believe church leaders receive divine guidance, and some mecham backers have suggested political leaders do as well. mecham himself has occassionally suggested he's received guidance from god
to shirley whitlock, active in the church and state leader of a conservative political group called the eagle forum, mormons who don't support mecham have lost their religion
i feel if there are other members of the church who do not support the governor they either have allowed themselves to be propagandized or are too liberal and don't understand their own teachings,'' mrs. whitlock said
if members of the church can't see this man is trying to do his duty, then there's false belief,'' she said. ``if they don't support the governor when he supports constitutional principles, then they better do more studying.''
passions ran high in the legislature, too, as the impeachment vote neared. rep. brown, a former mormon bishop, said he received letters from followers who tried to intimidate him
rep. mark killian, a conservative republican from mesa, a popular mormon area and site of the church's arizona temple, broke into tears as he blasted the governor's behavior, but voted against the impeachment because he didn't believe the evidence was strong enough
udall, the arizona church spokesman, said he cringes when mecham's religion is brought into the debate
is religion really a factor? i don't think it is,'' he said. ``and we'd prefer not to be getting the attention.''
brown said he worries about possible damage to the church
but i think people basically understand that you have different kinds of people in the church, and some are not reflective of the whole group,'' he said
it's a concern,'' said wayne arnett, an attorney and mormon. ``there will be those who know mecham is a mormon and think less of me because i'm a mormon.''
most mormons, mesa bishop bob goodman said, ``are sorry the church has been involved in it.''
ut i can't say it's hurt any of my members,'' goodman said. ``and i can't say it's hurt the church. the church is just too strong for that.''
scott mccartney is the ap southwest regional reporter, based in dallas
here are excerpts from basic speeches delivered recently by candidates for the 1988 republican presidential nomination:
i think the american people are going to be looking for leadership
you know my background _ combat pilot, serving in the united states congress, meeting a payroll, building a business, ambassador to china, ambassador to the united nations, running the cia at a tough time and head of the (republican) party, and seven years standing shoulder to shoulder as vice president with a president for whom i have great respect. ..
the presidency is different. it's not like congress. it's not business. it's not like anything else when that cable comes in, a plane's been hit, or an american ship's been shot at or you have to punish a marxist or a terrorist dictator like gadhafi, or have to take bold action to save american citizens' lives at risk in a tiny caribbean country. it's different. ..
i think the president took the proper steps (when he learned about the iran-contra affair). ..
covert action should not be run by the nsc (national security council). it should be run by the cia. ... i am worried about the erosion of presidential power. ... mistakes were made, but we must move ahead now. ..
let's try to hold the highest possible standards (of ethics). it is an honorable profession, public life. ... i want men and women of excellence to come and serve, not to profit. ..
i think that i would be the best for getting this (budget) deficit down, with a four-year freeze that allows for the growth and inflation, that will hold the line on taxes but doesn't freeze in bad programs. ..
i want to keep the united states strong, offering the hope of peace and freedom. ... when people go into that (voting) booth, they're going to be saying, who has the values that we believe in, who has the breadth of experience, the ability to get people to work together, and who has the integrity that we trust. ..
the question is what do we do in the future? ... i believe that i have had more real life experience than anyone else running against me, and i am proud to have stood with this president through thick and through thin, through good times and bad times, without cutting and running when the going got tough
i come from a small farming town. i was born and raised in the values that come from deep roots, deep faith and an abiding love of country. russell, kan., may be a long way off from atlanta on the map, but we share a lot of the same values
we know the importance of family, of neighbors helping neighbor, of sticking together in good times and bad. ... i learned ... that if you worked hard and really believed, you could overcome hardships and build a better tomorrow. and if your country called _ in war or peace _ you served. ..
that's how i've always tried to live my life. and that's the kind of president our country will need to lead us into the 21st century
values and leadership _ that's what this crucial election is all about. and, this year ... the south will play a key role in choosing the man who will sit across the table from mr. gorbachev. ..
the people ... must look at the record and decide which candidate has demonstrated the strength it takes to stand tough, to make the hard choices, to forge a consensus that will lead this nation forward
which candidate's leadership got president reagan's tax cut passed
whose leadership stopped the liberals from repealing those tax cuts
whose leadership put together the plan which saved social security from bankruptcy
whose leadership produced a majority of votes in the senate for aid to the nicaraguan freedom fighters
whose leadership lined up the votes to keep the president's strategic defense initiative alive
and whose leadership produced the 1985 farm bill to save the family farm
bob dole led each one of the battles in the u.s. senate. and we won. no other candidate in this race can match that record. no one
that's the true test of leadership. not how many jobs we've had, but what you've done in the jobs you've held. and that speaks volumes for what you'll do as president
there's no instant, magic formula to make the deficit vanish. but, with the right leadership, we can start solving the problem
there's no miracle cure to make freedom safe in a dangerous world. but the right leadership can do it
there's no quick fix to make america competitive again, an opportunity society where all our people can rise as high as their god-given talents will take them. but leadership can make it happen
there's no easy way out of the plague of drug abuse, the decline in values and education, the high cost of health care and so many other urgent problems. but they can be solved
these are all tough challenges. it's going to take tough, dedicated, understanding leadership to overcome them. ... i believe that i can deliver the kind of leadership we need
no public policy decision we make in the next 10 years ... will be as important as the decisions we make about defending and nurturing and strengthening the bedrock of western values _ our families and our children
there is no better school, no better engine of economic growth or job training, savings and investment than the traditional family. there is no greater moral teacher, disciplinarian, help for the weak, protector of the young, or builder of character than the family
our democratic friends urge us to look to government as mother and father, but they have it exactly backwards. ..
i believe that america needs a rebirth of respect and compassion for the value and the dignity and the sanctity of each and every child and every human life. ..
i have pledged that, as president, i will help lead america to its highest standards of educational excellence _ not by expanding budgets or new government programs, but through reforms that stress the abcs of education:
a _ restoring accountability by granting parents greater oversight and greater choice. ... b _ renewing stronger emphasis on a basic core curriculum of english, science, math, history and computer and vocational skills and expecting superior levels of achievement to be met. c _ building and developing character. ..
we've put forth a three-part plan to stop the spread of aids: first, routine testing to help identify those infected; second, confidential sharing of this information by public health authorities with those in danger of infection; and, third, common sense education that teaches right and wrong about the sexual behavior that spreads aids
we must do everything we can to find a cure. we must treat aids victims with compassion and give them care. but we must also give the american people confidence that we have a plan and that we will stop aids, now, not later. ..
our liberal friends tell us that we need ... activist judges. well, i agree. we need activist judges who actively support the constitution
we live in a democracy and it is the right and the responsibility of the people and their representatives to decide fundamental questions of public policy _ it is not, and must never be the right and responsibility of judicial elites to appropriate that right and responsibility to themselves
if we are to recapture the greatness of america we must go back to our fundamental faith in god. and when we train our children ... it is absolutely crucial that we teach them the moral values of our society. little children must once again be allowed to pray in the schools of america
when our ancestors came to these shores ... there was one thing that was uppermost in the minds of the people. they believed in individual self-reliance. ... when they went across these plains ... when they made an empire out of a wilderness ... when they fought disease and battled enemies, when they endured privation, hunger and starvation, they relied on their own initiative under god
and if we are going to be strong we must recognize that we as a people can do it ourselves. government doesn't give us our freedom. government can't take our freedom away from us. it is a gift of god given every one of us. ..
we have built in this nation with 200 years of labor a magnificent industrial base. but over the last few years of this decade we have seen our industries slowly crumbling, some of our basic industries going overseas to other nations. ..
recently i was in one of the southern states and i learned of 1,000 factories that have closed. i learned of 300,000 people who lost their jobs. and they told me about them, and they said: are you aware that imports to this country of the particular product they were mentioning, textiles, from mainland china have risen from 230 million yards to 1.8 billion yards. ... are you aware, they told me, that from january of 1986 until november of 1987 that imports of textiles from the soviet union had risen by 7,000 percent. ..
if the communist countries want to help their workers, that's fine. ... but i think the time has come in america when we no longer are going to allow our basic industries to be destroyed and our people put out of work in order to enhance the standard of living of communist china and communist russia. ..
recently, the congress of the united states refused to vote military aid to assist the freedom fighters of the contras in nicaragua. i do not think it is in the best interest of the united states of america to permit the soviet union to establish a land base in the north american continent
here are excerpts from basic speeches delivered recently by candidates for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination:
reaganomics isn't economic theory, it's theft from our children, it's a felony against the future, and it has played the hard-working, taxpaying families of middle america for fools
we're not going to get our fiscal house in order with more voodoo economics. and we're not going to meet the challenges of the 1990s by building walls around america. we tried that 60 years ago and it gave us the worst depression in our history
we need more trade, not less. one and a quarter million southern workers depend on exports for their jobs. they know that if we're going to make america no. 1 again, we've got to do more than wave a fist at our foreign competitors; we've got to roll up our sleeves, go to work, and beat them
they deserve a president who knows how to balance a budget and mop up republican red ink _ and has done it. a president who knows how to build a strong economy _ and has done it. a president who has been tested in the fires of debt and deficit and hard economic times. a president with the strength, the skills and the values to take charge of our economic future and get our nation moving again. ..
it's going to take hard workers, not high-rollers, to get america moving again
and it'll take star schools, not star wars, to conquer the next american frontier
the world is changing; we must change with it _ or we'll be left behind. we must invest in research. we must invest in new ideas. and we must turn those new ideas into new products and new jobs for our citizens and new markets for america. ..
american workers know that we're not going to beat the japanese and our other competitors by sitting on the sidelines; we're not going to beat them by pitting group against group and region against region; we're not going to beat them by investing in a fantasy called star wars; and we're not going to beat them unless we've got someone in the white house who looks a little farther into the future than the next vote on contra aid. ..
there are no shortcuts to greatness for america. because the best america does not hide; it competes. the best america does not waste; it invests. the best america does not leave some of its citizens behind; it works for everyone
if americans want leadership to trim and then tend to things as they are, they will turn to the republicans. our purpose, and our appeal as democrats, has always been to serve as an instrument of change. ..
the central issue of this campaign is whether americans will regain control of our own destiny. in recent years, that control has been lost to foreign powers and private interests. ..
first, we lost much of our steel industry; now we are losing whole segments of the computer industry. first, we were told that free trade permitted our farmers to sell abroad; now they are being locked out of the european market. we devalue the dollar, hoping to sell our goods cheaper abroad _ and then trade barriers still bar the way _ and the trade deficit with japan roars on. ..
we refuse to accept the decline of america. we are tried to hearing from those who say it is inevitable ... that we can't stand up for america anymore. and we are determined that we can and will reassert this nation's rightful role of leadership in the world economy. ..
on the central economic issues of this campaign, there is hardly a dime's worth of difference between governor dukakis and senator gore. and while i may disagree with jesse jackson in a number of important areas, let me say in fairness that he is speaking to fundamental questions _ and he surely does have something to say about them
the gore-dukakis approach is to distract the voters from those fundamental questions _ to divert the campaign to tactics, or drown it in generalities. ..
this approach is a political danger for democrats; the stale and standard rhetoric of a careful, conventional politics will never bring us back the voters we need for victory
but the true danger is to the nation. we can no longer afford to ignore the larger forces that could constrict our economy and our future. we have to revive america's productive might. ..
i am not willing to see america fall behind. i do not doubt the energy, the capacity, the strength or the talent of the american people. and i am certain that if they are given the chance, this nation can and will continue to lead the world
we want a nominee who doesn't just appeal to a collection of narrow interest agendas. we want a nominee who speaks common sense to voters at the grass roots level. ..
and my campaign is about bringing the democratic party back to the grass roots level. i want to put the white house back on the side of the average working men and women in this country. ..
voters ... have asked themselves: is the democratic party straying from its traditions? well, our traditions are economic growth, jobs, prosperity, social progress with a movement toward social justice and a strong, intelligent role for this country in the world
now that's the tradition of franklin roosevelt, harry truman and john kennedy. ... that's the approach that i'm taking in my campaign. ..
this is a time for fundamental change in america
we are facing a storm on the horizon. we must understand it clearly. ... we must become one nation, united in clearly recognizing that in order to compete more effectively overseas we have to batten down the hatches and make some major changes in this nation. ..
we have to create the best schools in the world. ... i look at children in all the states around this nation where i compete. their eyes are just as bright, their minds are just as sharp as those of the children of any nation on the face of this earth
are we to be satisfied that by the time children graduate from high school in america, on average they are two full grade levels behind their counterparts in other nations? are we going to allow that to continue? ..
it's time we had a president of the united states who didn't act the way ronald reagan does and every time a decision comes up ask, ``what is going to best for the executives in the board room?''
it's time we asked the democratic question, ``what's best for the guy on the assembly line, the guy on the farm, the woman behind the word processor, the woman behind the typewriter. ..
this is the challenge. ... we know from experience that if we follow policies that are designed to help the person at the grass roots level, ... if we consistently have the guts and fortitude and leadership and courage to stand by them and follow policies to benefit them, then in the long run that is going to lift the prospects of the entire nation
for more than a decade i've worked with others to create ideas that reform our public policies and systems. many of our society's institutions require reform. but reform is a threatening notion. it threatens long-established arrangements among individuals and institutions and powerful positions that some have fought long and hard to win
reform cannot be imposed from the top down, especially against a hostile institution. it must percolate from the bottom up. that means that ordinary people must provide the fuel for change. soldiers, nurses, teachers, workers are the key to reform. and that reform can only begin when people begin to think differently
we have to think differently about our relationships with the soviets and how we engage them in a new and different world
we have to think differently about how we provide better medical care and for whom we should provide
we have to think differently about how we educate our young people and what kind of education we are providing
we have to think differently about how we manufacture goods as well as what kind of products we ought to be making
we must raise non-traditional, non-conventional questions in this election year because the united states has been desperately trying to preserve an elusive status quo for 25 years while an often brutally contrary world prevents it. ..
resistance to reform and change is resistance to a new generation and a new way of thinking, and the resistance to me and my candidacy is in large part a resistance to a new generational understanding of a world where the old arrangements and old rules no longer work
but it's not simply an age question, it's an attitudinal divide. ..
although most in this race are of the same generation, there are real differences in outlook and attitude among the candidates. ..
this campaign _ like every other presidential campaign _ is about power, who will serve in the most powerful office on earth. but it's also about who has the power to elect our national leader
traditional politics says that party leaders, pundits and political experts should decide who the candidates will be. but reform politics, new politics, my politics say let's let the people decide
we gather here in this new south with new challenges. every generation has faced the challenge of securing for all citizens equal protection under the law, to have the umbrella of law broadened so when the rains do fall, all are protected
in 1960, four students in greensboro, at a&amp;t, (north carolina a&amp;t state university, jackson's alma mater) went to woolworth's lunch counter. they sat in to get hamburgers; they got handcuffs. they were challenged. they were arrested. they chose dignity even over degrees. they heard the call of their day
throughout that period, young america did not just rest in false comforts, or retreat through drugs ... young americans led the way, and assumed a front-line position. it's not enough for you to vote for me, young americans. you must register, vote, run for office, win and make a difference
things will not change automatically and inevitably. they will change because you work to make them change. you must make it happen. ..
we do have a public accommodations bill, and that's progress. we do have the right to vote, and that's progress. we do have open housing, and that's progress. we do have equal access to education, and that's progress. but then there is the unfinished business of economic justice and world peace
let us not forget the garbage workers in memphis had civil rights, had the right to vote. when they came home from work ... they did not have enough money to pay their basic family bills. the agenda there was economic justice for working people who did not want welfare, didn't want workfare, they wanted to get paid for working. the agenda was economic justice. they were abandoned by law. ..
now we need the law to raise the minimum wage ... to establish a national health care plan for the american people. we need to change the law and choose head start and day care over jail care and welfare. ..
we the people must come together. ... we must struggle to raise the standard of living for working people. stop drugs from coming in. stop jobs from going out
the challenge was to make certain that no one with a sheet and a hood would lynch us. today's challenge ... is not the rope, it's dope. coke. crack. heroin. pcp. every gain we ever made is threatened by drugs
it's a cop-out to just say to children, `just say no to drugs.' ... children do not buy $150 billion worth of drugs. ... children do not grow the drugs, do not run the cartels
the money involved in drug smuggling is corrupting whole governments. ... we must stop the flow of drugs into our country. it's corrupting our society. if elected, i will ... cut the supply of drugs. but you the people must cut the demand for drugs
we have to see that jobs are there for people, good jobs, primarily through the private sector
one of the things we have to do is deal with those who have fallen through the cracks
we have something in our society called the underclass. some people don't like the use of the term, but it is real, it is there. there is no sense fooling ourselves
we ought to give the people an opportunity. ... we can do better as a nation. we're not just talking statistics. ... we're talking about people
we're talking about the young man ... desperate for a job ... the man whose business has failed (who) asked the question, ``does anyone care?'' only he really wasn't asking a question. he was really saying, ``no one cares.''
i want a government that cares. i want a government that's going to fight for opportunities for our people and stand up for the less-fortunate
education has to receive much greater attention. ... one of things that has been happening is that there has been a substantial shift away from grants to loans
now, there are problems with that. one of the problems is that sometimes two of you who have loans fall in love and decide to get married. and that means that you have to postpone that dream of a family and a home
when you postpone that dream of a home you know what happens, among other things? for the lumber industry in the state of washington, all kinds of other things happen. it's also more costly for the federal government, believe it or not, than grants, because we have to subsidize interest for a great many years. and we have to pay for defaults. ..
it also distorts what people do. ... you have to make a decision to handle those loans. do you become an elementary school teacher? or do you become a lawyer. ... our society needs a great many more good elementary school teachers today than we need lawyers. ...
long-term care. ... let's talk about your grandparents, your parents. we have to take care of them if they need long-term residential care. ... no other major industrial society on the face of the earth doesn't take care of parents and grandparents when they need most any care. can we do it? of course we can do it
the government's chief barometer of future economic activity fell again in january, but an upward revision in december has eased some economists' fears that the nation was headed for a recession
the commerce department said tuesday its index of leading economic indicators dropped 0.6 percent in january. analysts discounted the sharp decline and instead focused on a revision that changed the index's showing in december from a 0.2 percent decline to a 0.3 percent rise
widespread weakness in all sectors of the building industry sent construction spending down 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months, the government says
the commerce department said tuesday that construction spending fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $395.2 billion in january following a revised 0.4 percent advance in december
a management group led by gaf corp.'s chairman has raised its buyout bid for the company to $1.4 billion, and the board of directors agreed to submit the offer to shareholders ``without endorsement.''
the deal announced tuesday would provide $46 in cash and junior securities with a face value of $6.50 for each share
in december, the group led by chairman samuel j. heyman had offered $1.35 billion, or $40 in cash and $8.50 in securities per share
a bidding war has erupted for textile giant j.p. stevens &amp; co. with rival west point-pepperell inc. offering to buy the company for about $867 million in cash and a management-led group jumping its cash and securities offer to about $850 million
stevens also said tuesday it had received a third, unidentified offer
the management group headed by chairman whitney stevens has offered to pay $40 in cash and $15 in securities for each of the company's 15.5 million common shares outstanding in a leveraged buyout. west point-pepperell offered $56 a share in cash under a negotiated merger agreement
r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. and campeau corp. are likely to wage a bidding war for federated department stores inc., wall street analysts say
the analysts said tuesday that macy, the privately held, new york-based retailer with nearly 100 department and specialty stores, can talk of a stronger future for federated, while campeau, a toronto-based department store and real estate company, is offering cash up front
macy made a bid valued at $6.6 billion on monday, topping campeau's 3-day-old $6.1 billion offer. federated said its board would consider both proposals
reagan administration officials have expressed support of the federal reserve's monetary policy, pulling the administration back from the recent barbs it has launched at the central bank
treasury secretary james a. baker iii told the senate appropriations committee on tuesday that he is ``in fundamental agreement with the monetary policy that has been pursued by the federal reserve.''
beryl sprinkel, president reagan's chief economic adviser, told a business group the administration was ``supportive of present policy as well as the plans for the future'' that the fed revealed last week
american standard inc., target of a hostile $2.12 billion takeover attempt by black &amp; decker corp., says it is taking steps to sweeten the cash portion of a recapitalization designed to foil the bid
the company said tuesday it had begun talks with unidentified third parties regarding the possible sale of debt securities as a means of increasing the cash part of the recapitalization. the proposal would pay shareholders $1.9 billion and give them a stake in the recapitalized company
three companies have introduced new high-powered computers ranging from a ``personal supercomputer'' to a mini-supercomputer designed to take on industry leaders
apollo computer inc. said tuesday it was producing a workstation for scientists and engineers with supercomputer power that outperforms anything in its price range: $69,900 to $130,000
ardent computer corp., a sunnyvale, calif.-based start-up, announced its first product, a graphics supercomputer in about the same price and performance range as apollo's
convex computer corp. of richardson, texas, aiming at a more expensive portion of the market, unveiled a more powerful new line of mini-supercomputers it hopes will cut into cray research inc.'s domination of that market
inland steel co. says it may permanently close four mills and idle at least 750 workers in a move the united steelworkers of america said was designed to coerce worker concessions
the company told usw local 1010 tuesday that it planned to close four shaped-products mills at its indiana harbor works in east chicago, ind., in 90 days. but inland also indicated it was willing to ``discuss the proposal or to receive any alternatives to the proposed course of action.''
senior officials from britain, france, west germany and spain have ordered europe's airbus industrie to try to reach an agreement on industrial and commercial cooperation with mcdonnell douglas corp. by mid-1988
the decision emerged tuesday at the end of a one-day meeting of transport ministers and chief executives of the industrial partners in the european commercial aircraft group
aviation industry observers said it was the latest display of europe's eagerness to penetrate the lucrative u.s. market while trying to reduce trade friction over american claims of unfair competition by airbus
federal authorities have arrested a major wall street stock trader after a state judge ordered the man released on his own recognizance on charges he plotted to shoot financier ivan boesky
superior court judge alvin y. milberg agreed to release john a. mulheren jr. on tuesday but did not consent to conditions that would allow the millionaire trader to be transferred to a hospital for treatment of manic depression
mulheren remained in the monmouth county jail during the hearing and was arrested immediately afterward by four u.s. marshals on separate charges, authorities said
the stock market slipped off its post-crash peak tuesday as the dow jones industrial average fell 1.16 points to 2,070.46
the dollar fell marginally against most key currencies
bond prices were little changed in light dealings
wheat futures prices fell, other grains and soybeans ended mostly lower, energy futures retreated and most livestock and meat futures advanced
crude oil futures prices have reversed their recent course, tumbling amid rumors that opec oil was being sold at a discount
on the new york mercantile exchange tuesday, crude oil for april delivery fell 29 cents to settle at $15.72 per 42-gallon barrel. the contract had gained 23 cents on monday
among refined products sold on the exchange, wholesale heating oil for april delivery slipped 1.04 cents to 43.47 cents per gallon tuesday. wholesale gasoline fell .93 cent to 45.29 cents per gallon
prices came under pressure as rumors circulated that some saudi arabian oil was being sold below the prices set by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, said richard redoglio, a trader with merrill lynch energy futures
price-cutting by the influential saudis could signal a wider price war, many analysts believe
traders also sold oil because they believe there is too much crude available, which also could depress prices, redoglio said. offer</head>
j.p. stevens &amp; co., months ago a rumored takeover target, now finds itself fielding three rival offers from a management-led group, industry competitor west point-pepperell inc. and an undisclosed suitor
west point-pepperell said tuesday it had offered to pay $56 a share for stevens, or about $867 million, in a negotiated buyout
the textile company actually had delivered its offer to stevens late monday
on tuesday, the j.p. stevens management group led by chairman whitney stevens said it was increasing its own outstanding leveraged buyout offer to $55 a share in cash and securities, or about $850 million
stevens also disclosed it had received a third, unidentified offer
stevens stock jumped $6.25 a share to $54.50 tuesday on the new york stock exchange. west point-pepperell was unchanged at $30.50 a share
the management group offered to pay $40 in cash and $15 in securities for each of stevens' 15.5 million common shares outstanding in a leveraged buyout
the group, led by the fifth generation member of the family that founded stevens in 1813, initially offered on feb. 8 to pay a total of $43 a share in cash and securities, or about $666.5 million
west point said its $56 a share cash offer was not conditioned on the availability of financing and indicated it was considering the sale of certain stevens assets to avoid antitrust concerns
stevens indicated in a news release that its outside directors were reviewing the revised management proposal and had authorized the company's financial advisers to study the two outside proposals
jim franklin, a spokesman for stevens, declined to comment beyond the news release
a number of industry experts had predicted higher offers would emerge following the management group's initial offer, which widely was viewed as too low
stevens is one of the nation's biggest textile producers, concentrating on home fashion textiles such as sheets, towels and carpets under the brand names ralph lauren, laura ashley and pierre cardin. the company also makes automotive products and industrial fabrics
west point, based in west point, ga., also is a major household fabrics maker, producing brands such a arrow, martex, lady pepperell, burberry's and cabin crafts
joseph l. lanier jr., chairman of west point-pepperell, said an acquisition of stevens would be a natural step in his company's shift toward consumer goods and away from commodity textiles, which have lower profit margins and suffer from intense foreign competition
west point-pepperell acquired cluett-peabody &amp; co. in 1986 as part of the strategy
stevens undertook a similar strategy beginning in 1984, moving out of apparel fabrics and shifting its manufacturing to home textiles such as sheets and towels. the success of that effort is one factor that made stevens an attractive takeover target
that's one of the great strengths of j.p. stevens,'' lanier said in an interview. ``it's playing to our strength as we see it.''
during the quarter ended jan. 30, stevens posted an after-tax profit of $12.9 million, up from $11.9 million a year earlier. sales rose to $381.48 million from $361.67 million a year earlier
in the fiscal year ended oct. 31, stevens earned $56 million on sales of $1.6 billion. this compared with a profit of $53.7 million on revenue of $1.68 billion in 1986
west point-pepperell reported a profit of $25.5 million on revenue of $480.9 million for the fiscal first quarter, which ended dec. 26. that was up from $20.9 million in profit and $422.7 million in revenue during a year earlier
stevens said the securities portion of the management group's offer would include $10 in market value of junior subordinated debentures and $5 market value of preferred stock paying a dividend in cash or additional shares. heats up</head>
apollo computer inc. got a key jump on its competitors by developing a $70,000 desktop ``personal supercomputer'' the company says is faster than anything else in the market, industry analysts said
two other companies also announced new supercomputers tuesday, marking what promises to be a period of fierce competition among makers of sophisticated supercomputers used by scientists and engineers
this seems to be the year for the so-called `personal supercomputer,''' said gary p. smaby, who follows the industry for piper, jaffray &amp; hopwood in minneapolis. ``i think it's going to be an interesting horse race.''
apollo said it was producing a workstation for scientists and engineers with supercomputer power that outperforms anything in its price range of $69,900 to $130,000
analysts said the domain series 10000 returns the chelmsford, mass.-based company to the forefront of the highly competitive field of small, powerful workstations that combine extremely rapid ``number cruching'' with three-dimensional graphics
we think that this definitely positions them as the performance leader to beat in the new graphics supercomputing market,'' said david burdick, an analyst with dataquest inc. of san jose, calif
for a company that has been stuck in the saragasso sea in the past couple of years, it is very siginificant'' said donald bellomy of international data corp. in framingham, mass. ``they had been the industry leaders in every aspect and had fallen behind in every aspect.''
ardent computer corp., a sunnyvale, calif.-based start-up, announced its first product tuesday, a graphics supercomputer in about the same price and performance range as apollo's
convex computer corp. of richardson, texas, aiming at a pricier segment of the market, unveiled a more powerful new line of mini-supercomputers it hopes will cut into cray research inc.'s domination of that market
another recent start-up, stellar computer inc. of newton, mass., is expected to announce a similar graphics supercomputer in two weeks, and analysts anticipate a half-dozen more to follow
scientists and engineers are making pretty interesting use of these computers,'' smaby said. ``the question is how big a market is there for a $100,000 single-user computer.''
they're all vying for market share leadership in one niche or another and not all of them are going to come out with gold medals,'' he said
apollo, which pioneered workstations in 1980, said at a boston news conference that the new model speeds up complex numerical computations and its four-processor model allows several different programs to run simultaneously
ardent said its graphics supercomputer would range in price from $79,000 for a one-processor model to $150,000 for a four-processor model that will be available later this year
ardent, founded in 1985, is run by two prominent figures in the computer industry: allen h. michels, the president and chief executive, who previously founded convergent technologies, and c. gordon bell, the vice president of research, engineering and development, who did pioneering work in a 23-year career at digital equipment corp
but analysts agree apollo's 50,000 workstations and 1,800 software packages already on the market give it a competitive advantage. the company said it will begin selling the models in the third quarter this year and announce improved graphics system for the workstation later this year
convex computer introduced a line of six mini-supercomputers that range in power up to the level of conventional supercomputers. in san francisco, convex said it invented a new kind of parallel processing for its bigger models that keeps processors from being idle by allocating work among them efficiently
convex's new computers range in price from $275,000 to $1.3 million and are up to 10 times as powerful as its current models. convex claimed the most powerful model, the c240, is faster than cray research inc.'s x-mp 14, which costs $5.5 million
gaf corp. shareholders will have the chance to vote on a sweetened $1.4 billion leveraged buyout offer from a group led by chairman samuel j. heyman, but may get competing offers to consider
gaf's board of directors agreed tuesday to submit the offer to shareholders ``without endorsement,'' after the group increased its bid from a previous $1.35 billion cash and securities package
the company also instructed its financial adviser to seek out other potential purchasers, and left itself the option of accepting any competing, superior offer
the heyman group on tuesday proposed to pay $46 in cash and junior securities with a face value of $6.50 for each of gaf's 27.7 million outstanding common shares
in december, the heyman group offered $1.35 billion, or $40 in cash and $8.50 in securities per share
that offer was a downward revision from its initial $2.3 billion offer, made in september, of $64 in cash and $2.50 face value in debt securities. heyman revised the initial proposal due to rising interest rates stemming from unsettled conditions in the market for high-yield ``junk bonds'' following the october stock market crash
in order for shareholders to vote on the latest buyout offer, they first first vote on an amendment to the company charter. the amendment would allow shareholders to act in place of the board in considering a merger offer, as the heyman-led proposal has been presented
a special committee of the board of directors had rejected the initial $64-a-share proposal as inadequate. gaf said it had decided to let stockholders decide based on the favorable opinion of the offer by salomon brothers inc., the committee's financial adviser
the committee also instructed salomon to solicit other possible purchasers, gaf said. the committee said that if it receives an ``economically superior alternative proposal'' for gaf, it could cancel its agreement with the buyout group
we think the price is a fare and full price,'' heyman said. ``it's seven times the price of the stock only four years ago.''
gaf also said it had reached tentative settlements of lawsuits brought in connection with the buyout offer
gaf stock rose 25 cents to $50.25 a share tuesday on the new york stock exchange
heyman, who wrested control of gaf in 1983 after a bitter proxy fight to oust former chairman jesse werner, has said that taking gaf private would give the company more leeway to pursue acquisitions without having to worry about short-term shareholder value
since taking over gaf, heyman has led the company on unsuccessful but profitable attempted takeovers of union carbide corp. and borg-warner corp
heyman owns 2.8 million shares of gaf, or about 10 percent of its outstanding stock
ten years ago a monterrey company promoting membership at a new pacific coast resort hotel offered a special deal: ``buy now and your 10-year lease will be renewed at the same price in 1988.''
but inflation and the devaluation of the peso since then have made the deal even more special than anyone anticipated: the average 70,000 peso price for the leases in 1978, worth the equivalent of $3,182 back then, now equals just $30
hotel clients in this northern industrial city are complaining that the company is balking at renewing the time-sharing leases at the cheaper price
they estimate that about 1,000 people throughout mexico paid an average of 70,000 pesos in 1978 to spend one week each year at the luxury hotel club maeva in manzanillo in the pacific coastal state of colima
the hotel is run by casolar, the tourism division of the huge monterrey-based alfa conglomerate
alfa fell into a severe economic crisis along with the rest of mexico in 1982 and has seen the value of mexico's currency plunge from 22 pesos to the dollar in 1978 to 2,350 to the dollar now
the peso devaluation has made the 70,000-peso fee equal to $30, about the price of dinner for two in a nice restaurant. but clients here say they took the gamble a decade ago when they invested in a hotel complex that was under construction
we know it's very little money now. but, remember, nothing was built at the time. it was an enormous risk,'' said concepcion rodriguez de salazar, who sold herself one of the contracts 10 years ago when she worked as a casolar sales representative
her son, monterrey lawyer jorge salazar, says casolar now wants to charge 10 million pesos _ $4,255 _ to renew the contract. salazar is handling the complaints for about 60 hotel clients here
the company didn't have any idea that things were going to turn out as they did. but the people that bought there didn't expect the company to decide whether or not it was going to comply,'' salazar said
martha barrios of casolar said on monday and tuesday that officials involved in the contract dispute were in meetings or out of town and not available for comment
salazar said in a telephone interview late monday that his clients want him to negotiate with casolar, but he has been unable to locate company officials
these people had to sacrifice to pay the fee 10 years ago, but they thought they'd get 20 years of vacations,'' salazar said
he said the peso-dollar equivalent had nothing to do with the written contract. the renewal offer was in the contract as well as the company's advertising, he said
we don't earn dollars or spend dollars or do business in dollars,'' he said. ``we still have faith in what a contract says.'' 
kaisertech ltd. has taken the unusual step of suing its own chairman of the board, in an attempt to recover profits made from his short-term dealings in the aluminum company's stock
the suit filed tuesday against alan e. clore came a day after the reclusive british investor agreed to sell his 27 percent stake in kaisertech to texas oilman charles hurwitz, a move that appeared to irritate kaisertech officials and signaled management turbulence at the oakland, calif.-based company
clore acquired his position at kaisertech after a lengthy takeover struggle last year. hurwitz's intentions toward kaisertech remain unclear
asked if it was considered unusual that a company would sue its own chairman, kaisertech spokesman robert w. irelan said: ``it's the first time we've done it.''
kaisertech stated that its suit filed in a manhattan federal court resulted from clore's disclosures in a securities and exchange commission filing on monday about his sale of stock to a hurwitz-controlled company, los angeles-based maxxam group inc
kaisertech contended the sec disclosures showed clore and his affiliates made about $4 million in undisclosed profits via so-called ``short-swing trading'' _ trading done within a six-month period _ of kaisertech stock
under federal securities law, a company or its stockholders are entitled to recover such profits from a director or officer who engages in short-swing trading
clore, who usually resides in switzerland, could not be reached for comment on the lawsuit, which was part of a rapid series of events concerning kaisertech stock
in los angeles, the investment firm jefferies &amp; co. said it was selling 1.39 million shares of kaisertech stock to maxxam for $16.68 million or $12 a share
combined with the 6.2 million shares acquired from clore, plus an option to buy his 8.2 million convertible preferred kaisertech shares, acquisition of jefferies' stake would give maxxam about one-third of kaisertech's approximately 45 million shares outstanding
but wall street's reaction indicated skepticism about a possible takeover move. in composite new york stock exchange trading, kaisertech fell 12{ cents a share to $11.75, after rising $1.12{ in the previous session
kaisertech had stated monday it would have preferred that clore had sold his stock to a broader range of investors, reflecting concern about what maxxam intended to do with its stake. maxxam officials said it was premature to speculate on whether the comapny would attempt to acquire more kaisertech shares
clore's maneuvering to sell his kaisertech shares came against a background of heavy pressure on him to cut losses suffered in the october stock market crash
if clore hadn't found a buyer by a monday deadline, he could have faced default on loans he had obtained by using kaiser stock as collateral. after the stock plunged in october, lenders wanted repayment
his sale of stock came as the company was rebounding from six straight years of losses. kaiser has sold its chemical, oil and gas businesses, slashed debt and concentrated on its core aluminum business. risks</head>
the lorillard inc. tobacco company sought to downplay discounts that its insurance company affiliate was considering offering to non-smokers several years ago, according to evidence in a lawsuit against three cigarette makers
the contention was made tuesday as a federal jury heard testimony and read documents that allegedly show the tobacco industry sought to suppress information on the health dangers of smoking
the suit filed by antonio cipollone of lakehurst, claims lorillard, philip morris co. and liggett group inc., are liable for the lung cancer death of his wife rose, a 40-year smoker
cipollone alleges the companies failed to do enough research on cigarettes, did not reveal what they did know, failed to warn the public of health dangers and did not put a safer product on the market
one document released tuesday, dated march 3, 1980, was written by chicago-based cna insurance co. officials and discussed a recommendation for non-smoker discounts, according to marc z. edell, cipollone's attorney
at the time, cna was owned by loew's theatres inc., which also owned lorillard. loew's has since sold the tobacco company
it is recognized that the introduction of non-smokers discount could prove embarrassing'' to loew's and lorillard, the memo stated. in order to minimize the potential for embarrassment, it suggested that cna and lorillard jointly prepare a carefully constructed statement saying the discount ``in no way supports or refutes the contention that smoking causes health defects.''
cna should further refrain from advertising or otherwise promoting non-smoker discounts,'' it continued
the issue also was discussed in a letter dated nov. 5, 1979, from lorillard senior vice president and general counsel, arthur j. stevens, to cna chairman edward j. noha
stevens wrote that when the cigarette manufacturing trade group, the tobacco insitute, heard of allstate insurance co.'s plan to offer a non-smoker discount the institute sought help from cna ``in an effort to perhaps dissuade allstate from that course of action by supplying background data.''
lorillard spokesman chuck wall said lorillard and the institute did nothing improper but merely were trying to counteract anti-cigarette propaganda
according to another document released tuesday, a tobacco institute official stated in 1972 that the industry's defense against cigarette critics included ``creating doubt about the health charge without actually denying it.''
the internal memorandum describes the ``three major fronts'' _ litigation, politics and public opinion _ where the tobacco companies had fought to defend itself
the ``brilliantly conceived and executed'' strategy, used in all three areas, helped ``win important battles,'' said the memo
however, ``it is only fair to say that it is not _ nor was it intended to be _ a vehicle for victory,'' said the may 1, 1972 memo from fred panzer to horace r. kornegay, president of the tobacco institute
wall identified panzer as an institute vice president
the document says the industry had followed a ``holding strategy, consisting of:
_creating doubt about the health charge without actually denying it;
_advocating the public's right to smoke, without actually urging them to take up the practice;
_encouraging objective scientific research as the only way to resolve the question of health hazard.''
general motors corp.'s plastic-body, mid-engine pontiac fiero and the workers who make it have become the first victims of slumping popularity for sporty two-seaters
michael losh, pontiac's general manager, said tuesday gm will stop making the fiero after the 1988 model and will close indefinitely the single fiero plant here sometime this summer, idling 1,109 workers
the whole market's dead,'' said industry analyst chris cedergren of j.d. power and associates, blaming high insurance rates for a 30 percent drop in overall two-seater sales during 1987
the slump has not spared japanese automakers, who report slow sales of cars such as the sporty toyota mr2 and the mazda rx7, or europeans, whose victims include four-cylinder porsches
in addition to flagging sales, fiero had suffered problems that included frequent engine fires, which prompted gm to recall the entire 1984 mode production run late last year. but losh and cedergren suggested the market killed the fiero
we have seen a switch away from the high volumes of people who were willing to buy two-seat cars with limited luggage capacity,'' losh said. ``we led the world into this (market) segment and we may lead a piece of the world out of it.''
fiero sales peaked at 101,720 cars in 1984 and fell to 47,156 in 1987. sales for the 1988 model year, which began oct. 1, are less than 10,000, 41 below the same point in the 1987 model year
but before it died, losh said, the fiero helped create a new, performance-oriented image for pontiac. he refused to speculate on whether the fiero plant might reopen to build a new pontiac or gm product
union and city officials said they were surprised by the fiero decision despite the car's poor sales. when the fiero is gone, no pontiacs will be built in pontiac
uaw local 653 president harold cox said his plant was one of the first at gm to accept japanese-style team organization of workers under a contract that allowed the previously closed plant to reopen in 1983 to make the fiero
we're going to continue to try to persuade general motors to try to put something in there,'' cox said. ``it's a slap in our face that they rewarded us this way.''
gm already has closed a foundry, another car assembly plant, a heavy-duty truck plant and a bus plant in pontiac and had cut production at the fiero plant several times, putting more than 1,200 other fiero workers on layoff
dealers said they also were surprised by the announcement and some expressed disappointment
we don't have anything else in my opinion that would fit in that category,'' said buzz sawyers, owner of sawyers pontiac in lansing. ``it's like a cheap corvette.''
pontiac spokesman reginald harris said gm will make sure parts are available for the fiero into the future
gm's contract with the united auto workers union forbids permanent plant closings that were not announced before the contract was signed last fall, but permits laying off workers if sales slow
the fiero plant is the third gm has decided to idle since then. the first, in framingham, mass., will return to production in may. the second, in kansas city, mo., will shut down april 15, idling 1,600 workers
usg corp., a leading producer of building materials, has urged shareholders to resist a $1.9 billion tender offer from a partnership led by two texas oilmen
the $42-a-share offer for about 21.5 million shares of usg stock was unveiled tuesday by desert partners lp, which is headed by jack e. brown and cyril wagner jr
desert partners already owns about 9.9 percent or 5.08 million of usg's approximately 50.8 million shares outstanding
after the tender offer was announced, usg issued a statement asking shareholders to hold onto their stock until the board had a chance to act on the matter
the company has stated repeatedly that it wants to remain independent. lasat week usg rejected the partnership's lateset takeover proposal, also valued at $42 a share
in a separate filing with the securities and exchange commission, desert partners said it would seek to elect six directors to usg's 15-member board at the company's annual meeting in may
desert partners said wells fargo bank had pledged $500 million in financing for the offer and would attempt to arrange $525 million more in financing from other banks
wall street analysts have speculated that wagner and brown aren't interested in acquiring usg but want to boost the value of their stake, purchased last year for about $44.30 a share for an earlier takeover attempt that fizzled
in recent weeks usg stock had been trading around $28 a share, but the price started rising when rumors surfaced late last month that wagner and brown would make another run at the company
usg rose $2.75 to $40.12{ on the new york stock exchange tuesday
based in chicago, usg is a leading producer of gypsum and building materials, with about 100 plants nationwide
belgium's central bank on wednesday announced cuts in two key interest rates to reflect the current strength of the belgian franc and international trends
the belgian national bank said it will lower the discount rate to 6.5 percent from 6.75 percent and the lombard rate to 6.75 percent from 7 percent, effective thursday
the discount rate is the interest the central bank charges to member banks. the lombard rate is interest charged on central bank loans that use securities as collateral
the bank said in a statement the decision was made ``in recognition of recent rate cuts in the domestic and international money markets'' and due to the stability of the belgian franc
the bank last cut its lombard and discount rates on january 28
the three-month money market rate, the single-most important leading rate on the belgian market, also has been cut five times since the beginning of the year
foreign exchange dealers in brussels said the franc had not registered any noticeable reaction to the news
south korea's trade surplus more than tripled in february from a year earlier on the strength of exports, the government reported wednesday
the trade and industry ministry said last month's surplus rose to $524 million from $158 million in 1987. that brought the surplus for the first two months of this year to $810 million from $683 million last year, it said
exports in february rose 41 percent to $4.1 billion from, while imports grew 30 percent to $3.57 billion
the ministry did not provide a breakdown by country
during 1987, south korea posted a trade surplus of $6.26 billion
the teamsters union is urging northwest airlines' 6,700 flight attendants to use whatever measures they can to slow their performance without breaking the law or company rules
at this time we want to keep the company confused and very busy,'' said a recorded message that answered a union telephone tuesday
the recording urged tactics that included filing paperwork on each piece of broken equipment at each stop during a flight and slowing down everyday procedures the flight attendants have learned to shorten
what they're doing is not against regulations,'' said jeff musto, a spokesman for teamsters local 2747. ``it's just following the rules.''
the flight attendants, who are working without a contract, threatened to strike at 11:01 p.m. last friday, but no job actions have been taken against the company, said william wren, a northwest spokesman
talks broke off at dawn saturday, and no further negotiations were scheduled, spokesmen for both sides said
terry erskine, northwest's vice president for law and labor relations, said monday an unusually high number of flight attendants called in sick over the weekend. but he attributed the absences to attendants' fears they would be stranded by a strike, not to orders from the union
we're winding down operations here today, letting the dust settle for the time being,'' said musto. ``there's still a possibility of a strike and we're free to strike at any time,'' musto added
the main stumbling block to a new contract is a company proposal to delay the promotion of b-scale workers to the higher-paid a-scale bracket, musto and wren said
all northwest flight attendants were paid under one scale before a 1982 contract created the b-scale, musto said, while all employees hired since then have started as b-scale employees at rates of pay lower than the old system
the 1982 contract called for b-scale employees to jump to a-scale levels in their sixth year of employment, but the current company proposal would extend that wait until the ninth year of employment, musto said
such an extension would mean a loss off $16,776 over the three years for the average b-scale flight attendant, musto said
a new jersey company is offering to ``inoculate'' computers against ``viruses,'' or rogue programs that are designed to spread from computer to computer and damage data the computers store
the viralarm system was announced tuesday by officials of lasertrieve inc. of metuchen, n.j., during a microsoft corp. conference on a data-storage device known as cd-rom, short for compact disk, read-only memory
a statement issued by lasertrieve said that although the newer cd-rom disks are impervious to corruption because information on them cannot be altered, many computer users are concerned about protecting programs on hard disks or on conventional floppy diskettes
viruses are creating a growing fear among computer owners and users. authorities in israel recently announced the detection of a virus that, if left to spread unchecked, could have wiped out memory banks and disabled computers throughout the country on a given date
previous ``anti-viral'' programs only drew attention to changes, noted the size of a program or monitored the dates of program changes, and all were ``easily fooled by sophisticated viruses,'' the statement said
viralarm consists of a special program to protect another program, creating a software barrier
before anyone can use the protected program, viralarm checks to determine whether the program has been altered since it was inoculated. if there has been any change, viralarm then blocks use of the altered program, notifies the user and suggests a backup copy of the program be substituted
the protection is available for individual personal computers and works for most of the operating systems now available, the lasertrieve statement said. ^new home sales plunge in january</head>
sales of new homes plunged 9 percent in january, pushing the level of sales activity to its lowest point since the end of the last recession, the government reported today
the commerce department said that sales dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 535,000 units. it was the third consecutive monthly decline and left sales 26 percent below where they were a year ago
the january decline followed decreases of 6.8 percent in december and 3.4 percent in november as the housing industry continued to be the sector of the economy that has been hardest hit since the october collapse of stock prices
consumers, worried about the future following the record 508-point drop in stock prices, stopped looking for new homes, analysts believe
housing is often the economic sector which turns down first before the start of a new recession. but despite the weakness in recent months, many economists remain hopeful that recent declines in mortgage rates will spur a rebound in sales and construction in the months ahead
if the rebound doesn't occur, then concerns about a possible recession this year could increase
in another weak economic report, the government said today that orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell 0.6 percent in january, the first decline since a 1.4 percent drop last august
however, analysts said the january setback was not as weak as it appeared because it mainly reflected a huge swing in orders for aircraft, which had helped push factory orders up 2 percent in december
the 9 percent decline in new home sales in january was the steppest decline since a 10.9 percent drop last may. it left sales at the lowest annual rate since december 1982, when the last recession was ending
the big sales decline was accompanied by a sharp rise in prices, with the median, or mid-point price of a home climbing 9.7 percent to $120,000
the average price of a home rose to $149,000, up 10.5 percent from december. economists said such a big price surge is not uncommon during a period of falling sales because fewer, but higher-priced homes skew the averages
the sales decline was led by a 24.4 percent drop in sales in the south. sales were down 13.7 percent in the midwest. sales actually rose 23 percent in the northeast, a rebound from a 52.9 percent drop the month before. sales were up 0.6 percent in the west
the stock market showed a broad gain today, resuming its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 6.96 to 2,077.42 in the first half hour
gainers outnumbered losers by nearly 5 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 737 up, 309 down and 462 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 35.34 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said the market was still benefiting from spreading confidence that a recession can be avoided despite the market's crash last autumn
one theoretical warning signal of a business slump was lifted tuesday, when the commerce department issued new figures on its index of leading economic indicators
with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
brokers also noted that enthusiasm for stocks has been buoyed by a brisk pace of takeover activity
j.p. stevens rose 1{ to 56 in early trading today. west point-pepperell made a bid of $56 a share for the company tuesday, in competition with a management-led group that is seeking to buy it out
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .58 to 150.76. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .90 at 289.81
on tuesday the dow jones industrial average lost 1.16 points to 2,070.46
declining issues outnumbered advances by 7 to 6 on the nyse, with 811 issues down, 696 up and 457 unchanged. big board volume totaled 199.99 million shares, against 236.05 million in the previous session
january new-home sales hit the lowest point since the last recession and factory orders fell for the first time in four months, the government said today in reports suggesting the economy weakened after the october stock crash
the commerce department said sales of new homes plunged 9 percent in january to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 535,000 units, the third straight monthly decline that left sales 26 percent below year-earlier levels
the report reflected a significant downturn in the housing industry, the area of the economy believed hardest hit since the collapse in stock prices five months ago. analysts believe many homebuyers stopped looking after the collapse, fearing economic uncertainty in months ahead
housing is often the economic sector that declines first before the start of a new recession. despite the weakness, however, many economists remain hopeful that recent declines in mortgage rates will spur a sales rebound
the commerce department also said orders to u.s. factories fell 0.6 percent in january, the first decline since a 1.4 percent drop last august and another possible sign of post-crash economic weakness
but some analysts said the report was misleading because it reflected a huge swing in aircraft orders, which helped push factory orders up 2 percent in december
discounting the aircraft element, factory orders would have risen 0.8 percent in january, reflecting a higher demand for american manufactured goods caused partly by the weaker dollar, which makes them more affordable abroad
the reports today appeared to have no dampening effect on domestic financial markets, where early stock and bond prices rose
on tuesday, the markets wandered aimlessly after the release of other economic statistics that gave no clear signals
the commerce department said its chief barometer of future economic activity fell in january, although an upward revision of december's figure eased fears that the nation was headed for a recession
the department also said construction spending fell an unexpected 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months, evidence of weakness in all sectors of the building industry
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 1.16 points to 2,070.46, slipping from the post-oct. 19 market crash high it had reached on monday. it was equally quiet in the credit markets, with the yield on the treasury's bellwether 30-year bond edging up to 8.35 percent from monday's 8.34 percent
the dollar was narrowly mixed in foreign exchange
is a frog livestock? people wouldn't leap to that conclusion, a farmer-lawmaker suggested wednesday, arguing that frog farmers need tax protection
farms for frogs should be exempt from local property taxes, just as are any premises used for any ``livestock,'' conservative michael colvin told a house of commons committee studying a local finance bill
according to the bill, livestock is defined as ``any mammal or bird kept for the production of food or wool, or for the purpose of its use in the farming of land.'' all other farm premises are also exempt from the taxes
fine, but where does the frog, an amphibian, fit in? asked colvin, who said his acquaintance with a frog farmer prompted him to raise the point
the definition of livestock is most unclear. times have changed in agriculture,'' he said, suggesting that the bill substitute ``creatures'' for ``livestock.''
it would be a sad day if any government started imposing a tax on frogs,'' said colvin
local government minister michael howard pointed out that words aren't everything under law. after all, he said, ``snails are covered by the exemption for fish farms.''
the stock market pushed ahead today, resuming its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 1.16 points tuesday, rose 15.42 to 2,085.88 by 11 a.m. today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 857 up, 407 down and 469 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 80.39 million shares at midmorning
analysts said the market was still benefiting from spreading confidence that a recession can be avoided despite the market's crash last autumn
one theoretical warning signal of a business slump was lifted tuesday, when the commerce department issued new figures on its index of leading economic indicators
with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
brokers also noted that enthusiasm for stocks has been buoyed by a brisk pace of takeover activity
j.p. stevens rose 1| to 56[. west point-pepperell made a bid of $56 a share for the company tuesday, in competition with a management-led group that is seeking to buy it out
stocks contributing to the dow jones industrial average's gain included sears roebuck, up 1| at 39~; international business machines, up 1\ at 118\; general electric, up | at 45\, and eastman kodak, up } at 44[
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .76 to 150.94. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.19 at 290.10
customers who pay hundreds of dollars on fine china expect perfect curlicues, flawless border lines and unblemished garlands
perfection can be achieved electronically on a computer screen, but that's not good enough for the designers at lenox
in an era in which computers influence the shape of cars, lay out balanced newspaper pages and even make a superstar out of max headroom, lenox still has old-fashioned ideas about its designs
every line, squiggle or tiny dot in the prototype design is laboriously drawn by hand after weeks of research
we start with a strategist ... who analyzes the marketplace,'' said thomas r. mcinerney, lenox's vice president of marketing
some recent new designs, for instance, have been focused toward young cosmopolitan consumers ``who are less traditional, a bit more urban,'' he said
once a direction has been established, we draw up a design brief ... and the design department then takes that direction.''
at lenox, a design team of 17 people sits down to brainstorm. eventually it comes down to a designer at a drawing board, a blank circle waiting to be embellished
lenox will not reveal the names of its designers, ``for competitive reasons,'' said lenox spokesman peter cheyney
but the director of the design department explains some facts, such as a source of inspiration
we have a large library with books on architectural style, furnishings, fabrics,'' he said. ``we have color services who are constantly bringing us up to date with predictions for this season's hot colors.''
computers, he said. ``are not for us here. a computer could be used to help with color separations or to work out the permutations of design, but it's more of a graphic tool.''
lenox designs ``are done all by hand,'' the design director said. ``in some instances, a computer can help with key outlines, but it really comes down to the eye. ... a computer will never substitute for a person here.''
every few weeks, the design team produces 30 to 60 patterns that are test-marketed. of that group, about six are selected for production
the design team works closely with lenox's sculptors to ensure that the design will fit on a plate
the design is also checked with the factory to see if we're doing something manufacturable,'' the design director said
lenox china is a division of lenox inc., which is a subsidiary of the brown-forman corp. of louisville, ky. sales figures for lenox china products are included in the company's overall ``home furnishings'' report, which also comprises lenox crystal products, figurines and specialty products, not all of which are produced in the united states
the home furnishings category listed 1987 sales of $194.2 million, compared to $173.9 million in 1986
in a year, lenox will introduce about 60 new patterns. once a design is approved, it moves to lenox's massive factory about 10 miles outside of atlantic city where it is printed on decals and applied by hand
the assembly line for the decal application process consists of all women who make small talk as they work
for some reason, guys don't like to do this tedious work,'' said dorothy hickey. in her 33 years with lenox, she has risen to a spot of such seniority that she is entrusted with decorating first lady nancy reagan's presidential china and giftware
on a wet plate that already has been fired twice, the women center the designs and smooth out air bubbles
sometimes it still has a tendency to slide, especially on the curvature of the plate,'' said anna pinkney, carefully positioning tiny flowers scattered across the china
several feet away, the process of applying gold and platinum borders is so exacting that workers are allowed to get up and stretch frequently
it requires steady hands and steady nerves,'' said a 23-year lenox veteran, henry wise, as he spun a wheel to draw the gold off the brush and onto the china
mrs. hickey is especially proud of lenox's design selections. she keeps volumes of every design that lenox has produced, from the popular ``autumn'' pattern that features tiny hand-painted fruits to the more current presidential line _ monroe, buchanan and mckinley
after seeing hundreds of patterns, mrs. hickey laughs when asked if she has a favorite
do you want to know what i picked for my own china? i have the plain solitaire,'' she said. ``i just couldn't make up my mind what i wanted.''
eastman kodak co. says it has sold $1.1 billion of 10-year notes, making it the largest investment-grade corporate debt issue in the united states
the previous record was held by occidental petroleum co., which issued $1 billion worth of investment-grade debentures two years ago, according to morgan stanley &amp; co., kodak's underwriters
kodak said it had planned to sell $750 million worth of bonds, but demand was so great the amount was increased to the record level
the 10-year bonds were priced at par and carry an interest rate of 9.125 percent. the issue will be used to either retire about $1 billion of short-term loans or help finance the company's recent $5.1 billion acquisition of sterling drug inc., kodak said
kodak has traditionally tried to stay out of the credit markets
in 1981 the company had borrowed less than $100 million, but its current debt totals $3.3 billion, with much of that increase coming in the last two years
grain and soybean futures opened mostly lower today on the chicago board of trade as the slightly stronger dollar gave a weaker tone to the entire market
soybeans also retreated on new estimates for large soybean harvests in south america, while wheat came under pressure from the agriculture department's revised auction program designed to lower surplus stocks
the usda held the first of three weekly auctions tuesday. auctions also are scheduled for this afternoon and friday
the usda's announcement tuesday that the soviet union had completed all of its outstanding purchases of u.s. wheat weighed on wheat futures prices, said richard loewy, an analyst in new york for prudential-bache securities inc
in corn, there was some farmer selling overnight, but it's mainly just being influenced by the other grains,'' loewy said
in early trading, wheat was 1 cent to 2 cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.09{ a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1 cent lower with march at $2.03\ a bushel; oats were unchanged to } cent higher with march at $1.94 a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent to 2} cents lower with march at $6.33 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mixed in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .10 cent to .30 cent higher with april at 72.05 cents a pound; feeder cattle were unchanged to .20 cent lower with march at 80.40 cents a pound; hogs were .20 cent lower to .08 cent higher with april at 43.35 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .23 cent to .40 cent higher with march at 52 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures settled higher on tuesday except for frozen pork bellies, which ended lower
the stock market gained ground today, resuming its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 1.16 points tuesday, rose 13.09 to 2,083.55 by noontime today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 9 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 880 up, 479 down and 465 unchanged
analysts said the market was still benefiting from spreading confidence that a recession can be avoided despite the market's crash last autumn
one theoretical warning signal of a business slump was lifted tuesday, when the commerce department issued new figures on its index of leading economic indicators
with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
brokers also noted that enthusiasm for stocks has been buoyed by a brisk pace of takeover activity
j.p. stevens rose 1\ to 55}. west point-pepperell made a bid of $56 a share for the company tuesday, in competition with a management-led group that is seeking to buy it out
stocks contributing to the dow jones industrial average's gain included sears roebuck, up 1\ at 39{; international business machines, up } at 117}; general electric, up { at 45[; philip morris, up 1\ at 96, and eastman kodak, up | at 44
securities-industry stocks were broadly higher, buoyed by takeover activity and the improved state of the markets. morgan stanley gained 1{ to 60\; merrill lynch 1 to 26\, and first boston 1 to 25
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .58 to 150.76. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.45 at 290.36
volume on the big board came to 107.45 million shares at noontime, against 103.25 million at the same point tuesday
delvalle fired military strongman manuel antonio noriega last thursday but the defense chief ignored the order and rallied his allies in the national assembly against the president. on friday, the assembly voted to oust delvalle and installed education minister manuel solis palma in his place
noriega has been indicted on drug smuggling charges by two florida grand juries and has been under heavy diplomatic, economic and political pressure by the reagan administration to step aside and open the way for civilian-led constitutional rule
among the banks listed by rogers which would be affected by the order are marine midland na, irving trust co., bankers trust co. and the republic national bank. he said all have headquarters in new york
every dime we can find is in those banks,'' rogers said. he added that any bank which ignores the order could be liable for whatever payments it makes to the current panamanian government
the coalition of opposition leaders believes that the panamanian government is facing a grave cash flow problem and is extremely vulnerable to economic pressure from the united states
unlike other countries, panama cannot cover its cash shortages by printing new money because the dollar is the national currency
sosa said international opposition to the new government was evident earlier this week when, he claimed, only eight ambassadors showed up for a state of the union address. from the western hemisphere, he said, only cuba and nicaragua attended
lawyers for the ousted president of panama, eric arturo delvalle, sued in federal court today to block a new york bank from turning over millions of dollars to military strongman gen. manuel noriega
a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order, blocking the republic national bank of new york from transferring an estimated $10 million
a hearing on the matter is slated for monday before u.s. district judge lloyd f. mcmahon
the lawsuit, filed at federal court in manhattan by lawyers from washington, seeks to establish title to the funds held in the republic national bank account and ``to prevent their transfer into the hands of a military dictatorship ... which has attempted to seize power and overthrow the lawful authorities of the republic of panama,'' according to court papers
noriega, the military leader of panama, was indicted on drug charges by two u.s. grand juries in florida feb. 4
devalle sought to dismiss noriega feb. 25, but was himself ousted by the national assembly the next day and has gone into hiding
on tuesday, devalle froze all panamanian assets outside the country, and the united states, which still recognizes devalle as the legitimate head of panama, has supported the action. general news wires</note>
thousands of farmers wrestling with massive debts or being forced out of business may get another chance under new loan rules being drawn up by the federal farmers home administration, the agriculture department agency said today
joe o'neill, an fmha spokesman, said the new rules probably will be ready by june. in many cases, over-burdened borrowers could have much of their debt written off, trimmed back to reflect their assets in hopes of keeping them in business
however, o'neill said he had no estimate of how much debt the fmha might write off under the new rules
there's just no way of knowing,'' o'neill said. ``it'll be each individual case all the way through.''
at the end of last fiscal year on sept. 30, he said, 261,291 fmha borrowers owed the agency about $26 billion. of that, 127,671 were delinquent, owing $6.6 billion, including principal and interest
new rules governing how the agency deals with farmers who owe it money could help prevent 100,000 farms from going under, the new york times reported today, quoting fmha officials in washington. agency officials also said thousands of farmers who went bankrupt over the past 10 years could find themselves back in operation
the new rules are a result of a bill passed by congress in december calling on the fmha, an agency that serves as a ``lender of last resort'' for the nation's farmers, to go easier on farmers who are behind in their payments
the new law requires the agency to do whatever possible to restructure loans in order to keep fmha borrowers in business
our attitude is going to be different,'' said fmha administrator vance l. clark. ``we want to make the new act work, and we're going to have a lot of room to maneuver to restructure these loans.''
lynn hayes, an attorney with the farmers legal action group in st. paul, minn., said, ``i'm thrilled they are apparently taking this legislation seriously and are trying to make it work.''
the new regulations would enable debt-burdened farmers to stay in business through a number of loan restructuring options. according to agency officials, farmers would be offered the opportunity to pay off loans at a lower rate of interest over a longer period of time
as a last resort, the agency could write off debts in excess of a borrower's assets, o'neill said. for example, if a farmer's assets were $150,000 and debts totaled $500,000, the write-off could be as much as $350,000 if the fmha determined the farmer could handle the remainder by staying in business
it makes sense, then, to keep that person in business and write off the difference between what they owe and their assets _ if the government stands a chance of retrieving more by keeping that farmer going,'' o'neill said. picks up 5th graf pvs, legislation sponsored; also running on general news wires.</note>
members of the senate banking committee failed to unravel a tangled three-way dispute this morning that has blocked legislation to repeal the depression-era law separating commercial banking and the securities industry
committee members, after meeting more than two hours behind closed doors on tuesday, struck a tentative deal that balanced the interests of banks, securities firms and insurance companies, according to senate aides who spoke on condition of anonymity. but the agreement fell apart almost immediately
the compromise would have given bank holding companies more securities powers, but restricted their ability to expand into insurance, the aides said. however, it fell apart when senators on opposite sides of the insurance issue realized they had a different understanding of the agreement, the aides said
sen. william proxmire, d-wis., the committee chairman, called another negotiating session for later in the day. an aide said the nature of the restriction on banks' ability to enter the insurance business remained the sticking point in the talks
legislation sponsored by proxmire and sen. jake garn of utah, the committee's senior republican, would repeal the 1933 glass-steagall act, which forbids commercial banks from underwriting and selling most securities. it was passed in the wake of the 1929 stock market crash to preserve the safety of the banking system
affiliates of bank holding companies would be allowed immediately to begin underwriting mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper, municipal revenue bonds and securities backed by consumer loans
power to underwrite corporate debt would be postponed until jan. 1 and corporate stock underwriting by bank affiliates would begin in 1990
sen. donald w. riegle jr., d-mich., chairman of the securities subcommittee, was advocating more restrictive legislation that would have required separate congressional votes in 1989, 1990 and 1991 before bank affiliates could underwrite corporate bonds, stocks and mutual funds
the tentative compromise, according to the aides, would have automatically phased in power over corporate bonds and mutual funds and required a separate vote in the future only on stock underwriting
sen. christopher dodd, a democrat from connecticut, where insurance companies are important employers, was pushing an amendment that would prohibit state-chartered banks owned by holding companies from further expansion into insurance
opposition from banks to dodd's amendment, if passed, could kill the entire bill, aides said, but some senators were reluctant to vote against the amendment for fear of retaliation from insurance interests within their states
one version of the compromise on insurance, as described by the aides, would have allowed a state to permit its banks to underwrite insurance within the state even if the holding company that owned the bank was headquartered out of state. however, banks would not be allowed to locate in a state with permissive laws and then ``export'' insurance to other states
a second, more restrictive, version of the compromise would require both the bank and its parent company to be located within a state before state officials could allow the bank to underwrite insurance
proxmire and garn opened the all-day session tuesday with a plea to fellow senators to ignore pressure from special interest lobbyists
we are not here to merely broker a compromise between the various providers of financial services,'' proxmire said
garn, looking at a hearing room packed with lobbyists, said, ``it's time to forget all of you and your special interests and your greed.''
the proxmire-garn bill has been endorsed by the heads of all the relevant regulatory agencies and by president reagan, but it faces substantial hurdles even beyond the senate committee before it can be enacted
reps. john dingell, d-mich., and fernand j. st germain, d-r.i., who will have jurisdiction over the issue in the house, have expressed considerable reluctance about broadening bank powers too much
general motors corp. has fired several employees and disciplined others for accepting gifts from a major tooling supplier in the late 1970s and early 1980s, a trade publication has reported
this week's edition of metalworking news identified lamb technicon corp. of warren as the subject of a gm investigation
gm disciplined employees who helped make decisions concerning tooling purchases and who accepted gifts from lamb technicon, metalworking news said. gifts included paid trips with lamb technicon salesmen to resort areas or hotels
darlene sandlin, a spokeswoman for lamb technicon, confirmed the company had been investigated by gm. she said the company issued new guidelines on ethics in 1984
gm officials, citing a policy against discussing individual personnel matters, refused comment
technicon recently was selected as a major tooling supplier for gm's saturn corp. car project in tennessee
gerald a. johnston, a top executive of the mcdonnell douglas astronautics co., was elected president of mcdonnell douglas corp. during a board of directors meeting wednesday, the company announced
johnston replaces john f. mcdonnell, who became chairman and chief executive officer of the corporation wednesday when the retirement of sanford n. mcdonnell became effective
sanford mcdonnell, 65, announced his retirement earlier this year
johnston, 56, had been serving as vice president and general manager of the astronautics facilities in huntington beach, calif. his promotion became effective immediately
johnston, who joined douglas aircraft co. in 1956 as an associate engineer, became vice president and general manager of strategic systems in 1986 and vice president and general manager of the huntington beach facilities last year
sanford mcdonnell will continue on the board of directors
the stock market headed higher today, resuming its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down 1.16 points tuesday, rose 8.12 to 2,078.58 by 2 p.m. today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by almost 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 938 up, 496 down and 466 unchanged
analysts said the market was still benefiting from spreading confidence that a recession can be avoided despite the market's crash last autumn
one theoretical warning signal of a business slump was lifted tuesday, when the commerce department issued new figures on its index of leading economic indicators
with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
brokers also noted that enthusiasm for stocks has been buoyed by a brisk pace of takeover activity
j.p. stevens rose 1~ to 56]. west point-pepperell made a bid of $56 a share for the company tuesday, in competition with a management-led group that is seeking to buy it out
stocks contributing to the dow jones industrial average's gain included sears roebuck, up 1\ at 39{; international business machines, up ~ at 117~; general electric, up { at 45[; philip morris, up 1[ at 95~, and eastman kodak, up } at 44[
securities-industry stocks were broadly higher, buoyed by takeover activity and the improved state of the markets. morgan stanley gained ~ to 59|; merrill lynch ~ to 26[, and first boston | to 24|
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .77 to 150.95. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 2.15 at 291.06
volume on the big board came to 148.06 million shares with two hours to go
first republicbank dallas lost more than 8 percent of its deposits as customers withdrew $599 million in one week last month amid speculation about the financial health of its parent company, regulators said
the dallas bank is the lead institution of first republicbank corp., whose officials said the situation subsequently appeared to be stabilizing
the bank held average total deposits of $6.87 billion during the seven-day period ended feb. 24, down 8.7 percent from $7.47 billion the previous week and down $1.5 billion from the period including dec. 31, 1987
gerald fronterhouse, chairman and chief executive of first republic, said the one-week outflow of deposits at the dallas bank was ``unusual,'' but added that the bank's funding situation ``appeared to be stabilizing.''
during the week covered in the report by the federal reserve bank of dallas, the bank holding company was the subject of published reports that takeover or bailout negotiations were under way, and that its lead institution had suffered deposit outflows
a 55-member team supervised by the office of the comptroller of the currency began auditing first republicbank, which lost $656.8 million in 1987 and finished the year with $3.92 billion worth of problem assets. bank officials later denied that the negotiations were taking place
fronterhouse said the dallas bank's recent deposit loss ``reflects mainly the impact of earlier false rumors and extensive adverse publicity
by the middle of last week, the sources of funds for the dallas bank and for the corporation as a whole appeared to be stabilizing,'' fronterhouse said
the dollar strengthened against most major currencies wednesday. gold prices stagnated or rose slightly
foreign exchange dealers said the dollar firmed on two rumors: that the u.s. administration would allow the dollar to rise if american trade figures continue to improve and that the soviet union was buying dollars
in london, the dollar gained against the british pound when the state-run bank of england sold an undetermined amount of pounds to keep the currency below 3.0 west german marks as the mark fell against the dollar
at the end of the day, one pound cost $1.7680, cheaper than $1.7775 late tuesday
other late rates for the dollar in europe compared with late tuesday rates included: 1.6945 west german marks, up from 1.6855; 1.4005 swiss francs, up from 1.3915; 5.7345 french francs, up from 5.7065; 1.9013 dutch guilders, up from 1.8940; 1,247 italian lire, up from 1,244.35; 1.2558 canadian dollars, down from 1.2570
earlier in tokyo the dollar closed at 128.47 japanese yen, up from 128.30 tuesday. in london the dollar traded at 129.27 yen
gold bullion was higher in london at $429.50 a troy ounce, up from $428.70 late tuesday. it was unchanged in zurich at $429.50
traders said gold prices appeared to be stabilizing in a range of $425 to $433
gold in hong kong traded at $433.96, up marginally from $433.80 tuesday
silver bullion traded late in london at $6.24 a troy ounce, down from $6.29
manufacturers of american auto parts are huddling with executives of 11 japanese car companies in an effort to whittle away at a $6 billion trade deficit between the two countries in the auto parts industry
executives of the new jersey-based motor and equipment manufacturers association say the current meetings are unprecedented, and offer an opportunity to cut the massive trade deficit between the two countries
the meetings are being held wednesday and thursday between members of the u.s. group and purchasing agents of companies belonging to the japanese automobile manufacturers association
the meetings are aimed at putting more american-made replacement parts under the hoods of japanese cars, according to william a. raftery, president of the auto parts organization
we believe the japanese recognize the seriousness of the situation and are prepared to do something about it,'' raftery said between meetings wednesday
japanese auto parts companies are shipping $5 billion a year in parts to the united states, raftery said. some of the parts go to u.s. car companies, others are destined for japanese cars that are sold in the united states, or to japanese companies producing cars in the united states
the japanese are buying more u.s. auto parts now that they are setting up factories here, but they are not purchasing nearly enough u.s. parts,'' raftery said. ``the problem is that the japanese have been encouraging japanese suppliers to follow them to the u.s. and open plants here. that doesn't provide new jobs, and it takes away u.s. jobs
when a foreign manufacturer opens a plant in the united states, whether the company is japanese, german or whatever, they hire far fewer people than a similar american company,'' raftery said
when a foreign company builds a plant in the united states, they import more of their parts and tend to be in the assembly business rather than the manufacturing business, he said
if the japanese are going to sell their cars in the united states and take advantage of the new car market in america, ``they should give the u.s. manufacturer the opportunity to provide parts for some of those vehicles, as long as we're price competitive,'' he said
only a very small percentage of japanese cars use american-made parts while ``u.s. companies are using japanese parts, korean parts and taiwanese parts,'' he said
the japanese are buying ``a few hundred million dollars'' in auto parts from u.s. companies while exporting billions of dollars in their own auto parts to america, he said
he said the japanese association is cooperating fully ``and has been extremely helpful in bringing these negotiations about.''
once a darling of the running-gear boom, moss brown &amp; co. stumbled on its way to becoming a $100 million-a-year business in the nation's capital
now, its founder is starting over in a storefront 80 miles northwest of yellowstone national park
the grain elevators and muddy pickup trucks in this tiny farming community are a far cry from the pricey georgetown section of washington, d.c., where henry barksdale's moss brown &amp; co. built a reputation as a rising star of the running and outdoor clothing mail-order business
in the heady days of 1984, barksdale was pictured on the cover of the washington post magazine and moss brown was named to inc. magazine's list of the 500 fastest growing companies in america
but barksdale's boom went bust in washington _ the victim, some said, of trying to run too fast _ and after working through a chapter 11 bankruptcy court reorganization, his enterprise has emerged with a new name and a relatively clean slate
as far as i know of, everyone has been taken care of,'' barksdale says of the customers who filed claims against moss brown for undelivered merchandise
barksdale's new firm, appropriately called runwest inc., has acquired the moss brown trademark, but the company is a much smaller and perhaps less ambitious version of the original
back in washington, barksdale thought nothing of firing off 12 million catalogs and churning out gore-tex running suits by the tens of thousands
today, in belgrade, employees take a more leisurely pace, quietly stuffing garments into mailing envelopes by hand while listening to music on a radio
i feel really welcome here,'' the 59-year-old barksdale told the bozeman (mont.) daily chronicle in a recent interview. ``everybody is so open. it's sort of like when i was a kid growing up in st. louis. i'd forgotten that people were really like that.''
while describing banks in washington as ``basically just computers,'' barksdale says the vice president of valley bank of belgrade walked over and introduced himself the day barksdale moved in
that's a different experience than you'd have back in d.c.,'' he said
with $8 million in sales in 1984, moss brown was being hailed as the l.l. bean of the running set
if we were doing $15 million a year in sales, i'd probably still be there,'' barksdale said. ``but i'm not sure i'd be happy.''
what happened to him in washington is a classic case of reaching too far too fast
we made good money until 1983,'' when moss brown earned $200,000 in profits, barksdale said. ``then i decided to turn it into a big company.''
from mailing orders in the back of his georgetown retail store, barksdale moved the mail-order business into a 40,000-square-foot warehouse in suburban alexandria, va. and he expanded the mailing list, achieving those 10 million to 12 million mailings a year, by purchasing or renting costly mailing lists from other firms
these expansion moves added huge costs to the business without adding enough revenues to pay for them _ at a time when the running boom was beginning to fade
we added customers faster than we were able to generate merchandise,'' barksdale admits
don chilcutt of direct media, an edmond, okla., broker of mailing lists for mail-order companies, agrees with that sober assessment
barksdale was ``prospecting'' for new customers by leasing or buying millions of new names to add to his mailing list, chilcutt said, but his known buyers couldn't support the expansion
you can't support a 10 million mailing with only 123,000 customers,'' chilcutt said
last march, moss brown filed for bankruptcy protection, having piled up $2.15 million in debts, $1.7 million of it unsecured
mark holmstrup, an investigator at the city of alexandria's office of consumer affairs, says his office received some 150 complaints from customers of moss brown, most coming at the end of 1986 and in early 1987
customers complained moss brown never sent the merchandise they ordered, even though the company billed customers' credit cards or cashed customers' checks, holmstrup says
after mailing new catalogs to customers and offering credits to those who filed complaints, barksdale contends his debts have been settled. and he says he gets letters daily from people saying they are glad he's back in business
but this time, barksdale says he'll be satisfied with being small in beautiful montana. asked about his goal for the fledgling, reorganized company, he says he'd like to see sales of $1 million a year by 1989
i don't want to get that big anymore,'' he said. ``we made a lot of money and had a lot of fun, but my wife would kill me if i make the business even as big as $5 million again.''
the dun &amp; bradstreet corp. said wednesday it has agreed to buy interactive data corp., a massachusetts-based securities research firm owned by chase manhattan corp., for $140 million in cash
the acquisition is expected to be completed by the end of march, the announcement said
idc, which is based in lexington, mass., is a leading provider of historical securities information and related analytical services. it posted revenue of $85 million in 1987
chase manhattan is the second largest u.s. banking company
idc provides its customers, who include research analysts for brokerage houses and pension and mutual fund managers, with information on the performance of public companies and prices of equity and fixed-income securities on a current and historical basis
dun &amp; bradstreet is a leading marketer of business information and related services. it owns moody's investors service, which rates corporate and municipal obligation, and nielsen media research, which compiles telelvlsion ratings, as well as a number of other financial services
the stock market was mostly higher today despite some afternoon selling of blue chips
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up about 15 points earlier in the session, was unchanged at 2,070.46 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 866 up, 586 down and 495 unchanged
analysts said the market was still benefiting from spreading confidence that a recession can be avoided despite the market's crash last autumn
one theoretical warning signal of a business slump was lifted tuesday, when the commerce department issued new figures on its index of leading economic indicators
with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
brokers also noted that enthusiasm for stocks has been buoyed by a brisk pace of takeover activity
j.p. stevens rose 1~ to 56]. west point-pepperell made a bid of $56 a share for the company tuesday, in competition with a management-led group that is seeking to buy it out
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .31 to 150.49. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.49 at 290.40
volume on the big board came to 172.94 million shares with an hour to go
grain and soybean futures closed lower wednesday on the chicago board of trade after an attempt to rally the market failed
c&amp;d commodities, a large investment fund, was a heavy buyer of soybean meal and soybean oil futures but the action attracted little buying interest among other traders, analysts said
the market didn't respond, so we started to sell off and the thing snowballed late in the day,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc. ``we ended up near or at the day's lows across the board.''
wheat also came under pressure from the agriculture department's revised auction program designed to lower surplus stocks
the usda announced after the close it had sold 10 million bushels of wheat, the amount it had expected to sell, on tuesday. auctions also were scheduled for wednesday and friday, and three more are set for next week
at the close, wheat was 2} cents to 4{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.06} a bushel; corn was 2 cents to 3 cents lower with march at $2.01} a bushel; oats were \ cent to 1\ cents lower with march at $1.93{ a bushel; soybeans were 4{ cents to 5{ cents lower with march at $6.30{ a bushel
john f. bookout, who has served as president and chief executive officer of shell oil co. since 1976, announced wednesday he is retiring effective june 30
frank h. richardson, executive vice president of products, will be nominated to the shell oil board of directors to succeed bookout, the company said
shell is wholly owned by the royal dutch-shell group of companies, which is based in both london and the hague, the netherlands
bookout joined the houston-based shell oil as a geologist in tulsa, okla., in 1950. he was elected president of shell canada ltd. in 1970 and returned to shell oil in 1974 as executive vice president of exploration and production
shell said one of bookout's principal achievements was putting into place 10 years ago a strategic planning that served the company well during the volatile conditions the oil industry has experienced
normal retirement for shell's senior management is at 60, but bookout, 65, was given two formal extensions, shell spokeswoman kitty borah said
bookout has not announced any future plans, she said. he was out of town on business and could not be reached for comment
shell also announced wednesday that charles w. wilson will replace richardson as executive vice president of products effective may 1. he previously was vice president of refining and marketing
richardson spent the first part of his shell oil career in the exploration and production organization. he became vice president of corporate planning in 1978, executive vice president of administration in 1982 and assumed his present position in 1983
wilson joined shell oil in 1963, becoming vice president of production in 1964 then moved to shell western e&amp;p inc. as president in 1987. he returned to shell oil in his present position late last year
sears, roebuck &amp; co. said wednesday it was beginning a three-year overhaul of its flagship merchandise group to make each segment of its retail business more competitive
the restructuring, which will trim an as-yet undertermined number of people from the merchandise group's management, will make sears stores more responsive to customer needs and wants, officials said
the apparel business will be run differently from the hardware business,'' said spokesman philo holland. ``you need different organizational structures to compete in different businesses.''
michael bozic, chairman and chief executive officer of the merchandising group, said in a statement that the restructuring would reduce the number of management levels, making each segment of sears' merchandise business leaner and more independent
we are competing in many diverse businesses, each with its own unique structure, and (we) have been essentially using one organizational format to compete in all of these businesses,'' bozic said
the changes we make will result in a company that is better structured to maintain its position as america's premier retailer.''
officials said they had no estimate of the number of employees to be affected or the cost savings involved, because they were only beginning the restructuring procss
the ultimate size and structure will be determined by how we choose to compete in the different businesses we are restructuring,'' holland said
he said the reduction in management personnel would be achieved through attrition and a severance offer of two weeks' salary for each year of service, up to a maximum of 52 weeks
employees at least 50 years old who have been with the company at least 10 years will also be offered early retirement benefits, holland said
the reorganization is widely seen as an attempt to revive sluggish sales and profits within the merchandise group, which accounts for nearly 60 percent of the company's revenues
the stock market settled for a small gain today after a broad early advance faded
analysts said the market was still benefiting from spreading confidence that a recession can be avoided despite the market's crash last autumn
one theoretical warning signal of a business slump was lifted tuesday, when the commerce department issued new figures on its index of leading economic indicators. with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
brokers also noted that enthusiasm for stocks has been buoyed by a brisk pace of takeover activity
but with all that, they said, many investors still seemed leery of chasing after an advance that has carried the market to its highest levels since the crash
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up about 15 points at its best level of the day, finished with a .83 gain at 2,071.29
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 5 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 908 up, 560 down and 500 unchanged
big board volume totaled 199.63 million shares, against 199.99 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index rose .50 to 150.68
the stock market wound up clinging to a small gain wednesday after a broad early advance faded
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up about 15 points at its best level of the day, finished with a .83 rise at 2,071.29
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 5 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 916 up, 583 down and 493 unchanged
big board volume totaled 199.63 million shares, against 199.99 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index rose .50 to 150.68
the dow jones industrials have essentially gone nowhere in the past two days after taking a 48-point jump on monday
but as has been the case for the past couple of months, broader market measures were generally strong wednesday, reflecting continuing interest in many depressed secondary issues
analysts said the market was still benefiting from spreading confidence that a recession can be avoided despite the market's crash last autumn
one theoretical warning of a business slump was lifted tuesday, when the commerce department issued new figures on its index of leading economic indicators. with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, asserted that recent declines in the index don't portend an impending recession
brokers also noted that enthusiasm for stocks has been buoyed by a brisk pace of takeover activity
but with all that, they said, many investors still seemed leery of chasing after an advance that has carried the market to its highest levels since the crash
j.p. stevens rose 1~ to 56]. west point-pepperell made a bid of $56 a share for the company tuesday, in competition with a management-led group that is seeking to buy it out
geico jumped 17 to 121. the company said it will hold a so-called dutch auction tender offer for 1 million of its shares, to be purchased at a price of between $115 and $125 apiece, and also raised its quarterly dividend
xerox gained 2} to 61} amid a variety of rumors. the company said it had no explanation for the unusual activity in its stock
japanese issues moved up following a strong day in the tokyo market. kubota ltd. rose 7 to 99{; matsushita 4| to 187[, and honda motor 3\ to 122
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $10.28 billion, or 0.39 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 230.99 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose .79 to 309.60, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up .76 at 267.98
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market climbed 3.06 to 370.38. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 290.92, up 2.01
bond prices rose modestly in light trading wednesday, as the government provided more evidence of economic sluggishness
the treasury's key 30-year bond rose ] point, or about $3.75 for every $1,000 in face value, as its yield slipped to 8.31 percent from 8.35 percent late tuesday
trading has been very light this week, and analysts ascribe that to consternation about whether the economy is headed into a recession or simply slowing down
william sullivan, director of money market research at dean witter reynolds inc., said the bond market was ``marking time'' until friday's scheduled release of february employment figures
the employment figures are usually the first economic statistics released for any given month and they provide the most recent evidence available on general economic activity
sullivan said one factor contributing to the mild bond price rise on wednesday was a new commerce department report that said sales of new homes fell 9 percent in january
the report showed surprising weakness for the third month in row,'' sullivan said
a slow-growing economy is generally viewed positively by bond traders because it usually means credit demand will be weak, allowing room for interest rates to fall
in another report, the government said orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell 0.6 percent in january, the first decline since august
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term governments rose 2-32 point, intermediate maturities rose \ point and 20-year issues rose 11-32 point, the financial information service telerate inc. reported
the movement of a point equals a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 0.14 to 113.93. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, rose 1.82 to 1,192.20
among corporate bonds, industrials and utilities rose [ point in light trading, the investment firm salomon brothers inc. said
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, rose 0.42 to 286.13
yields on three-month treasury bills fell 2 basis points to 5.60 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills fell 6 basis points to 5.85 percent and year bills fell 2 basis points to 6.16 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6{ percent, down from 6| percent late tuesday
the dollar strengthened in foreign exchange trading wednesday, especially against the japanese yen, partly because of a rumor that the reagan administration would tolerate a higher value for the u.s. currency
gold prices were narrowly mixed. as of 4 p.m. est, republic national bank of new york quoted bullion at $430.25 a troy ounce, down 20 cents from the price quoted late tuesday
dealers attributed much of the dollar's strength to a rumor that an unidentified senior u.s. official had told japanese reporters the united states would allow the dollar to move higher following its protracted decline
although this story was denied later, many traders scrambled to buy the u.s. currency, causing it to rise in the most active trading of the week against most key currencies except the canadian dollar
it was a bit more energetic today,'' said albert soria, vice president and foreign exchange manager of the swiss bank corp.'s new york branch
nevertheless, he said the relatively narrow trading ranges for the dollar vs. other currencies that have emerged recently would persist for awhile. ``i don't see any breakout one way or the other,'' soria said
many foreign-exchange dealers were focusing on the release later this month of u.s. foreign trade figures for january to gain more insight into how to structure their trading strategies
if those figures provide more evidence of a declining deficit, as shown by statistics of the previous two months, a moderate rally in the dollar would likely result
if the january deficit widens, dealers probably would sell dollars on the theory that the currency will depreciate further in value to stimulate american exports
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 128.47 japanese yen, up from 128.30 tuesday. in london the dollar traded at 129.27 yen. by the time trading concluded in new york, the dollar was worth 129.40 yen, more than 1 yen higher than 128.32 yen rate quoted late tuesday
in london, the pound cost $1.7680, cheaper than $1.7775 late tuesday. later in new york the pound was worth $1.7673, cheaper than $1.7766 late tuesday
other late dollar rates in new york compared with late tuesday included: 1.6969 west german marks, up from 1.6864; 1.4030 swiss francs, up from 1.3916; 1.2570 canadian dollars, down from 1.2578; 5.7385 french francs, up from 5.7100; 1,248.25 italian lire, up from 1,243.25
other late dollar rates in europe vs. late tuesday included: 1.6945 west german marks, up from 1.6855; 1.4005 swiss francs, up from 1.3915; 5.7345 french francs, up from 5.7065; 1.9013 dutch guilders, up from 1.8940; 1,247 italian lire, up from 1,244.35; 1.2558 canadian dollars, down from 1.2570
gold bullion rose in london to $429.50 a troy ounce vs. $428.70 late tuesday. it was unchanged in zurich at $429.50. in hong kong gold traded at $433.96 vs. $433.80
on the new york commodity exchange, gold bullion for current delivery fell 20 cents a troy ounce to $430.80
silver bullion traded late in london at $6.24 a troy ounce, down from $6.29. on the new york comex, silver bullion for current delivery traded at $6.21 cents an ounce, off about 1 cent
cocoa futures prices set new life-of-contract lows for the fourth consecutive day wednesday on fears that the international cocoa organization will be unable to control the effects of steadily rising production
on other markets, grain and soybean futures retreated; livestock and meat were mixed; precious metals were slightly lower; energy futures were mostly lower; and stock-index futures advanced
no news from the international cocoa organization's week-long meeting in london was perceived as bad news on new york's coffee, sugar &amp; cocoa exchange, where prices for future delivery of cocoa settled as much as $35 a ton below tuesday's final prices
the market continues to try and absorb prospects for surplus production,'' said sandra kaul, an analyst in new york for shearson lehman hutton inc. ``it's falling pretty sharply.''
cocoa producer and consumer nations are meeting to discuss withholding cocoa from the market to support prices, ms. kaul said
icco buffer-stock buying, a price-support mechanism that was resumed in january after a six-month suspension, has already exhausted the allocation of 250,000 metric tons for the 1987-88 marketing year, she said
world cocoa production has risen steadily since 1986 and is expected to total more than 2 million metric tons this year
cocoa settled $31 to $35 lower with the contract for delivery in march at $1,563 a metric ton
grain and soybean futures finished lower on the chicago board of trade after an attempt to rally the soybean market failed, analysts said
wheat came under additional pressure from the agriculture department's revised auction program designed to lower surplus stocks
the usda announced after the close it had sold 10 million bushels of wheat, the agency's targeted amount, on tuesday. auctions also were scheduled for wednesday and friday, and three more are set for next week
wheat settled 3 cents to 4{ cents lower with march at $3.06{ a bushel; corn was 1} cents to 2} cents lower with march at $2.02 a bushel; oats were \ cent to 1\ cents lower with march at $1.93{ a bushel; soybeans were 4\ cents to 5} cents lower with march at $6.30{ a bushel
live cattle futures settled higher while feeder cattle prices moved lower in choppy trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
cattle futures have traded within a narrow range for more than a month
hog futures finished slightly lower in light, technically based trading. frozen pork bellies advanced on expectations that discount pricing at the wholesale level would encourage sales of pork products
live cattle were .17 cent to .38 cent higher with april at 72.12 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to .45 cent lower with march at 80.27 cents a pound; hogs were .08 cent to .22 cent lower with april at 43.25 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .23 cent to .67 cent higher with march at 52.27 cents a pound
gold futures have encountered support at around $430 a troy ounce for the april contract, which settled slightly above that level on new york's commodity exchange
gold settled 10 cents to 20 cents lower with april at $432.20 a troy ounce; silver was .50 cent to 1 cent lower with march at $6.216 a troy ounce
oil futures prices finished mostly lower on the new york mercantile exchange after struggling back from a sharp selloff earlier in the day
west texas intermediate crude oil settled .12 cent lower to .13 cent higher with april at $15.67 a barrel; heating oil was .15 cent lower to .46 cent higher with april at 43.93 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .05 cent to .39 cent lower with april at 44.90 cents a gallon
stock-index futures settled slightly higher on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index ended .70 point higher at 268.35. the underlying spot index finished .75 point higher at 267.98
the financially troubled dunes casino hotel project here has been sold to a florida company with its own troubled history of lawsuits, cash shortages and federal investigations, federal documents show
the royale group ltd., a company in the hotel and real estate business, recently bought out nearly all the stock in the dunes, according to documents filed with the securities and exchange commission and the u.s. bankruptcy court and reviewed by the press of atlantic city
the dunes project at the southern end of the boardwalk stalled in 1979 when the owners ran out of money. its bare steel girders have stood rusting ever since
developer jack bona arrived in 1983 to rescue the casino but was forced to file for bankruptcy protection in august 1985
since then, bona has tried several other plans to raise money to pay off his debts, including a sale of shares and private deals with investors. all have failed
royale's chief executive officer since 1981 has been leonard pelullo, a leader in the effort to restore a strip of art deco-style hotels on miami beach
pelullo and bona have tried to keep the deal for the dunes quiet. a royale group ltd. vice president refers all questions about the sale to company attorneys, who say they cannot provide details
so far, no one in royale has said anything about how the company plans to raise the approximately $250 million needed to complete the casino hotel
royale has been trying to break into the atlantic city casino industry for a decade. then called cavanaugh communities corp., the company first bought marina land in 1978 but was unable to put together financing for a casino
documents obtained by the press from the sec and u.s. bankruptcy court say that boardwalk to bay inc., a royale subsidiary, has purchased 99 percent of the dunes stock from bona and has an option to buy the other 1 percent
pelullo and his companies have been involved in nearly three dozen separate lawsuits and actions by government agencies, according to company documents filed with the sec. many were filed by banks over the alleged failure to repay millions of dollars worth of loans, the newspaper reported
pelullo's business dealings spawned a u.s. grand jury investigation in 1986, the newspaper said. according to royale's sec filings, the investigation centers on the circumstances surrounding a $13 million mortgage granted to royale by a california savings and loan
atari corp. on wednesday said its earnings rose 57 percent to $18.7 million in the fourth quarter of 1987 and credited part of the jump to its october acquisition of the federated group inc. chain of retail electronics stores
other factors contributing to the increase included strengthened computer sales in europe and booming video game sales in the united states, said greg pratt, company spokesman
the fourth-quarter figure represented 32 cents a share, on revenue of $277 million. that compared with earnings of $11.9 million, or 22 cents per share, on revenue of $92.6 million in the same 1986 period
sales of televisions, stereos, microwave ovens and other electronics equipment at federated's 68 stores in california, arizona and texas accounted for 47 percent of revenues, or $130.6 million
profits for all of 1987 rose 76 percent to $44.1 million, or 76 cents per share, from $25 million, or 53 cents in 1986
sales rose 91 percent, increasing to $493 million in 1987 compared to $258 million the previous year
video games were obviously a hot category this year,'' said pratt. ``there were no teddy bears or laser guns to take those dollars away. people went back to more traditional stuff and bought video games.''
federated stores now acount for 25 percent of atari corp., one of the world's largest manufacturers of personal computers and video games
new home sales dropped sharply and factory orders slipped in january, according to government reports wednesday that reflected weakness in the economy
bond prices strengthened in a typical reaction to news of a sluggish economy. the yield on the treasury's key 30-year bond slipped to 8.31 percent from 8.35 percent
on wall street, stocks rose marginally as the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks edged up 0.83 to 2,071.29
in washington, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan took another opportunity to calm concerns that the central bank would respond to political pressure and ease credit too much in an election year
greenspan told the senate budget committee that even if the fed wanted to drive down interest rates sharply, ``we would fail,'' because markets would likely resist such a move and ``would run away from us.''
greenspan also called for new efforts to cut the federal budget deficit, including a 15-cent gasoline tax and measures to trim social security and other entitlement programs
in spite of the news of sluggishness on wednesday, stock analysts said wall street was still taking courage from a report on tuesday by the commerce department on its index of leading economic indicators
with an upward revision of the december figure for the index from a decline to a gain, it no longer showed a string of three consecutive lower readings
new home sales fell 9 percent in january, pushing sales activity to its slowest pace since the end of the last recession, the commerce department said wednesday
a downturn in housing has often been the harbinger of the onset of a recession, but analysts said they believed falling mortgage rates offered the hope of a rebound in home sales in coming months
in a second lackluster economic report, the commerce department said orders for manufactured goods fell 0.6 percent in january to a seasonally adjusted $212.6 billion
while this was the first decline in five months, analysts noted that it followed an unusually large 2 percent december increase, a gain which reflected a big jump in demand for jet airplanes
analysts said the one-month setback did nothing to change their view that american manufacturers are continuing to enjoy a sales boom led by increased demand for exports
james christian, chief economist for the u.s. league of savings institutions, said with ``mortgage rates moving in the right direction'' sales for all of 1988 should end up only 3 percent below the 1987 sales pace
but other analysts said it remained to be seen whether the drop in mortgage rates will be enough to attract new buyers. they noted that sales have been strong for the past three years and a lot of pent-up demand has been exhausted
we simply don't have the demand for housing that we had in the first part of the rcovery,'' said michael sumichrast, an economist and publisher of a construction industry newsletter. ``the south, which accounts for almost half of all new homes sold, is still weak and you won't see any significant improvement until that area turns around.''
banks recorded their least profitable year since the great depression in 1987, but a top federal regulator said wednesday he sees better days ahead
the year-to-year drop in earnings was due entirely to large banks adding to reserves to cover anticipated losses on loans to third world countries, said l. william seidman, chairman of the federal deposit insurance corp
a commerce department report that showed a slide in january new-home sales provided further evidence of a housing industry slump following the stock market crash five months ago. last week the national association of realtors said sales of existing homes in january fell for the third straight month
nevertheless, sales vary widely around the country, reflecting regional economies, interest rates and demand, random ap telephone queries of realtors suggested. here is a brief description of housing markets in six areas:
boston: sales were stronger in the last three months of 1987 compared with a year earlier, and preliminary figures for early this year suggest stability. fixed-rate mortgage rates have fallen slightly to about 9.75 percent, while prices are up more than 6 percent above year-earlier levels
dallas: sales fell more than 30 percent in the last quarter of 1987 from the year earlier level. prices have risen in a range of 2 percent to 8 percent. fixed mortgage rates vary between 9 percent and 10 percent
kansas city: sales have fallen slightly but there is no clear-cut trend. mortgage rates have fallen from 10.5 percent to about 9.5 percent and prices have risen nearly 10 percent from a year earlier
southern california: sales have fallen about 3.3 percent from a year earlier. fixed rate mortgages are expected to fall to 9.5 percent from 9.75 percent. prices have risen between 1 percent and 2 percent from a year earlier
new york-new jersey: sales have slowed, and recent drops in mortgage rates to the 10 percent level are expected to stimulate the market. prices have remained about the same
philadelphia: sales have improved since the start of the year and mortgage rates have declined slightly to about 9.5 percent. prices have remained about the same
an evenly divided supreme court ruled wednesday that an airlines may be forced to continue to collect union dues from workers after its contract with employees has expired
the justices, by a 4-4 vote, upheld rulings that forced trans world airlines to continue the dues check-off after a strike by flight attendants in 1986
such splits automatically uphold lower court rulings but set no national precedent. the twa case carried little impact for most employers, anyway, because it involved an interpretation of the railway labor act, which only applies to the airlines and railroad industries
most private industry employers' labor relations are subject to the national labor relations act
nonetheless, vicki frankovich, president of the independent federation of flight attendants, said, ``we are extremely pleased with this result.''
the ruling was not accompanied by any written opinion or by any indication of how each individual justice voted
justice anthony m. kennedy, who only recently joined the court, did not participate in the case
twa and the independent federation of flight attendants had a three-year contract that expired july 31, 1984. prolonged negotiations followed but the union called a strike on march 7, 1986
the strike ended on may 17, 1986, when the flight attendants offered to return to work. only some 200 attendants had stayed out for the entire strike
twa hired 2,800 new attendants during the strike, and about 1,200 others either never joined the strike or returned to work during it
the airline then cancelled the dues-checkoff provision of the old contract, meaning that it no longer would collect union dues
but a federal judge, upheld by the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals, ruled that the airline must honor the old contract's provisions
the appeals court said the railway labor act bars employers from unilaterally cancelling union security and dues check-offs contract provisions. any such changes must be made in negotiations between the employer and its workers, the appeals court said
television producer burt sugarman said tuesday he is considering waging a proxy fight for one of three class a seats on media general inc.'s board of directors as a next step in his effort to gain control of the company
it would be interesting to have a true outside director on the board,'' sugarman said in an interview with the richmond times-dispatch, which is owned by media general. ``i would look forward to serving on the board.''
david l. jordan, a media general vice president, said the company was prepared any proxy fight mounted by sugarman
sugarman controls 9.8 percent of media general's 28 million shares of class a common stock and has offered $61.50 per share for the remainder of the company's class a and class b stock, or a total of about $1.75 billion
the class a shares rose $2.75 to $49 a share tuesday on the new york stock exchange
media general has only 559,168 privately-held class b shares outstanding, but they have the power to elect seven of the company's 10 directors
holders of the publicly-traded class a stock elected three directors at last year's annual meeting, while holders of the class b stock elected six
about 71 percent of the class b shares are owned by chairman d. tennant bryan and vice chairman j. stewart bryan iii. the rest is owned by relatives and others closely associated with them and media general
any change in control of the company would require approval from two-thirds of the class b holders
it's easy for lawyers to say you can't do something, but others would say the structure isn't fair or right,'' sugarman said. ``the shareholders might revolt.''
sugarman had asked media general to respond to his buyout offer by friday. shortly after the offer came in, the bryans issued a statement saying their shares ``are not for sale, for any price.''
sugarman made his offer through two companies of which he is chairman: barris industries inc. of beverly hills, calif., which produces television game shows, and giant group ltd. of harleyville, s.c., which makes cement
media general owns a number of daily newspapers, including the richmond (va.) times-dispatch and news leader, the winston-salem (n.c.) journal and the tampa (fla.) tribune, plus 32 weeklies in southern california. it also has a 40 percent interest in garden state newspapers inc., the owner of 18 dailies and four weeklies in eight states
media general's television holdings include wcbd-tv in charleston, s.c., wjks-tv in jacksonville, fla., and wxfl-tv in tampa
a pilots' union filed suit wednesday to stop eastern airlines from transferring aircraft to orion air in the latest legal move to block the transfer of eastern assets by its parent texas air corp
the air line pilots association's request for a temporary restraining order was made at federal court in washington
orion, a cargo carrier based in raleigh, n.c., has asked the federal aviation administration for certification to fly 26 eastern planes on eastern routes by april 1
i don't think there is any question that this is a blatant union-busting attempt,'' alpa spokesman ron cole said tuesday
eastern spokesman robin matell declined to comment on the suit wednesday. but a day earlier, company spokeswoman karen ceremsak said the airline had contracted with orion ``to protect itself against alpa'' in the event that its pilots refused to cross picket lines during a possible machinists union strike
eastern is in federal mediation on its contract with the machinists, the largest of its three unions
the unions earlier protested the spinoff of eastern's northeast shuttle as a separate texas air subsidiary and the airline's year-old call for $490 million in labor cuts
the carrier lost $182 million in 1987 following a $131 million loss in 1986. eastern cited those losses in firing 3,500 workers last november and another 600 in january
alpa charged there was evidence miami-based eastern may go through with the orion transfer, which it said violates its contract, even if a strike is averted
meanwhile, a group called the committee for positive action blasted rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., for his criticism of eastern management
a letter dated march 1 and signed by 11 eastern reservation agents and airport agents from across the country accused the presidential candidate of trying to ``achieve political gain at the expense of our company and jobs.''
during a miami visit last friday, gephardt said eastern cared more about ``quick paper profits'' than its employees and that its management decisions reflect ``the dismantling of a great corporation.''
