cuses</head>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis held a strong lead over jesse jackson as washington state party officials released results tuesday from last week's democratic presidential precinct caucuses
with about 68 percent of the precincts reporting the results of last tuesday's balloting, dukakis had 45 percent, jackson 35 percent, and 14 percent were uncommitted
all the other candidates were well off the pace, with illinois sen. paul simon a weak fourth at 4 percent, tennessee sen. albert gore jr. 2 percent and rep. richard gephardt of missouri 1 percent
the democratic party made no effort to collect results statewide on caucus night, gathering precinct returns slowly by mail instead
republicans say it will be at least another week before county chairmen submit the names of gop delegates elected in last week's precinct caucuses
the national election service reported last week that, with 71 percent of the republican precincts reporting, former television evangelist pat robertson led with 39 percent. sen. bob dole of kansas finished second with 26 percent and vice president george bush got 24 percent
a 24-year-old man has pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter in the death of his two children, who died last summer hours after he locked them inside his car
john shields of white township entered the plea monday, and faces a maximum 10-year prison term and $20,000 fine
judge francis searer deferred sentencing pending an investigation by probation officials
shields testified at his wife's trial two weeks ago that he agreed to watch their children, kristle, 3, and calvin, 1, on the morning of aug. 22, but instead locked them in the car and closed the windows
the children were discovered in the afternoon, when the temperature reached the mid-80s, authorities said
lisa shields pleaded guilty to reduced charges and also is awaiting sentencing
both parents were charged with two counts of involuntary manslaughter and endangering the welfare of children. the more severe counts against mrs. shields were dropped
the two endangerment counts were incorporated in shields' guilty plea, court officials said
good morning, vietnam'' was moviegoers' favorite for the the ninth-straight weekend, tying it with ``crocodile dundee'' for the longest consecutive time at the top
second in last weekend's box office survey was ``vice versa,'' featuring a judge reinhold transformation into a prepubescent kid, followed by ``masquerade'' in third and ``off limits'' fourth
all 10 top grossing films combined took in about $30 million, with ``good morning, vietnam'' ringing up a mere $4.36 million during the pre-easter vacation box office doldrums
it's another down week,'' said john krier of exhibitor relations co., which surveys the studios' weekly performance at the box office. ``it looks like we're marking time until easter.''
for the easter break, the studios are releasing the animated feature ``the fox and the hounds,'' alan alda's ``a new life,'' matthew broderick's ``biloxi blues'' and anthony michael hall's ``johnny b. goode.''
in addition to ``good morning, vietnam,'' the disney studios had two other pictures in the top 10. ``three men and a baby'' was seventh 7 after 15 weeks in release and ``shoot to kill'' ninth
the lure of romance between rob lowe and meg tilly gave ``masquerade'' a debut weekend gross of $3.5 million while the willem dafoe-gregory hines cop thriller ``off limits'' earned $2.8 million
in fifth was cher's critically-acclaimed ``moonstruck,'' which won her a golden globe trophy and an oscar nomination, followed by harrison ford's ``frantic'' in sixth and ``three men and a baby'' in seventh
moving,'' starring richard pryor as a new york engineer forced to relocate his family to boise, idaho, earned more than $2.4 million to place eighth, followed by ``shoot to kill.''
in 10th place was ``switching channels,'' a broadcast version of the venerable newsroom comedy ``the front page.'' it earned $1.9 million in its second week
here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by exhibitor relations co., with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater screens, average per screen, total gross, number of weeks in release and estimated production costs
1. ``good morning, vietnam,'' disney-touchstone, $4.36 million, 1,579 screens, $2,767 per screen, $91.5 million, 11 weeks, $21 million
2. ``vice versa,'' columbia, $4.05 million, 1,225 screens, $3,306 per screen, $4.05 million, one week, n-a
3. ``masquerade,'' mgm-ua, $3.5 million, 1,030 screens, $3,398 per screen, $3.5 million, one week, n-a
4. ``off limits,'' 20th century fox, $2.79 million, 1,366 screens, $2,047 per screen, $2.79 million, one week, n-a
5. ``moonstruck,'' mgm-ua, $2.66 million, 1,155 screens, $2,309 per screen, $49.37 million, 12 weeks, $17 million
6. ``frantic,'' warner bros., $2.60 million, 1,054 screens, $2,469 per screen, $13.2 million, two weeks, $20 million
7. ``three men and a baby,'' disney-touchstone, $2.55 million, 1,348 screens, $1,893 per screen, $147.6 million, 15 weeks, $18 million
8. ``moving,'' warner bros., $2.4 million, 1,404 screens, $1,732 per screen, $7.49 million, two weeks, n-a
9. ``shoot to kill,'' disney-touchstone, $2 million, 1,037 screens, $1,956 per screen, $24.2 million, four weeks, $18 million
10. ``switching channels,'' tri-star, $1.94 million, 971 screens, $2,002 per screen, $5.8 million, two weeks, n-a
cbs and nbc said they will broadcast half-hour news specials on illinois primary election returns tonight at 11:30 p.m. est
abc planned no full-length election special but will devote the first six minutes of its ``nightline'' program at 11:30 p.m. to election returns, abc said
cable news network said it will provide periodic reports and a half-hour program on election returns at 1 a.m. wednesday
abc, nbc and cbs also were broadcasting brief special reports on voting results
nbc planned five-minute news briefs at 8:55 p.m. and 9:55 p.m. and its half-hour special at 11:30 p.m., with ``nbc nightly news'' anchorman tom brokaw as host, said spokeswoman mary lou o'callaghan
cbs planned one prime-time news brief, with the time yet to be set, and an 11:30 p.m. special program, with ``cbs evening news'' anchorman dan rather as host, said donna dees, spokeswoman for the network
cnn will air five- to seven-minute reports at every half hour from 8 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. and will devote its ``inside politics'' program at 1 a.m. to election returns, said spokeswoman kitsie bassett
what shim min-sop is doing now conceivably could have landed him in jail not so long ago. he's drawing cartoons that poke gentle fun at south korean political leaders
and people are getting a laugh out of them, without worrying that something could happen to them as well
shim's cartoons seem tame by most standards. politicians and political parties are parodied as rival baseball teams and the jibes are never too strong. nevertheless, shim says, it is a remarkable change
in the past it was a taboo to caricature the big political names in this country,'' he said
ridiculing the president or making jokes about him, for example, were seen as anti-state acts
shim and other cartoonists have been able to take advantage of recent political liberalization in south korea to start injecting a little laughter and ridicule into politics
the cartoonists contend that political caricature is healthy and korean politics can benefit from it
cartoons and caricatures will bring the political leaders closer to the people,'' shim maintained
political cartoons have proliferated in newspapers and magazines and command large, enthusiastic audiences eager for a regular flow of material ranging from traditional editorial cartoons to long stories. literacy is very high in south korea but people prize cartoons for their humor
newspaper cartoons so far are low-key and ironic. some recent ones showed caricatures of the main political parties chasing each other in an unending circle, to symbolize ineffectiveness. another showed top leaders as squabbling babies
a favorite of cartoonists is to have bemused koreans staring at politicians battling for power and asking what is happening to the country
it is refreshing to see the taboos broken about the myths surrounding the political bigwigs,'' said han kye-su, a political analyst who has followed the growth of political cartooning
many cartoonists say they have always seen their work as a way of calling for reform and liberalization
korean cartoonists have been struggling for political change for a long time,'' shim said
cartoons are a valuable teaching tool that can vividly explain the meaning of an issue as well as amuse readers, shim added
the political cartoonist can present the issues in a more amusing, but understandable manner to the public.''
the newly installed president roh tae-woo, who pledged freedom of speech and expression after years of authoritarian rule, personally encouraged cartoonists to take up political subjects by saying he did not mind being caricatured
shim and other cartoonists say their work is still very gentle and restrained for fear of angering authorities and losing what freedom they have. but they say they expect to make their humor more biting as time goes on and liberalization expands
cartoonists are also restrained by fear of offending a politician's supporters, shim said. korea's factional politics stress loyalty and supporters tend to resent any joke at their leader's expense, he said
the reaction can be terrible from the supporters,'' shim said. ``people should learn to accept both positive and negative.''
anti-government students and dissident groups, which have long used cartoons in their political literature, also are making greater use of caricatures, but usually not in a humorous way
the cartoons distributed at anti-government rallies and meetings are biting and bitter. government and mainline opposition politicians are depicted as vicious tyrants suppressing the people with tear gas and clubs. some are more subtle, depicting the divided opposition leaders as crying infants quarreling over a toy
they are not jokes,'' said one dissident. ``they show the people the reality of the government and why there is no democracy in south korea.''
anti-government cartoons are distributed in pamphlets on college campuses or posted on trees and sidewalks at anti-government rallies
the united states, represented by a fiendish-looking uncle sam or a swaggering and bullying american soldier, is a fixture in the underground cartoons. dissidents claim the country's successive authoritarian governments have survived because of u.s. backing
one recent cartoon showed a tough-looking statue of liberty with a boxing glove on her upraised hand
shim and other cartoonists reject their underground competition and the radical politics behind it. they say change must be moderate
it's too early to expose politicians to a more revealing fashion,'' shim said
mayoral elections in colombia have left a small crack in the political fortress of the upper class, the power behind this latin american country since it won independence from spain in 1819
the elections on sunday marked the first time that mayors had been elected in colombia. previously, they were appointed by governors, who were appointed by the president
and the president always came from the liberal or the conservative parties that are manipulated by the rich
but a leftist coalition, the patriotic union party, won at least 14 of l,008 mayoral posts in sunday's election, which in some cases brought people from the poorer classes closer to the seat of power in local politics
the money and power of the traditional parties ruled out in most cases, such as in bogota where andres pastrana, the son of former president misael pastrana, was elected mayor on the conservative ticket
the liberal party of president virgilio barco won 430 of the mayoral races, and the conservative party won 402 mayoral posts. coalition candidates won 24 of the mayoral elections
other results may not be known for a week because of the remoteness of many towns
the showing by the new patriotic union was small. but the results were surprising given that the party was organized just three years ago
the leftist coalition also had to survive a wave of assassinations by right-wing death squads that killed 520 of the members of the party, including its president, jaime pardo
the patriotic union also had to confront a colonial attitude of patronage
entire towns and areas traditionally adhere to one of the two traditional parties. until recently, people did not join political parties. they were born into them
it is common knowledge that failure of a peasant to support the party controlling an area means virtual economic suicide. a loan application at the local bank for buying seed will be rejected. a worker will be turned away when looking for a job at a big hacienda
colombians still call the rich la rosca, a kind of intertwined pastry. the term refers to a loose intertwining of influential people _ politicians, businessmen, landowners, doctors and lawyers _ who control the lives of the poor
nowhere are the poor more aware of la rosca than in small towns, where the wealthy own most of the rural land
a 1970 government study showed that 4.3 percent of the people in colombia owned 68 percent of the land. ten percent of the farms held 80 percent of total farmland. those figures probably have not changed much
the government's concession to hold mayoral elections is an indication that colombia may be heading toward true democracy
the country has a long history of violence, perpetuated largely by a political elite that refused to reform partisan traditions
for example, elements of the liberal party resisted social changes in 1948. a charasmatic liberal leader, jorge elicer gaitan, broke away from the party and ran as an independent. gaitan was assassinated shortly afterward
people saw their only hope of bettering their lives cut down, and the frustration exploded into the worst disturbances ever seen in colombia
that period, known simply as the violence, has had an impact upon colombian politics ever since
so when former president belisario betancur offered peace talks to the country's leftist guerrillas in 1984, most people approved. perhaps they recognized that the need for social changes were again putting pressure on the system
the guerrillas said in 1985 they wanted a government more responsive to the poor people. for starters, they said they wanted the election of mayors
betancur agreed, and the congress approved a constitutional amendement to allow the first election in 1988
the peace talks collapsed last year, but the government went ahead with the elections
the army says there are about 5,000 leftist guerrillas in colombia. the rebels claim they have close to 20,000 combatants. whatever the number, their forces are growing each year
ten years ago the army said there were only about 2,500 guerrillas
the growth of guerrilla forces and the possibility of another upheaval probably will depend greatly on whether the wealthy will concede to such programs as land reform, housing programs and building more schools and hospitals in rural areas
the government's attitude toward social change continues to be cautious. the election of mayors is a beginning, but not a solution
tom wells is bureau chief for the associated press in colombia
a soviet dissident whose pleas for an exit visa were ignored until he stepped up his reporting of human rights abuses has found a new home in the west
theodore kizelov, 43, arrived in rhode island last tuesday after a journey that led from sverdlovsk, a town in the ural mountains, through vienna and rome to the united states
the tolstoy foundation, an international, non-profit organization that helps resettle political refugees, found him an apartment and gave him enough money to live on for a month, said maureen dalpe of the woonsocket chapter
kizelov, who had never been outside the soviet union before his expulsion, learned english by listening to british radio broadcasts and should have little trouble finding a job, ms. dalpe said
i will start with any job available,'' said kizelov, ``even washing dishes in a restaurant.''
kizelov had been a dissident since the late 1970s, when he wrote what he calls his first ``open letter'' opposing the government _ a statement against the soviet invasion of afghanistan. he sent the letter to the moscow monitor and helsinki group, which published it outside the soviet union
i didn't begin to hide until 1983,'' kizelov said, because in general, it is safe to risk criticizing the soviet government without reprisals for three years or so
but the kgb patrols that began following him that year did not deter him
to make himself a difficult target, kizelov began moving from city to city. he held odd jobs, and friends helped with money. meanwhile, he continued to gather information about soviet human rights violations, sending the information to groups interested in publishing it
last fall, kizelov found himself working as a theater decorator in sverdlovsk, a town whose former political boss, boris yeltsin, had been promoted to serve as the communist party's first secretary of moscow
yeltsin was drummed out of office by party officials last november after delivering a speech that reportedly rankled powerful officials in the communist party, including general secretary mikhail gorbachev
officials in sverdlovsk, however, took a dim view of one of their favorite sons being kicked out of office, and began demonstrating in public. kizelov wrote about it
he sent his 3,000-word report on the demonstrations and a cover letter to sergei grigoryants, editor of a moscow-based underground magazine called glasnost. the sporadically-published magazine takes its cue from gorbachev's policy of ``openness'' in public affairs
but grigoryants never received the report. kizelov assumes it was intercepted by soviet police. a short while after sending it, he received an ``invitation'' to report to the emigration office to talk about his desire to leave the soviet union
they say nothing until i was involved in the demonstrations,'' said kizelov
while americans seem to be cautiously optimistic about the policy of glasnost, kizelov calls it a ``mask.'' he says soviet society is intolerant of anything but the official line and there is no such thing as freedom of speech
i don't like the socialist way of life in principle,'' said kizelov. ``in my opinion, it is the wrong way of development.'' one of slain guerrillas, protestants pelt funeral procession with stones. pick up 6th graf pvs: police, relatives of...</note>
a funeral procession bearing the bodies of three ira guerrillas slain in gibraltar was met by thousands of people when it arrived early tuesday under heavy rain at roman catholic west belfast
jeering protestants waving british flags had hurled stones and bottles at the cortege in northern ireland as it made its way by road to belfast from dublin in the irish rep0ublic
mairead farrell, 31; daniel mccann, 30, and sean savage, 24, were unarmed and walking toward the gibraltar-spanish border when british commandos in civilian clothes shot them march 6
british officials said the three had planned to detonate a car bomb at a public military ceremony in britain's fortress colony at the southern tip of spain two days later
monday night british troops fatally shot a gunman near savage's belfast home. police identified the slain man as kevin mccracken, 33
a statement by belfast police headquarters said mccracken fired at an army patrol and the soldiers shot back. it said mccracken was jailed in 1978 for membership in the outlawed irish republican army and illegal possession of guns. the report said mccracken was released on parole in 1985
the coffins of the three slain guerrillas were carried into the homes of their families in west belfast
hundreds of police and soldiers, many in riot gear, were on duty as the funeral procession arrived in belfast
at newry, five miles north of the border town of carrickaron in the irish republic, the hearses with the bodies drove qround the predominantly catholic town for two hours monday night and were cheered by crowds of ira supporters
but on the outskirts of newry, 35 miles south of belfast, protestants threw bricks, bottles and stones at the vehicles, breaking some windows
farther north at loughbrickland and banbridge protestant crowds again pelted the cortege with stones and shouted abuse as police moved forward to disperse them
the hearses were escorted by police vehicles and followed by dozens of cars containing ira supporters
press association, britain's domestic news agency, said about 1,000 people met the coffins monday when they arrived from gibraltar at dublin's airport, many of them members of sinn fein, the ira's legal political arm
the cortege stopped briefly at the border at carrickaron when two senior officers of northern ireland's police force, the royal ulster constabulary, ordered the irish tricolors removed from the coffins
police, relatives of the slain guerrillas and sinn fein members reached a compromise after a 30-minute argument and the flags were folded up and left atop the coffins, covered with funeral wreaths
the ira is waging a guerrilla campaign to drive the british from northern ireland and unite the protestant-dominated province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic. at least 2,628 people have been killed since sectarian violence began in northern ireland in august 1969
sinn fein president gerry adams and other senior party figures led the airport reception. the coffins were draped in the green, orange and white irish flag and a priest recited prayers in irish and english
four women in black jackets and trousers formed an honor guard. a lone bagpiper played a lament
in the heavy mist, the coffins were transferred to three hearses. a cortege led by police, which grew to more than 100 cars, made its way along the 100-mile route to the border
about 20 cars continued from the border to belfast, capital of northern ireland, where the three will be buried wednesday or thursday
thousands of people lined the roads. scores of teen-agers held black flags at waist level as the convoy passed through the catholic town of drogheda. many drivers threw black flags from their car windows
on both sides of the border, black flags hung from lampposts along the route
the procession took three hours to cover the 60 miles to dundalk on the border, where 5,000 people turned out. another lone piper escorted the hearses through the town. an honor guard of four men and two women dressed in black marched beside them
royal air force soldiers loaded the coffins onto the jet in gibraltar because baggage workers would not handle them, british television networks reported
in northern ireland, the ira said it fired a three-volley rifle salute at a shrine in belfast to coincide with the bodies' arrival on irish soil
an ira statement circulated by sinn fein said the guerrillas wished the bereaved families ``peaceful and dignified funerals,'' which was seen as a possible hint that the funerals would be allowed to take place without demonstrations
in the past, funerals have been disrupted by hooded ira members firing salutes over the coffins and the police moving in to arrest them
police in the irish republic and british-ruled northern ireland were expected to mount a huge security operation to prevent such displays this time
sinn fein said the three guerrillas would be buried at milltown cemetery in belfast on wednesday or on thursday, saint patrick's day. relatives of the dead appealed for calm and a roman catholic bishop asked police and mourners to avoid violence
the royal ulster constabulary said it would intervene if necessary to stop armed displays at the funerals. with latest soviet comment. picks up 5th graf pvs, pakistan has .. . editing 11th graf pvs, in belgrade ... to conform. ^by mohammad aftab</note>
pressure mounted monday on pakistan to sign an afghan settlement aimed at securing the withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 soviet troops and end nine years of fighting in afghanistan
sources close to the talks said the pakistani chief representative, acting foreign minister zain noorani, received a message from the kremlin calling upon him to sign the documents without further delay
the chief afghan negotiator, foreign minister abdul wakil, scheduled a news conference for tuesday, the day soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev named as a target date for the conclusion of the nearly 6-year-old talks. gorbachev said moscow will bring home its troops starting may 15 if the settlement is signed tuesday
both sides have said they do not consider march 15 a rigid deadline. sources close to the talks, who declined to be identified, said that apart from pressing for the formation of an interim government, pakistan also felt that there are still some loose ends to be sorted out in the agreements that make up the peace package
the soviet deputy foreign minister, vadim loginov, told a news conference in belgrade, yugoslavia, on monday that moscow is still ``optimistic'' it can pull its troops out, but he acknowledged the geneva talks are encountering difficulties
nobody has set a definite deadline,'' he said. ``all that has been said is that if by the 15th (of march), the last of the four agreements has been signed, then we will begin to withdraw our forces.''
pakistan has been insisting that the formation of a transitional government in afghanistan be linked to the settlement
both kabul and moscow have adamantly rejected that condition
pakistan argues that only a broad-based government can guarantee implementation of the peace accords and the safe return of five million afghan refugees in pakistan and iran
we are ready to sign the moment our concerns are removed,'' noorani told reporters as his delegation left an afternoon meeting with u.n. mediator diego cordovez
before an earlier meeting in the morning, noorani had said, without elaborating, pakistan would ``announce something today.'' but there was no such announcement as the talks were adjourned until tuesday
in belgrade, where he was on a state visit, gorbachev was asked by a reporter if there was progress at the geneva talks. with a smile, he said, ``there is,'' and ``there will be,'' but did not elaborate
najib, president of afghanistan's pro-soviet government, accused pakistan monday of using tricks to block the final agreement
it can be said candidly that that people who resort to ruses and who don't want the document of the geneva talks to be signed are actually enemies of the refugees,'' najib was quoted as saying in an interview with the afghan news agency bakhtar excerpted by tass, the official soviet news agency
najib noted that pakistan once said the only issue between the two countries was an acceptable timetable for soviet withdrawal. he charged that pakistan raised questions about an interim government to delay the agreement
najib said the rebels are interested in the millions of afghan refugees only as a ``reserve of military force to be used as cannon fodder.''
noorani, meanwhile, was reported to be in constant touch with his capital, islamabad, where the cabinet held its third lengthy meeting in two days, presumably to weigh its next step. the swiss radio reported earlier that prime minister mohammad khan junejo had said a decision on whether pakistan would sign the settlement would be made monday
in another development, a spokesman for the fragile seven-party alliance of the anti-soviet guerrillas, revealed that moscow had rejected again any direct negotiations with the insurgents
the spokesman, gulbadin hekmatyar, who also leads the largest and most radical group in the alliance, said that no guerrilla delegation would be sent to geneva unless the soviets drop their opposition
hekmatyar, the leader of the hezb-i-islami group, is widely believed to be the next chief of the seven-party alliance following the resignation of yunis khalis for health reasons
unconfirmed reports indicated the 69-year-old khalis quit in protest over plans to send a guerrilla delegation to the geneva talks
hekmatyar said his appointment as leader of the alliance may be announced tuesday
but if there is a majority opposing my leadership, then i will not be chosen,'' he added, speaking in pakistan
only a month ago, bob dole looked ready to wrest the republican presidential nomination from george bush. now, he is desperately looking for ways to keep his white house hopes from being wiped out by bush bush in today's illinois primary
in mid-february, everything was looking up for dole. he had scored an upset win in the iowa caucuses, and as the new hampshire primary approached, polls were suggesting he could overtake the vice president in the state
but in one 48-hour stretch _ the final two days before the voting in new hampshire _ the dole campaign derailed, and has never gotten back on track
a combination of body blows _ weak organization, poor planning, a mean image and just bad luck _ has reduced the formidable minority leader of the senate to a battered, struggling candidate
with the vice president leading 2-to-1 in the illinois polls, the question dole faces over and over is when _ not if _ he will withdraw
dole said it will not be today or wednesday: ``i've made a judgment that illinois, whatever happens, we're going to keep going.''
from the start, dole was judged a tough contender for the 1988 nomination. a seasoned politician with national stature, the kansas senator was one republican who could match bush in fund-raising, name recognition and experience
but there were doubts about dole as well, doubts that all came to the surface the weekend before the new hampshire primary feb. 16 _ ``the 48 hours that cost them the campaign'' is how one republican professional described those days
he was ready to put bush away,'' said gop pollster lance tarrance, who worked for former candidate jack kemp
dole was riding the wave out of his big early win _ a triumph in the iowa caucuses on feb. 8. bush was a disappointing third behind former television evangelist pat robertson. that should have meant a big boost for dole for the new hampshire primary the next week
you need some luck...and dole didn't get much good luck out of iowa,'' tarrance said. ``the news of robertson beating out bush...was the big story.''
dole did start picking up strength in new hampshire. bush was down, and changing his style as his campaign struggled to recover
but by thursday of that week, bush was on the counterattack, readying ads accusing dole of ``straddling'' major issues. and the dole campaign could not get its act together to respond
one television commercial attacking bush _ called ``footsteps'' inside the campaign _ was ready thursday. but top aides viewed it and judged it ``unusable'' because of poor production and problems with the script, said two sources who spoke on the condition they not be named
dole tried twice that week to make a new spot, promising to veto any tax increases, but once again aides judged it not usable, a top dole adviser said, speaking on the condition of anonymity
when the new ads were ready late friday, the dole campaign couldn't get them on the air. the television stations were closing for the weekend, making it harder to switch the tapes at the stations
they couldn't get the old ads off the air and the new ones on,'' said the gop professional, who is not working for any campaign. ``that's what the campaign is supposed to be able to do. they didn't.''
then it was on to the south, where bush rode president reagan's popularity and his own solid organization to a wipeout win over dole on super tuesday
organizational problems have been a trademark of dole campaigns from the start. the wily senate operator was loath to delegate authority and had a penchant for snarling lines of authority, several dole aides said
former labor secretary bill brock was brought into run the campaign on nov. 1, but that was probably too late
the bush campaign has been working on strategy for years,'' said the gop pro
for example, the bush campaign had prepared long and hard for the possibility of an iowa loss. in contrast, the dole campaign found itself pumping up expectations of a victory in new hampshire, when even aides said the preferable course would have been to talk of how tough it would be to beat bush in his own backyard
and after the new hampshire loss, the image of a mean bob dole came back to haunt him. he snapped at bush in a television interview that bush's ads were lying about dole's record
the chaos in the final days of the new hampshire campaign was eerily echoed in illinois
dole went into the state saying he had to win, then backed off on that contention. he made deep cutbacks in his staff, and let the word leak out before he made an explanation. he abruptly moved to pull ads off the air, giving rise to rumors he was throwing in the towel
to top it all off, his half-hour address to the voters of illinois on saturday night was hit by technical problems
he did it to himself,'' said gop consultant eddie mahe of dole. ``the voters can't see any big differences between them on the issues. what they did is make their decisions on personality and style.''
mahe said the gop voters saw each man face defeat in a key early contest _ bush in iowa and dole in new hamsphire. and they liked what they saw in bush more
israel imposed a nightly curfew on more than 600,000 arabs in the entire gaza strip and reportedly sealed off entrances to the occupied territory after about 300 arab policemen in gaza said they would resign
the army on monday also closed one of the west bank's largest fruit and vegetable markets as israel tightened economic sanctions in the occupied lands
elsewhere in the west bank, israeli soldiers on monday shot and wounded 11 palestinians, hospital officials said. a 3-year-old girl was shot in the eye with a rubber bullet, and five israelis were injured by stones thrown by arabs
israel radio said the 300 arab policemen in the gaza strip announced monday they would resign. they joined 450 officers in the occupied lands who turned in their badges earlier following orders of plo-inspired underground leaflets
the curfew in gaza, announced monday, was a reaction to the resignations, the radio said. the 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. curfew also was designed to prevent ``the entrance of violent instigators ... and of written instigation material,'' it said. the army said the curfew was to prevent late night demonstrations
the curfew over the entire gaza strip was imposed for the first time since arab unrest started on dec. 8. it forces the residents to stay in their homes while entrances to gaza are sealed off by the army, the radio said
an army spokesman said the curfew would be imposed until further notice
at the erez checkpoint at the entrance to gaza, ap photographer max nash on monday saw 15 to 20 arab trucks and taxis prevented by the army from entering
he said soldiers would let in army vehicles and cars belonging to jewish settlers who live in gaza. other israelis and journalists were not permitted to drive in. ``where would we sleep? we want to enter, all our families are inside,'' an arab worker stopped at erez told israel radio
the situation in gaza's refugee camps was not immediately clear. on sunday night, the army cut electricity and telephone lines to 41,000 people in the beach camp, an arab reporter said
israeli authorities acknowledged that some policemen in the gaza strip quit but gave no figures. about 850 arab policemen work in the occupied territories
the police control crime and direct traffic, but they are not used to quell arab rioting in the occupied lands
it is clear their resignations were not handed in freely but because they fear for their lives,'' gaza police commander shimon levy said on israel radio
graffiti on the walls in gaza city called for the resignation of the israeli-appointed mayor and city council, israel television said
in response to the plo-backed unrest, israel stepped up economic sanctions. shipment of gasoline and other fuel to service stations in the west bank was banned as of sunday, and a regional fruit and vegetable market was closed on monday in jericho, 20 miles northwest of jerusalem
arab merchants said 70 trucks carrying produce were turned away monday. in addition, the army ordered jericho shop owners to close during the morning hours when plo leaflets said shops should be open. israel television said the arab merchants responded with a total commercial strike
the economic test of wills continued on monday in gaza city, where slogans painted in the red, green, white and black colors of the outlawed palestinian flag called for a two-day general strike starting today
protests were reported on monday in jenin and the nearby west bank village of yamoun, where troops using live ammunition shot and wounded 11 people, hospital officials said. according to united nations figures, at least 91 palestinians have been killed since anti-israeli rioting began dec. 8
witnesses said jewish settlers on monday drove through the west bank town of ramallah and nearby al amari refugee camp, honking their horns. witnesses said palestinians then held a similar car demonstration, during which soldiers shot 3-year-old rasha yussef said in the eye with a rubber bullet
advertising for all-terrain vehicles will begin stressing safety under a new agreement that also calls on makers of the off-road vehicles to set up new training programs and limit atv sales
the government on monday disclosed the new settlement, which could replace a preliminary agreement announced in december
the recreational vehicles have grown sharply in popularity in recent years, with more than 2 million currently believed to be in use
at the same time accidents have increased markedly, with more than 900 fatalities reported in the last five years, as well as 300,000 injuries, according to information collected by the consumer product safety commission
that led to a government safety investigation and the new agreement by the commission, the justice department, and the five manufacturers of the machines: honda, yamaha, kawasaki, suzuki and polaris industries
u.s. district judge gerhard a. gesell will hold a hearing on the settlement april 18 and could order it into effect immediately. it would replace the preliminary agreement between the government and the manufacturers announced on dec. 30
safety commission chairman terrence m. scanlon said through a spokesman that the settlement is the biggest safety accomplishment in the history of his agency
commission general counsel james v. lacy said the settlement will continue the ban on sales of new three-wheeled atvs and that manufacturers have agreed to buy back any of the three-wheel versions remaining in dealer inventories
the more stable four-wheel atvs will still be sold, he said, but marketing of the full-size versions with engines of 90 cubic centimeters and over will be limited to riders aged 16 and over. smaller machines will be allowed to be sold for riders ages 12 to 16, he said
the commission vote was 2-1, with scanlon and commissioner carol dawson in favor and commissioner anne graham dissenting. graham, who also voted against the preliminary settlement in december, said in a statement that the settlement should have allowed atv owners to obtain refunds
without the refund, consumers are not obtaining the remedies necessary given the nature and severity of the hazards presented by atvs,'' she said
the new 150-page settlement is much more detailed than the one announced in december, which drew criticism from congress and consumer groups as not being extensive enough. some consumer groups have said all the vehicles should be recalled because of safety problems
lacy said the settlement calls for the manufacturers to spend between $8.4 million and $8.6 million on advertising starting in the fall
the ads will stress the inherent safety risks of the vehicles, lacy said, and will be placed in a variety of media. included, he said, would be advertising on such broadcasts as the world series, cbs evening news and monday night football
in addition the manufacturers have agreed to set up a national headquarters to develop safety and training programs for riders, and to provide hands-on training for all new purchasers and for all consumers who bought the machines since dec. 30, 1986
buyers will be offered incentives such as $50 in cash, a $100 savings bond or merchandise certificates to induce them to take the training programs, lacy said
other provisions of the agreement, he said, include:
_new warning labels on the machines being sold, plus mailings providing these labels for all current owners for whom the manufacturers have addresses
_the hands-on training programs for new buyers will include their immediate families also
_development of new owners manuals with added safety information
_establishment of a safety hotline for consumers to get information and development of safety-related videos to be made available at dealer showrooms
_elimination of the safety verification form that had been required as part of the earlier settlement
this form, in which a buyer acknowledges knowing of the hazards of the machines, had been criticized by consumer groups, who said it could be used to protect the manufacturers in case of lawsuits stemming from accidents. syndrome</head>
doctors should rule out a long list of ills, such as aids and alcoholism, before they decide patients are afflicted with a baffling, newly recognized ailment called chronic fatigue syndrome, researchers say
in the past, the illness has been referred to as the yuppie disease, because some of its victims are young professionals, or more formally, epstein-barr virus syndrome or chronic mononucleosis
in a report published in the march issue of the annals of internal medicine, 16 top researchers in this field agreed to call it chronic fatigue syndrome, and settled on a definition for the afflication
the definition largely involves ruling out other illnesses that can cause similar symptoms, including the hallmark of the syndrome, extreme fatigue
it's a diagnosis of exclusion, and it has to be considered as such even after you've ruled everything else out,'' said dr. gary p. holmes, of the u.s. centers for disease control and chief author of the report
you have to continue to be concerned that there is something else going on,'' he added. ``you have to keep an open mind and not simply close the books.''
another co-author, dr. anthony l. komaroff of brigham and women's hospital in boston, said the new definition should help researchers as well as doctors who are faced with patients who have heard of the illness and think they have it
many of them have other physical illnesses, or they are depressed or anxious,'' he said. ``doctors need an anchor to help distinguish patients with chronic fatigue syndrome from patients who have other kinds of fatigue.''
according to the definition, people with the syndrome must have suffered debilitating fatigue for at least six months. it must be bad enough to reduce daily activity by at least half
doctors also must rule out a long list of diseases that can mimic the symptoms of the syndrome. these include cancer, tuberculosis, aids, depression, diabetes, alcoholism, poisoning and kidney disease, among many other disorders
in addition, patients must show signs of at least eight of 11 other possible conditions. these are mild fever, sore throat, painful lymph nodes, generalized muscle weakness, muscle discomfort, headaches, painful joints, sleep problems, sudden onset of the symptoms, such neurological problems as trouble concentrating, confusion or forgetfulness and general fatigue lasting at least 24 hours after exercise that the patient easily could have withstood when healthy
when the disease first received widespread attention three years ago, doctors believed it was somehow linked with the epstein-barr virus, because some victims showed signs of activation of that common virus. however, many experts now say that epstein-barr virus is not associated with the illness, since victims are just as likely to show exposure to the viruses that cause measles, genital herpes and cold sores, among other things
although the cdc has received thousands of questions about the illness from patients and doctors, no one knows how many people have it
its cause also is a mystery. some believe it can be triggered by persistant infections with a variety of viruses. among the suspects are a group of microbes called the enteroviruses as well as a newly discovered virus known as human herpes virus 6
researchers suggest it's a reaction to these lingering infections rather than the mischief of the viruses themselves that makes people feel poorly
my theory is that certain viruses are able to escape ever being fully eradicated by the body,'' said komaroff
they come back to fight again. you have a constant iran-iraq war where the battles are continual. the process of doing battle and mobilizing the body's immune system causes some of the symptoms of feeling ill.''
holmes noted that the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome are similar to those experienced by people treated with the natural hormone interferon
interferon is the body's normal response to a viral infection,'' holmes said. ``it may be that something like overproduction of interferon for a prolonged period may be causing the illness.''
the confrontation in the occupied west bank and gaza strip has increasingly become an economic test of wills between israeli occupation authorities and palestinians
underground palestinian leaders have persuaded many merchants and ordinary citizens to stop paying taxes and have enforced repeated strikes, keeping at home a large part of the 110,000 laborers who work in israel
the measures are designed to make israel bear more of the economic burden for occupation, which arab activists say will give impetus to israel's withdrawal. israel has adopted increasingly tough economic sanctions, some of which are designed to put the squeeze on the arab middle class
the army imposed an indefinite ban on trucks taking gasoline to the west bank's 50 service stations. the move crippled public and private transport
qabatiyeh, a west bank village of several thousand people, was banned from exporting its quarried rock to jordan and visitors from abroad will not be allowed to visit the village, israeli officials said
the move was punishment for the lynching of an alleged collaborator who was hung from an electricty pole after he fired into a crowd advancing on his home and fatally wounded a child
in jericho, the army closed a regional produce market and ordered shops to close during morning hours, when plo leaflets said the shops should be open
the military government is trying to tell the people here who is boss. they want to hurt the people economically. i think they intend to try to break the strike this way,'' said saeb erakat, a political science professor at al najah university
israeli authorities have selectively used other measures as well, such as cutting off electricity to areas placed under curfew
israeli officials say they hope such steps will encourage moderates to put pressure on palestinian militants, although there is no sign that such measures are having the desired effect
agitators on the arab side want to disconnect the population as much as possible from any connection with israel,'' said a senior official in the military administration of the occupied territories
he said the tax rebellion had minimal impact in january and february, leading to a 10 percent decline in revenues, or about $200,000 a month
but he said collections were expected to be far lower in march and that road repairs, garbage collection and other services in the occupied territories could suffer if there was not enough income to fund the $239 million budget of the army-run civil administration
to counter the tax boycott, authorities required arabs to obtain a certificate saying they paid their taxes before getting import-export licenses, driver's permits and other documents
israel also lowered the amount of money palestinians could bring from abroad without permission from $5,000 to $1,200
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said more economic sanctions were being considered to quell the revolt, which began dec. 8. and has resulted in the death of more than 90 arabs. he declined to elaborate
but arieh shalev, former head of the army-run military government in 1974-76, said it might be necessary to stop arabs from working in israel or using the bridges to trade with jordan
violence has peaked, in my opinion, but it will continue and it's doubtful whether it will stop without taking brutal (economic) measures,'' shalev said on israel radio
ephraim kleiman, an economics professor at hebrew university, said israel was better positioned to endure a showdown than the palestinians
the occupied territories are dependent for income on three things: work in israel, the export of agricultural goods and quarried stone to jordan, and financial support from arab countries,'' he said in an interview
he said arab job boycotts would deal a ``serious blow'' to the construction industry, textile factories, restaurants and garbage collection. but overall, he said, the ``economic impact on israel is much smaller.''
arab economists disputed the contention. ``we are prepared to suffer more than the israelis,'' said samir hazboun, a bir zeit university economist
he said the tax rebellion had added to israel's cost of continuing the occupation and that bad publicity abroad had affected investment and tourism
the new austrian ambassador to the united nations came bearing gifts to mayor edward i. koch, but the mayor greeted him with a diatribe against austria's president, kurt waldheim
i think he's a bad guy. he was just one of those obsequious guys when he was here, before i knew he was a war criminal. and i had dinner with him a couple of times,'' koch on monday told peter hohenfellner, who became the permanent austrian representative at the united nations in february
you'll forgive me if i'm honest, ok, and it's not intended as anything but honesty because i have the highest regard for your chancellor.''
waldheim, who was secretary-general of the united nations, has come under fire since files were uncovered that suggest he had a greater role than he has admitted as an officer in the nazi army during world war ii. there are reports that waldheim knew about atrocities being committed against partisans and villagers where he was stationed
waldheim has stood fast against the accusations and refused to resign as president. he has been banned as an undesireable from united states
koch told hohenfellner that austrian chancellor franz vranitzky was invited to dinner the next time he comes to the united states
i'd like him to stay at gracie mansion,'' koch said of the mayor's residence. ``i wouldn't do that for the president. ... for the president, this city is off limits.''
the mayor gave hohenfellner a tie and the ambassador gave him a 19th century goblet koch said he would use at passover
country singer johnny cash ended a three-city south dakota tour here with an unwelcome non-musical sidekick _ the hiccups
this is an all-time first for me,'' cash told his audience in the corn palace. ``it's the first time i've done a show with the hiccups.''
cash, who also had a recent bout with the flu, sipped water during sunday afternoon's performance. he even left the stage for a short time to try unsuccessfully to get rid of his hiccups
he and his wife, june carter cash, performed to the audience of 2,000 for about two hours
doctors removed singer dennis day from the critical list after he responded to treatment for a head injury he suffered last week in a fall at home
his condition was upgraded to serious monday after surgery saturday relieved swelling of the brain, said armen markarian, spokesman for st. john's hospital
day, 71, was diagnosed last july as suffering from amyotropic lateral sclerosis, or lou gehrig's disease, a progressive nerve disorder that causes loss of muscle control
day became famous by performing with comedian jack benny starting in 1939. an accomplished irish tenor, day also was known for playing the innocent foil to benny's irascible character on television and radio
the rev. allan boesak, an anti-apartheid leader, says productions such as the movie ``cry freedom'' and the musical ``sarafina'' play important roles in publicizing the struggle of blacks in his native south africa
you cannot reach everybody by making a speech, or even by saying something on television,'' boesak said in an interview in april's essence magazine
some other people are more convinced by reading a book, by meeting someone face to face, by seeing a play, by seeing a movie. i believe that if you get all these different audiences, and you speak to them in a medium that they can understand, then so much the better.''
boesak, 41, is a minister in the dutch reformed church and president of the world alliance of reformed churches. under south africa's racially restrictive laws, which reserve most power for the white minority, he is considered of mixed race
the magazine said writer and former black panther leader elaine brown interviewed boesak when he and his wife, dorothy, and four children were in los angeles recently
having a newborn baby won't keep three-time grammy-winner deniece williams from the recording studio, her publicist says
miss williams, 35, who gave birth saturday, is planning to record an album next month, press agent bob angelotti says
mother and child are doing fine'' but will remain in the hospital for several days, he said
forrest matthew westering, who weighed 9 pounds, 3 ounces at birth, is the first child for the singer and her husband, brad westering, who were married in 1986. miss williams has two children from a previous marriage
miss williams began her career as a backup singer for stevie wonder. in 1978, she recorded a no. 1 single, ``too much, too little, too late,'' with johnny mathis. she recently won her third grammy, best female gospel performance, for ``i believe in you'' on the album ``water under the bridge.''
retired brig. gen. chuck yeager, the first man to fly faster than the speed of sound, will drive the pace car in the 1988 indianapolis 500, race officials say
the announcement was made monday at a ceremony in which general motors officials presented the keys for 66 black 1988 cutlass supremes to speedway president joe cloutier. the cars are replicas of the open-top cutlass that will pace the 72nd indianapolis 500 on may 29
yeager, who retired from active duty in the air force in 1975, set his flight speed record on oct. 14, 1947. he works as a consultant test-pilot for northrop corp., mcdonnell douglas corp. and the flight test center at edwards air force base in california
yeager also drove the pace car in the 1986 indy 500
former minister walker railey has decided not to contest a civil suit accusing him of choking his wife nearly to death, railey's attorney said monday
doug mulder told the dallas morning news that railey's decision was based on estimates that it would cost nearly $100,000 in legal fees to dispute the lawsuit filed feb. 2 by railey's mother-in-law, billie jo nicolai
he told me that he had decided his assets would be best used in the support and maintenance of his children,'' said mulder, who represented railey before a dallas county grand jury investigating the attack
railey, 40, missed a monday deadline for answering the suit, which seeks unspecified damages, said bill arnold, an attorney for mrs. nicolai
in absence of a response, a judge could rule against the former senior minister of the first united methodist church of dallas and award damages
peggy railey, 39, has been in a coma since she was found unconscious on the floor of her garage last april. she had been choked
railey was not charged, but both his attorney and assistant district attorney norm kinne identified the former minister as the prime suspect
railey denied any involvement but refused to cooperate with police, invoking his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination 43 times when questioned by a grand jury
mrs. railey remains in a tyler nursing home. railey, who now lives in san francisco, has assigned her guardianship to her parents, and that of his two children to family friends
the question now is when do i want to go to court and ask for a default judgment,'' arnold said monday. ``it could be tomorrow or it could be a couple of months. it depends on peggy's best interests.''
jane byrne and ed vrdolyak, once on the same team pulling the levers of city government, are on the comeback trail, this time by trying to throw a monkey wrench into each other's plans
mrs. byrne, the former mayor, says her last attempt at office will be today when she runs in the democratic primary for clerk of the nation's largest local court system
vrdolyak, a former alderman and former chairman of the powerful cook county democratic party, wants the same office. but he's now a republican running unopposed in the gop primary
a victory by either candidate in november's general election could give a jump start to his or her political future. but a loss could be politically fatal
it's a position that has some patronage, it has jobs,'' said paul kleppner, a social scientist at northern illinois university and analyst of chicago politics
more important than the number of jobs, if you're an office-holder, you can grab the media. as jane byrne once said, the new precinct captain in this age is television,'' kleppner said monday
mrs. byrne was in a tough primary race with aurelia pucinski, the county democratic party's endorsed candidate and daughter of fiery alderman roman pucinski
mrs. byrne, mayor from 1979 to 1983, was ousted by harold washington, who became the city's first black chief executive and then withstood an election challenge from her last year
besides announcing proposals to streamline the court system's bureaucracy and broaden services for county residents outside chicago, mrs. byrne and mrs. pucinski have mostly haggled over who had the late mayor's affection
washington supported mrs. pucinski and the party's slate of endorsed candidates just a few days before he died nov. 23
but in mrs. byrne's effort to appeal to chicago's powerful black voting bloc, she points to a unity breakfast she had with washington after he won the primary last february
mrs. byrne also pulls out a newspaper article that quotes mrs. pucinski as saying she wasn't washington's first choice for the clerk's job
mrs. pucinski has countered with a radio blitz featuring prominent black politicians and even washington's half brother, ramon price
harold believed we had come too far to go back to the days of the bosses. ... that's why harold chose aurelia pucinski,'' price says on the ad, broadcast on black-oriented radio stations
but mrs. pucinski's alderman father was viewed among blacks as an obstructionist during washington's reign as mayor
i would expect byrne to get the black vote,'' kleppner said. ``the question is how much.''
vrdolyak, an alderman for 15 years, lost power to washington in the city council and waged an unsuccessful bid against him on a third-party ticket last april. vrdolyak subsequently resigned from the chairmanship of the county democratic organization to become a republican
with no primary opponent, vrdolyak has spent most of his time talking about demanding integrity and honesty from the court system's 2,000 employees
he's also portraying democrats as big taxers and spenders, hoping to get conservative democratic voters to join his cause in november. at a rally sunday for vice president george bush, vrdolyak said ``they don't represent you.''
they don't hardly represent anybody any more,'' he said
if mrs. byrne survives the primary and meets vrdolyak in november, the clerk's race will feature two former allies. vrdolyak was her floor leader in the city council, and she once helped install him as chairman of the county democratic party
today, the affection is lost
he's devious. he's a wheeler-dealer,'' she told a newspaper last week. ``it's distasteful. ... i don't like him. he's not my cup of tea.'' update with later protest at booking site, picking up 4th graf pvs, `monday's arrests ...'</note>
two hundred arrests were reported monday as anti-nuclear protesters tried to block buses carrying thousands of workers to the nation's nuclear testing grounds
the protesters slowed traffic into the nevada test site, 65 miles northwest of las vegas, but failed to halt work, said energy department spokesman chris west
the majority of those arrested were carried away by officers after lying down on the main road leading into the sprawling desert site
later, many of those arrested had to be dragged by police off buses in tonopah, nev., about 135 miles away, where they were taken to be booked before being released
they weren't going to stand for being driven 135 miles away and being let loose,'' said protest spokeswoman trudy mason
the nye county sheriff's department said officers decided to remove the protesters from three buses and from the tonopah convention center, which was serving as a booking facility, after they refused for several hours to be released
they just sat down and went limp and we dragged them out of there,'' said capt. george gumbmann. mason claimed some of the protesters were injured, but gumbmann said he knew of no injuries
monday's arrests followed a demonstration saturday by up to 5,000 people, the largest in more than seven years of protests at the site. police arrested 1,240 people that day, mostly on misdemeanor trespass citations
a spokesman for the american peace test, which is sponsoring the demonstrations, said 50 protesters had infiltrated the 1,350-square-mile site, which is the size of rhode island
west said he was unaware of any such incidents, but said any infiltrators would not be able to reach sensitive areas
american peace test estimated there were 200 protesters at the site monday, but west said the number was closer to 400
he said 300 personnel from the nye county sheriff's office, the nevada highway patrol and wackenhut security remained on duty or on standby
the protests are scheduled to continue through sunday
the supreme court by a vote of 6-3 refused early tuesday to postpone the execution of willie jasper darden, scheduled to die later in the morning in florida's electric chair
darden, who was scheduled to be electrocuted at 7 a.m. at florida state prison, has maintained his innocence in the 1973 fatal shooting of a lakeland furniture store owner during a robbery
his case has been the focus of an international campaign against capital punishment. pope john paul ii and soviet dissident andrei sakharov had made appeals on his behalf
the dissenting votes were cast by justices william j. brennan, thurgood marshall, and harry a. blackmun
the following is a look at the main points of disagreement between israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres on the middle east peace process

land for peace
shamir's right-wing likud bloc opposes giving up any part of the occupied west bank or gaza strip in exchange for peace. instead, shamir calls for the implementation of the 1978 u.s.-mediated camp david accords signed by israel and egypt
the agreement says palestinians should be granted self-rule on domestic matters while leaving security and foreign affairs to israel. after three years of autonomy, israel and the arabs would negotiate a final status for the occupied lands. shamir believes handing occupied territories back to the arabs would endanger israel's existence by leaving it smaller and more vulnerable
peres' left-of-center labor party is ready to enter negotiations with jordan, from which israel seized the west bank, which would involve returning parts of the occupied lands. peres says israel would insist on retaining arab east jerusalem and holding on to areas along the jordan river as a ``security border.'' his guiding principle is to hand back as much of the heavily populated palestinian areas as possible, above all the gaza strip, taken from egypt. the west bank and the gaza strip were occupied during the 1967 arab-israeli war
today 1.5 million palestinians live in the occupied territories along with 65,000 jewish settlers. peres is afraid that if israel keeps the territories, it will quickly lose its jewish majority because of the high arab birth rate

the international peace conference
the international peace conference idea calls for negotiations between israel and arab representatives under the aegis of the five permanent members of the u.n. security council _ the united states, the soviet union, britain, france and china
shamir rejects the notion outright. he claims four of the five powers side with the arabs and will have the power to force israel to give up the occupied lands. he believes the united states will side with them on this issue. he also fears the palestine liberation organization will be invited to join the talks
as a concession to international involvement, he has suggested the united states and the soviet union invite israel and jordan to talks, leaving them to negotiate on their own after a ceremonial meeting of the four delegations
peres believes jordan will negotiate only within an international forum and that israel must accept this condition if it wants to talk peace. he says the conference will be only an ``opening'' of direct talks between israel and a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation. he argues the conference will not have the power to impose its will or interfere in direct negotiations and says the plo will not attend the talks

the shultz plan
the peace initiative by secretary of state george p. shultz is an attempt to bridge the gap among moderate arabs, peres and shamir. it calls for convening an international conference in april, followed by direct talks between israel and a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation on palestinian self-rule. in december, even if autonomy negotiations were still going on, the sides would begin talks on a permanent settlement
shamir says the shultz plan is ``cumbersome ... and does nothing to guarantee the safety of israel.'' his aides accuse the united states of reneging on its commitment to the camp david agreement. shamir is against negotiating a permanent settlement while talks on the interim autonomy arrangements are still going on. he says the idea of autonomy was to see whether israelis and palestinians could live on a new footing before considering a permanent settlement
peres accepts the shultz plan, warning that it may be the last chance in the forseeble future to make peace with the arabs. he says talks would be conducted while the reagan government is in office. he describes the reagan administration as the freindliest israel has ever known

the plo
shamir and peres both refuse to negotiate with the plo. peres has left open the possibility of talking to the plo if it renounces violence and recognizes the jewish state. shamir will have nothing to do with the organization. showing</head>
sen. albert gore jr. stumped michigan today in hopes the state will demonstrate he can win in the north, while he kept his fingers crossed for ``a stronger result than people now expect'' from illinois' democratic presidential primary
gore was traveling to lansing today where he planned to appear with state legislators backing his candidacy before returning to washington
arriving in detroit monday night, gore described himself as a ``friend of organized labor'' and invoked the name of the state's democratic governor, who hasn't endorsed a candidate
i'm offering the politics of the future, very much in the way gov. jim blanchard has,'' gore said
as he campaigned across illinois earlier monday, the tennessee senator contended he was encouraged about his prospects in today's illinois voting, despite a dismal single-digit showing in pre-election polls
he pointed to illinois' ``two favorite sons'' of jesse jackson and paul simon, and the short time span since his crucial victories in the south last week launched him as a contender, as an explanation for his anticipated finish behind them and michael dukakis
the polls have been wrong quite frequently in this race because the voters are thinking for themselves,'' gore said. ``there's a large undecided vote and people are looking for an alternative
we've had only a few days to get the message out in illinois,'' he said later. he added that he hoped ``we're going to have a stronger result than people now expect.''
gore avoided setting expectations in michigan, where democrats hold caucuses on march 26, and where richard gephardt has chosen to make a last stand in hopes of salvaging his candidacy that was nearly knocked out in the south
i never single him out and certainly don't now,'' gore said of gephardt. ``... it's a three-person race now between myself and jackson and dukakis. that's the reality, regardless of what's happening in any one state.''
gore said that no matter what the illinois outcome, he and jackson and dukakis would fight for the nomination across the series of industrial states leading up to california's final primary
there are other contests on down the road in ohio, connecticut, pennsylvania and new york, and we're looking forward to those contests _ and michigan and wisconsin _ all the way to california,'' gore said
we're going to compete everywhere and look for an opportunity to punch through,'' he told reporters on his campaign plane
gore depicted himself as the alternative to dukakis and jackson ``to bring the democratic party back in the mainstream.''
at the university of illinois, gore appeared before the school's super computer, a machine capable of millions of computations in an instant, to call for increased federal money for computer research and education. he accused the reagan administration of starving civilian computer research while putting money into military applications
we are now on the verge of falling behind japan, once again in a field we pioneered,'' he said
gov. buddy roemer, who toppled political legend edwin edwards, opened his four-year term by challenging louisiana's residents to help ``clean up our politics.''
hope is diminishing. attitudes have been damaged. image is tarnished. pride has been wounded. we are down but we are not out,'' said roemer, inaugurated monday as louisiana's 51st governor
roemer did not cite the usual litany of louisiana's problems, including high national rankings in unemployment, teen pregnancies, high school dropouts, an almost bankrupt government of a state with a widespread image of political corruption
the former democratic congressman takes over a state with an accumulated budget deficit and cash shortfall of as much as $1.2 billion, much of it due to the depressed oil industry
roemer's legislative liasion, manny fernandez, said the governor's first order of business would be to order a special legislative session to give him wide budget-cutting authority for the rest of the fiscal year, which ends june 30
the governor grabbed a major political victory even before he took office when the legislature approved his choices for house speaker and senate president
roemer had said removal of the incumbent officers was needed to ensure that his legislative programs would receive a fair hearing
standing on the capitol steps, roemer was surrounded by 5,000 people. he was sworn in by former u.s. sen. russell long, the son of another legendary governor, huey long
louisiana's victory will not be limited to the few or the strong. that's not victory. that's just more of the same. we'll bring the whole family on this victory trip,'' roemer said
on behalf of our family, we declare war on ignorance, on racism, on joblessness, on business as usual, on environmental pollution and on dishonest political leadership. ..
do we have the character to clean up our politics, to free our political leadership from the stranglehold of the special interests? i say we do.''
roemer was interrupted frequently by applause, including spirited clapping from edwards, who conceded a runoff after trailing roemer in his oct. 24 primary bid for an unprecedented fourth term
edwards, who served as governor from 1972 to 1980 and returned for a third term in 1984, was occupied for much of his last administration defending himself successfully against federal racketeering charges
i'm going hunting tomorrow,'' edwards told reporters when asked how he felt at the moment. ``it's his now.''
capitol police seized 1,162 weapons from visitors last year, a 147 percent increase over 1986, and the house sergeant at arms is lobbying for $18.5 million to tighten security
capitol police are responsible for the capitol itself, six associated office buildings and the capitol grounds. sergeant at arms jack russ says the weapons confiscated last year included an uzi machine gun, a pistol disguised as a beeper and soda bottles containing explosives
the 1,162 total compared to 470 weapons seized in 1986
the security plan advanced by russ calls for installing bomb-proof glass in the house visitors' gallery and modifying floor seats in the chamber to protect against bomb blasts, at a cost of $4.2 million
other proposals include a $4.7 million emergency telephone system to alert every house office immediately to a terrorist attack, $413,352 worth of additional bomb detectors in house office buildings, a $3.5 million electronic card system for access to house garages, and a $5.7 million alarm system connecting home-district offices with local police
russ said most of the weapons were confiscated from visitors who were unaware of gun control restrictions at the capitol and had no criminal intent. but of the total, 63 people were prosecuted, up from 50 the previous year
strict anti-terrorist proposals, such as fencing in the capitol grounds or putting glass enclosures around the house and senate visitors' galleries, have been widely criticized in the past. many legislators argue that the capitol, as a symbol of open democracy, should be easily accessible to the public
russ says this view is unrealistic in view of growing security threats
i think everybody _ me included _ would like the easy-going atmosphere of a mayberry rfd police force, with a friendly cop directing traffic,'' he said in an interview. ``but in this day and time, you also need a high-tech, well-trained police department. you've got to have both.''
russ outlined his plan last week at a house appropriations subcommittee hearing on a proposed $1.96 billion budget for congressional operations during the fiscal year that starts oct. 1. his next step is to seek spending authority from a separate house committee
still awaiting final action by the house and senate leadership is a more sweeping security plan that calls for a wrought-iron fence around the capitol plaza, a parking ban on the plaza and gatehouses to screen visitors before they enter the capitol grounds
that plan, scaled down from an earlier version, has been approved by the capitol police board, consisting of the house and senate sergeants at arms and capitol architect george white, but a $13 million appropriation to implement the plan remains largely unspent
meanwhile, hydraulic steel street barricades have been installed at the main traffic entrances to the capitol to halt unauthorized vehicles, and large concrete flower and shrubbery pots have been placed along driveways and sidewalks to thwart any attempted truck bombings of the capitol
russ said he hopes the bipartisan house and senate leadership will meet with their sergeants at arms before the end of april to discuss the broader security plan. he said speaker jim wright, d-texas, has endorsed additional proposed security measures in the house
the army has secretly devised a new armor plating for its main battle tank that combines uranium with steel to produce an almost impenetrable skin, military officials say
we're talking about something so good the experts think it will take the russians almost a decade to catch up,'' said one official who spoke only on condition of anonymity
this is a major advance; a very major advance.''
the pentagon sources agreed to discuss the matter monday after the army released a brief statement announcing plans to produce ``a new model of the m-1a1 abrams main battle tank with significantly better armor.''
the armor design modification to the m-1a1 incorporates steel-encased depleted uranium,'' the service said
the development of the new armor has been under way for several years as part of a highly classified ``black'' program, the sources said. the army relaxed the classification somewhat on monday only because it had to provide information to production line workers and wanted to allay health concerns about using a radioactive material in a manned vehicle, they added
in monday's announcement, the service insisted that the depleted uranium would pose no threat to either the soldiers who operated the tanks or to the production workers who built them because of the manner in which the tanks would be fabricated
sealed within the tank, depleted uranium has a very low level of natural radiation, which is well within the acceptable range established by the nuclear regulatory commission,'' the army said
you would have to sit on this tank for 75 hours straight in order to get the same equivalent radiation as a single chest x-ray,'' added maj. phil soucy, an army spokesman
the abrams is made for the army by the general dynamics corp. at two plants _ in lima, ohio, and detroit _ employing roughly 5,000 production workers. the armor plates are being made at a secret location and then shipped to the assembly lines, the army said
depleted uranium is an inert, heavy metal that is unusually dense _ 2{ times more so than steel. the term ``depleted'' means the uranium does not have sufficient energy to be used for commercial purposes such as in power plants
depleted uranium has long been used for a variety of civilian and military applications, ranging from the production of canisters for the transport of more highly radioactive materials to certain types of ammunition
in the case of the m-1a1, the army refused to say how much uranium would be incorporated into each tank; where on the tank body the armor with uranium would be located, or how it would produce the new armor
the sources said, however, the new process involved ``weaving'' a thread mesh of uranium into the regular steel armor plating at the time of casting. the process produces an incredibly strong plate that adds ``an insignificant amount of weight,'' they said
it's not only the strength of the uranium but the way it's worked into the steel,'' said one official. ``the process is still highly classified and nobody's going to say more
but the experts say this plating can stop any known soviet anti-tank round, as well as any of their more advanced rounds in development.''
the army, in its statement, said, ``this improvement culminates several years of research and development to meet recent and continuing improvements in warsaw pact anti-armor weapons and will allow the abrams to meet the anticipated threat well into the 1990s.''
the army has already acquired about 1,500 m-1a1's and they will not be retrofitted with the new armor, the service said. but the remaining 3,000 tanks scheduled for purchase will incorporate the new armor
the majority of the improved tanks will be stationed in europe where they can most directly contribute to nato defenses,'' the service said. the first should arrive ``late this year.''
soucy said the new armor plating would begin showing up on the tank manufacturing lines early this summer. the first completed tank with the new armor will be delivered in october, the spokesman added
soucy declined to say how much the new armor would cost. each m-1a1 currently costs about $2.36 million. harsh</head>
george bush, michael dukakis and albert gore took relatively gentle pokes at their presidential rivals in today's illinois primary with television commercials that bore none of the ferocity of the super tuesday media assault
the three were the only candidates to wage substantial media campaigns in illinois. massachusetts gov. dukakis and tennessee sen. gore, both democrats, were spending in the $250,000 range while republican vice president bush reported a $400,000 advertising buy
sen. bob dole, r-kan., started running ads last monday but cut them off in a pre-weekend strategy shift and had nothing on the air in the final days before the primary. instead he bought a half-hour of time saturday night, but his broadcast was beset by technical problems
democrat richard gephardt was bypassing illinois to focus on michigan's march 26 caucuses. and neither of the favorite sons, democratic sen. paul simon and civil rights activist jesse jackson, were advertising in their home state
front-runner bush was running two ads he has used before _ one a biographical spot and the other showing him with world leaders and president reagan. the latter says there is a difference between congressional and presidential leadership _ the closest bush gets to criticizing dole
gore was on the air with several ads including a new one in which he stresses his youth and service in vietnam. ``there's only one choice for a new generation of leadership,'' says the narrator, echoing gore's frequent contention that dukakis can't get elected because he represents ``the old politics.''
for his part, dukakis is taking a poke at simon's insistence that the democratic race is wide open and ripe for a brokered convention
the ad never mentions simon, however. it merely says ``some people'' would like to go back to the days of brokered conventions ``when voters didn't really pick their nominee. ... but you don't have to do this. on tuesday, you can pick the next president'' by voting for dukakis
the low-key tone adopted by all three candidates was a dramatic change from the ads leading up to last week's super tuesday contests in 20 states. at that time, bush, dole, gephardt, dukakis and gore specifically attacked each other's records, character and campaign themes in barbed commercials that didn't hesitate to name names
dukakis held the lead in democratic delegates going into illinois and was making some late progress toward the upper tier of the contest, where polls showed simon and jackson neck and neck
in addition to his brokered convention spot, dukakis was using two ads he had run in super tuesday states _ one stressing his experience as a chief executive and another in which a union official says dukakis is not a ``shot-and-beer kinda guy'' but his economic policies put people to work
gore also was running two other ads he had used for super tuesday, when he won six states. one spot chides u.s. companies for investing in jobs overseas rather than at home and the other says big chemical polluters, price fixers, corporate law breakers and greedy drug manufacturers ``don't want al gore to be president'' because he's fought them in the past
democratic chairman paul kirk wants to head off a bruising battle for the party's presidential nomination and would mediate efforts to close ranks behind a probable nominee if nobody finishes the primaries with enough delegates to win
when you get to a point when there is someone who is somewhat shy of a mathematical majority, i think the opportunity exists to try to strengthen that person and not weaken him as you come into the convention,'' kirk said monday
the delegates who could tip the balance for such a candidate are the 645 so-called ``super delegates,'' the party leaders, members of congress and governors of states and territories who automatically will be convention delegates because of the offices they hold. four years ago, 568 convention seats were used for this purpose
when we increased those numbers, it was not tokenism,'' kirk said. ``their status is that they have to run with and govern with the ticket in the end.''
kirk, in a telephone interview from new york, said the super delegates have a ``special responsibility'' to help ensure that the democratic presidential nomination does not wind up in a political fight that damages the nominee
by the time the primaries and caucuses end in june, kirk said he believed that one candidate will be considered a clear front-runner and the eventual nominee. that candidate will have developed a consistent record of winning primaries and caucuses, even if he does not have the delegates needed for a first-ballot victory at the national convention, kirk said
at that point, kirk said he would meet with the candidates and ``say, `ok, here's where we are and here's where we have to be in november. now, what do we have to do to maximize those opportunities?'''
i don't want to leave the impression that kirk's going to be the broker,'' the party chairman said in a telephone interview from new york. ``i'm not going to dictate to anyone because it doesn't work that way.''
however, he said he would be ``in the middle'' of efforts to avoid harm that could be done to a probable nominee if a political battle erupted just before or during the convention
the democrats conclude their delegate selection on june 7 with primaries in california and new jersey, which combined account for more than 400 national convention delegates
the whole thing is to avoid that brokering process taking place in atlanta,'' said julie anbender, a spokeswoman for kirk. ``i think that he's been floating this idea with elected officials and party officials for some time.''
the democratic national convention is july 18-21 in atlanta
the suggestion that the democratic presidential nomination would have to be brokered came after a clear front-runner failed to emerge in contests to date. the party has already picked more than 40 percent of its national convention delegates
i don't discount the possibility that there will be a first-ballot mathematical majority after you get through with california,'' kirk said. ``i think that is still likely.''
winning the presidential nomination takes at least 2,082 delegates, and so far no candidate has even one-fourth of that number
the super delegates, some of whom cast just fractions of votes under party rules, are not required to pledge their allegiance to any presidential candidate before the convention, although some of them have
of the super delegates, 240.65 say they remain uncommitted, while another 115.35 have come out in support of one candidate or another. the remainder either have not responded to inquiries or have not yet been selected
in the latter category are 253 members of congress, who are to be picked at party caucuses april 19-20, when missouri rep. richard gephardt hopes to get a significant boost for his sagging presidential prospects
gephardt holds the no. 4 leadership position in the house as head of the democratic caucus
gephardt spokesman mark johnson declined to offer any opinion on kirk's statement, saying only that ``we have no problems with the party chairman at all.''
when asked whether the gephardt campaign supported a proposal to rally support behind whoever is the leader after june 7, johnson said the idea of some sort of brokering process in june was ``hypothetical.''
the current leader in the democratic presidential field is massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who has 462.5 delegates, followed by jesse jackson with 423.55 and tennessee sen. albert gore with 352.8
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,475.67 points, up 42.16 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on tuesday
the government's new trade-and-aid program to help american farmers by sending emissaries to foreign countries is almost ready for launching
agriculture secretary richard e. lyng announced monday that the first trip will be this spring to indonesia and the philippines. the exact dates have to be negotiated with the countries
the mission will include representatives from the departments of agriculture and state, and the u.s. agency for international development. three to six representatives of the private sector also will be selected for the trips
during my recent trip to asia, i discussed possible missions with the leaders and key agricultural officials of both countries,'' lyng said. ``we agreed that these missions would not only address the food needs of these countries, but would help develop customers for u.s. agricultural exports as well.''
the trips are required by the agricultural aid and trade missions act, passed by congress late last year. it specified that 16 missions be conducted in 1988, with eight completed by june
by offering specially designed packages of u.s. trade and food assistance, the goal of the program is to help the designated countries develop and to become larger markets for american farmers
private sector involvement will ensure more effective identification of trade and investment opportunities for u.s. exporters,'' lyng said. ``the recipient countries will benefit from the technology and managerial expertise that can best be transferred by the private sector.''
lyng added: ``this exchange helps foster development in the recipient countries, which in turn expands the long-term demand for u.s. agricultural exports.''
orville l. freeman, a former secretary of agriculture and now head of the agriculture council of america, is an enthusiastic supporter of the trade-and-aid law, calling it ``the most promising agricultural legislation since the passage of public law 480 in 1954,'' the food for peace program
the bottom line is to use all existing resources to lay the groundwork for expanded business with developing countries which have the potential for explosive market growth,'' freeman said recently
as described by usda's foreign agricultural service, each mission will:
_meet with appropriate foreign and u.s. officials in each country to help in planning the extent to which u.s. trade and aid can be used to meet the food and economic needs in that country
_provide technical help and information on u.s. agricultural commodities and the trade and aid program
_help obtain firm commitments for food aid programs and commodity sales
within 60 days after completion of a mission, the representatives must report to the president and the congress on their findings and recommendations,'' the agency said
further, beginning in december 1989, the usda and aid must submit quarterly reports to congress about the progress made on each mission's recommendations
turkey production is rising faster than agriculture department economists had previously forecast
the number of turkey eggs in incubators on march 1 was estimated at 32.1 million, up almost 4 percent from a year ago, the agriculture department reported monday
moreover, 23.1 million new turkey poults were placed in flocks last month, a 2 percent increase from placements a year earlier, said the agricultural statistics board
in an earlier report, the department's economic research service said turkey output climbed 18 percent in 1987 to a record level. by the third quarter market prices had dropped below break-even prices. however, prices climbed dramatically in november and december, putting fourth-quarter returns close to the break-even level
because no two consecutive quarters had strong negative net returns, producers probably did not get an intense signal to slow growth,'' the agency said in the march issue of agricultural outlook magazine. ``production is now forecast to rise 10 percent in 1988, up from the earlier forecast of 6 percent.''
wholesale prices of hen turkeys weighing 8 pounds to 16 pounds averaged about 61 cents per pound in the east, the report said. prices in the first and second quarters of 1988 are expected to be in the range of 48 cents to 52 cents and then rise seasonally in the third and fourth
for all of 1988, the wholesale price may average 50 cents to 56 cents per pound, compared with 57.8 cents in 1987, the report said
a larger 1987 harvest and a bigger inventory have put pressure on potato prices this season, says the agriculture department
total output last year rebounded almost 7 percent to an estimated 385.7 million hundredweight, although still 3 percent shy of the 1985 record, the department's economic research service said. stocks of fresh potatoes on jan. 1 were up 8 percent from a year earlier
idaho russets sold for $13.50 to $14 per hundredweight at the end of january, compared with $17.50 to $19 the year before. maine round whites, at $5.80 to $6 per hundredweight, were down from $8.10 to $8.50 a year earlier, the agency reported
overall, the u.s. average grower price of potatoes in january was $3.60 per hundredweight, down 25 percent from a year earlier. louisiana inmate put to death.</note>
the u.s. supreme court early tuesday refused to halt the execution at dawn of convicted killer willie jasper darden, who survived an unprecedented six death warrants and became an international cause celebre
darden, who has maintained his innocence in the 1973 slaying of a lakeland businessman during a robbery, was scheduled to die in the electric chair at 7 a.m. at florida state prison near this north florida town
the high court, in a 6-3 vote, denied a stay, as did a federal appeals court in atlanta, a federal judge in tampa and florida's supreme court earlier in the day
i'm going to holler, i'm going to holler loud, and i'm not going to stop hollering, and i'll be hollering, `innocent, innocent, innocent' if they put me in the chair,'' darden said in an interview taped earlier monday and shown on abc's ``nightline.''
if i had committed such a crime, i would have a guilty conscience all these years. i could not have lived with it,'' he said
his case has become focus of an international campaign against capital punishment. pope john paul ii and soviet dissident andrei sakharov had made appeals on his behalf
darden's attorneys raised several claims on appeal, including reports of new evidence and arguments that the 54-year-old darden had ineffective legal counsel
in angola, la., meanwhile, wayne r. felde was put to death in the electric chair early tuesday for the 1978 slaying of a rookie policeman. the the u.s. supreme court on monday had refused in a 7-2 vote to halt the execution
felde had claimed his wartime service in the vietnam war had made him insane, and pleaded with the jury to impose the death penalty to keep him from killing again. he later withdrew the request and fought his execution
darden's appeals already had gone to the u.s. supreme court four times. the last was rejected march 7 and gov. bob martinez signed darden's seventh death warrant the next day
martinez on monday dismissed suggestions he was rushing the execution
it's been 15 years,'' martinez said. ``i think of the victim at a moment like this and the family which was destroyed. a hideous murder took place and that's what i keep in mind. just because it's 15 years later, that doesn't reduce a crime that was committed at the time.''
darden was condemned for the shooting of james turman, who interrupted a man robbing his wife, helen, of $15. mrs. turman later identified darden as the assailant
i think it was all very fair and darden was the one who did it,'' mrs. turman told lakeland radio station wonn. ``i was in the store alone with him for a long time before jim came in and was shot. ... his face is still impressed in the back of my memory. i can't get it out.''
a neighbor, philip arnold, also identified darden during the trial. arnold, then 16, entered the store after apparently hearing the shooting and mrs. turman's cries and was shot three times
if executed, darden will be the 18th man florida has put to death since may 1979. those men died after three or fewer warrants
death penalty opponents claim darden was railroaded because he is black, and that he is innocent of murder and has an alibi to prove it. they claim there is evidence _ statements from a minister and another person _ that darden could not have committed the murder
the signing of the warrant last week gave defense attorneys only one week to prepare
a lot of people feel the primary reason for the seven-day warrant was to limit amnesty international's ability to have sufficient time to mobilize a public opinion assault as they did very effectively for the sixth warrant,'' said larry spalding, chief of the office of capital collateral representative, a state-funded office of defense attorneys for death row inmates
several hundred phone calls and telegrams had been received at the governor's office in tallahassee, most in favor of clemency. the florida conference on the poor held a vigil in the capitol rotunda monday to press for clemency
in sweden, about a dozen people demonstrated monday outside the u.s. embassy in stockholm, urging florida to commute darden's death sentence
the protest was sponsored by the swedish chapter of amnesty international, which charged in a statement that ``death sentences in the united states are handed down with a great deal of discrimination and with a racial slant.''
since january, i have received close to 2,000 letters from around the world,'' darden said in an interview with the new york times published sunday in which he maintained his innocence. occupation</head>
prominent israeli peace activists say american jews who refuse to criticize the occupation of the west bank and gaza strip are hurting israel
by remaining silent, the activists said, many american jews have signaled endorsement of the policies of prime minister yitzhak shamir, thereby increasing the credibility of his views
shamir arrived here monday for talks with u.s. officials. the peace activists planned a prayer vigil outside the white house when shamir meets with president reagan on wednesday
but the activists said the americans jews opposed to shamir should make their views known. those expressions could help curb the ``terrifying phenomenon'' in which israeli voters are moving to the right, said yael dayan, daughter of the late israeli defense minister moshe dayan
on the whole, american jews are not behind shamir's policy,'' said mordechai bar-on, a founder of the israeli group, peace now. ``they must speak out now.''
shamir, head of the likud party, is reluctant to cede to the palestinians land in the west bank or gaza, two areas seized by israel in the six-day war of 1967. his views are opposed by many labor party officials in jerusalem, who favor a more conciliatory approach towards the palestinians
giora furman, former deputy commander of the israeli air force, said it is unrealistic for israel to hang on to the territories in the face of the determined palestinian uprising
the peace group wants shamir to endorse the return of some land to the palestinians, which is part of secretary of state george p. shultz's middle east peace proposal
i am very upset with what is happening to the american jewish community,'' ms. dayan said, adding it was ``rubbish'' for american jews to hold their tongues when israel does something morally wrong
ms. dayan said americans should write members of congress and israeli leaders. but using u.s. aid as a lever to force change could be counterproductive because the money _ about $1.5 billion annually _ is spent on worthy causes, she said
morris abram, chairman of the conference of presidents of major jewish organizations, said the peace activists should be directing its criticism at the arab leaders who refuse to meet with israeli officials
the group is misdirected as to where its criticism is being put,'' he said
secretary of state george p. shultz says that seven weeks of senate testimony have produced nothing to bar the speedy ratification of the new arms reduction treaty with the soviet union
testifying before the senate foreign relations committee on monday, shultz angrily dismissed an allegation by sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., that the administration's public defense of the pact is based on ``misrepresentation'' and is at odds with facts presented in closed-door secret sessions
shultz also said the senate should firmly discard all proposed amendments or reservations to the treaty, including one that would tie its implementation to reversing soviet superiority in conventional arms in europe
he ticked off objections that have been mounted to the terms of the pact, which bans medium-range nuclear missiles, and asserted that all those objections have been refuted
the secretary of state, whose testimony opened the committee's examination of the treaty in january, commented as he made a return appearance to offer a summing up
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., the senate's deputy majority leader and a respected vote counter, predicted that the pact will be ratified by the full senate by a margin far greater than the required two-thirds majority
cranston said the senate will act well in advance of a planned moscow summit meeting this spring between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
we believe the treaty stands on its merits,'' shultz said. ``it is self-contained and should not be made a vehicle for statements on other issues,'' including the soviet military occupation of afghanistan
but he bristled after hearing helms declare that there is ``a wide gap between the administration's public representations about the treaty and the information which we have received in closed session.''
indeed,'' helms said, ``after many hours of listening to testimony both private and public, the administration's public presentation of the treaty has been a tissue of confusion, misstatements and _ and i use the word advisedly _ even misrepresentations.''
shultz told helms: ``in a sense i don't know what i'm doing here. are you sitting here accusing me of deliberately misrepresenting? ... i can handle it fine when people say they don't agree with me, but when they say i have misrepresented, i have trouble with that.''
helms said he was not accusing shultz of ``deliberately'' misrepresenting, but he added that ``the contradictions are self-apparent.''
replying to questions, shultz told sen. larry pressler, r-s.d., that senate passage of an amendment delaying implementation of the treaty until the west achieved a balance with the soviet union in conventional arms would kill the pact
the pact, formally termed the intermediate-range nuclear forces or inf treaty, calls for the destruction of all nuclear missiles with a range of between 300 miles and 3,400 miles
shultz said he does not believe the treaty will cause west germany to demand the removal of all nuclear weapons from its soil _ a step that some fear could open europe to intimidation by the soviet union, which is said to have superiority in conventional, non-nuclear forces
interest rates on short-term treasury securities fell in the latest auction, with six-month bills dropping to the lowest level since last july
the treasury department sold $6.5 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.65 percent on monday, down from 5.74 percent last week. an additional $6.4 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.78 percent, down from 5.93 percent last week
the rates were the lowest since three-month bills sold for 5.62 percent on feb. 29 and six-month bills averaged 5.54 percent on july 13, 1987
the new discount rates understate the actual return to investors _ 5.81 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,857.20 and 6.04 percent for a six-month bill selling for $9,707.80
in a separate report, the federal reserve said the average yield for one-year treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages rose to 6.72 percent last week from 6.63 percent the previous week. edits to conform</note>
stock prices rebounded in heavy afternoon trading, while the dollar rose slightly in tokyo trading tuesday as dealers awaited u.s. trade deficit figures
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues fell during the morning session but rebounded and ended the day at 25,475.67 points, up 42.16 points, or 0.16 percent, from monday's close
the dollar, after temporarily dipping below the 127-yen mark, closed at 127.25 yen, up 0.02 yen from monday's close
an exchange dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the tokyo market ``seems to remain relatively calm'' until the release of u.s. trade figures for january, scheduled for thursday
large-capital industrials and steels traded actively, but most other sectors were quiet, according to an analyst who requested anonymity
the teamsters union has set a new march 29 target for its 6,700 member flight attendants to strike northwest airlines armed with a pledge that mechanics and baggage handlers will honor picket lines
anyone who is thinking of flying northwest during the easter holidays should forget it,'' william genoese, director of the union's airline division, told reporters monday after announcing the strike deadline
northwest officials expressed immediate skepticism that the union will carry out its threat, but said the airline has management workers and replacement attendants in training to keep the airline operating if it does
the teamsters have set many deadlines ... and flight attendants continue to work,'' said bob gibbons, a northwest spokesman. ``we'll just have to see if this deadline has any more validity than others the union has announced.''
genoese met several hours at teamster headquarters here with guy cook, president of the machinists union's district 143 in minneapolis, which represents northwest's 20,000 mechanics and baggage handlers
i have no doubt that the membership i represent will honor any work stoppage,'' said cook ``we've got our own problems in negotiations with northwest. if they want a war, they probably are going to get one.''
the teamsters earlier had threatened to strike northwest the last weekend of february, when a 30-day cooling-off period ordered by the national mediation board expired
northwest, based in st. paul, minn., has announced it will unilaterally impose a new policy manual on april 1 replacing the old flight attendants' contract and stretching out from five years to eight years the time required for a newly hired attendant to reach top scale
absent from monday's meeting were representatives of the air line pilots association, which represents 2,300 northwest pilots
the pilots have told us that when the time comes, they will do the right thing,'' genoese said
leaders of alpa's northwest locals could not be reached for comment. but john mazor, a spokeman at the pilot union's headquarters here, said its policy is to ``not announce any decision on whether to support a strike by another union unless or until a strike occurs and a picket line goes up.''
under the national railway labor act governing labor relations in the rail and airline industries, courts have frequently ordered members of unions not on strike themselves but honoring another union's picket line to return to work
terms of a two-tier, a and b, wage system at northwest under which new hires reach the pay level of veterans have been the major stumbling block in the bargaining talks between the airline and the teamsters
the union originally proposed eliminating the lower b scale entirely but had agreed to stretch it to six years before the talks broke off
northwest's last contract proposal included raising base pay for beginning flight attendants on the b scale would climb from $13,000 to $15,000 over a five-year period. base pay for full-time veterans on the top a scale would rise from $32,000 to $35,000 under the same offer
senators are starting to push their house counterparts in earnest to erase the trade plan that serves as the centerpiece of democrat richard a. gephardt's race for the presidential nomination
we decided to stick with our own super 301 plan and to oppose the gephardt amendment,'' sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said monday after a meeting of senate conferees on the trade issue
as part of the action, the senate will ask the house to drop the gephardt plan from the final version of sweeping trade legislation passed by both houses last year
the decision was made by senate members of a house-senate conference committee seeking a compromise version of the rival 1,000-page trade bills. it came on a voice vote in a closed-door session of the senate conferees
the move represents step one in a compromise process involving proposals that go back and forth between the house and senate until both chambers agree on one version
gephardt spokesman mark johnson said the senate's action represented ``nothing new'' in the trade debate
it's merely an opening bargaining position,'' he said. ``we're confident that whatever emerges from conference will be new, forceful legislation to open foreign markets. and clearly the gephardt amendment paved the way.''
gephardt's plan calls for negotiations to reduce japan's and other nations' ``excess and unwarranted'' trade surpluses with the united states
if those talks failed, the plan would prescribe presidential action to cut the surpluses by 10 percent a year. such action could include tariffs or import quotas on japanese goods brought into the united states
the president could, however, take no action if there are considerations of ``national economic security'' or if the other country had a serious international debt problem
gephardt's amendment has been the chief basis of his appeal to blue-collar workers and others concerned over the impact on american jobs of products imported from japan and newly industrialized nations in east asia
the ``super 301'' provision that the senate is pushing would require the president to act to eliminate all of the unfair foreign trade practices listed on an inventory to be drawn up by the u.s. trade representative. it is named for the section of the trade act that deals with retaliatory steps against such unfair practices
before sending their offer to the house, the senators planned to return to the table today and fashion additional provisions involving steps to combat ``dumping,'' or selling foreign-made products in world markets at prices lower than those in home markets
the senators also intend to work on provisions involving ``countervailing duties,'' or tariffs that are imposed to offset the price advantage that some foreign-made products get from export subsidies in their home countries
on monday, the senators moved to expand from seven months to 12 months the time for the president to make a determination as to whether a foreign trade practice should be considered unfair
wayne robert felde, who had pleaded with a jury to impose the death penalty to keep him from killing again, was executed in the electric chair early tuesday for the 1978 slaying of a rookie policeman
felde, 38, went to his death at 12:14 a.m. after the u.s. supreme court late monday refused in a 7-2 vote to stay the execution
you can kill the messenger but you can't kill the message,'' he said in his final statement. ``sooner or later, you have to acknowledge it for what it means, not for what you want it to mean.''
he gave no indication what he referred to, but paused so that witnesses could write it down
felde was convicted of shooting a policeman in the back in shreveport while being taken to jail in handcuffs for drunkenness. an army veteran of vietnam, felde had claimed at trial that his wartime experience had made him insane
the execution occurred less than a day after gov. buddy roemer was inaugurated. felde's lawyers had planned to ask the governor to stop the execution until a new pardon board could consider the case
roemer had said earlier he would not intervene
in starke, fla., meanwhile, willie jasper darden, who survived an unprecedented six death warrants and became an international cause celebre, awaited execution in the electric chair early tuesday for the 1973 slaying of a businessman during a robbery
the last time there was more than one execution in one day in this country was aug. 28, when murderers were put to death in alabama, florida and utah
felde was the first person in louisiana to use his vietnam service as the basis for a criminal insanity plea
he said finding viet cong tunnels and being exposed to the chemical agent orange left him subject to flashbacks and unable to tell right from wrong when he pulled a gun hidden in his pants and shot officer glen thomkins while being taken to jail in handcuffs
in 1980, a jury convicted him of first-degree murder, which carries life in prison or death in the electric chair. felde asked for the death penalty, ``or other deaths will result.''
it's happened twice in eight years. there's been 10 years of proof shown to you,'' he told the jury. felde at the time of the slaying was a fugitive from a work release program in maryland, where he had been convicted of manslaughter
felde withdrew his request after the trial, and his appeal to the supreme court was based in part on his claim that he was denied competent representation because his attorney at trial joined him in asking for the death sentence
felde appeared unsuccessfully before the pardon board appointed by roemer's predecessor, gov. edwin edwards, two weeks ago
bill quigley, one of felde's lawyers, argued that the old board was tainted by a pardon-selling scandal that sent the board chairman to jail. he said roemer should refer the case to the new board he appoints
ninety-four people have been executed in the united states, including 15 in louisiana, since the death penalty was revived following a u.s. supreme court decision in the 1970s
the most recent occurred jan. 7 when robert streetman was executed by injection in texas for murdering a woman in 1982. the most recent execution in louisiana was aug. 24
sen. joseph r. biden's doctors are discussing treatment to prevent more blood clots like the one just discovered in one of the senator's lungs
peter esker, a spokesman at walter reed army medical center, said monday that the clot in the lung was dissolving, but treatment would likely be needed to prevent further clots
doctors could use anti-coagulant drugs or a surgical procedure, esker said
biden, 45, was admitted to the hospital sunday. he underwent an operation at walter reed on feb. 12 to repair an aneurysm _ the ballooning of an artery wall _ in an artery supplying blood to the brain
biden was recovering at home from that operation and waiting for an operation on a second aneurysm when he had to re-enter the hospital
medical tests show that the senator did experience a pulmonary embolism, or a blood clot, that lodged in one of his lungs,'' esker said
the clot, which could have resulted from decreased activity following major surgery, did no damage. medical tests are continuing to determine the method of lessening the chances of other clots developing,'' he said
esker said the alternative to anti-coagulant drugs is to insert a venous filter, a form of catheter, in a vein
students at the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf greeted the week with jubilation, as they were formally introduced to the first deaf president and first deaf board chairman in gallaudet university's history
irving king jordan jr. and philip w. bravin received standing ovations monday from the same students who effectively shut down the 124-year-old institution over appointment of a woman with normal hearing to be president
people will look at us and study what we are doing,'' said jordan, a 44-year-old professor and dean of the college of arts and sciences at gallaudet. ``we will prove to them, not only can they choose a deaf president and chairman, but that these two will succeed.''
the two officials were joined at a news conference by student body president greg hlibok, one of the campus leaders in the week of protest over the hiring of elisabeth ann zinser as president
the students succeeded in pressuring zinser to resign last friday, less than a week after her appointment and in winning the subsequent resignation of board chairman jane bassett spilman, who can hear
we're back in business and back to business, but gallaudet will never again be what it used to be,'' said hlibok, who spoke in sign language and through an interpreter
only a few students were on campus monday, the first day of a spring break, but many people filled the auditorium for the press conference and wore their ``deaf president now'' buttons
jordan had endorsed zinser's presidency last week but then retracted it
jordan lost his hearing at age 20 in a motorcycle accident. he speaks clearly, but also uses sign language when he talks
we are continually impressed with him and we will give him our full support,'' said jerry covell, a leader of the protest
jordan received his bachelor's degree in psychology at gallaudet, then obtained his master's and doctorate at the university of tennessee
roman catholic church leaders, who have called on gen. manuel antonio noriega to step down, offered to mediate talks between the military strongman and opposition political groups demanding his ouster
but church officials also said on monday that it may be difficult ``to build a silver bridge for (noriega) to leave,'' now that the united states has indicted noriega on drug trafficking and money laundering charges
since then, the country has fallen into a deepening financial crisis that occurred after the united states imposed several new economic sanctions on panama, including the withholding of $6.5 million in panama canal fees due this week. it earlier cut off all economic and military aid to the country
the 118 local and foreign banks that do business in panama remained closed monday by government order for the 20th straight day
the church still hopes to act as a bridge. there is no question that noriega must go ... the problem is how he goes,'' the rev. fernando guardia, a top church spokesman and vicar of the archdiocese, said monday
archbishop marcos mcgrath, a native of philadelphia, has been criticial of the government in the past, but always avoided direct confrontation to protect his priests, nearly 75 percent of whom are foreigners
under panamanian law, they must have their visas renewed every three months by immigration authorities, which come under noriega's defense forces
noriega, the defense forces chief and the nation's de facto ruler, ousted president eric arturo delvalle on feb. 26 after delvalle tried to fire noriega
we are under pressure,'' said father guardia, a panamanian, explaining that foreign priests who tried to speak out in the past were often threatened and reminded that they can lose their visas. ``they have not expelled any of our priests, but they have us by the neck.''
the country's bishops, in a statements that mentioned no names, have accused the military regime of being responsible for panama's crisis
the bishops urged ``strict observance of constitutional norms, full and effective subordination of the military to civil authority,'' the creation of conditions for free elections, ``the restoration of civil liberties and human rights,'' and asked that ``news media be allowed to reopen.''
the bishops also lashed out at the military for resorting ``to false nationalism'' to whip up support for the noriega government, but called for a ``panamanian solution to the crisis without foreign intervention.''
the bishops also offered on monday to act as a ``liaison'' to seek a solution to the crisis, but there was no answer from the government. official government media accused the church of siding with the oppostion
people were fed up with noriega since last year,'' father guardia said, ``but the indictment by the united states was politically mishandled. the government party and other groups here threw their support to noriega and noriega will hang in there longer and eventually drag others with him.''
they (the united states) closed all avenues,'' father guardia added. ``it is very difficult for noriega now to go somewhere with the indictment hanging over his head. but he has to realize that he msut go
about 80 percent of the people of panama are roman catholic
pop singer michael jackson canceled a performance at the 18,000-seat arena, the second time in 72 hours illness forced him to skip a scheduled concert on his 13-city tour
it's been a tough past three days. michael jackson is not known as `no-show,''' arena manager roger dixon said monday. ``he's always been known to give it his all (but) he's only human. this just proves it.''
monday night's show by jackson, whose tour started feb. 24 in kansas city and has taken him to new york city, orginally had been scheduled for saturday night
jackson performed sunday night as scheduled before about 19,000 at the arena despite suffering from a cold. dixon said he had been notified by the singer's promotion company, tcc productions of encino, calif., that jackson's illness progressed monday to laryngitis
his tour is scheduled to end in mid-may. from washington wire of march 1. picks up at prvs. third section, `rep. bob dornan'</note>
the senate, struggling to make legislating a more orderly affair, put itself on a new work schedule this year and tightened up its procedures
the change produced unintended consequences
under the new schedule the senate works in washington for three straight weeks, then permits senators to return to their home states for a full week to attend to their constituents
the purpose of the change was to disband the so-called tuesday-thursday club, named for the age-old practice of many senators who left washington on thursday evenings and did not return until the following tuesdays
now when the senate is meeting senators are expected to attend, monday through friday, no exceptions
there have been other changes as well
roll call votes, which often were prolonged for an hour or more while the senate waited for an absent member to arrive from the airport or from a meeting across town, were limited to a strict 15 minutes each, no exceptions
and that caused the problem
the three senate office buildings are linked to the capitol by an underground subway
for years that subway has routinely and efficiently served two of those buildings _ the russell and the dirksen
but the tunnel which was extended to the new hart senate office building is far longer, as is the trip to the capitol
and the hart building contains the offices of 50 of the 100 senators
last month, seven or eight senators hurried to the hart subway station with only minutes to spare to make a roll call
but the car was jammed with visitors
there were unusual circumstances,'' sen. howell heflin, d-ala., told his colleagues
there were some blind people on the subway car and it took some time to get them off.''
the 15-minute clock ticked to an end and heflin and his colleagues missed the vote
they demanded a solution to their transportation problem and a solution was provided
tourists and other visitors were banned from the cars during roll call votes
and a subway car will now depart the hart subway station precisely three minutes before the end of a 15-minute vote, giving senators just enough time to reach the senate chamber and cast their votes
the senate and its subway cars roll on
rep. bob dornan, r-calif., was on the house floor earlier this month, holding forth with some heat on the turn of events that had seen congress cut off all aid to the contra rebels in nicaragua
mr. speaker, if i have told you once i have told you a hundred times that every time you cozy up to those communists down there in nicaragua they are going to stick a rusty knife right in your back,'' he fumed, adding that he was off to california and would return ``with more facts and figures'' from a rand corp. report on communist activity south of the border
he said he would seek permission to publish all of it in the congressional record
and i do not care if it costs thousands of dollars, and it will,'' dornan said in a shout
i want that whole report in the record, available to all the schools and libraries across america and everybody who follows the proceedings in this house through the written record and national technical means _ that means electronic.''
dornan stopped
rep. david obey, d-wis., took the floor
he had a question
i simply wanted to ask the gentleman from california if any of us could help get him a sedative?'' obey said
when the one-line comment appeared in the congressional record it bore a five-word headline
the headline: ``a sedative for a member.''
shane nicolich's watch stopped at 2:53 p.m. on the day he tumbled 40 feet from a tree behind his home. and for more than a year, so did his life. doctors and family feared he would never recover from a coma
last month, the 12-year-old won the sumner school district spelling bee _ by spelling the word ``hypodermic.''
i knew i had that one,'' shane said, grinning
shane, the older of two sons of mike and donna nicolich, is now a lanky seventh-grader with only traces of the injury doctors said would leave him comatose the rest of his life
his walk is almost back to normal and he only occasionally responds slowly to questions. his brain stem has healed and he has regained use of the left side of his body
in february, he completed a cross-country skiing course and was readmitted to his junior high school's gifted program
my verbal iq is back up to 124,'' he said in a recent interview. ``that's 24 points away from einstein. write that down.''
he doesn't remember much, however, about the july 14, 1986, accident at his home in sumner, about 10 miles east of tacoma
i was in this humongous tree playing with a bunch of friends. it seems i either got dizzy or a branch broke,'' he said
for the next two months, the comatose boy was treated at good samaritan hospital in puyallup, the trauma unit at st. joseph hospital in tacoma and finally orchard park health care center in tacoma
he remembers nothing about the coma except for one thought days before he woke up: ``i was dreaming about stuff like being home and eating spaghetti and french bread.''
he came home the day before halloween, and immediately began therapy at good samaritan. he still attends sessions three times a week, and doctors expect the sessions to continue for two or three more years
given the severity of his injuries, he's a real miracle,'' said dr. tom wyckoff of puyallup. ``he has tremendous spirit and he'll go far. we're looking beyond high school to college.''
wyckoff, who specializes in rehabilitation medicine, said monday shane's success is due to his youth, his family and his intelligence
his rapid recovery was used as an example at a recent national head injury foundation conference in seattle
although shane can ride his bike and cross-country ski, he still can't be left unattended, wyckoff said, because his agility and sense of judgment are slightly impaired. he wears a helmet on his bike because doctors fear another head injury could send him into another coma
mrs. nicolich, a housewife whose husband is a construction worker, said she's amazed at shane's recovery
mike and i have done the best we can, but if it wasn't for shane striving so hard, it wouldn't have happened,'' she said. ``i told him if i could give him a purple heart for his courage, i would.''
shane is also aware of the changes
i guess i'm special,'' he said. ``i was a regular `brainiac' before the accident. i used to get straight a's. now i have a b minus. i'm pretty amazed i made the spelling bee even though i won a lot of them before
i just want to be treated like a regular joe schmo, really,'' he added. ``some of my friends tease me and tell me i have brain damage, but they stick up for me.''
up to 50 percent of the low-income elderly people would have to pay an extra $50 to $75 a month for their medicaid-funded nursing home care under new regulations that take effect next month
the new regulations are meant to enable states to ``shift more of the financial responsibility for the cost of nursing home care to the recipient,'' the department of health and human services said in a notice published feb. 8 in the federal register. the regulations are scheduled to take effect april 8
from 20 percent to 50 percent of institutionalized medicaid recipients would be affected, the department said. savings to the state and federal government would total $160 million to $615 million from 1987 to 1989
medicaid recipients pay a certain percentage of their income for nursing home care after deducting medical costs not covered by their state medicaid plan _ for example, eyeglasses or hearing aids
under the new rule, states will be allowed to eliminate or curtail these deductions for the first time
hhs said states most likely will restrict income deductions for services they believe have marginal or questionable therapeutic value
it appears highly likely that the major impact of this regulation will fall on providers of non-institutional services such as physicians, dentists, and physical and occupational therapists,'' the department said
four men expected to be key prosecution witnesses at the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi tried to offer a $200,000 bribe to attorney general edwin meese iii through a middleman, biaggi's lawyer claims
the four ex-wedtech corp. officials ``corrupted an entire administration _ this administration,'' biaggi lawyer james larossa said in his opening statement to the jury monday
a justice department official denied the bribe allegation as ``preposterous.''
attorneys for biaggi, d-n.y., and his six co-defendants completed their opening remarks, paving the way for the first witness to take the stand today in u.s. district court
the four _ wedtech co-founder fred neuberger, former vice chairman mario moreno, ex-president anthony guariglia and former executive vice president lawrence shorten _ have pleaded guilty to state and federal charges and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in return for leniency. they have yet to be sentenced
before their plea bargain was struck, larossa said, they offered a bribe to e. robert wallach, a close friend of meese and a key figure in an investigation of a proposed $1 billion iraqi pipeline
larossa said the wedtech officials told wallach: ``we'll give you $200,000 for your friend ed meese. get to meese. get us foreign asylum.''
at a second meeting, larossa said, the same money was offered to wallach, who was told: ``get us an assurance that we won't go to jail.'' larossa said wallach gave them that assurance
so the people who are going to take the stand here and testify ... they were trying to buy the attorney general of the united states,'' larossa charged
he appeared to indicate that the money was never paid
in washington, one of meese's attorneys, nathan lewin, said he had spoken with meese about larossa's remarks
there was never any request that he (meese) get involved in the wedtech investigation in any way. he never did. he never would have contemplated doing that. it's preposterous to think that there's any scintilla of truth to that account,'' lewin said
larossa said the four ``lied, stole, plundered and raped'' the company, a bronx defense contractor now in bankruptcy proceedings
they created a $14 million slush fund, from which they stole $5 million and ``the rest of the money was used to pay off people in washington, union people'' and others, larossa said. ``not one penny went to mario biaggi.''
biaggi, 70, the city's senior congressman; his eldest son; the elder biaggi's law partner and four others are charged with racketeering for allegedly demanding millions of dollars in bribes to help the company win government contracts
larossa claimed the no-bid contracts that transformed wedtech from a small machine shop into a $100 million-a-year defense contractor were awarded through white house influence
he said meese, then president reagan's chief of staff, passed the word to officials of the navy, army and small business administration that ``the president wants these contracts to go to wedtech.''
former white house aide lyn nofziger was convicted last month of illegal lobbying for wedtech soon after he left the reagan administration
a special prosecutor in washington said in december that there was insufficient evidence to charge meese with any wrongdoing in the wedtech scandal. the investigation is continuing
the prosecutor also is investigating meese's role in the pipeline as a result of a memo written to meese by wallach mentioning planned payments to the israeli labor party in a bid to protect the project in iraq from israeli attack
a 60-marine security force and a 44-man air force military police unit have been sent to panama to help safeguard american personnel and facilities in that central american nation, the pentagon says
this is simply a prudent measure to augment the security personnel who are already in place,'' cmdr. robert prucha, a pentagon spokesman, said monday, the day the additional personnel were shipped out
the marine group includes a six-man dog handling team. the marines left from norfolk, va., and the air force group from shaw air force base in south carolina
there are currently about 600 servicemen assigned to security duties in panama with the u.s. southern command, which is headquartered there, prucha said
all told, there are about 10,000 american troops in panama
the reagan administration has been using financial pressure in a bid to oust panamanian strongman gen. manuel a. noriega ``and we don't want to be caught unprepared if he responds by trying to sabotage canal equipment or other facilities,'' said one official
sources said the marine unit was ``a fleet anti-terrorist security team'' that could be used to keep watch on the panama canal, an oil pipeline that carries alaskan oil across panama, and the u.s. embassy
the air force unit, a so-called ``air base ground defense flight,'' is trained in maintaining security around the perimeters of military bases, the officials said
while there is no evidence of sabotage and no reason at this point to anticipate an attack on u.s. facilities by panamanians, ``there have been a number of bomb scares recently,'' said one official
we don't want to overreact, but we don't want to get caught flat-footed, either,'' said another source
capt. nancy laluntas, a pentagon spokeswoman, said monday there had been no change in the alert status for u.s. personnel in panama and that the lowest form of alert _ ``alpha'' _ was still in place
we are not sending in combat troops,'' the spokeswoman stressed. ``these are police and security units.''
a vietnam veteran who said his years of bloody combat left him unable to tell right from wrong went to his death early today for shooting a rookie policeman in the back three times
you can kill the messenger but you can't kill the message,'' wayne robert felde, 38, said in a cryptic, two-sentence final statement. ``sooner or later, you have to acknowledge it for what it means, not for what you want it to mean.''
as felde died, three policemen from shreveport stood in the cold at the prison gate with a group of five other supporters of ``victims' rights,'' including some relatives of murder victims
justice is being done tonight. i hate it took 10 years,'' said sgt. glenn ramsey, a friend of felde's murder victim, shreveport officer glen tompkins
the execution, louisiana's 16th since it resumed capital punishment in 1983 and one of two scheduled for today, came after felde's lawyers failed on two fronts to win last-minute postponements. the u.s. supreme court ruled 7-2 late monday to let the execution proceed. gov. buddy roemer, who was inaugurated earlier in the day, also did not stop it
bill quigley, one of felde's lawyers, said he thought roemer would postpone the execution until he could appoint a new pardon board to consider the case
the outgoing pardon board rejected felde's appeal less than two weeks ago. quigley argued that roemer should not stand on that ruling since it came from a board scarred earlier by a pardon-selling scandal that sent the board chairman to jail
warden hilton butler said felde told him as the hour grew near that he did not want the execution called off
it was a return to the stance felde took at his trial, when the jury found him guilty and he told them to execute him to prevent more killing
he already had been convicted in maryland of manslaughter and was in shreveport because he had escaped from a work-release program there
all i can advise you all is to give me the death penalty in this case .... or other deaths will result,'' he said, describing himself as a walking time bomb
he changed his mind, however, and helped in his appeals as he fought to stay alive, saying he was not mentally competent when he told the jury he wanted to die
felde was the first person in louisiana to use vietnam for a criminal insanity plea. he had joined the army at 18 and was sent in 1967 to vietnam where he was among the men who ferreted out viet cong tunnels
he said it ruined him and he couldn't tell right from wrong when he was arrested by tompkins for drunkenness in 1979. although handcuffed and put in the back seat of the police car, felde got a gun out of his pants and shot tompkins three times in the back
in florida, willie jasper darden, who survived an unprecedented six death warrants and became an international cause celebre over capital punishment, awaited execution early today for the 1973 slaying of a businessman during a robbery
the last time there was more than one execution in one day in this country was aug. 28, when murderers were put to death in alabama, florida and utah. says</head>
new england's economy would prosper under the u.s.-canada free-trade agreement, enjoying a more accessible canadian market and stabilized power imports that could entice new companies to the region, says a business group study
george macomber, chairman of the new england council inc., which released the report monday, said the study ``clearly demonstrates that the (pact) would benefit the region and in the long term improve new england's trade position with canada.''
the council, an association representing more than 1,000 businesses in the six states, supports the agreement, which was signed jan. 2 by president reagan and canadian prime minister brian mulroney. it still must win ratification by congress and the canadian parliament
various industries in the northwest and midwest have expressed concern about the pact, saying it does not do enough to eliminate canadian trade barriers. but many new england officials support the agreement
the agreement would eliminate all tariffs between the two countries by 1999 and would establish a new tribunal to settle future trade disputes. the united states and canada are the world's two largest trading partners, with two-way trade of nearly $150 billion a year
some handicapped protestors criticizing what they said are federal policies that result in inadequate mass transit services for disabled people have chained themselves to the doors of the department of transportation headquarters and vow to stay until officials agree to improve bus service for handicapped people
members of americans disabled for accessible transportation (adapt) gathered from around the country monday to protest the department's decision to appeal a january ruling that transit agencies must provide services to the handicapped regardless of cost
in the ruling, u.s. district judge marvin katz in philadelphia struck down a transportation department regulation requiring the nation's transit authorities to spend no more than 3 percent of their budgets on the disabled
the demonstrators timed their protest to coincide with a three-day meeting of the american public transit association, which represents local agencies that provide bus and subway service
timothy cook, a philadelphia attorney who represented adapt in the lawsuit, said the present system of allowing transit agencies to decide what services to provide to the handicapped ``gives individual states the option to discriminate.''
transportation secretary jim burnley said monday the department is ``fully committed to providing mass transportation to people with disabilities.''
the national oceanic and atmospheric administration has levied fines totaling $100,000 against three japanese firms whose ships were videotaped apparently fishing illegally in u.s. waters off alaska in early january
the civil fines of $25,000 per vessel involved are the maximum allowed under u.s. law
this underscores how seriously we viewed the violations,'' jim brennan, a deputy general counsel for noaa, said monday. he said the japanese companies can seek an administrative hearing on the fines if they decide to appeal
this action should send a powerful message to any fisherman who is thinking about fishing illegally in our waters,'' said rep. don bonker, d-wash
the fines were based on a review of the videotapes and depositions taken from commercial fishermen who chartered a plane and photographed the vessels with their nets down allegedly 38 miles inside the american fishing zone, said brennan
two of the vessels videotaped are owned and operated by hamaya suisan co., ltd., which was fined a total of $50,000, said brennan. the other two vessels are owned and operated by senkon gyogyo co., ltd., and taisei gyogyo co., ltd., those companies each were fined $25,000
in addition, the owners and operators of two unidentified fishing vessels that were also videotaped were fined a total of $100,000. the identification numbers on the vessels were covered at the time they were photographed
the sentencing of former presidential aide lyn nofziger has been postponed from march 25 until april 8 to give defense lawyers more time to study a report being prepared by the federal probation office
u.s. district judge thomas a. flannery on monday granted the defense request to postpone the sentencing. the request was not opposed by independent counsel james c. mckay
nofziger, who was white house political director from 1981 until early 1982, was convicted last month of three counts of illegally lobbying former colleagues in the reagan administration on behalf of private clients
he faces a potential two-year prison term and a $10,000 fine on each count
cardinal miguel obando y bravo was removed as mediator of the peace talks because he wanted the sandinistas to discuss political reforms as well as a cease-fire with the contras, sources said
president daniel ortega diplomatically eased obando y bravo from his job as mediator on march 2, thanking him for his efforts but saying the cardinal would not be needed for direct talks scheduled for next week
the manuever effectively removed the roman catholic prelate from pushing what were seen by the leftist sandinista government as pro-contra proposals
ortega has called for three days of face-to-face talks with the contras beginning monday in the nicaraguan post at sapoa on the border with costa rica
ortega said his brother, gen. humberto ortega, the nation's top military leader, would head the sandinista delegation. the contras countered by naming adolfo calero, their highest political leader, to head their delegation
sandinista sources and opposition figures, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said ortega ousted obando y bravo because he outlined a proposal that would force the government to discuss internal politics with the rebels
the government has refused to discuss anything but a cease-fire
during the last round of talks on feb. 18 in guatemala, obando y bravo called on the sandinista government to grant total amnesty, revise the military draft law, grant full press freedom and reopen stalled talks with internal opposition parties. he also suggested a 30-day truce
the contras quickly accepted the proposal. the sandinistas hesitated
obando y bravo, saying the two sides were at an impasse, broke off the talks the following day
ortega on feb. 23 sent the cardinal an angry letter, decrying the talks' ``abrupt suspension without consulation.'' the letter was the first in a week of exchanges between the government and the catholic leader
the letters also sent signals that church-state relations had once again deteriorated in nicaragua
the strong roman catholic church backed the 1979 revolution that ousted dictator anastasio somoza and supported the sandinistas. but the church later became the staunchest government critic and suffered repression
since the signing of a regional peace plan in august by five central american presidents including ortega, the situation seemed to be improving
the government allowed two exiled priests to return, permitted the catholic radio station to reopen and in november asked the cardinal to be mediator
the cardinal's last letter to ortega was sent march 2, hours before ortega removed him as mediator. in it, the prelate reiterated the need for talks to ``put an end to the grueling war that daily claims 50 or 60 young nicaraguans'' and said he was open to discussing a new outline for negotiations
a church source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the sandinistas hoped to pressure obando y bravo into backing out of his mediation role. when that failed, ortega made his move and visited obando y bravo that night
ortega made it look like he was deferring to the cardinal's wishes
the cardinal himself had suggested some time ago that a direct meeting (with the contras) and in our country would be very important,'' ortega said
for the past four years, obando y bravo has urged direct talks. but the sandinistas had repeatedly refused to sit down with the contras until they were forced to do so by the regional peace plan
the plan signed by nicaragua, el salvador, costa rica, guatemala and honduras calls for cease-fires, democratization, amnesties and an end to tactical or logistical support for insurgencies
the sandinistas say peace talks should be held with the u.s. government because it financed and trained the rebels. the reagan administration refuses
during the first few rounds of talks aimed at working out a cease-fire, the cardinal acted as a go-between in indirect negotiations
in january, ortega proposed direct talks but with a mediator
after obando y bravo was asked to step down as mediator, the contras demanded he be involved in the meetings ``as witness, moderator and guarantor of the talks.'' the president responded on march 7 by calling on the cardinal to act as a witness, a role he accepted and which satisfied the rebels
the first direct talks in nicaragua were scheduled for last week, march 9-11, but were canceled at the last minute by sandinistas after the contras backed out and pressed for a preliminary meeting
the contras later dropped that demand
more than 40,000 people have been killed since november 1981, when the contras began fighting the sandinista government
a brokered democratic national convention is possible, but it's too late for anyone but delegates to do the horse trading, according to rep. tom foley
foley, d-wash., the house majority leader who expects to be convention parliamentarian when the democrats meet in atlanta in july, said monday the party's nominee likely won't be determined beforehand
but if there is any brokering to be done at the democratic convention, it will be by the delegates, he said
i think there's a possibility that no candidate will go into the convention with a sufficient number of delegates to be nominated,'' he said. ``but i don't expect anybody else to be nominated, other than those four or five that are now in the race
brokering is largely going to be a decision of the delegates themselves, not any sort of backroom `kingmaking' operation,'' said foley, who supports house colleague dick gephardt of missouri
sen. lowell p. weicker jr., r-conn., has all but endorsed vice president george bush for the republican presidential nomination, saying that unlike the president, bush bases his decisions on facts and logic rather than ideology
speaking to business leaders monday, weicker, who faces re-election this year, also said the republican presidential campaign of senate minority leader bob dole of kansas has been defeated
weicker, a liberal republican often at odds with president reagan and other conservatives, has has not made a formal endorsement in the gop presidential race but when asked, he lavishly praised bush
i have respect for george bush,'' weicker said. ``he has an open mind that's guided by fact and logic, rather than ideology. he is also a compassionate man.''
connecticut's presidential primary is march 29. bush is considered the favorite in the gop contest in connecticut because he grew up in the state, his father was a u.s. senator from connecticut and his mother and brother still live in greenwich
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis named rep. dennis hertel as michigan chairman of his campaign for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination
dukakis announced the appointment on monday after being endorsed by hertel, a four-term congressman from the detroit suburb of harper woods
as industrial states, massachusetts and michigan face many of the same problems,'' hertel said in a statement released by dukakis' campaign. ``mike dukakis has dealt with these problems as governor of massachusetts and has successfully implemented innovative solutions to turn the massachusetts economy into one of the most productive and admired in the country
as president, mike dukakis can do the same for the entire nation.''
new york gov. mario cuomo says jesse jackson is ``electable'' as a democratic presidential candidate and ``has done extremely well'' at getting out an appealing message
of course he's electable,'' said fellow democrat cuomo monday during an inpromptu news conference following a speech to new york's county officials. ``if the democrats _ and that's a majority in the country, is it not? _ if the democrats say they want jackson, how can you say he's not electable?''
because he is black, some political analysts and fellow democrats have suggested that jackson couldn't be elected president
his message is appealing,'' cuomo added. ``he's saying to the people ... that we have many people who have been left out that we need to educate and house through job training because we can't make it without them. it's not just a matter of compassion, it's a matter of common sense.''
cuomo has said that jackson stands a good chance of winning new york's important april 19 primary but he has refused to endorse any of the active democratic candidates
cuomo, who announced more than a year ago that he wouldn't seek the democratic presidential nomination, also has refused to rule out accepting a draft for the nomination if there's a deadlocked national convention. negative</head>
a study of network evening newscasts from jan. 1 through super tuesday march 8 says democrat jesse jackson got the best television coverage and republican pat robertson got the most negative
the center for media and public affairs, a non-partisan study group, said it studied 532 news items involving the election and found:
_evaluations of every major candidate, based on clearly positive or negative statements from all sources relating to character, job performance, campaign performance or issue stands, became more negative after the new hampshire primary feb. 16
_ telecast comments involving jackson were favorable 74 percent of the time, compared with 90 percent this year before new hampshire. he also nearly tripled his share of the democrats' coverage, from 9 percent before new hampshire to 26 percent in the weeks leading up to march 8 super tuesday
_robertson dropped from 70 percent positive evaluations before new hampshire to 33 percent after it. comments about his prospects also became more negative
the analysts also said there have been four stories on the campaign horse race for every story on policy issues since the feb. 8 iowa caucuses and the issues most frequently mentioned are taxes and trade
the state board of elections has rejected challenges to illinois sen. paul simon's petitions for a spot on new york's april 19 democratic presidential primary ballot
the challenges had been filed by political extremist lyndon larouche and monday's ruling meant simon's name will appear on the ballot
board spokesman steven lafever said that after a lengthy hearing, the board ruled that simon had filed petitions containing the valid signatures of 21,263 registered democrats. his original petitions had contained 22,076 signatures and only 10,000 are needed to qualify for the ballot
the ruling in favor of simon means that the new york ballot for democrats will include all the major democratic candidates and larouche
larouche is also seeking the democratic nomination. his petitions have not been challenged
a chief accuser of impeached gov. evan mecham got legal advice on how to deal with mecham from the lawyer who has become acting gov. rose mofford's chief of staff
andrew hurwitz, who also served as chief of staff during part of bruce babbitt's governorship, confirmed monday that he provided legal advice to department of public safety director ralph t. milstead for reduced fees
the attorney-client relationship with milstead is not disclosed on hurwitz's conflict-of-interest forms but he confirmed it after the associated press learned of it
i just don't see that it was necessary,'' he said. ``there certainly is no personal interest here. i don't gain or lose anything at all
am i a longstanding friend of ralph milstead? that's pretty clear,'' he added. ``the fact that i like him i don't think is a big issue.''
milstead testified at mecham's impeachment trial that the governor ordered him not to cooperate with a state attorney general's inquiry into an alleged death threat. defense lawyers subsequently accused milstead of denying mecham a fair trial by attempting to intimidate defense witnesses
mecham, a republican, wrote a letter monday to mrs. mofford, a democrat, demanding that milstead and two assistants be placed on leave. hurwitz, who supervises milstead's department for mofford, said the three would not be placed on leave pending an fbi investigation and another inquiry he is supervising
hurwitz, a private attorney on loan to mrs. mofford by his firm, acknowledged it might be inappropriate for him to continue supervising the internal investigation
mrs. mofford, elected as secretary of state, became acting governor when the house impeached mecham and will become the permanent governor if the senate convicts him or if she wins a multi-candidate may 17 recall election against mecham
hurwitz, who only last friday said that full disclosure of potential conflicts was vital for public confidence, acknowledged that publicity about his relationship with milstead could harm mrs. mofford politically
hurwitz said milstead came to him and law partner jack lasota after mecham was elected in 1986
mecham was widely thought to be thinking of trying to fire milstead despite the state police chief's four-year contract, and milstead ``called us up and sought some legal advice,'' hurwitz said
he declined to elaborate, citing attorney-client privilege, but said he believed that the bill, discounted to ``something like half-rates'' because milstead was a friend, came to less than $2,000 and probably less than $1,000
hurwitz said he had not done any work for milstead in about six months, adding ``i don't represent him now.'' hurwitz said he stopped advising milstead before the events occurred that are at issue in the impeachment trial
but lasota said in a separate interview he considered the relationship to be ongoing
whitey bloom knows about life's ups and downs, and ups and downs, and ups and downs
bloom, a stocky junior high school teacher, knocked off 32,770 push-ups in 24 hours during the weekend, unofficially breaking by 197 the guinness book of world records' mark for the most push-ups in a single day
with about 60 friends and supporters cheering him on, bloom broke the record shortly after noon sunday. he plans to mail a log book and other papers to guinness for official confirmation
bloom said he slept about 20 minutes during the 24 hours. support from friends was essential
the last couple of hours, they were really cheering me on,'' he said monday. ``i was just dogged tired and i'm not sure i would have made it without them.''
bloom trained for months with a daily regimen of several thousand push-ups. in a practice session around christmas, he did 16,000 push-ups in about seven hours, ``just to get a feel for it.''
now he just feels sore
the best thing about it is when i woke up this morning, i didn't feel obligated to do my usual 1,000,'' he said
colossus, a 502-pound ape reputed to be the largest lowland gorilla in captivity, was adjusting well to his new home in a private zoo after moving from new hampshire, his keepers said
he's doing wonderfully,'' said pat quinn, director of the zoo. ``he's eating well, vocalizing, a lot of chest pounding and stomping on his bed.''
the 20-year-old gorilla was moved sunday night from hudson, n.h., where he had been purchased from benson's animal park when it went out of business
the ape was flown on a dc-3 piloted by stan brock of the ``wild kingdom'' television show to pensacola and then trucked to the zoo on monday
moving pads were put around and inside colossus' packing crate to keep him warm during the trip, quinn said. he developed an attachment for the blankets, taking a pair with him to his new home in two adjoining cages, or bedrooms as quinn prefers to call them
he's got those blankets with him all the time,'' quinn said, adding that no one has volunteered to try to take them away
we don't short sheet gorillas,'' he joked
quinn hopes to breed colossus with female gorillas, but the ape hasn't seen another gorilla since he was captured in the wild as an infant
his first introduction will be by television. he enjoyed a television in his cage in new hampshire, and zoo officials hope to install a tv and play videotapes for him in his new home, quinn said
one of the country's most wanted narcotics traffickers has been arrested and charged with importing 1,000 pounds of heroin into the united states from asia over a three-year period
kon yu-leung, 44, who was arrested sunday night outside a manhattan hotel, had been the drug enforcement administration's no. 1 heroin target for about 2{ years, said u.s. attorney andrew maloney
kon's drug ring was much larger than well-known heroin cases operated by traditional organized crime groups, said robert stutman, head of the dea's new york office. the ``french connection'' case involved 70 pounds of heroin, the ``pizza connection'' about 200, he said at a news conference with maloney
maloney said kon was believed responsible for bringing into the country twice the 1,000 pounds of heroin he was charged with importing
clearly, the levels of heroin we're dealing with here are almost mind-boggling,'' said stutman
the heroin from kon's drug ring was smuggled into the country between 1984 and 1987 through various means, including suitcases and in shipments of vases, ice buckets, t-shirts and wall plaques, maloney said
couriers then carried millions of dollars in drug proceeds back to hong kong to be laundered, authorities said. kon allegedly used $20 million to buy commercial real estate in the new york area and san francisco
stutman said kon sold the heroin to distributors at an estimated wholesale price of $100,000 per pound. authorities estimate the street value of one pound of heroin at $1 million
law enforcement authorities confiscated 570 of the 1,000 pounds alleged to have been imported by kon's organization in several seizures over the years, stutman said
kon first came to the dea's attention in november 1984 when a shipment of 250 pounds of heroin, believed to be destined for the united states, was seized in the hong kong harbor from a fishing trawler
kon, the alleged mastermind, eluded arrest by moving between thailand, taiwan, japan and the philippines, maloney said
assistant u.s. attorney catherine palmer said kon had at least six phony passports and traveled under numerous fictitious names
she said kon, who was born in mainland china and later moved to hong kong before becoming a fugitive, had numerous businesses in asia and the united states, including several fur companies and a firm called the kon china trading co. he also allegedly had a watch manufacturing company in paraguay
maloney said federal authorities lured kon to new york after a federal grand jury indicted him. he declined to give any details concerning the circumstances of kon's arrest
authorities also arrested john routollo, a former new york police officer, at his montclair, n.j., home sunday night. routollo, 50, was charged with picking up the heroin, usually at the new york hilton hotel, for distribution in the united states
maloney said that before routollo left the force in 1981 he supplied weapons to kon's organization through his position in the police department's office of pistols and licenses. cancer</head>
would-be assassin lynette ``squeaky'' fromme was convicted of escape after she told jurors she fled from prison because she thought her lover and mentor, mass murderer charles manson, had cancer
a federal jury on monday convicted fromme of the two-day escape from the federal correctional institution at alderson, where she is serving a life sentence for her 1975 attempt on then-president gerald ford's life
you don't have any choice,'' she told the jurors while acting as her own attorney. ``i'm guilty as charged, legally, and without remorse morally, so that's that.''
the jury returned its verdict within 10 minutes. u.s. district judge elizabeth hallanan set sentencing for april 28
fromme, 39, faces five years in prison and $250,000 fine for the conviction
fromme, who escaped dec. 23 and was recaptured two miles away on christmas day, has been described as the main member of the manson ``family.'' manson is serving a life sentence in san quentin prison in california for the 1969 murders of actress sharon tate and eight others
fromme told the jury monday she attempted to escape because ``i got word that (manson) had cancer
he needs a relative, somebody to check on him,'' she said of manson, whom she described as ``my husband, my brother, my father, my son, the man who's been my friend.''
she said she decided to escape because ``my access to him is so limited, i've been feeling helpless for years
if love means anything at all it means stop feeling helpless ... (and) take action if necessary.''
fromme called only herself as a witness. she carefully followed hallanan's instructions that her testimony had to be in the form of questions and answers
she questioned herself on the pronounciation of her name and cautioned: ``miss fromme, you talk too much,'' and ``wait a minute, you're getting ahead of yourself.''
fromme also cross-examined the four prison employees called as government witnesses. each indicated the institution _ which has an official capacity of 670 prisoners _ holds about 1,000 inmates. in her testimony, she told the jury the overcrowding was another reason she escaped
the prison has become more and more crowded, and the institution staff has become more and more tense,'' she said
ford was unharmed when a secret service agent grabbed the semi-automatic pistol from fromme on sept. 5, 1975. in san francisco 17 days later, ford again escaped injury from would-be assassin sara jane moore, who fired a revolver at him. she eventually pleaded guilty and received a life sentence
in 1979, moore also escaped from the alderson prison but was recaptured hours later. she is now at the federal prison in pleasanton, calif
a former methodist minister has decided not to contest a lawsuit by his mother-in-law accusing him of a near-fatal choking attack on his wife, saying legal fees would be too costly
he told me that he had decided his assets would be best used in the support and maintenance of his children,'' said doug mulder, a defense attorney who represented walker railey before a dallas county grand jury investigating the attack
mulder said the former minister decided not to contest the lawsuit because of estimates it would cost nearly $100,000 in legal fees. mulder called the lawsuit a ``publicity stunt,'' and said his client could win if he spent the money
the suit was filed by billie jo nicolai, seeking an undetermined amount of damages in the april attack on her daughter, peggy railey. mrs. railey, 39, never regained consciousness and remains in a coma in a tyler nursing home
mrs. nicolai's attorney, bill arnold, said monday he will seek a default judgment but will ask for a jury trial to determine damages
the question now is, when do i want to go to court?' it could be tomorrow or it could be a couple of months. it depends on peggy's best interests. i'm not going to run my schedule according to walker's schedule,'' arnold said
railey's father-in-law said he was disappointed there was no response to the lawsuit
we thought he might come through and answer some of our questions. it sure would help, but it didn't turn out that way,'' he said in a monday night telephone interview from his rural smith county home. ``it really is disappointing. i guess we're just going to have to keep waiting.''
without a response, a judge could rule against the former senior minister of the first united methodist church of dallas and award damages in his absence
railey, 40, was not charged, but both his attorney and dallas county assistant district attorney norm kinne identified him the prime suspect
railey refused to cooperate with police, denying his involvement and then invoking his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination 43 times when questioned by a grand jury
a psychologist, lucy papillon, reportedly told the grand jury that she and railey were romantically involved and had discussed marriage before the attack
railey is living in san francisco, where he rented an apartment with ms. papillon, arnold said
railey assigned his wife's guardianship to her mother, and that of his two children, ages 5 and 2, to family friends in dallas
iraq said it fired four more long-range missiles into tehran today, and iran said civilians were killed when iraqi missiles crashed into residential areas of the city
iran claimed its jet fighters ``heavily pounded'' iraqi troop concentrations in southern iraq today, inflicting substantial casualties and losses. iraq did not comment on the report
in another development, the soviet union acknowledged at the united nations in new york on monday that it had failed to win support for a security council resolution calling for an end to the deadly missile duel
the iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said four missiles were fired into tehran today. it reported eight such missile strikes on monday
iran's islamic republic news agency, also monitored in nicosia, said ``a number'' of civilians were killed in missile attacks on residential areas of the city overnight. it did not say how many rockets hit tehran
on monday, iran said missiles killed 26 civilians and wounded 50 in tehran. iraq also reported civilian casualties in baghdad but gave no figures
iraq says it has fired 13 missiles into tehran since the duel with iran resumed with a single rocket fired into the iranian capital sunday night after a two-day truce. iran has fired two into baghdad since sunday
declaring an all-out offensive on iranian cities, iraq said it launched air raids on ``military and economic targets'' in six western border towns monday
irna also said revolutionary guards commandos pushed into northeast iraq to within 12 miles of the provincial capital of sulaimaniyeh early monday, seizing a dozen villages and killing or wounding 1,000 iraqis
iran also said its anti-aircraft gunners shot down an iraqi fighter-bomber in the northeastern battles, while iraq claimed its helicoptergunships downed an iranian helicopter
an uneasy two-day truce that ended sunday had brought a brief respite following a 12-day exchange of missiles, artillery fire and air raids by both sides that killed or wounded hundreds of civilians
iraq said it fired 71 missiles into tehran, the holy city of qom and the central city of isfahan, capital of ancient persia, between feb. 29 and march 11. iran said it shot 27 missiles into tehran and two into the northeastern city of mosul in that period
at the united nations, soviet ambassador alexander belonogov acknowledged on monday that the soviet bid for a new resolution on the ``war of the cities'' had failed after the council met behind closed doors
our personal preference would be a resolution of the security council,'' but the important thing is ``not the form but the essence'' of the council's action, he told reporters after a closed-door council meeting
the united states saw the proposal as a maneuver to deflect attention from the american push for a worldwide arms embargo against iran to punish it for refusing to honor the council's july 20 cease-fire resolution and peace plan
instead of a new resolution, the council is expected to issue a statement later this week calling for an end to the missile attacks. a presidential statement is the mildest form of council action
iran and iraq have been at war since 1980
the state department says an incursion of mexican soldiers into california was an ``infringement of u.s. sovereignty,'' but mexican officials played down the incident as a harmless mistake
mexican diplomats said the four members of the mexican naval infantry, carrying automatic weapons, crossed the border without realizing it while in pursuit of alleged drug smugglers. the four were arrested without incident near the border and were released to mexican military officials late monday
u.s. border patrol officials said no charges would be filed, but the state department said the incident warranted further discussion between the two governments
this action is an infringement of u.s. territorial sovereignty,'' said bud jacobs, a state department spokesman in washington, d.c. ``it's unacceptable regardless of their motivation or intention.''
i'm sure we'll take it up with the mexican government,'' he added
mexican military or police have no authority to enter the united states when pursuing criminal suspects, jacobs said
the international line is marked clearly. it was not just an inadvertent entry,'' said dale cozart, chief agent in the u.s. border patrol's san diego sector
the line there is not clearly marked and the marines were confused,'' said leonardo french, an official with the mexican embassy in washington. he added, ``what's important was that there were no shots fired or any violence.''
the four men were arrested late sunday night after a border patrol helicopter crew spotted them talking with a group of revelers, u.s. officials said. u.s. officials said the armed men admitted they knew they were in the united states when they crossed the border
border patrol spokesman mike nicley said the u.s. investigation was complete and no charges would be filed
he would not say whether u.s. authorities accepted the soldiers' explanation that they were pursuing drug smugglers. american authorities failed to locate the revelers to find out what happened during the encounter
nicley said he didn't know what punishment the soldiers might face in mexico. american authorities described the soldiers as being equivalent in rank to privates
in a similar 1986 incident in new mexico, border patrol agents arrested seven mexican judicial police agents who said they had accidentally strayed less than a mile into new mexico while on an anti-drug-smuggling assignment
u.s. officials seized the stolen car the police officers were occupying, several automatic weapons, 6 grams of cocaine and $10,000 cash. their commander said the officers probably didn't know the cocaine was in the car
the seven were sent home after questioning and were not charged
on july 16, 1977, an altercation between tijuana police and members of the a joint border patrol-san diego police unit left two mexican officers and one san diego policeman wounded
san diego police said the tijuana officers were on the u.s. side of the border, but mexican police accused the americans of firing across the border
a tijuana officer was charged with assault with a deadly weapon
hearses carrying the bodies of three irish republican army guerrillas home to roman catholic west belfast ran a gantlet of jeering, rock-throwing protestants early today
thousands of ira sympathizers waved black flags of mourning along the 100-mile dublin-belfast highway, mourning the three guerrillas who were shot by british troops while allegedly preparing a car-bomb attack in gibraltar
the march 6 killing of the unarmed guerrillas in the british colony sparked riots in belfast for much of the following week
in another development, an ira gunman and a catholic civilian were reportedly shot and killed in belfast on monday night and early today
the nine-hour procession for the slain ira guerrillas was marked by a confrontation at the border over irish flags on the coffins and accusations by the ira's political wing, sinn fein, that police tried to break up the cortege and twice crashed a vehicle into one of the hearses
crowds of protestants waving british flags threw rocks and other objects at the procession on at least six occasions as it traveled by road the 40 miles from the border town of carrickaron in the irish republic to belfast
sinn fein leader gerry adams said police deliberately slowed the cortege where protestants had gathered ``to allow them to throw stones and jeer.'' police denied the accusation, saying their concern was to ensure security
a few hours before the cortege arrived in belfast, police said british soldiers shot a gunman who fired on an army patrol near the home of one of the dead guerrillas. the man, identified by police as kevin mccracken, 33, died shortly afterward in the hospital
a police statement said mccracken was jailed in 1978 for membership in the outlawed irish republican army, illegal possession of guns and criminal damage and was released on parole in 1985
an unidentified catholic was shot today at point-blank range from a motorcycle as he arrived for work at a south belfast store, police said. no group claimed responsibility
in dublin, police said they were investigating a suspected letter bomb blast overnight at the city's central mail sorting office which blew a hole in the wooden floor and slightly injured two postal workers
news reports that the package was addressed to the british embassy in dublin were dismissed as speculation by detectives
the ira said its members fired a volley over a makeshift shrine in belfast as a farewell salute to mairead farrell, 31; sean savage, 24; and daniel mccann, 30, who died in gibraltar
the traditional paramilitary salute, which is banned in northern ireland as an illegal display of firearms, was fired monday afternoon as the bodies landed in dublin, the ira said in a statement issued through sinn fein
the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, promised in newspaper advertisements not to interfere with the funerals if the ira did not mount a gunfire salute over the coffins
the funerals are expected to take place on wednesday in west belfast, with burial in the catholic milltown cemetery alongside many other ira guerrillas killed in nearly 20 years of political and sectarian strife in the province
the coffins arrived in dublin on a plane chartered by sinn fein to a reception by about 1,000 supporters. the slow procession to the border, with thousands lining the route, was uneventful
at the border, two senior royal ulster constabulary officers demanded the removal of the irish tricolors draped on each coffin
the tricolor, ireland's national flag, is regarded by northern ireland protestants as a symbol of the ira's fight to drive britain out of northern ireland and unite the mainly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic republic
after a 30-minute confrontation, a compromise was reached whereby the flags were folded, replaced on the coffins and covered with wreaths
at newry, fives miles inside northern ireland, the hearses were paraded around the largely catholic town for two hours in front of cheering ira supporters
on the outskirts of newry, crowds from a protestant municipal housing project jeered, waved british flags and hurled bricks, bottles and stones at the cortege. windows in some of the cars were broken by the missiles
similar scenes repeated themselves along the road to belfast
the coffins containing the bodies of the three guerrillas were taken into the homes of their families in west belfast. pvs ``carlucci was...''</note>
defense secretary frank carlucci wants his soviet counterpart to cut production of tanks, artillery and heavy missiles to prove he is seriously pursuing a new defensive military doctrine
carlucci, speaking to reporters today en route to a meeting in bern with soviet counterpart dmitri yazov, said that despite the extensive publicity surrounding the emerging kremlin doctrine of ``reasonable sufficiency,'' he has seen ``absolutely no practical change.''
if anything, their military continues to grow. they continue to modernize,'' carlucci told reporters aboard his air force jet
the plane refueled in ireland and then completed the flight to switzerland
carlucci was to attend a dinner with yazov tonight, and sit down wednesday and thursday for the first ever business session between u.s. and soviet defense secretaries
yazov and other soviet officials have said they are moving toward a new doctrine with a defensive posture. but they have never acknowledged that their past doctrine embodied an offensive posture, and various soviet commentators have offered different views on the meaning of ``reasonable sufficiency.''
that's a question, by the way, i intend to ask him,'' said carlucci. ``i'm still not sure what it is.''
if yazov wants to demonstrate that the kremlin is moving from an offensive to a defensive doctrine, the soviets should slack off in tank and artillery production and ``maybe'' desist from the ss-18 intercontinental ballistic missile that carries 10 nuclear warheads, said carlucci
one of the most important indicators, i would think, would be tanks. but tanks continue to pour out,'' he said. ``so there is no indication at the other end of the pipeline that there has been any change.''
the u.s. side also wants to discuss so-called ``dangerous incidents'' such as a collision involving u.s. and soviet warships off the soviet black sea coast last month, and the fatal shooting by a soviet soldier of u.s. maj. arthur d. nicholson on march 24, 1985, in east germany
one idea i have is for them to apologize for maj. nicholson, which they still haven't done,'' said carlucci
the reagan administration wants the soviets to agree on broad guidelines to curtail such incidents
the soviets last month rammed two u.s. warships as they passed through soviet territorial waters in an exercise designed to assert the ``right of innocent passage'' from international waters on one side of the crimean peninsula to the other
on a personal level, carlucci said he was ``looking forward'' to meeting yazov
the meeting, the first of its kind and perhaps the first in a series of high-level military consultations, ``is kind of an interesting idea,'' he said
he was....mildly critical of `glasnost' as applied to the military, which seems to be a bit at variance with the standard line,'' carlucci said
yazov, although generally supportive of the reform policies of soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, has said the policy of glasnost, or greater openness, must be restricted in the armed forces
carlucci, dwelling on the meaning of the emerging soviet military doctrine, said that ``sufficiency is a word that has been around for a long time'' since the detente era of the 1970s
sufficiency can mean anything you define it to be, as best i can tell,'' he said. ``the (soviet) military is saying that sufficiency is sufficient to meet the threat ... and , `oh, by the way, you have to have sufficient offense so that if the other fellow attacks you, you can attack him all the way to the ocean
that doesn't sound to me like anything new. at the same time, gorbachev is saying that there is something new
some (soviet) academics are saying, `well, maybe this means we can rethink our military establishment and do the same thing with less.' so obviously there is some kind of debate going on.''
unseasonably cold air sent thermometers plunging across the south, producing record lows in some areas and bringing freezing temperatures early today as far south as midland, texas, shreveport, la., and atlanta
meanwhile, snow showers sprinkled the northeast, and reached from the upper mississippi valley across the great lakes region to the appalachians. snow also was scattered from southern new england into new jersey. the heaviest snow continued to fall along the shores of the great lakes
more than 14 inches of snow fell in the conneaut area of northeast ohio, with 8 to 10 inches reported in ashtabula, ohio, and 4 to 6 inches in geneva, ohio
more than 2 feet of snow has buried portions of the snow belt in northern wisconsin and upper michigan since saturday
another storm system over the northern rockies was spreading snow from idaho and western montana across western wyoming and northern utah. the central and southern mountains of idaho were expected to receive about 5 inches of snow by late this afternoon
winter storm warnings were in effect today over the mountains of montana and northwest wyoming, with up to a foot of snow possible
snow was forecast to increase southward into the central rockies by tonight. winter storm watches were been posted for tonight and wednesday across northern and western wyoming and the northern mountains of utah
a record low of 22 degrees was set in asheville, n.c., beating the old mark for the date of 24 degrees, set in 1979. greer, s.c., reached 23, one degree below the record set on march 14, 1968; and meridian, miss., hit 26, beating the 27-degree mark for the same date in 1970
for today, snow was forecast from new england to the ohio valley and great lakes region, and across the northern rockies, with scattered snow showers over the northern half of the plateau region and the central rockies. sunny skies were predicted over the plains, the pacific coast and the southern third of the nation. winds were expected to be strong and gusty over the northern rockies and the southern plateau
most of the nation will have highs in the 30s, 40s or 50s. highs will be in the 20s in the northern rockies and from north dakota across the great lakes region and the ohio valley. temperatures will reach the 60s and 70s from california across the desert southwest, from southern and central new mexico across southern texas, and over the florida peninsula
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from zero at lemmon, s.d., to 63 at key west naval air station, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 30 fair; boston 34 snow; buffalo 17 fair; charleston, s.c. 36 fair; cincinnati 22 snow; cleveland 22 snow; detroit 19 partly cloudy; miami 54 windy; new york 32 snow; philadelphia 32 cloudy; pittsburgh 21 snow; portland, maine 29 cloudy; washington 28 fair
_central: bismarck 4 fair; chicago 20 fair; dallas-fort worth 35 fair; denver 27 cloudy; des moines 18 fair; indianapolis 22 snow; kansas city 14 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 20 snow; nashville 23 fair; new orleans 44 fair; st. louis 22 fair
_west: albuquerque 35 fair; anchorage 27 snow; las vegas 50 fair; los angeles 55 fair; phoenix 55 fair; salt lake city 40 partly cloudy; san diego 55 fair; san francisco 50 fair; seattle 39 fair
_canada: montreal 28 snow; toronto 14 fair. agreeing to declaration, commenting on talks with yugoslav officials. trims. no pickup. ^by alison smale</note>
mikhail s. gorbachev, the first soviet leader to visit yugoslavia in eight years, today visited the grave of josip broz tito, the yugoslav president who once ruptured ties with moscow
gorbachev, who began an official visit to yugoslavia on monday, said he ``got off to a good start'' in important talks with yugoslav leaders
he spoke with reporters before agreeing to a new declaration on soviet-yugoslav relations with yugoslav communist party chief bosko krunic
the document is expected to chart a new path for relations between moscow and this nation, which broke with the soviet bloc in 1948
the declaration incorporates previous documents from the 1950s, when nikita s. khrushchev mended relations with tito. gorbachev is the first soviet leader to visit since leonid brezhnev attended tito's funeral in 1980
gorbachev and his wife raisa later planted a tree in belgrade's park of friendship, established in 1961 after the first conference of the non-aligned movement. gorbachev and his wife joked and chatted with a group of children who gathered around the larch tree before posing for photographs
asked how his visit was going, gorbachev said the atmosphere was ``businesslike.'' he added: ``i think some of the things we are doing during this visit will be of great significance for our mutual relations.''
monday's talks with yugoslav leaders produced ``deep understanding'' between the two sides and ``we felt that there is a need for joint action in the future,'' he said. ``we got off to a good start,'' he added
on monday, gorbachev said ethnic minorities that rioted in his country are raising longheld grievances, not challenging the communist government
at least 32 people were killed in the azerbaijan city of sumgait in fighting two weeks ago between azeris and their armenian neighbors, who have staged mass street protests in recent weeks
show me the country in which there are no such problems. if you show me, i will travel there right away, without stopping in moscow on return from yugoslavia,'' gorbachev told reporters on monday
in talks monday with yugoslav leaders, the soviets stressed that no communist nation has an absolute model for building socialism, soviet deputy foreign minister vadim loginov said
gorbachev showed the western politician's touch he has exhibited on previous trips abroad, stopping his motorcade monday to shake hands with belgrade residents and chatting at a photo session
yugoslavia, a federation of six republics and two autonomous regions, has wide ethnic, linguistic and cultural differences among its own bickering minorities. yugoslavia's assistant foreign minister, ilija djukic, said the nationalities problems was raised only briefly during monday's talks
he quoted gorbachev as saying in a discussion of social problems that ``there are no problems that would be solved once and for all, that conditions change, that everything requires improvement ... including the question of nationalities.''
djukic and loginov told a news conference monday that the first round of talks was frank but very cordial, and that the two sides agreed soviet premier nikolai i. ryzhkov will visit yugoslavia at a future date
that visit is likely to focus on the problems plaguing the extensive trade between the two nations
since the 1950s, when khrushchev lifted an economic blockade imposed on yugoslavia by josef stalin, the soviet union has become yugoslavia's biggest trading partner. moscow delivers crude oil and other materials to yugoslavia in exchange for manufactured goods, including shoes, clothes and technology
the recent drop in oil prices has led to an imbalance as the soviets refused to increase quantities of crude oil exports
there has been speculation that the kremlin's $1.4 billion paper debt to yugoslavia in trade may be compensated by the soviets building a subway to free belgrade's traffic-clogged streets
loginov said on monday the soviets are studying in detail the system of worker self-management yugoslavia evolved under tito, and will incorporate any relevant features in gorbachev's own program of kremlin reforms
the system by which workers nominally run yugoslav enterprises has looked increasingly frail in the 1980s, when triple-digit inflation, rising unemployment and a $20 billion debt have made the boom of the 1970s a distant memory
former vice president walter mondale today said chinese leaders are committed to their open-door policy and an ambitious plan to allow coastal areas to develop ahead of the rest of the country
mondale also told a news conference that the chinese eagerly seek more foreign investment in order to expand exports. he said they are prepared to open up domestic markets and remove other obstacles that have discouraged foreign businessmen from investing in china
the minnesota democrat, who arrived in beijing last week for business connected to his minneapolis-based law firm, met acting premier li peng, communist party chief zhao ziyang and other chinese leaders during his stay. he was to leave for tokyo later today
on monday he said he discerned no signs of differences between zhao and li on the pace and scope of economic reforms and china's open-door policies
zhao, the protege of senior leader deng xiaoping, is believed to be more aggressive in pushing for market-oriented reforms, while li prefers a slower, more cautious approach
my impression was that li peng was just as committed'' to reform, mondale said. ``he didn't show any qualifications.''
he said chinese leaders appeared united behind zhao's plan to put priority on developing and opening up coastal regions
the british government today lost its fight for damages from a newspaper for publishing sections of the book spycatcher
the court dismissed britain's appeal, which sought damages and an account of profits from the book written by peter wright, a former assistant director of the british security service mi5 who now lives in australia
the british government says the book revealed security secrets
the president of the court of appeal, sir robin cooke, said the claim was defeated by two defenses from the dominion, a wellington-based newspaper
the first was that there was enough prior publication to destroy confidentiality. the second was that the new zealand public interest justified publication in the dominion
suspected basque separatists launched four grenades at a civil guard barracks in this basque town, injuring two guards, police said
the attackers, suspected members of the separatist group eta, launched the grenades monday night from a light truck parked in the vicinity, police said
eta, the initials for the words basque land and liberty in the basque language, has claimed responsibility for the deaths of more than 600 people since it took up arms in 1986 to seek independence for the three-province northern spanish basque country
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's book outlining his economic and political reforms is a runaway bestseller in east germany, officials said
the demand is impossible to meet,'' said guenter hennig, director of the state-run dietz verlag, a book publisher in east berlin
orders for more than 160,000 copies of the book, ``reorganization and new thinking,'' are expected to be filled by the end of next month, hennig said, speaking monday at the leipzig book fair
gorbachev's book has been on the bestseller list in west germany for several months
the first movement of ludwig van beethoven's lost 10th symphony, reconstructed from drafts found in west berlin, will be premiered in london later this year, a west german newspaper reported
the bonn express on monday quoted barry cooper, a professor at scotland's university of aberdeen, as saying the piece will be performed in london at the end of the year
the newspaper did not give an exact date or location for the performance
cooper and sieghard brandenburg, the director of the beethoven archive in bonn, have said they found musical sketches and notes by the composer
cooper said the first movement, about 15 minutes long, was put together based on the documents found in west berlin
safeway stores inc. agreed to pay $995,000 in penalties to the u.s. commerce department to settle charges that the company cooperated with a long-standing arab boycott against israel
it (the settlement) is equitable, and it indicated we take enforcement of the anti-boycott laws very seriously and will continue to vigorously enforce them,'' said paul freedenberg, undersecretary of commerce for export administration
the settlement announced monday was the largest of its kind, the los angeles times reported in today's editions
for more than 30 years, arab countries have boycotted israeli goods and companies that do business with israel. a u.s. law passed in 1977 forbids americans to comply with the boycott
the department filed charges against three stores licensed by oakland-based safeway, two in saudi arabia and one in kuwait
commerce officials alleged the three stores refused to do business with companies on an anti-israeli blacklist and store managers instructed suppliers and customers to avoid such business relations
safeway officials said the penalty, less than one-quarter of what the department originally sought, absolved the company of wrongdoing
the settlement terms clearly vindicate the position that safeway's conduct in its dealings with licensees in the middle east did not merit the harsh penalties originally sought,'' said peter a. magowan, chairman and chief executive officer
we agree with the purpose and the spirit of the anti-boycott laws,'' he said
three years ago citicorp was fined $323,000, the previous largest anti-boycott penalty
i was not guilty for the charge for which i was arrested and this morning i tell you i am not guilty of the charge for which i am about to be executed. ... i go this morning with a clear conscience. i bear no guilt. i'm at peace with myself, with the world, with each of you. god bless you.'' _ convicted murderer willie jasper darden, the focus of an international debate on capital punishment, in a statement just before he was executed in florida
the most profound and enduring legacy of the reagan period is its conversion of the united states from the largest creditor country in the world to the largest debtor.'' _ c. fred bergsten, director of the institute for international economics, commenting on the nation's trade deficit
if the taxpayer cannot read the instructions, how can the government expect compliance?'' _ james w. childs, director of the tax-clinic program at the university of akron school of law, testifying before a senate finance subcommittee on the complexity of tax-form instructions. percentage to grade-level figure.</note>
almost nine of 10 americans with less than a high school education can't understand the instructions for the simplest tax form, and irs forms in general require greater reading skill than the wall street journal, a study concludes
even more reading ability is required to comprehend an internal revenue service notice of taxes owed, says james w. childs, director of the tax-clinic program at the university of akron school of law
if the taxpayer cannot read the instructions, how can the government expect compliance?'' childs asked monday as the senate finance subcommittee that oversees the irs took testimony about the maze of tax penalties that americans may encounter
these penalties range from $1 for failing to file a statement on dividends paid, to 25 percent of the tax owed for failing to pay on time, to $10,000 for helping a corporation understate its tax liability
irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs and o. donaldson chapoton, assistant secretary of the treasury for tax policy, pledged support for the subcommittee's investigation into whether the number of penalties should be reduced and enforcement changed
sen. david pryor, d-ark., chairman of the subcommittee, vowed a change. ``we've created some sort of a monster here,'' he said
he noted irs statistics that in 1987, the agency assessed 27 million penalties totaling over $14 billion and waived 4 million totaling $4 billion
pryor cited one business that underpaid employment taxes by 2 cents and was hit with a penalty for $400.29
gibbs noted that many of the levies were enacted by congress over the past seven years in an effort to increase compliance with the tax laws
a penalty system that operates based on the wrong principles may provide appropriate sanctions for some types of behavior and yet have an overall negative impact on taxpayer behavior because it is not perceived as fair,'' he said
chapoton rejected allegations that the irs is stiffening penalty enforcement primarily to raise revenue, rather than improve compliance
we certainly hope there's not any reaction ... by irs agents in the field ... that penalties should be used as means of raising revenue,'' he said
the university of akron study found that instructions for 1040ez _ the simplest tax form _ require an 8.45 grade reading level, compared with a grade level of 7.1 for the wall street journal
the study concluded that the penalty system is especially onerous for lower-income americans because in many instances they are not even aware of the need to comply
because congress has not given the irs sufficient guidance, said childs, penalties often are applied to taxpayers who have neither the money to hire a lawyer or accountant nor knowledge of how the system works
the low-income taxpayer has about as much knowledge of how to obtain abatement of a penalty through problems resolution (the irs' ``consumer advocate'') as he or she does of getting to the moon,'' said childs
abuses by high-income taxpayers have brought about a plethora of new penalties. unfortunately, the low-income taxpayer has been caught in this net.''
the university used a textbook-grading formula and statistics from the department of education to gauge the reading skill required to understand instructions for filling out tax forms 1040 and 1040ez, which generally are simpler than an irs notice of deficiency. sufficient skills were possessed by:
_19.8 percent of blacks
_37 percent of hispanics
_11 percent of those with less than a high school education
_22 percent of high school graduates
_50.2 percent of those with less than two years of college
_82.8 percent of those with at least two years of post-secondary education
the tunisian embassy denies reports that terrorist abu nidal is living in tunis despite claims that he moved there after the polish government shut down an arms export business operated by his associates
embassy spokesman oussama romdhani said monday there ``is no reason to suggest the existence of any ties whatsoever between tunisia and the abu nidal group,'' which is blamed for numerous terrorist incidents, including december 1985 attacks on the rome and vienna airports
the polish government announced in january that it had closed down an arms export business run out of warsaw by abu nidal associates, and east european sources said they believed that abu nidal had gone to tunis
state department sources said that according to their information, abu nidal has resided mainly in tripoli, libya, since leaving warsaw in 1985
but someone like abu nidal is on the move all the time, for business and security reasons,'' said one state department source. the state department had no reason to believe that abu nidal operated out of tunis, the u.s. official said. clashes, ban on travel by palestinians. no pickup.</note>
israeli authorities today banned palestinians from traveling between the occupied territories, and hundreds of people rioted after a nightly curfew on the 650,000 arabs in the gaza strip
hospital officials said troops shot dead one arab and wounded five today during clashes on the west bank. no injuries were reported in the rioting in the gaza strip
in jerusalem, police spokesman rafi levy said seven of 90 arab polie officers had quit. they were the first such resignations in the disputed israeli capital
their action came after 500 arab police in the west bank and gaza strip heeded a call by underground palestinian activists to turn in their badges
on the west bank, a general strike called for by the palestine liberation organization got under way with transportation halted and arab-owned stores closed
the travel ban between the gaza strip and the west bank represented an effort by the israeli army to stem the growing campaign against israeli occupation inspired by plo
an official of the military's civil administration said the measure applied to traffic in both directions. he said exemptions would be issued for hardship cases
they are allowed to work in israel, but they can't continue into judea and samaria or vice versa. they would be turned back at a checkpoint,'' said the official, using the biblical terms for the west bank
the policy is not to separate (the palestinians), but to make it more difficult for agitators to move and to help stop distribution of anti-israeli pamphlets that cause incitement,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the ban was the most comprehensive travel restriction imposed since israel seized the areas in the 1967 middle east war. under israeli law, palestinians are allowed into israel to work but must have police authorization to spend the night
the israeli military also said it would to take punitive actions against foreign and local journalists it believed had filed false reports about incidents in the occupied territories. army officers declined to elaborate, saying a statement would be released later
officials at jerusalem's mukassad hospital said a 22-year-old palestinian from the west bank village of ain yabrud was dead on arrival with a bullet wound to the jaw. the arab-owned palestine press service identified the dead man as arafat hweih and said he was shot during a demonstration in deir jarir, 9 miles northeast of ramallah
troops also shot and wounded four palestinians in qalqilya, 16 miles west of nablus on the west bank, officials at qalqilya hospital said. the press service put the wounded at six and said two were women shot in the head
the army said it imposed a curfew on qalqilya
in ramallah, thick black smoke from burning tires rose above several neighborhoods. at least three handcuffed palestinians were detained by troops and sitting on the ground in the ramallah police station
in the gaza strip, the army imposed a 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. curfew over the entire coastal territory following the resignation of 300 arab policemen
soldiers at the erez checkpoint, the main entrance leading into the gaza strip, turned back arab residents during the curfew, which was imposed without advance notice. journalists saw 15 to 20 cars turned back in the first hour
after the curfew was lifted for the day, soldiers fired tear gas at hundreds of arabs who threw stones at an army administrative office in the jabaliya refugee camp in the gaza strip. no injuries were reported
army officers said the nightly curfew, which forces arabs to stay in their homes, would keep arab agitators from entering the gaza strip and provoking demonstrations
israel radio today said 300 arab police in gaza city had also resigned. they joined 450 officers in the occupied lands who turned in their badges earlier following orders of plo-inspired underground leaflets. the radio said that 40 officers who had handed in their resignations in the west bank city of hebron continued working after local arab leaders asked them to stay on
about 850 arab policemen work in the occupied territories
in response to months of plo-backed unrest in the occupied lands, israel stepped up economic sanctions. shipment of gasoline and other fuel to service stations in the west bank was banned as of sunday
according to united nations figures, at least 91 palestinians have been killed since anti-israeli rioting began dec. 8
vietnam says it is investigating 29 cases that may involve americans listed as missing in action from the vietnam war, u.s. military experts said today upon returning from hanoi
lt. col. joe harvey, commander of the u.s. joint casualty resolution center, made the announcement following four days of what he called ``positive and productive'' talks with vietnamese officials
the vietnamese told us they are investigating 29 instances where they have received information, material or remains,'' he said in a statement. ``but they said it will take at least three weeks for them to draw any conclusions from these investigations or to have remains to repatriate.''
he said the u.s. team provided new information to the vietnamese government, emphasizing cases mentioned by u.s. presidential emissary and retired gen. john w. vessey during his mission to hanoi last august
vessey had asked the vietnamese to accelerate progress on resolving 70 ``discrepancy cases,'' in which the united states says there is strong evidence that vietnamese officials know what happened to the missing men. the evidence includes photographs of the men taken after their capture
in all, nearly 1,800 americans remain unaccounted for from the war in vietnam, which ended in april 1975 with a communist victory over the u.s.-backed south vietnam government. progress on the issue has been slow principally because the united states does not have diplomatic ties with the vietnamese government
harvey said the u.s. team also visited a site near the major northern port of haiphong where a u.s. aircraft had crashed. haiphong, over which u.s. planes flew intense bombing runs during the war, is about 60 miles southeast of hanoi
the team was composed of six experts from the center and the army central identification laboratory. the laboratory and the casualty resolution center, both based in hawaii, are entrusted with resolving the fates of america's wartime missing
it was the fourth round of technical talks since vietnam told vessey during his visit that it would end months of deadlock and resume cooperation on the mia issue
for its part of the agreement, washington has on four occasions sent medical teams into vietnam to study how war-disabled vietnamese and other humanitarian cases could benefit from private u.s. assistance. there is an embargo on official aid because of vietnam's military occupation of cambodia
vietnam has returned remains it believes are those of americans three times since the vessey agreement
the last repatriation came on march 2, when it handed over 17 sets in a ceremony at hanoi airport along with reports on three other missing u.s. soldiers. it was the largest turnover in two years and the fourth largest since the end of the war
an 11-year-old boy who had been left alone after school shot and killed two men as they tried to steal a videocassette recorder from his family's home, police said
danny ray abernathy, 35, and broadus petty, 39, both of spartanburg, were found dead at the house monday afternoon. officers were searching for a third person they suspect may have been involved
william todd knight, the son of billy and ann knight, ``acted very wisely,'' said spartanburg county coroner jim burnett. ``his life was in danger, he looked for an escape and could not find one ... he was a very brave young man.''
spartanburg county sheriff's department capt. john blackwood said the boy was watching cartoons in his parents' bedroom monday afternoon when he heard noises at the front door of the family's brick, ranch-style home
todd told officers he was scared, so he went to his room for the .22-caliber rifle his father had given him for christmas and loaded four rounds
he then went to the front door and saw a man he described as ``rough'' pounding on the door. the man finally left in a white datsun
todd said he resumed watching cartoons and about 10 minutes later heard more banging, this time at a dining room window
he saw two men climbing through the dining room window. the boy said he went into the bathroom to climb out the window, but saw the white datsun was parked in the back yard
todd told police he went back to the hallway, peeked around the corner into the den and was spotted by one of the intruders as they were taking the vcr
todd then fired three rounds at the men, who dropped the vcr and fled
when police arrived, one of the dead men was found face down next to a woodpile in the back yard, approximately 50 to 75 feet from the house, while the second man was in the driver's seat of the white two-door datsun
todd's parents both work and his sister had gone to a school activity with plans to be home in about an hour, said blackwood
a british army officer killed in an avalanche that nearly engulfed his friend, prince charles, most likely died from a chunk of ice that crashed down a swiss mountainside, an inquest was told today
maj. hugh lindsay, a 34-year-old career army officer, died of a single blow to the head and probably was standing when he was struk, dr. esha sarvesvaran, a pathologist, testified
the pathologist told hammersmith coroner's court that the blow fractured lindsay's skull and caused severe bleeding. he said the object that struck lindsay probably was a lump of ice
lindsay, charles and others were skiing in switzerland on thursday off of a main trail at klosters when the avalanche broke loose. charles and other members of the party skiied clear but lindsay was caught in the avalanche. another friend, patti palmer-tomkinson, suffered broken legs and lung injuries
coroner john burton, who presided over the inquest, said he wanted to dispel speculation that lindsay suffocated in the snow
lindsay is to be cremated after a funeral thursday at the royal military college at sandhurst
burton adjourned the inquest until an unspecified date while a swiss examining magistrate completes his inquiries
if it proves necessary to seek further evidence, then that would be taken from those who can give the most helpful evidence,'' burton said, reading from a statement. ``that is the only consideration when one decides which witnesses one might call.''
he said nothing about whether prince charles, the 39-year-old heir to the british throne, might be summoned to testify
a passenger bus rolled into the kumar river and sank as it was attempting to board a ferry, and more than 50 people were feared drowned, news reports said today
newspapers said about 60 passengers were believed to be on the bus, which was en route from the southern town of barisal to dhaka. they quoted witnesses as saying only seven people jumped or swam to safety after the accident monday night
the janata, a bengali-language daily, said the bus' brakes apparently failed. it said the driver and two assistants were among the missing
a senior police official at madaripur said in a telephone interview today that five bodies had been recovered. ``some more bodies might have been trapped inside the bus,'' he added
the police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said rescue work was hampered by a lack of equipment. he said that the dhaka fire department had been asked to rush cranes and other equipment to the scene
three students accused of putting a foreign substance into a school official's coffee in an attempt to poison him have been expelled for the rest of the school year, school officials say
the school board took the action monday after two of the students, girls in the seventh and ninth grades at forest lake southwest junior high school, waived their right to hearings
the other student, a ninth-grade girl, had insisted on a closed hearing, which was held march 10 before a state hearing examiner. the examiner recommended that she be expelled, and the board accepted the recommendation
all three girls have been accused in washington county juvenile court of conspiracy to commit murder
they're accused of putting a foreign substance into vice principal robert espelien's coffee cup on feb. 25. espelien said he became suspicious when he saw a ``brownish-tan substance'' floating at the top of the cup and had it sent to a medical lab for analysis
the substance put in the coffee has not been revealed
forest lake district superintendent gerald brynildson said the students are entitled to return to school next fall unless the expulsion is extended. until then, the district is required to provide tutors
jan grippo, who in the 1940s and 1950s produced nearly two dozen ``bowery boys'' movies, has died at the age of 81
the new york native produced at least 23 films featuring the band of impish juvenile delinquents, whose ranks included wise guy leo gorcey and his naive patsy, huntz hall
grippo died saturday at a los angeles hospital
although the ``bowery boys'' started off as troublemakers in the films ``dead end'' and ``angels with dirty faces,'' it was grippo, as their agent, who cleaned them up for their popular series
jan wanted them to get into trouble, but to be good kids at heart,'' said his wife, paula grippo
born in beacon, n.y., grippo began his career as a cartoonist for the new york herald-tribune syndicate. he came to hollywood in 1937 to become an agent
during world war ii, grippo was active with the hollywood canteen, a gathering place for those in the military
a magician by hobby, he was a member of both the society of american magicians and the academy of magical arts and often practiced at the magic castle in hollywood
grippo is survived by his wife, three brothers, james, michael and henry, and a sister, bertha delucca. department</head>
a swiss oilman involved in a failed iraqi oil pipeline plan says a friend of attorney general edwin meese iii tried to bypass the u.s. state department by attempting to get meese's help on the project
bruce rappaport also said monday he had been ready to give israel a third of his profits from the $1 billion project in return for an israeli promise not to bomb the pipeline to jordan, which would have passed near the israeli border
speaking in hebrew on israel television, rappaport denied allegations he offered a bribe to foreign minister shimon peres, then prime minister, in return for a promise not to attack the pipeline
the pipeline project was prompted by iraq's war with iran. iraq backed out of the project because it was not satisfied with security arrangements
on sept. 19, 1985 peres wrote a letter to meese saying israel would not bomb the pipeline, and meese's friend, e. robert wallach, took charge of organizing meetings with officials in washington, rappaport said
he (wallach) apparently approached and told me: `look, if mr. peres confirms the (assurances) to mr. meese, then we will arrange such a meeting, and it will go up to the president' and so on,'' rappaport said
what i understand now is that the intention then was to bypass the u.s. state department,'' rappaport said
he was not clear in the interview exactly what the meetings in washington were about
wallach understood that if we want to receive support for such a guarantee which israel has no possibility or need to give ... and we had an alternative agreement with large insurance companies, with a group of bankers, with individuals, so if this had to pass through the senate, the congress or the state department it would not come into being,'' he said
he said president saddam hussein of iraq feared for his life if israel bombed the pipeline and in meetings hussein demanded a $400 million guarantee no bombing would occur
rappaport said he received the guarantee from the overseas private investment corp., a u.s. government-run export company, while israel was asked to provide ``a moral guarantee.''
at that stage, rappaport said, he was introduced to wallach, who organized a meeting with then-national security council head robert mcfarlane
he (mcfarlane) was very excited to get all possible assistance for ... israel,'' he said
a memo by wallach says that on oct. 16, 1985, meese, peres and wallach had a ``three-way discussion'' of the project at the israeli embassy in washington. on sunday, james rocap, one of meese's lawyers, said wallach's account ``totally exaggerates'' the discussion
rappaport said he was first told of the pipeline project in september 1984. he said he met in israel with peres, who confirmed the jewish state had no intention to bomb the pipeline
he said he also met with representatives of the san-francisco based bechtel group inc., which was to build the pipeline
rappaport said he had been prepared to give israel $60 million to $70 million a year, or a third of his profits from the project, over a 10-year period
wallach wrote a memo to meese saying that of $65 million to $70 million a year over 10 years which rappaport was going to funnel to israel, some would go to peres' labor party, although that would be ``denied everywhere.''
as a result, u.s. independent counsel james mckay is investigating in washington whether meese, wallach, rappaport and others conspired to pay an illegal bribe to a foreign official _ that is, peres and his party
mckay is trying to determine if meese was simply passing a problem on to the appropriate official _ as meese's lawyers say _ when he referred wallach to mcfarlane in may 1985, or if he was aiding a conspiracy to get funds for the guarantee despite opposition from the state department and overseas private investment corp
whatever he heard from meese, wallach and rappaport, mcfarlane endorsed the idea and assigned an aide to work on it while keeping progress of the proposal secret from the state department
public school superintendent leonard britton abruptly withdrew a districtwide plan for year-round schools by july 1989, conceding there wasn't enough support from the school board
frankly, it is very late to place the entire school district on a new calendar in july 1989,'' britton said monday, just before the seven-member board was to vote on the proposal
the board earlier had agreed to the july 1989 date, but tabled it last october after a fiery public outcry. the district adopted a policy two years ago phasing in year-round schooling for all students by the 1991-92 school year
those in favor of the proposal said it would ease overcrowding by putting some students in classes during the usually idle summer months. they also said it would provide educational advantages such as better retention of information
currently about one-quarter of los angeles unified school district students, those in the most crowded schools, are on year-round schedules. proponents say the selective policy is unfair, especially to the minorities who account for most of the student population
critics say year-round schools disrupt family vacations and students' summer jobs, make child care more difficult and force some students to spend summer days in hot, antiquated rooms
britten said the district will still aim for a year-round schedule, but he admitted a majority of the current seven-member school board may never agree
avalanches caused by heavy rain and snow buried homes and blocked roads in the northern state of kashmir, killing 66 people in six villages, news reports said today
the united news of india quoted official reports as saying that 49 people died monday in two villages in kargil district, about 90 miles northeast of the state's capital of srinagar
the other deaths occurred in four other kashmiri villages since saturday, the agency said
snowstorms and rains hit the mountain states on thursday, triggering landslides that blocked highways. over 5,000 motorists were stranded, united news quoted state officials as saying
indian air force aircraft were called in to help with rescue operations and to fly some stranded passengers to other regions, it said. comments. picks up 6th graf, `those elements ...'</note>
the afghanistan peace talks reached a soviet-set target date today but the u.n. mediator, citing difficult issues still to be resolved, said negotiations will continue
we are discussing very serious, difficult issues but we continue to negotiate and look for solutions,'' said u.n. mediator diego cordovez
soviet leader mikhail gorbachev has said that if an agreement was reached by march 15, moscow's estimated 115,000 troops would start leaving afghanistan by mid-may
neither side in the negotiations, which resumed today, has said the deadline was a rigid one or that the soviets would consider going back on their pledge to withdraw their troops if the deadline passed without an agreement
but in moscow today, the soviets said failure to meet the deadline will delay the start of a soviet troop withdrawal
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said there was only a ``slim'' chance the accords could be signed by the end of the day. he blamed the situation on pakistan's insistence that a coalition government be formed in kabul before the agreement was reached
he accused pakistan of ``procrastination'' in the negotiations in an attempt to arrange a post-war government to its liking
pakistan has said it wants a transitional government in kabul before the soviets begin their withdrawal to oversee the soviet pullout and ensure the safe return of more than 5 million refugees from pakistan and iran
moscow and kabul say afghanistan should decide the makeup of its future government after the settlement is signed
the current round of talks, now three weeks old, has completed all main elements of the settlement aimed at ending nine years of fighting
those elements include the timetable and basic logistics of the pullout of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops, an issue that has eluded a solution for several years
sources close to the talks, who declined to be identified, said on monday the pakistanis also have reservations about some minor points in the complex agreement package
the sources said pakistan received a new kremlin message during the weekend, urging it to sign the settlement without delay
unconfirmed reports quoted pakistan's prime minister mohammad khan junejo as saying that a decision on whether it would sign would be announced monday. but there was no official word by nightfall. pakistan's cabinet has held three meetings since sunday, apparently to weigh its next step
meanwhile, the fragile seven-party alliance of moslem guerrillas failed to decide whether it would drop its demand to dominate a future afghan government
a guerrilla leader said on monday in pakistan that moscow again rejected direct talks with the moslem rebels on the afghan issue. the resistance is represented by pakistan in the geneva talks but its position has not always been identical with pakistan's
the guerrillas have started to form a government of their own which pakistan considers too hard-line
the soviet union began sending troops to afghanistan in december 1979 at the request of the pro-moscow government. the soviet troops and the kabul government's regular army of about 50,000 men are pitted against 200,000 moslem rebels, supported by the united states, china and pakistan
a protester who wanted to dramatize his cause by spending a week in a garbage can dangling from the golden gate bridge fell 220 feet into the icy water and was nearly washed out to sea
paul alarab, 29, of kensington, calif., suffered collapsed lungs and three broken ribs but was listed in satisfactory condition at letterman army medical center following monday's rescue
he was plucked from a rock by the coast guard nine hours after the fall
he's lucky,'' said his brother, chris alarab. ``now he has a second chance to give his message.''
paul alarab said he wanted to draw attention to the plight of the old and infirm by living for a week in a plastic garbage can suspended from the bridge
he complained that the elderly must stand in long lines in supermarkets and banks and are neglected by young people, the california highway patrol said
alarab had equipped the 33-gallon garbage can with clothing, two jugs of water, a life vest and some political pamphlets, the chp said
alarab said he lowered the can, attached to the bridge railing by 60 feet of nylon rope, sunday night and was shinnying down when he fell
the chp was called to the scene but found only the swaying plastic barrel. fearing it was a bomb, authorities closed the bridge for 40 minutes
monday morning a fishing boat reported a man clinging to a rock near point diablo, on the ocean side of the bridge's north end
highway patrol officials said they will seek a trespassing charge against alarab when he is discharged from the hospital. his brother said alarab has been unemployed for six months
vietnam today buried premier pham hung after eulogizing him as a dedicated revolutionary who defied torture and harsh battlefields in a 60-year struggle for the communist cause
guerrillas fighting vietnam's nine-year occupation of cambodia called hung ``a notorious murderer'' who brought widespread suffering to vietnam and cambodia
hung, who played a key role in defeating the u.s.-backed south vietnam government and rose to the no. 2 position in the communist party hierarchy, was buried in hanoi after dying of a heart attack last thursday. he was 75
vietnamese radio reports said communist party chief nguyen van linh and other top party officials carried hung's casket from the ba dinh conference hall to a gun carriage for the trip to mai dich cemetery, the final resting place of vietnam's revolutionary leaders
tens of thousands of mourners lined the six-mile route of the carriage, flanked by two rows of armed military honor guards, said the reports monitored in bangkok
the radio of the khmer rouge, the main anti-vietnamese guerrilla group, said hung died ``as one who brought endless misery and suffering on vietnam and on the vietnamese and cambodian peoples.''
the broadcast, a text of which was seen in bangkok today, said vietnam's leaders should rethink the line adopted by hung and communist party chief le duan, who died in july 1986
hung died while vietnamese forces were ``almost choking to death from their attempt to swallow cambodia,'' the broadcast on sunday said. vietnam's economy has ``hit rock bottom,'' and the country is internationally isolated, it said
vo van kiet, a vice premier and head of state economic planning, has been chosen acting premier to replace hung
linh and kiet are regarded by western analysts as the country's leading proponents of western-style reforms which the party has deemed crucial to overcome the nation's economic crisis. mention of pope; deletes 16th graf, ``it's obvious, for same reason; subs 26th graf, ``martinez rejected xxx, with two grafs, to show that pope has expressed concern about florida death cases, but darden's not among them</note>
convicted murderer willie jasper darden, who maintained his innocence through 14 years on death row and became the focus of an international debate on capital punishment, was executed today in florida's electric chair
darden, 54, was convicted of fatally shooting lakeland businessman james c. turman while robbing his wife of $15 in september 1973
i was not guilty for the charge for which i was arrested and this morning i tell you i am not guilty of the charge for which i am about to be executed,'' darden said in a final statement to 30 witnesses in the death chamber
i go this morning with a clear conscience. i bear no guilt. i'm at peace with myself, with the world, with each of you. god bless you.''
darden winked and nodded at one of his attorneys just before the hood was put over his head, and was declared dead at 7:12 a.m. after 2,000 volts of electricity flowed through his body for two minutes. two puffs of smoke rose from his right leg where one of the electrodes was attached
darden's case attracted worldwide attention, including pleas for clemency nobel peace prize winner andrei sakharov and other human rights activists. they said darden was railroaded because he was black and the victim was white
earlier today, wayne robert felde was executed in louisiana's electric chair for the 1978 murder of a policeman
it was the first time two inmates were executed the same day in the united states since aug. 28, when three murderers were put to death, in florida, alabama and utah
darden spent 14 years on death row, one month less than howard v. douglas, who has been on death row in florida since december 1973
darden refused his last meal this morning, said prison spokesman bob macmaster. by 6 a.m., darden had showered, and his head and lower right leg were shaved to facilitate the flow of electricity, the spokesman said
on monday, the u.s. supreme court, the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals, a federal judge and the state supreme court rejected darden's appeals
his last hope was a reprieve from gov. bob martinez, who signed darden's seventh black-bordered death warrant last week and said monday he had no plans to issue a stay
i think of the victim at a moment like this and the family which was destroyed,'' martinez said. ``a hideous murder took place and that's what i keep in mind. just because it's 15 years later, that doesn't reduce a crime that was committed at the time.''
the governor's hands are now stained with the blood of a man from whom justice was withheld,'' amnesty international said in a statement from john g. healey, executive director of amnesty international usa in new york
early today, about 40 people gathered in a cow pasture across from the florida state prison to protest the execution
the opponents maintained silence after 7 a.m. while the execution took place, then began singing ``we shall overcome.''
i think it's long overdue. he did it to himself. i'm just thinking right now i want some peace of mind ... it's been a long time and i'm glad it's finally over,'' said turman's widow, helen turman baum, minutes after the execution. mrs. baum has remarried since the shooting
darden went into turman's furniture store on september 8, 1973, and had just robbed turman's wife of $15 when turman came on the scene
court records say that after shooting turman between the eyes, darden unbuckled his belt and unzipped his pants and ordered his wife to get on the floor, remove her false teeth and perform oral sex on him while turman lay dying just a few feet away
a neighbor, philip arnold, also identified darden during the trial. arnold, then 16, entered the store after apparently hearing the shooting and the woman's cries. he was shot three times but survived
darden became the 18th person executed in the state and the 96th executed in the nation since the supreme court restored capital punishment in 1976
death penalty opponents, led by amnesty international, have said darden had an alibi to prove his innocence. they claim there is evidence _ statements from a minister and a woman _ that darden could not have committed the murder
in sweden, about a dozen people demonstrated monday outside the u.s. embassy in stockholm, urging florida to commute darden's death sentence
martinez rejected appeals on darden's behalf by sakharov, democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson, actress margot kidder and others
jon peck, a spokesman for martinez, said pope john paul ii, through florida-based roman catholic leaders, has expressed concerns in the past about florida death cases, but never darden's specifically
ray mcdaniel, who prosecuted darden for the turman killing said friday, ``there is no question he is guilty.''
then-gov. bob graham signed darden's first death warrant in 1979 on the same day as a warrant for john spenkelink, the first man electrocuted in florida after the state resumed the death penalty
darden was born in snow hill, n.c., the second of four children. he graduated from high school in greene county, n.c. his conviction record dated to 1964 and included breaking and entering and attempted rape
douglas, at 51 the man who has spent the longest time on death row, was convicted of the july 1973 shooting death of his former lover's husband in polk county
his first death warrant resulted in the u.s. supreme court sending the case back in 1984. he was resentenced to death and the case is now pending on appeal
five men were pulled from a sinking boat this morning about 50 miles into the atlantic ocean off georgetown, the u.s. coast guard said
the 54-foot-long willie victor, based in murrells inlet, radioed the coast guard monday night saying it was taking on water and a coast guard helicopter was dispatched from savannah, ga., said a coast guard spokesman in miami
the helicopter arrived shortly after midnight and the men were lifted into the helicopter after coast guard pumps could not save the boat. the boat sank about 20 minutes later, the spokesmen said
the boat's owner and operator, gerald baston, suffered head injuries, and another man, tommy morehead, suffered a broken leg, the spokesmen said. the other men were identified as neal baston, art ashworth and dennis barrios
the coast guard did not know the men's ages or hometowns
at least four people were killed and more than 90 injured today during an opposition-sponsored strike to demand the resignation of prime minister rajiv gandhi
the strike closed offices and businesses in six of india's states but failed to achieve widespread support in the other 17 states
at least three people were killed and several others were hurt in street clashes in bihar state, united news of india said. violence also was reported in neighboring west bengal state, where at least 75 people were reported injured
in kerala state, the news agency reported a youth was killed and seven other people injured when a flour mill operator opened fire at opposition party supporters attacking his mill near the coastal city of ernakulam
united news also said 14 police were injured near the pakistan border in rajasthan state when they were pelted with stones while trying to remove roadblocks
the strike disrupted normal life in bombay, india's business center, and in calcutta, the country's largest city. but it drew little response in the capital at new delhi, where most businesses remained open
united news of india said police arrested at least 3,000 people from various cities for attempting to block traffic and close shops
but the opposition coalition that called the strike said at least 150,000 people were arrested. in a statement in new delhi, the eight parties maintained the strike was complete in all major towns and industrial areas
the strike was called by most major opposition parties to protest sectarian violence, rising prices and alleged corruption in government. the parties, which include two communist groups, demand that parliament be dissolved and new elections held
in parliament, proceedings were disrupted for more than an hour when opposition members raised anti-government slogans in the upper house. earlier, the entire opposition boycotted the first hour of business in both houses in support of the strike
on monday, at least 25,000 people were arrested in the southern state of tamil nadu and 500 others in orissa in the east in what police said was a move to pre-empt violence during today's strike
opposition members in parliament today criticized the government for monday's arrests, united news of india said
gandhi's congress party holds more than 400 of the 542 seats in the popularly elected lower house of parliament. the rest are divided among opposition parties which have failed to act jointly despite common demands that gandhi resign
a marine amateur boxer was in critical but stable condition today after he was injured during the armed forces boxing championships here, officials said
lance cpl. rickey uzzel, 22, of austin, texas, was in the intensive care unit at san diego naval hospital, hospital officials said this morning
uzzel was under sedation and was stable after receiving therapy to reduce pressure on his brain, said lt. pat killy, hospital spokeswoman
navy and other military officials were not available for comment monday about the injury, a spokeswoman said
the marine was knocked out thursday during the light-middleweight championship match with james crisp, an army boxer who last fall was ranked eighth by the usa amateur boxing federation in the 156-pound class
the injury occurred during 23 seconds into the second round of a three-round match
last year, boxing matches here among recruits were stopped after an 18-year-old died. superior</note>
a grand jury has indicted mayor john fedo on 23 charges including theft, falsifying expense records and attempting to obstruct the state auditor
the indictment, made public monday after the mayor's arraignment in state district court, included 22 felony charges
fedo, 37, said the charges were a political ploy arranged by people who don't like him. the indictment, he said, ``is not going to have an effect on city hall.''
if convicted, fedo, 37, faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison on the theft charge and up to five years in prison on most of the other charges. fedo was freed on his own recognizance and scheduled to appear in court may 3, when a judge will determine whether enough evidence exists to proceed to trial
his lawyer, douglas sauter, said he will move for dismissal of the charges. fedo was ``tried once in the election and found not guilty,'' he said
fedo, a member of minnesota's democratic-farmer-labor party, won his first four-year term as mayor in 1979 and has been re-elected twice
the theft charge concerns $13,500 given to fedo by three businessmen to lobby for state funds for a convention center in the city
during the 1987 election campaign, fedo said he passed the funds to an unnamed twin cities businessman in 1985 in exchange for information about other cities' convention center proposals
but prosecutors say the mayor played a limited role in lobbying for a convention center he later claimed to have won almost single-handedly
duluth, a city of 85,000 on the western tip of lake superior, was never in competition for the $200 million convention center for which bloomington and minneapolis vied, the charges say. the state legislature awarded duluth a total of $17.2 million for its own, relatively small center. territories</head>
mayor edward i. koch of new york wrote in an israeli newspaper today that television cameras should be barred from the occupied territories
in a signed column published in the jerusalem post, koch said that in view of what is happening elsewhere in the world, israel would be justified in taking steps to bar tv crews from the west bank and the gaza strip
many other nations throughout the world are experiencing troubles similar to those now taking place in israel. should israel be the only nation to allow full television coverage of these troubles?
this creates a false impression in the minds of television viewers that such events are happening only in israel,'' wrote koch, a longtime supporter of israel
more than 90 palestinians have been killed by israeli gunfire and beatings in riots that started dec. 8 in the territories occupied by israel in the 1967 middle east war. the territories are home to 1.5 million palestinians
koch said he thought israel should use whatever force necessary to put down the palestinian uprising in the occupied lands
the mayor also criticized u.s. editorial writers and columnists for their ``relentless drumbeat of criticism against israel.''
he added that he had attacked u.s. involvement in the vietnam war but now had ``second thoughts'' about the wisdom of deserting south vietnamese allies
it's easy for columnists, and for all of us, to play god with the lives of other people, endanger them and leave them ultimately to be destroyed,'' he wrote
passengers spent longer than they bargained for today in the world's longest undersea tunnel, which opened to trains two days earlier
a power outage left them stranded for more than three hours 460 feet underground in the 37-mile-long seikan tunnel
the tunnel links japan's largest island, honshu, with hokkaido, the northernmost main island. it cuts two hours off a trip formerly made by ferry
it took 24 years to build at an estimated cost of $8.5 billion
most of the 166 passengers were asleep when the outage halted their 11-coach express train, bound for tokyo from sapporo, about 12 miles from the tunnel's south exit. a locomotive pulled the train from the tunnel, and it resumed its journey from the next station, at aomori, 3 hours and 50 minutes behind schedule, a hokkaido rail japan co. spokesman said
the cause of the power outage was under investigation, said the hokkaido representative, who spoke on condition of anonymity
six trains have been stopped by faulty fire detectors since the tunnel opened
the news from lake wobegon is good today: garrison keillor is bringing back ``a prairie home companion'' for a ``second annual farewell performance'' at radio city music hall
it was so much fun leaving that we're coming back to say goodbye again,'' keillor said in announcing he would take to the stage june 3 and 4
the second show will be broadcast on television by the disney channel and on radio by the american public radio network, which broadcast keillor's weekly show from minnesota until he called it quits last june 13
a prairie home companion,'' featuring the fictional minnesota town of lake wobegon, had been on the air for 13 years
the reunion show will feature butch thompson, the pianist who was a fixture on the show. it also will include guitarists chet atkins and leo kottke, the everly brothers, singers robin and linda williams and the 1920s sound of vince giordano and the nighthawks
the baltimore city sheriff, who is facing charges of election law violations, has been accused of trying to bribe the investigator handling the case by handing him $1,000 at a fast food restaurant
sheriff shelton stewart, 45, was indicted by a baltimore county grand jury on charges of offering a bribe to a public officer and obstruction of justice, county state's attorney sandra a. o'connor said monday
stewart surrendered to county police and was released on his own recognizance after a bail hearing before a district court commissioner
a spokesman for the sheriff's office declined to comment
frank c. meyer, an assistant state's attorney and chief of the office's investigations division, said stewart could be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison and fined $15,000 if convicted of the latest charges
meyer said the grand jury saw videotapes made by county police of meetings thursday and friday between the sheriff and james cabezas, the chief investigator for the state prosecutor's office
cabezas was investigating stewart for alleged violations of state election laws in his 1986 campaign for sheriff. meyer contends that stewart was trying to influence the outcome of that case
stewart has been charged with perjury, conspiracy to violate state election laws and a violation of election law following an investigation into accusations that he failed to report a significant amount of campaign contributions
stewart has denied any campaign irregularities
president reagan is planning to name an interagency committee to develop an administration consensus on how to avoid another stock market crash, a white house official said today
it's not another study; the studies have been done,'' the official said. instead, he said, the group would pull together the ideas of various studies already completed and then develop a consolidated position
the group will be headed by treasury secretary james a. baker iii and include officials from the federal reserve board, the securities and exchange commission and the commodity futures trading commission. its report will be due within 60 to 90 days
studies on the crash have been produced by a presidential task force headed by former sen. nicholas f. brady, as well as by the sec, the cftc and markets
we've been looking at these reports and each of them is a little different,'' said the official, who declined to be identified. ``the idea of this group is to decide what can be done ... to reach a consensus among the regulatory agencies.''
the official said that while legislative action may be needed eventually, ``the main goal will be to see what they (the regulatory agencies) can do under existing authorities.''
democracy and in latin america.''
ferreira aldunate consolidated control over the national party in the 1960s while he served in the senate, opposing the government of former president jorge pacheco areco
he won the most votes overall in the 1971 elections but his party, under whose banner he was running, lost the presidency by 12,000 votes to juan bordaberry, backed by pacheco areco
survivors include his wife, two sons and a daughter. burial services are scheduled for today in montevideo
a school bus carrying mentally disabled passengers skidded off a road, killing a 6-year-old girl and leaving 12 other people injured, officials said
the passengers _ nine children and three adults _ were on their way home from the wood lane school and industries, part of the wood county board of mental retardation and development disabilities, when the accident happened monday
monica roth of northwood, who was sitting directly behind the driver, was killed
the 11 other passengers and the driver were taken to wood county hospital, where they were treated for cuts and bruises
sgt. al vargo of the highway patrol said the driver couldn't regain control of the bus after slipping off the side of the road
when she tried to bring her bus back on the roadway, she, for some reason, lost control of the bus and it went back off the right side of the road and overturned,'' he said
vargo said the accident is under investigation
more than 50 independent production companies, including johnny carson's talk show, are seeking exemptions from striking scriptwriters, union officials say
that would allow some companies to work during the writers guild of america strike against the 200-member alliance of motion picture and television producers. no talks were scheduled in the 10-day-old strike by 9,000 guild members
brian walton, west coast executive director of the guild, said its board would consider appeals for an interim agreement with several companies. cheryl rhoden, a spokeswoman for the writers, said decisions on exemptions would probably be announced wednesday or thursday
walton declined to identify those seeking interim agreements, but ``the tonight show'' announced through its publicists that it was among them
a spokesman for the producers belittled the union's assertion about the number of independents seeking waivers
the overwhelming number of independents are actually a writer that employs himself for tax purposes. he produces nothing,'' said alliance spokesman herb steinberg. ``with the exception of carson, i don't know of any other independent producer looking to make a deal who is also member of the alliance.''
among shows already rejected for a waiver or interim contract was the academy awards, scheduled for broadcast on april 11
lobell-bergman productions disclosed monday that the strike has affected development of five of eight movies on its slate and stopped work on a network comedy series. previously postponed was a revival of ``the smothers brothers comedy hour'' and ``the dictator,'' a new series starring christopher lloyd
the guild is seeking an increase in creative control, an increase in residuals from foreign market distribution, and rejection of a producers' contention that residuals for hour-long syndicated television shows should be adjusted. problems</head>
the food and drug administration has released a new report sharply criticizing quality control procedures at lyphomed inc., which makes drugs to fight symptoms of aids and other diseases
an fda official said monday a re-inspection of lyphomed's main manufacturing plant found the same sort of problems that led the agency to take disciplinary action against the suburban chicago company last fall
lyphomed said monday it intends to respond to the latest inspection report later this week
we are committed to ensuring that our quality meets and exceeds the fda standards,'' said john n. kapoor, lyphomed's chairman and chief executive officer
lyphomed gained national prominence for its sales of pentamidine, a drug used to fight a form of pneumonia that frequently kills people with aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome
in november, the federal agency warned lyphomed it could be taken to court if ``serious violations'' of fda regulations were not corrected, and it suspended approval of the company's applications to market new drugs
the latest fda report listed 44 violations of ``good manufacturing practices'' found during a three-month inspection
violations cited included shipping products that had failed some sterility tests, changing the manufacturing process for several drugs without knowing the effect of the changes, distributing drugs without proper fda approval, and other quality control problems
george bailey, a compliance officer at the fda's chicago district, said the problems were the same type of violations as cited last fall, bailey said
the severity and degree of the violations is yet to be determined,'' he said
lyphomed said in a statement that it had appointed a new director of quality control and a new director of regulatory affairs since november
the discovery of new or continuing violations doesn't necessarily mean the fda will continue its suspension of work processing lyphomed's applications to market new drugs, bailey said
it depends on how significant the deviations would be and what they have done to correct them,'' he said
a former lyphomed employee, richard johnson, filed a lawsuit earlier this month claiming the company had fired him because he refused to release drugs that had failed quality tests. lyphomed has said he was fired for ``performance reasons.''
about 10,000 protesters marched through the streets of this communist capital today calling for democracy and freedom of the press
dozens of police patrols passed by, but authorities made no attempt to hinder the unofficial protest, which came on the anniversary of hungary's aborted 1848 revolution against austria
protesters carried signs that read ``we want democracy'' and ``we want freedom of the press'' and chanted anti-government slogans
groups of demonstrators whistled and applauded when police vehicles passed by, but authorities refused to act on what appeared to be attempts to provoke them
the protesters blocked traffic and attracted large groups of passers-by, some of whom joined the throng as it meandered through central budapest
dissident sources said four prominent activists were detained in advance of the unofficial protest. the sources earlier report three activists had been taken into custody
communist party authorities, meanwhile, held an official rally to mark the anniversary on the steps of budapest's national museum, where the 1848 revolution broke out
communist party officials laid wreaths and made speeches calling for greater national unity and economic progress
hungarian dissidents have marked the anniversay by staging unofficial rallies on march 15 since 1973, and have met with varying reactions from authorities
last year, police allowed thousands of people to march through downtown budapest, calling for democracy as part of one of the biggest unofficial protests here in years
but in 1986, police clashed with protesters on march 15, and broke up that year's unofficial demonstration
hungary has won a reputation as a relatively liberal soviet bloc country, although far less dissent is tolerated than in western countries
one dissident source identified three of the activists detained this morning as writer miklos haraszti, tamas mlynar and gabor demszky, hungary's biggest underground publisher
the source, who asked not to be named, said two other activists _ ottilia solt and writer gyoergy gado _ may also have been taken into custody. he said friends were unable to reach them early today
sources speculated the activists were detained to warn dissidents away from the unofficial protest, and predicted they would be relased later today
police have raided the homes of at least eight dissidents during the past two weeks, including gado, solt and demszky, sources told the associated press
during the police search, hundreds of copies of unofficial journals, political documents and books were confiscated, haraszti said
a former carnival worker has pleaded innocent to charges of murdering an eight-year-old girl in 1951
assistant public defender michael malloy entered the plea monday in delaware county common pleas court on behalf of his client, william henry redmond
redmond, 66, suffering from a heart condition and emphysema, sat in a wheelchair and said nothing during the arraignment
a pretrial hearing is scheduled for april 11
at a preliminary hearing in february, state police trooper malcolm murphy said redmond had confessed to smothering jane marie althoff. her body was found in a carnival truck in trainer, a small town about 15 miles southeast of philadelphia, on april 25, 1951
redmond, who was living in grand island, neb., at the time of his arrest, is charged with first- and second-degree murder, voluntary and involuntary manslaughter, kidnapping and assault with intent to ravish
redmond is being held without bail in delaware county prison. in</head> up 4th graf, between 2.5 million; subs 11th graf pvs, sen. paul; eliminates 14th graf pvs, simon was</note>
democrat jesse jackson said today ``we're going to have a good day,'' casting his ballot as the illinois presidential primary began with a light turnout in cold weather. on the republican side, george bush wondered aloud what was keeping rival bob dole in the race
i'm not sure i understand what he's doing,'' said bush during a final campaign swing in the state where polls were forecasting a landslide victory for the vice president over his gop rivals
but both dole and pat robertson were insisting they were staying in the race, though the former television evangelist said he would re-evaluate his status if he gets less than 5 percent of the vote
jackson voted at bryn mawr community church on the city's south side
we've been winning all the way and we'll keep winning,'' said jackson, the victor last saturday in south carolina and winner of five states on super tuesday
the state's other democratic favorite son, sen. paul simon, voted at the makanda fire station in rural southern illinois
after casting their ballots, simon and his wife went to their home and planted a tree in their yard, an election-day tradition
between 2.5 million and 3 million voters were expected to turn out for the primary on a wintry day. kel hudson, associate director of the state board of elections, said that would represent 46 percent to 48 percent of the registered voters
illinois does not have party registration so voters could choose a democratic or republican ballot at their polling place
initial reports from chicago precincts were of a light turnout
precinct captain william smar said that during the first hour and a half his polling place was open, only 15 of the 498 registered voters had cast ballots, nearly all of them democrats
it's more quiet than normal for this type of election,'' said thomas leach, spokesman for the city election commission
illinois voters express their presidential preference in a non-binding beauty contest and also elect convention delegates. it was possible a candidate would do well in the popular vote, but lose out in the contest for delegates to a contender who had stronger slates filed in the state's 22 congressional districts
as if to emphasize his determination to fight on, dole flew to wisconsin and connecticut to campaign in two of the states that follow illinois
simon said, ``i will win'' his home state's democratic primary, and conceded second place in either the popular vote or the delegate contest would not be good enough
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said he has made ``significant gains'' in his effort to finish ahead of at least one of the state's two favorite-son candidates
an abc news-washington post poll done saturday and sunday suggested simon had the support of 39 percent of 328 likely democratic voters, with jackson at 34 percent. simon's lead was within the poll's 6-point margin of error. dukakis trailed with 17 percent
at stake in today's voting were 82 republican and 113 democratic delegates. another 10 gop delegates will be chosen at the party state convention in june. sixty additional democratic delegates will be allocated to candidates in the same proportion as they won delegates in the primary and 15 more elected and party officials will become super delegates to the democratic convention
the latest associated press delegate count gave bush 705, dole 165 and robertson 17 gop convention delegates, out of the 1,139 needed for the nomination. on the democratic side, dukakis had 462.5, jackson 423.55, gore 352.8, gephardt 145 and simon 35.5. there are 275.65 uncommitted democratic delegates
democratic chairman paul kirk suggested monday he would try to rally uncommitted delegates behind whichever candidate leads the field when the primaries have ended, if none has yet secured a numerical lock on the nomination
kirk said monday that the party leaders and other officials who automatically hold seats as national convention delegates have a ``special responsibility'' to help ensure that the nominating process does not turn into a political fight that damages the nominee
bush, in the aftermath of his super tuesday sweep of 16 primaries, saw illinois as a chance to take another giant step toward clinching the gop nomination. dole hoped the return to the midwest would blunt the vice president's momentum
jackson saw his home state primary as an opportunity to challenge dukakis for the leadership of the democratic field. for simon, illinois was a fight for survival, while sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee was looking for ``an opportunity to punch through'' with a victory in a northern industrial state
rep. richard gephardt of missouri did little campaigning in illinois, concentrating instead on michigan, which holds democratic caucuses on march 26
a poll published sunday in the chicago tribune gave bush a 34-point lead over dole among illinois republicans, with robertson a distant third
yet, the kansas senator insisted he had no plans to even consider dropping out if he does poorly in illinois
i've made a judgment that illinois, whatever happens, we're going to keep going,'' dole said at a news conference on monday
but he conceded candidates sometimes fail to understand when it is time to get out
now if you're out there and you've been twisting in the wind for six or eight months and you're starting to smell a little, somebody has to cut the rope,'' he said. background on investigation, picking up at the 6th graf previous, beginning ``two members.''</note>
jury selection began today for the trial of the first of 23 people charged with physically or sexually abusing their children or young relatives, but there were fears that impartial jurors might be in short supply
margie back, 33, sat hunched over in her chair, clutching her purse, when magoffin county circuit court judge john r. morgan called the court to order. she is accused of using lighted cigarettes to torture her three boys, ages 5, 8 and 10
ms. back, of the mountain hollow community of seitz, is charged with three counts of first-degree criminal abuse. she was not charged with sexual abuse
five trials have been scheduled through mid-june in this eastern kentucky coal mining county for 12 of the defendants, and the remaining cases could come to trial later this year
it is difficult to get an impartial jury for any trial in magoffin county,'' said deputy judge-executive marcella salyer, the county's top appointed administrator. ``people have a lot of connections, both politically and otherwise.''
the investigation began when state social workers asked kentucky state police for help on a complaint of suspected child abuse in 1986. the social workers say they cannot reveal details on the cases
indictments were returned by a county grand jury that was shown videotaped interviews with six children. the indictments were accompanied by hand-written notes from some of the children describing acts of sodomy and abuse among family members
two members of the state attorney general's staff began handling the case last august after a local prosecutor withdrew
the state prosecutors unsuccessfully sought in october to have the trials moved, claiming the defendants were members of ``five large, extended families'' that had too many friends and political allies in the appalachian mountain county of about 14,000 people. many of the defendants share the family name gipson
the prosecutors cited a courthouse demonstration in support of the defendants in november 1986 and a series of sympathetic letters to the editor of a local newspaper
judge john r. morgan said he would try to find an impartial jury without moving the trial. he said he expected the case to last three or four days, and was not sure if he would let the children testify on videotape or in person in a state where cameras are allowed in courtrooms
dr. lester fahrner, a lexington dermatologist, wrote in a pretrial report that ms. back's three sons had numerous scars on their faces, arms, backs and legs that ``suggest having been burned with a cigarette or similar sized burning object.''
the doctor reported that two of the boys told him their mother was responsible for the scars
the children, and others in the county ranging from age 1 to 11 who were alleged victims of incest, rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, physical abuse and assault, all have been placed in foster homes
customers at the coffee cup restaurant, across the street from the courthouse, said monday the trials are bound to bring bad publicity to a county that already has received more than its share
but magoffin county shouldn't be viewed as a hotbed of physical and sexual abuse against children, maintained flynn arnett, one of the customers
you see it in the papers every day all over the country,'' arnett said
john arnett, business manager of the salyersville independent and a distant relative of flynn arnett, agreed
this goes on everywhere but it just seems to fit into the stereotypical view of people here,'' in the mountains, john arnett said. ``but that stereotype just isn't true.''
widespread vote-buying in the county was the focus of an article in the lexington herald-leader and a series of stories on election fraud in the louisville courier-journal last fall
government services in the county also were shut down for five weeks last summer when the fiscal court, the governing body, could not reach agreement on an annual budget. correct name of tanker to gas prince, sted gas queen; picks up 8th graf pvs: the iraqi...; subs penultimate graf, bgng ``the 46,723-ton...,'' to correct tanker name; picks up last graf: the convoy...''</note>
iraq said it fired six missiles into tehran today and its air force bombed other iranian cities. iran said it pounded southern iraqi towns with shells, short-range rockets and warplane raids
iran said civilians were killed in iraqi missile attacks and iraq said iranian shelling killed nine civilians in the city of basra
in new york, the soviet union acknowledged it failed to win support for a u.n. security council resolution calling for an end to the deadly missile duel in the 7{-year-old war
the u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tanker gas prince was sailing up the persian gulf in the 17th convoy conducted by the u.s. navy this year
the iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said six missiles were fired into the iranian capital today. it reported eight such missiles strikes monday
iran's islamic republic news agency, also monitored in nicosia, said ``a number'' of civilians were killed in missile attacks on residential areas of tehran overnight. it did not say how many rockets hit the city
on monday, iran said missiles killed 26 civilians and wounded 50 in tehran. iraq also reported civilian casualties in baghdad but gave no figures
iraq says it has fired 15 missiles into tehran since the duel resumed with a single rocket fired into the iranian capital sunday night after a two-day truce. iran has fired two into baghdad
the iraqi agency said warplanes pounded the western iranian cities of dezful, kermanshah and hamadan today in ``destructive'' raids. irna said sores of civilians were killed
iran said its artillery shelled basra province, whose capital is iraq's second-largest city, and fired 11 short-range rockets into the region. the iraqi agency quoted its correspondent in basra as saying nine civilians were killed and 10 wounded
tehran radio said iranian warplanes bombed al-amarah, about halfway between basra and baghdad, and the northeastern town of sulaymaniyah
irna said monday that revolutionary guards commandos pushed to within 12 miles of sulaymaniyah. it said the iranians seized a dozen peaks and several villages, killing or wounding 1,000 iraqis
iraq said the latest round of missile attacks was a reprisal for iran's shelling of iraqi border towns sunday night in which at least 21 civilians were killed and 80 wounded
baghdad earlier charged iran broke a friday cease-fire by launching ground attacks and bombarding iraqi towns
an uneasy two-day truce brought a brief respite after 12 days in which both sides fired dozens of missiles and artillery fire and launched air raids that killed or wounded hundreds of civilians
at the united nations, soviet ambassador alexander belonogov acknowledged monday that the soviet bid for a new resolution on the ``war of the cities'' had failed after the security council met behind closed doors
our personal preference would be a resolution of the security council,'' he said, but the important thing is ``not the form but the essence'' of the council's action
the united states saw the proposal as a maneuver designed to deflect attention from the american push for a worldwide arms embargo against iran to punish it for refusing to honor the council's july 20 cease-fire resolution and peace plan
instead of a new resolution, the council is expected to issue a statement later this week calling for an end to the missile attacks
the 46,723-ton gas prince, a liquefied-gas carrier was sighted off dubai at midday. it was escorted by the missile frigate simpson, witnesses reported
the convoy was the 39th since july, when the u.s. navy began escorting 11 kuwaiti tankers, re-registered under the american flag, to protect them from iranian attack. there have been no direct attacks on any of the vessels since the escort operations began. reporters saying five to six injured. picks up 6th graf, `the presidential ...'</note>
riot police using tear gas, shotguns and a water cannon today broke up a demonstration by unpaid public employees as panama's military government announced it would begin partial salary payments to thousands of government workers
more than 500 employees of the social security administration's main hospital in panama city blocked a divided highway this morning before three units of riot police dispersed them
fewer guns, more medicine,'' the workers chanted
a nurse, who declined to give her name for fear of reprisals, said the hospital's 9,000 employees had been given no explanation by supervisors of when or how they would be paid
reporters saw five or six people brought to the hospital with minor injuries from birdshot fired by police during the melee, which tied up traffic for more than two hours. the facility was offering only emergency services
the presidential press office said the partial payments would be made on a sliding scale that would give full wages to more than half of the public servants, with others receiving a percentage of their salaries
the action came a day after sporadic violence broke out in the capital and the caribbean port city of colon, the nation's second largest, after word spread that public employees would not be paid this week
directors of the national federation of public servants, which represents nearly all government employees, said they would reject the government plan and demand full wages
in another development, the panamanian government asked terrence kneebone, director of the u.s. information service here, to leave the country within 48 hours, a u.s. embassy source said
the government did not explain the expulsion, but kneebone, a leading embassy spokesman, has formally responded to several government accusations in the past week, including a formal charge that the united states was preparing to invade panama
his response to that allegation was that it was ``ridiculous.''
some teachers, telephone and dock workers struck monday to demand their wages and police put down a demonstration in panama city with tear gas and rubber truncheons
protesters lit fires in the streets of the capital and chanted ``noriega must go'' _ a reference to panama's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
the government provided no other details about its partial payment plan, but sources said the plan would provide full wages to employees making less than $30 every two weeks, while others would get a percent of their salaries
on monday, the government began selling sacks of food, called ``dignity bags,'' to unpaid workers
and the united states sent an additional 100 military personnel to beef up security around the panama canal. the united states already has 10,000 troops based along the waterway
more than 1,000 dockworkers walked off their jobs at ports in colon and in panama city, the entrances to the the 50-mile-long panama canal that links the pacific and atlantic oceans
alberto soto, administrator of the balboa port in panama city, said the action would not slow down shipping through the vital waterway, which normally handles about 30 ships a day
about 130,000 people, nearly one in every five working panamanians, are employed by the government. until now, they have supported noriega whose ouster as head of the panama defense forces has been demanded by the opposition
the nation's deposed president, eric arturo delvalle, told cbs television in a videotaped message that ``noriega will not be able to trick'' the government workers. ``he cannot pay them,'' said delvalle from the hiding place where he has been holed up since noriega engineered his ouster in a coup on feb. 26, the day after delvalle tried to fire the general
the reagan administration hopes the government's inability to pay its workers will bring down noriega, who is under indictment in the united states on federal narcotics smuggling charges
the united states imposed several new economic sanctions on panama last friday, including the withholding of $6.5 million in panama canal fees due this week. it earlier cut off all economic and military aid to the country
the 118 local and foreign banks that do business in panama remained closed monday by government order for the 20th straight day and there was no indication they would reopen today
the u.s. labor department has agreed to allow south carolina and north carolina limited use of 17-year-old school bus drivers through the end of the school year
the governors of the two states today announced the agreement overriding a february order that had required a halt to the young drivers by april 1
during our discussions with (labor) secretary (ann) mclaughlin, i think it became apparent that our school children would be a lot safer riding with 17-year-olds with seven or eight months of bus driving experience than it would be to have them riding with drivers who have little or no experience driving a school bus,'' north carolina gov. jim martin said
without the extension there wouldn't be enough trained drivers to transport students, the governors contended
under the agreement, all districts in both states may use drivers who will turn 18 before june 15. and certain districts that have had difficulty hiring older drivers may through the end of the school year use 17-year-old drivers who will not turn 18 by june 15
all 17-year-old drivers must have been hired and trained before the school year began and must have clean driving records, the agreement said
north carolina has about 2,100 17-year-old drivers; south carolina has about 1,200
tucker eskew, a spokesman for south carolina gov. carroll campbell, estimated several hundred 17-year-old drivers in that state would turn 18 by june 15
seventeen-year-olds have been permitted to drive school buses in the two states under an exemption to the fair labor standards act
that was repealed after labor department investigations found north carolina had violated the act 80 times in january and february, and south carolina had recorded 200 violations in that time
the investigation was triggered when a 4-year-old boy in west columbia, s.c., was struck and killed by a 17-year-old driver with a bad driving record
martin said in a statement today that he would seek a $24 million from the legislature in june to increase the school bus drivers pay so the state can attract more adult drivers
former national security council staff member roger robinson appeared before a federal grand jury today in the criminal investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii and a proposed $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline
robinson worked closely with longtime meese friend e. robert wallach in the summer of 1985, when supporters of the pipeline were seeking u.s. support for the project
robinson is the second nsc aide in two weeks to testify in the probe of meese being conducted by independent counsel james mckay. former nsc aide david wigg testified earlier
in addition, two former aides in meese's office, john richardson and john harrison, testified last week before the grand jury to which mckay's office is presenting evidence. richardson was meese's chief of staff before leaving the justice department several months ago. harrison worked on meese's staff in mid-1985
the probe of meese revolves around whether he may have violated the 1977 foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits bribes by u.s. companies or their agents to foreign officials
wallach wrote a memo to meese in september 1985 saying that a portion of up to $700 million from the pipeline would be paid to the israeli labor party. meese says he doesn't recall reading the portion of the memo relating to planned labor party payments
wallach had been hired by swiss oilman bruce rappaport to assist in the project and wallach went to meese on the matter in may 1985. meese referred him to then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane, who directed that robinson assist the project
iraq was seeking an insurance package for the pipeline in the event it was bombed by israel. then-israeli prime minister shimon peres gave assurances that israel would not attack the line, but iraq wanted a financial package to back up that promise
the nsc aides assisted on a number of proposed packages, initially trying to promote a $400 million bank-backed package acceptable to the overseas private investment corp. the government agency insures foreign investments by u.s. firms such as bechtel group inc., which was going to build the project
robinson left the nsc and his place on the project was taken by wigg, who worked with wallach on alternative proposals. those included pledging u.s. aid to israel as a guarantee for the pipeline and seeking to put pentagon budget money for israel in an overseas escrow account as insurance. none of the insurance proposals was adopted and the pipeline wasn't built
an independent study group said today it could find little evidence that elevating the veterans administration to a cabinet-level department would help the agency do its job better
the group and the general accounting office, the investigative arm of congress, said changes in the way the va is managed should be made whether or not the agency is granted cabinet status
in a report to the senate governmental affairs committee, a panel of the national academy of public administration said it was not making a recommendation for or against a cabinet-level va
william fischer, chairman of the academy's seven-member study group, said the panel did not take a vote on elevating the va to cabinet status, but he said, ``we did agree on the report.''
we are not here to discuss the priority of meeting the needs ... of veterans,'' fischer told the committee. ``we are discussing ... structure.''
the panel, which did the study in seven weeks, found ``little evidence that the prospects of fulfilling the vital mission of providing for the present and future needs of veterans would be materially improved by elevating the va to a cabinet department.''
the panel also said it does not believe the elevation to cabinet-status ``would significantly improve either access to the president, the adequacy of necessary resources, or the organization, management and delivery of high-quality services and benefits
the panel does recognize the potential political value of raising the public visibility of the needs of veterans and the programs designed to meet these needs by making va a department in the president's cabinet,'' the report said. ``however, given the broad political support which already exists for the va and its programs, the gain would be at the margin.''
legislation to elevate the va has been endorsed by president reagan and was approved by the house on nov. 17. there has been strong support in the senate for passage
governmental affairs committee chairman, sen. john glenn, d-ohio, said at today's hearing: ``if the elevation of the va to cabinet-level status is accompanied by significant measures to improve the management and operation of the agency, as well as to ensure the fair treatment of all veterans seeking access to agency services and benefits, then the case for elevation becomes much stronger.''
glenn said improvements within the va legislation ``should be the goal of this committee over the next few weeks.''
the national academy for public administration, chartered by congress, provides independent advice on the organization and operation of government at all levels
two soldiers were convicted and given less than a month in jail for their role in the brutal arab beatings taped by an american television crew, the military said today
a military judge sentenced ronnen sasson to 21 days in jail and arieh moalem to 10 days in jail, the army said. they were sentenced monday following their convictions on charges of brutality and harassment
sasson and moalem, along with two other soldiers and an officer, were taped by a cbs news crew on feb. 25 as they beat and kicked two bound palestinian youths in nablus, the largest city in the occupied west bank
the soldiers kicked the two arabs in the head and chest, then picked up fist-sized rocks and smashed them on arms and legs. cbs said the beating lasted 40 minutes
the film produced widespread criticism and the west bank commander, maj. gen. amram mitzna, ordered the detention of four soldiers and their commanding officer, all from the elite golani brigade
the army said an investigation showed that moalem and sasson played a relatively minor part in the beating. the film did not show moalem taking part
the army said that the two other soldiers involved, yehuda angel and saguy harpaz, and their commander, capt. yossi haddad, will face more serious charges. wastes</head>
a man who spent months industriously burying stolen cars, trucks and other equipment in the back yard of his rural home was being sought today, officials said
the man, identified as korey cragg, jumped out a back window of his home when he was questioned by a deputy, sheriff's detective allan l. foreman said. cragg was being sought for an alleged role in a car-stripping operation
by monday afternoon officials had unearthed more than a dozen cars and trucks plus various equipment and car parts, officials said. they also discovered numerous buried 55-gallon drums containing motor oil, gasoline and transmission fluid
for months, residents living in the desert 65 miles northeast of los angeles had watched as cragg buried the vehicles with a backhoe, foreman said
a neighbor told us he was hauling out a trailer load of engines every other day,'' foreman said. ``he was a busy, busy boy. it appears he was working 24 hours a day. ... he could go through two or three cars a day.''
sylvestre carrillo, who lives in a home just east of the house, said he thought his neighbor was ``just a hard worker.''
he'd be at it day and night,'' carrillo said. ``he was a pretty good mechanic, or so we thought.''
someone finally called the sheriff after seeing cragg bury an almost-new car over the weekend, and a deputy confronted cragg on sunday
after answering a couple of questions, cragg excused himself to go to the bathroom. instead, he climbed out a back bedroom window and fled, foreman said
police found a stolen red corvette in the garage and secured a search warrant, foreman said
three people inside the house at the time were booked for investigation of grand theft auto, a jail deputy in victorville, 10 miles north of here, said. they were identified as cragg's wife, kathy, 27, of hesperia, and brian powell, 26 and sheryl vansanford, 28, both of los angeles county
bail was set at $200,000 each and the three were scheduled for arraignment wednesday in victorville municipal court, the deputy said
on monday, county detectives-turned-archaeologists returned to excavate the cache of stolen property
the car-stripping operation apparently started about five months ago, and foreman said officialos had not idea how many vehicles they might eventually find. he said investigators expect to find even more buried cars in the surrounding desert
that's just a guess at this time,'' said foreman. ``neighbors say he would haul the backhoe out into the desert to bury stuff.'' picks up 6th graf pvs, `he is also...' adds byline.</note>
monsignor eugene a. marino was named roman catholic archbishop of atlanta today and became the first black archbishop in the united states
marino called his appointment ``a great sign of hope to all of our people.''
blacks have a rich religious tradition, but ``not a rich tradition that enriches the catholic church,'' marino said today at a news conference in atlanta
marino said he was ``not one to dodge issues; at the same time i am not one to go out and look for issues for issues' sake.''
he said he would try to follow the example of jesus christ, who ``never quite went out of his way, either to address needs or to avoid addressing needs.''
the appointment was announced by the vatican and in washington by archbishop pio laghi, the apostolic pro-nuncio in the united states
marino, 53 and a member of the josephite order, succeeds archbishop thomas a. donnellan, who died oct. 15. marino has been an auxiliary bishop in washington, d.c., since 1974
he now will be titular head of the roman catholic church in georgia, north carolina and south carolina, although his responsibilities beyond the archdiocese in north georgia are limited
marino said he hopes to expand the number of black catholics in this country. there are about 1.3 million blacks among the 52 million u.s. catholics
marino is the first black catholic archbishop in the united states, said william ryan, spokesman for the united states catholic conference in washington
in 1971, marino became the first black priest to hold the major office of vicar general of a religious community _ the josephite fathers, who are headquartered in washington
he is also the first auxiliary bishop to be elected to high office in the national conference of catholic bishops and the united states catholic conference. his three-year term as secretary of the groups ends in november
marino was born in biloxi, miss., on may 29, 1934. he studied at epiphany apostolic college in newburgh, n.y., from 1952 to 1955, at mary immaculate novitiate, also in newburgh, from 1955 to 1956, and at st. joseph's seminary in washington from 1956 to 1962
he also received a master's degree in religious education from fordham university
marino was ordained the shrine of the immaculate conception in washington on june 9, 1962
he taught at epiphany college from 1962 to 1968, served as spiritual director of st. joseph's seminary from 1968 to 1971 and spiritual director of the permanent diaconate training program for the washington archdiocese from 1969 to 1971
marino was elected to a four-year term as vicar general of the josephite fathers on july 13, 1971, and was serving in that capacity when he was named auxiliary bishop of washington and titular bishop of walla walla, wash., on july 15, 1974
here, at a glance, are the methods for picking delegates from illinois to attend the 1988 democratic and republican national conventions this summer
method: primary
date: tuesday, march 15
candidates filed: bruce babbitt, michael dukakis, richard gephardt, albert gore, gary hart, jesse jackson, paul simon
pledged delegates:173 super delegates: 15 total: 188
delegates allocated: tuesday, march 15
selection of delegates:tuesday, march 15 and saturday, may 7

illinois is a direct-election primary, meaning its 113 congressional district delegates to the democratic national convention are elected directly from the primary ballot
ilinois democrats will be faced with a two-part ballot in the march 15 primary. the top part of the ballot will be a non-binding presidential ``beauty contest,'' and the second part will list the candidates for national convention delegate
the remainder of the state's pledged national convention delegates will be picked by the state central committee on may 7. they will be allocated among presidential candidates in proportion to the number of delegates from congressional districts pledged to the candidates
method: primary
date: tuesday, march 15
candidates filed: george bush, bob dole, jack kemp, pat robertson, pete du pont, alexander haig
delegates: 92
delegates allocated: tuesday, march 15 and thursday, june 16
selection of delegates: tuesday, march 15 and thursday, june 16

illinois republicans have the same kind of two-part presidential ballot as the democrats. the top part of the ballot is a non-binding presidential ``beauty contest,'' while the second part lists the candidates for national convention delegate
the candidates for delegate can have the name of a presidential candidate printed next to their own name on the ballot
eighty-two delegates will be elected directly from the ballot and will be apportioned among congressional districts, ranging from two to five delegates per district. the state's remaining 10 delegates will be elected at-large at the state convention june 16-18
greece will open its first embassy at the vatican in a move that comes in the wake of improving relations between the greek orthodox and roman catholic churches, a senior foreign ministry official said tuesday
the diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the move had no direct connection to easing of 900-year-old religious tensions and pope john paul ii's meeting with orthodox patriarch dimitrios i in december
he said the decision to open the embassy was made before the two met
greece established diplomatic relations with the vatican 10 years ago. its ambassador in paris has been accredited there
the greek orthodox church is one of the autonomous eastern orthodox churches organized mainly along national lines. it recognizes the leadership of the patriarch of constantinople, modern-day istanbul, turkey, rather than that of the pope
the greek diplomat said the decision to send an ambassador was approved by the greek parliament last month. he did not say when an ambassador will be picked
some people in the southern philippines still believe a serpent swallows the sun every night, but those who don't are buying ``eclipse viewers'' at about $2 each to watch a total solar eclipse
davao city is one of the best places to see the eclipse friday morning. it will be visible longer in mati, but you can hardly get there from here or anywhere else
the viewing devices are made of cardboard, in the shape of eyeglasses or scopes, with exposed photographic film as lenses
an estimated 1,500 scientists, journalists and observers from all over the world will bring more elaborate equipment to watch the moon blot out the sun
a department of tourism brochure says the rare phenomenon will be visible friday in three areas: sumatra, indonesia; kkalimantan, borneo, and the southern philippines, where it can be seen longest
nowhere will the view surpass that in the davao area, 600 miles southeast of manila on mindanao island
for three minutes, day will become night as the moon moves between the earth and the sun. darkness is expected to envelop neighboring general santos city at 9:05 a.m.; davao at 9:07 a.m., and mati in adjacent davao oriental province 38 seconds later
along with the makeshift glasses and scopes, the most popular items at sidewalk stalls in advance of the eclipse were baseball caps at $1.50 or less and t-shirts ranging in price from $1.75 to $6
some shirts proclaim ``i was there.''
others depict a man battling a huge serpent wrapped around the sun, representing the ancient belief that the sun disappears each day because the serpent bakunawa swallows it
friday morning could be noisy in davao and general santos city. people who still believe in bakunawa will bang pots and pans in hopes the noise will distract the serpent's attention from the sun
although the eclipse is expected to last longest in mati, the town has been all but ignored in advertisements because it has only two small lodging facilities and is much harder to reach than the davao and general santos, said roger layson, regional tourism officer
officials said most of the visiting scientists, journalists and other foreign observers would stay in general santos. they are expected to spend about $750,000
layson said most of the foreign astronomers are american and british, and most of the other observers japanese. all hotels and other facilities have been booked since january, and tourism authorities have arranged lodgings in private homes for $7.50 to $10 a day
there have been reports of threats by rebels to disrupt the event, but layson said news reporrts of some visitors canceling reservations were ``exaggerated.''
both the moslem rebel moro national liberation front and the communist guerrilla new people's rebels operate in the southern philippines
moslem insurgents said they plan a demonstration in general santos city on friday, the front's 16th anniversary, but rebel sources said it would be peaceful. jordanian citizen reported detained</note>
a woman and her daughter have returned to texas after retired u.s. commandos hired for $200,000 grabbed the girl in jordan where she had been taken by her father in a custody dispute, newspapers reported today
meanwhile, the united states expressed regret to jordan over the incident, and an american embassy officer in amman was recalled to washington for questioning about his knowledge of the affair, state department spokesman charles redman said monday in washington
the philadelphia inquirer reported on saturday that the woman and the commandos entered jordan and seized lauren bayan, 7, from a school bus jan. 28 in jerash, north of amman
the woman had been identified at kathy mahoon, but holly planells, head of american children held hostage, said her name is cathy phelps mahone, the dallas morning news and the dallas times herald reported today
the woman claims her ex-husband, jordanian-born mohammed ali bayan, kidnapped the child and took her to jordan although she was granted custody of the child following a divorce
dallas county court records confirm that a judge granted ms. mahone custody of her daughter, but police say they have no record of the reported kidnapping in september
she (ms. mahone) called me from texas and said they're alive and well and very happy,'' ms. planells, of white plains, n.y., told the morning news on monday
she's really getting assimilated back to american life,'' ms. plannels said, referring to the girl. ``it was a traumatic experience to be away from her mother like that. jordan is a strange place.''
ms. plannels declined to say where ms. mahone is, saying the woman fears her husband ``will try this again.''
ms. mahone, unable to get her daughter back through legal channnels, hired former army commandos to take the girl away from her father, who claimed legal custody of the child under jordanian law, the inquirer reported saturday
corporate training unlimited, a company in fayetteville, n.c., that specializes in ``hostage rescue training,'' plotted and carried out the seizure, the newspaper said
the times herald quoted ms. planells as saying the operation cost ms. mahone $200,000. ms. mahone has mentioned the possibility of a movie deal about the raid, ms. planells said
company president donald feeney denied the story, but other well-placed sources described the company's role, the inquirer said
bayan reported his daughter had been abducted by three americans and he published newspaper advertisements seeking information
sameer salem, a jordanian friend of bayan's, told the associated press that bayan had returned to jordan in fall 1987 after selling a dallas restaurant called the country skillet
the recalled american embassy official, who was not named, had some knowledge prior to the incident that the group had arrived in jordan, redman said. but the officer had been misled as to its intentions
we have expressed regret to the government of jordan for any role that an embassy officer might have played in this violation of jordanian law,'' redman said
there was no official comment from jordanian authorities. however, one jordanian official, who did not want his name used, said a jordanian citizen was involved in getting the girl out of jordan
he said the man was an employee of an agency which does security work for the u.s. embassy and that he had been detained for questioning. he did not give the man's name
about 300 protesters defied police orders and marched in a human chain to demand greater freedom from the communist government, witnesses said tuesday
police did not intervene except to order by loudspeaker that the demonstrators disperse, the witnesses said, speaking on condition of anonymity. the demonstration came monday on the second day of the leipzig trade fair, which draws visitors from 100 nations
the protesters came out of a ``peace prayer'' in the nicholas church in downtown leipzig, marched about 500 yards to another church where they sang songs, and then walked back to where they began, said the witnesses. the protesters voluntarily left after about 40 minutes
they were among more than 1,000 people who attended the prayer service at the lutheran church, according to the witnesses
church officials speaking at the hour-long prayer service were applauded when they demanded greater freedom for east germans and an end to legal actions against those who want to leave the country, the witnesses said
an unidentified church official was quoted as telling the congregation that the country needs laws in line with international conventions
officials of east germany's lutheran church have become increasingly outspoken in favor of improved human rights conditions in the country
the witnesses also said government officials banned a monday night rally where activists had planned to publicize the plight of east germans who are denied the right to leave the country
a nigerian official said tuesday the government will press ahead with its population control project over the objections of christian leaders who argue it favors moslems
the plan to curtail the growth rate in black africa's most populous nation, with about 95 million people, created considerable controversy when it was announced last month. christian leaders said it favored the country's moslem majority because christian men may only have one wife while moslem men can marry up to four women
several prominent women have demanded that the government also institute a plan to limit nigerian men to one wife
the government's population control plan attempts to limit women to four children through education campaigns
air marshal ibrahim alfa of the armed forces ruling council said the government intended to advance the plan anyway. ``this is a policy that will take some time to take hold, and we are quite aware of the problems it would face,'' he said. status</head>
significant changes in the way the veterans administration is being managed should be made whether or not it is elevated to cabinet status, a senate committee was told tuesday
a panel of the national academy of public administration, an independent study group, and the general accounting office, the investigative arm of congress, did not make recommendations on whether the va should become part of the president's cabinet
but in its reports to the senate governmental affairs committee, the seven-member academy panel said it found ``little evidence'' in its study that cabinet-level status would materially improve the va's mission of providing for the present and future needs of veterans
the panel does not believe that such an elevation would significantly improve either access to the president, the adequacy of necessary resources, or the organization, management and delivery of high-quality services and benefits,'' the report said
the panel said it ``does recognize the potential political value of raising the public visibility of the needs of veterans and the programs designed to meet these needs by making va a department in the president's cabinet. however, given the broad political support which already exists for the va and its programs, the gain would be at the margin.''
the gao said signficant changes are needed in the way the va is being managed, and that they should be made whether or not the agency is granted cabinet status
to appropriately manage any large, decentralized organization, top management must have reliable information on each unit's output and the resources used to achieve the output,'' the office said. ``gao reports have documented situations in which top managers were unaware of inefficient or poor quality services because they lacked complete, reliable and accurate data and the incentives to use those data to improve service delivery.''
the gao recommended that the va's deputy administrator, or the undersecretary if the va is made a cabinet department, be given the responsibility for the agency's day-to-day management
the academy panel said it had seen reports of internal weaknesses in the va. however, it concluded that a cabinet department is not required to make necessary improvements, ``although the creation of more presidential appointments could improve the quality of veterans programs by attracting better managers.''
a cabinet-level va could possibly achieve more uniformity of broad, cross-cutting national policy goals, the panel conceded. however, it said, ``there are other mechanisms now in place or available which have been, and could be, used to accomplish these purposes whether or not the va is elevated to be a cabinet department although cabinet status might make the current mechanisms work more effectively.''
president reagan has endorsed legislation to raise the va to cabinet status. the house passed a similar bill last nov. 17. there also has been strong support in the senate for passage of the legislation
the va is an independent agency created in 1930. it provides health, disability, pension and death benefits to veterans, as well as loans and educational programs
judges in john demjanjuk's war crimes trial granted a defense request tuesday to admit new evidence from 15 holocaust survivors who failed to identify the retired ohio autoworker as a nazi guard
defense attorney yoram sheftel said the new evidence casts doubt on testimony from five treblinka death camp survivors who identified demjanjuk from a 1942 photograph as ``ivan the terrible.'' prisoners used that nickname for the guard who operated gas chambers that killed 850,000 jews in nazi-occupied poland
there are 15 statements of treblinka survivors who did not identify demjanjuk as ivan versus five who did,'' sheftel told israel radio. ``this evidence is extremely substantial and extremely important.''
the three-judge panel interrupted its deliberations tuesday to consider the new evidence during a special session in jerusalem district court. demjanjuk's year-long trial ended feb. 18
the judges set a court session for monday to allow prosecutors and defense attorneys to address the new evidence in summary arguments, assistant prosecutor eliyahu avram said
the ukrainian-born demjanjuk, 67, retired as a cleveland-area autoworker and says he is the victim of mistaken identity
sheftel said the latest evidence also includes statements revealing there were at least six nazi guards who resembled demjanjuk at treblinka
sheftel said he received the new evidence last week. a federal judge in washington ordered the justice department to release the documents after demjanjuk's family sued for them under the freedom of information act
capitol police, who have arrested visitors carrying an uzi machine gun, a pistol disguised as a beeper and soda bottles containing explosives, are worried about a 147 percent surge in weapons seizures at the capitol last year
the police confiscated 1,162 weapons from visitors entering the capitol or six adjacent house and senate office buildings in 1987, up from 470 weapons seizures the previous year, according to house sergeant at arms jack russ
russ is citing these figures to lobby for an $18.5 million plan to tighten security on the house side of the capitol, including bombproof glass around the visitors' gallery overlooking the house chamber
russ said in an interview that most of the weapons last year were seized from visitors who were unaware of gun control restrictions at the capitol and had no criminal intent. these included constituents carrying out-of-state gun permits that are invalid on the capitol grounds
of the 1,162 arrests on illegal weapons charges last year, he said, only 63 were prosecuted, compared with 50 arrests prosecuted in 1986
the house security plan being pushed by russ calls for spending $4.2 million to install shatterproof glass shields around the house visitors' gallery and modify seats on the chamber floor to protect against bomb blasts
he also is requesting a $4.7 million emergency telephone system to alert every house office immediately to a terrorist attack, $413,352 worth of additional bomb detectors in house office buildings, a $3.5 million electronic card system for access to house garages, and a $5.7 million alarm system connecting home-district offices with local police
strict anti-terrorist proposals, such as placing a wrought iron security fence around the capitol grounds and glass enclosures around the house and senate galleries, have been widely criticized in the past
many legislators argue that the capitol, as a symbol of open democracy, should be easily accessible to the public. but russ says this is unrealistic because of growing security threats
i think everybody _ me included _ would like the easy-going atmosphere of a mayberry rfd police force, with a friendly cop directing traffic,'' russ said. ``but in this day and time, you also need a high-tech, well-trained police department. you've got to have both.''
russ outlined his plan last week at a house appropriations subcommittee hearing on the proposed $1.96 billion budget for congressional operations next year, and plans to seek spending authority from a separate house committee
still awaiting action by the house and senate leadership is a more sweeping security plan that calls for fencing in the capitol plaza, a parking ban on the east front plaza and gatehouses to screen visitors before they enter the capitol grounds
although only authorized vehicles are permitted to enter the capitol grounds, pedestrians may enter unhindered and are not screened for illegal weapons until enter the capitol building itself, or adjacent office buildings
the comprehensive security plan for the entire capitol area has been approved by the capitol police board, consisting of the house and senate sergeants at arms, the capitol police chief and the architect of the capitol
a $13 million appropriation to implement the plan remains largely unspent, awaiting a final go-ahead from congressional leaders. russ said he hopes the leaders will meet before the end of april to review the broader plan
meanwhile, police are using hydraulically operated, steel street barricades to halt unauthorized vehicles at the two main traffic entrances to the capitol grounds. in addition, large concrete flower and shrubbery pots stand along driveways and sidewalks to thwart any attempted truck bombings of the capitol. meanwhile, but deletes last 3 grafs pvs to trim.</note>
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir registered his objections today to a mideast peace conference and secretary of state george p. shultz said the two had been unable to bridge their differences on a u.s. proposal for negotiations on settling the arab-israeli conflict
but both pledged to continue their efforts. president reagan, in a speech to an american jewish audience, described the situation in the middle east as ``urgent.''
reagan also gave assurances in talking to the united jewish appeal that ``we will not leave israel to stand alone, nor will we acquiesce in any effort to gang up on israel.'' the president added: ``peace will not be imposed by us or by anyone else. it will and must come from the genuine give-and-take of negotiations. that's what we're working to set in motion now.''
emerging with shamir from a 90-minute session at the state department, shultz said ``we haven't found our way to bridge all of the differences.'' but, he said, ``i see quite clearly what the nature of the difference are and what they aren't.''
shultz did not offer any details, but shamir underscored a major disagreement with the plan for negotiations shultz devised two weeks ago and proposed to arab and israeli leaders
we are interested, first of all, to negotiate directly with all the parties concerned,'' shamir said. ``we don't see any positive role for an international conference.''
shultz's plan would have an international conference attended by the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france convene last month and set the stage for negotiations between israel and a mixed jordanian-palestinian delegation by may 1
shamir is concerned the soviet union and china, which do not have relations with israel, would try to tilt the outcome in the arabs' favor
shultz called his session with shamir ``very constructive and worthwhile'' and said ``we feel encouraged to continue our efforts to work with israel and others in the middle east to seek greater stability, constructive and peaceful relations in the region.''
shamir said their talk was `'very serious and thorough.'' he pledged to cooperate with shultz and others in the u.s. government ``to get peace and to enhance the prospects for peace in our area.''
shamir, meanwhile, added pat robertson, a television evangelist seeking the repulbicn presidential nomination, to his afternoon schedule
in a tough speech monday night to an american jewish group, shamir said yielding territory on the west bank and gaza would invite another attempt by the arabs to destroy israel
these matters are questions of life and death, of our very existence,'' shamir told a united jewish appeal group
shultz's plan for peace talks anticipates israel relinquishing at least some of the territory in exchange for arab recognition of the jewish state
but shamir said ``the two most dangerous attempts to destroy us'' _ in the 1948 and 1967 wars _ were made when israel did not control the territories
during a stop in new york monday to meet with american jewish leaders, and then in an arrival statement at andrews air force base outside washington, the israeli prime minister made it clear he would not give shultz a yes-or-no answer on the peace plan
instead, shamir seemed intent on persuading the reagan administration to revise its blueprint. it calls for a peace conference by may 1 to set up palestinian self-rule for three years, and then negotiations by december on an overall settlement
a senior u.s. official, briefing reporters at the white house under rules of anonymity, appeared to rule out any major revisions in the proposal shultz gave 10 days ago to israel, jordan, syria and egypt
the official acknowledged ``it gives pain to all of the parties,'' but he said ``we won't let any aspect be eroded or compromised.''
so far, the official said, israel and the arabs had not rejected the plan, which he called an improvement over the 1978 camp david agreements that produced a peace treaty between egypt and israel but failed to resolve the palestinian problem
shamir, who met briefly monday with shultz and defense secretary frank c. carlucci, had a busy schedule today. it began with breakfast with shultz at his home, lengthy talks with him at the state department and meetings with treasury secretary james a. baker iii and congressional leaders
the israeli leader sees president reagan on wednesday
while shamir promised to keep an open mind in the talks, he took a hard line on israel's retention of the west bank and gaza in his speech monday night
i am astonished at some people's short memory,'' shamir said. ``did we have peace when we did not have these territories? don't they remember that the two most dangerous attempts to destroy us _ in 1948 and in 1967 _ were made when we did not control any of these territories? do they want us to go back to a situation which would inevitably invite another such attempt?''
referring to the recent violence on the west bank and in gaza in which 91 palestinians have perished, shamir said ``it is not a war for a palestinian state in those areas. it is a war against israelis, against the existence of the state of israel.''
he said israel's enemies, ``taking a leaf from the ayatollah khomeini's war manual,'' had incited women and teen-agers to fight a war of violence in the streets. ``i promise you,'' shamir said. ``they will fail again.''
his hesitation to respond directly to the u.s. plan for negotiations did not seem to distress the reagan administration. ``we are not pressing israel,'' the senior u.s. official said
however, he said, ``it is the situation in the area which is pressing israel and all the other parties in the area.''
shamir did not disclose the revisions he will propose to shultz, who devised the plan and set this week as a deadline for a reply from the israeli and jordanian governments. name and spelling of ``irvine.''</note>
the protective ozone layer over the united states appears to have shrunk about 2.3 percent since 1969, scientists said today in the most thorough study yet of ozone depletion
experts have estimated that a 1 percent depletion could mean a 5 percent to 6 percent increase in skin cancers
but today's report from the national aeronautics and space administration, the work of more than 100 experts over 17 months, put the annual ozone depletion over the mid-latitudes of the northern hemisphere at a much higher rate
those latitudes, 30 degrees to 64 degrees, take in all of the united states except southern texas, louisiana and florida and extend halfway up canada's yukon territory
the scientists laid the responsibility for the ozone depletion squarely on chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs), chemicals used to power some aerosol sprays
at this point there is no other culprit to blame,'' said sherwood rowland of the university of california at irvine. ``we have taken out all the natural phenomena that are believed to affect ozone.''
the report also said that the annual springtime depletion of ozone over antarctica appears to be diluting ozone yearround over the southern hemisphere to about 60 degrees southern latitude, a point midway between the tip of the antarctic peninsula and cape horn at the southern tip of south america
rowland, who headed one nasa study groups, said the scientists had re-examined years of ground-based and satellite observations of the atmosphere to remove the normal biennial fluctuations of many atmospheric characteristics and also the effects of the 11-year solar cycle
the ground-based observations were limited to mid-latitudes in the northern hemisphere because there are few stations elsewhere in the world. but never before have scientists re-analyzed the monthly data at differing latitudes to try to remove the solar and biennial fluctuations
ozone in the atmosphere 15 miles to 25 miles up filters out the sun's ultraviolet rays, making life on earth possible. the same ultraviolet breaks up the cfc compounds, liberating chlorine, which in turn destroys ozone
ozone is a pollutant on the ground, but cfcs don't break up there _ not enough ultraviolet gets through
cfcs were banned as aerosol propellants in the united states in 1978, and worldwide emissions declined. there was one report in 1983 from the national academy of sciences that said future ozone decline would be only 2 percent to 4 percent
but cfc use started growing again, in part because one compound turned out to be ideal for cleaning computer chips and other electronic parts. other major uses are for refrigeration fluids and as blowing agents in making plastic foams
then an annual ozone ``hole'' over the antarctic was discovered, and records going back to 1958 showed that it hadn't happened before the late 1970s
discovery of the ozone hole _ an annual antarctic springtime plunge in ozone concentrations, last year by a record 50 percent _ spurred treaty negotiators last fall in montreal
the environmental protection agency has estimated that a 1 percent thinning of the earth's ozone shield means a 5 percent to 6 percent increase in skin cancer. if cfc use continued increasing at 2.5 percent per year, epa said, 20 percent of the ozone barrier could be gone in the next century
today's report came one day after the senate, on a vote of 83-0, became the first major chemical-producing nation to ratify a 31-country treaty cutting emissions that damage the earth's protective ozone layer
the treaty commits the signers to a 50 percent cut from 1986 levels in production of compounds called chlorofluorocarbons, cfcs, by 1998
the treaty will be officially ratified when the president signs it. though the united states will be the first major producer of cfc compounds to ratify, it is not the first ratifier _ that is mexico
under the treaty, epa says, the decline would slow to the point where it would be swamped by the normal year-to-year fluctuations
the soviet union has several cfc plants under construction, and won concessions permitting it to exceed the treaty limits for a time _ which led to a soviet treaty signature in december. similar provisions were made for developing countries. if those exceptions are used, the environmental defense fund has estimated, the actual 1998 rollback in emissions could be 35 percent instead of 50 percent. after 3rd pvs with time of interview not stated</note>
in an interview with his biographer, porno actor john c. holmes said he did not know who was responsible for a multiple murder in which he was a suspect, a newspaper reported today
holmes said that during the hours before four people were bludgeoned to death and a fifth was maimed at a house in laurel canyon on july 1, 1981, he was held at gunpoint at another house
the los angeles times, relying on two unidentified sources familiar with the manuscript of holmes' as-yet-unpublished biography, reported that after his captors let him go, he went to the house where the killings occurred and discovered the bodies
the biography is based on extensive interviews with the actor, but it was not clear when those interviews were conducted. one of the sources said: ``john ... did not know up to the time of his death who did the murders. he was not there when it happened.''
holmes died early sunday at the veterans administration medical center in sepulveda at the age of 43. he died of pneumonia brought on by aids, his second wife, laurie, said monday
holmes, a leading sex film actor of the 1970s and early '80s, was tried and acquitted in the murders in 1982. at the time of the killings, holmes was a cocaine addict
within the last six weeks, homicide detectives again questioned holmes about his role in the killings, but he either refused or was unable to answer, the times reported
attorneys james m. eisenman and william d kibanow confirmed monday that a biography of holmes has been offered to several publishers, but they declined to discuss its contents. the lawyers represent mrs. holmes, 24, and her husband's estate. the biographer's name was not revealed
holmes had been hospitalized with acquired immune deficiency syndrome since november
authorities have theorized that the laurel canyon killings were committed to avenge an armed robbery of nightclub owner adel nasrallah, also known as eddie nash
former deputy district attorney ronald s. coen, who prosecuted the case, said holmes was a middleman between nash and a theft ring
coen said holmes set up the armed robbery of nasrallah and later was forced to lead the killers to the laurel canyon house where members of the ring were staying
washington (apents
you find me a professor anywhere in north america that can handle 3,169 questions _ and they weren't stupid questions,'' phillips said
students who miss phillips' lecture on the first day of class can only guess at the appearance of the professor known by his computer address ``gmp.''
one says she's going to track me down to see what i look like and talk to me face to face. i said `catch me if you can,''' said phillips
one student who asked that her name not be used said the course puts too much emphasis on computer communication
it's like e-mail is god,'' she said. ``it really shouldn't bere has to be some communication that is one-on-one.''
others disagree
i don't think we've suffered any because we e like that. thhaven't seen him face to face,'' said michael guerin, a senior operations management major from rochester, n.y. ``he's readily available on the computer.''
phillips has a contract to write a book on the course, which he said has generated widespread interest
we've been visited by educators from norway, australia and japan. a lot of people are looking over our shoulder in this process,'' he said
warner burke, a professor at teachers college of columbia university, said phillips' emphasis on mimicking a corporate hierarchy hinders the students' understanding of how they come to their decisions
here our goals are understanding the group process, not just decision making,'' said burke, director psychology. ``the most important aspect of group processes is non-verbal behavior.''
two married department of corrections guards have been charged with conspiring to kill two robbery witnesses for $50,000, authorities said
the couple were to present their victims' index fingers as proof the contract was completed, prosecutors said
wayne lyle cox, 48, and linda rae cox, 36, both of navasota, were being held tuesday in harris county jail in lieu of $250,000 bond each
the coxes were correctional officers at the pack 1 unit in navasota. cox had worked for the prison system for nearly six years, while mrs. cox had been employed for nearly five years, said tdc spokesman david nunnelee
the case developed after a harris county prisoner fighting extradition to arkansas on charges of robbing a jewelry store began spreading word about seeking a contract killing for two store employees, said prosecutor jon munier
before long, an undercover officer made contact with the coxes, who discussed the planned killing in recorded conversations, munier said
on march 11, cox accepted $10,000 from the undercover officer as a downpayment on the job, munier said
the intended victims remain under guard in arkansas, munier said
those people aren't the only hit teams this guy's got,'' munier said. ``he's been robbing zales jewelry stores in texas and all over, and he's got a lot of money to spend.''
david bowie, jennifer rush, u-2 and other western rock groups will join soviet musicians for a series of concerts to raise money to fight drug addiction
the concerts, originally scheduled for this month, are to take place in late april, the novosti press agency said
novosti did not give a date, but said the three six-hour concerts will be held at the 30,000-seat olympic stadium in moscow
the agency did not say why they were delayed, but sources close to the organizers blamed the postponement on bureaucratic red tape
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said former beatles george harrison and paul mccartney, as well as julian lennon, the son of the late beatle john lennon, had been invited. it was unclear whether they would participate
the press agency said revenue from ticket sales will be donated to the united nations fund for the struggle against drug addiction and to the soviet toxicology research center
sponsors include several soviet organizations and trade companies from the united states, west germany and hungary
soviet officials denied reports of drug abuse in the country until mikhail s. gorbachev's campaign for greater openness. now, newspaper stories often point out the problems and have disclosed there are 50,000 diagnosed addicts and many more who may be undiagnosed
novosti said musicians from 10 north american and european countries will peform along with several soviet groups. among the foreign groups that have agreed to perform, novosti said, are level 42, supertramp, u-2, foreigner, tangerine dream, bon jovi, jennifer rush and david bowie
participating soviet groups are aquarium, bravo, brigade s, black coffee and others whose music ranges from heavy metal to traditional rock 'n' roll, according to novosti
tickets will be about $16, much more expensive than for the average soviet concert. when billy joel performed in moscow last summer, tickets sold for a little under $8
the crimefighting guardian angels illegally solicited $17,863 in florida last year and will be fined $450 for failing to comply with charity laws, officials say
the division of licensing cited the group last month for violations in the first half of 1987. the guardian angels were cited for soliciting funds without a license, hiring a private fund-raiser without reporting it, failing to maintain records of contributions and failing to have identification as a charitable group while soliciting, said division spokesman alan c. rollins
angels founder curtis a. sliwa, whose red-bereted army patrols subways and neighborhoods in several cities, blamed the violations on ignorance
the new york city-based alliance of guardian angels inc. now complies with florida laws, state spokesman rollins said. in reports filed last year, the group said it received $17,863 and spent about $10,000
new york state records show the angels received $117,139 nationwide last year, not including the value of free rent and services. the group has debts of $122,086
two postal clerks who survived the edmond post office massacre that killed 14 of their co-workers plan to marry in april
debbie smith and steven brehm said they will tie a yellow bow around a gazebo post at the park where they say their vows to mark the memory of those who were killed aug. 20, 1986, by gunman patrick sherrill
it is as if our friends will be there,'' said ms. smith
ms. smith and brehm had been dating before the shooting. brehm has since transferred to the lincoln, neb., post office, and ms. smith is on assignment in oklahoma city, although she has applied for a transfer to lincoln
we still have nightmares,'' ms. smith said. ``but it's time we get on with our lives,'' brehm added
the couple escaped sherrill's gunfire by running separately out doors before the gunman returned and locked them. sherrill fatally shot himself to end the siege
vietnam is investigating another 29 possible cases of americans who never returned home from the vietnam war, a u.s. military official said tuesday
the latest inquiry could represent a significant step in resolving the fates of nearly 1,800 americans listed as missing in action since the united states withdrew its troops in 1973
the vietnamese told us they are investigating 29 instances where they have received information, material or remains,'' said lt. col. joe harvey. ``but they said it will take at least three weeks for them to draw any conclusions from these investigations or to have remains to repatriate.''
harvey, commander of the u.s. joint casualty resolution center based in hawaii, returned tuesday from four days of what he described as ``positive and productive'' talks on accounting for the mias. it was the fourth round of negotiations since retired gen. john w. vessey, a presidential envoy, visited vietnam in august and the vietnamese agreed to end a deadlock on the mia issue
harvey said his team provided new information to the vietnamese. he said it also visited the crash site of an american aircraft near the major northern port of haiphong, about 60 miles southeast of hanoi, but he gave no details
at least 27 u.s. aircraft were shot down when the united states in december 1972 launched air strikes in the hanoi-haiphong area to pressure the communists into signing a peace agreement
harvey's team is composed of six experts from the casualty center and the army central identification laboratory. nguyen can, deputy director of the foreign ministry's north american affairs department, headed the vietnamese side at the talks
vessey had asked the vietnamese to give top priority to resolving 70 ``discrepancy cases,'' in which the united states says there is strong evidence that vietnamese officials know the fates of the missing americans. these include cases where americans failed to emerge from prisoner of war camps
since vessey's talks, vietnam has returned remains it believes are those of americans three times. the most recent, on march 2, involved 17 sets of remains _ the largest turnover in two years and the fourth largest since the war ended. the vietnamese also turned over reports on three other mia cases
in exchange for vietnamese cooperation on the mia issue, washington has sent medical teams to vietnam four times and encouraged private u.s. agencies to provide assistance to war-disabled vietnamese. it has rejected calls for official aid because of continued u.s. opposition to vietnam's 9-year-old military occupation of cambodia. successor; subs 18th graf pvs, bgng: in 1974, to correct that predecessor's defeat, sted death, gave rodino the chairmanship</note>
the changing face of his home district finally caught up with rep. peter rodino, an italian-american who spent 20 terms crusading for civil rights but who is now reluctantly giving up his house seat to make way for a black successor
the new jersey democrat, who gained national prominence when he chaired the impeachment hearings of former president richard nixon, yielded monday to calls from minority constituents who want one of their own to represent them
rodino, 78, one of the most senior members of the house and chairman of its powerful judiciary committee, issued a statement saying he would step aside in january
texas rep. jack brooks, the next ranking democrat on the committee the past 13 years, will be rodino's likely successor
chairing that committee would be an honor and a privilege should my colleagues extend me that opportunity next year,'' said brooks, who currently heads the house government operations committee
brooks would have to be officially named by the democratic steering and policy committee and elected by the democratic caucus. committee members said they expected brooks to be the next chairman
it is not without a sense of sadness that i am announcing my decision to retire from the congress at the end of this term,'' rodino said
although he did not mention the demands of blacks and other minorities, who now comprise the majority in his district, rodino had been under increasing pressure to step aside. a host of black leaders _ most notably democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson _ lauded his record but urged him to make way for what would be new jersey's first black member of congress
in his statement, rodino said, ``i believe that my part of the journey in this great american experiment is at its end. i feel i have served my time and a purpose.''
rodino arrived in washington in 1948, a 38-year-old lawyer from an italian neighborhood in newark, n.j., eager to represent the bustling city in congress
he became an institution in the intervening 40 years: fighting for liberal legislation, controlling one of congress' most powerful committees and helping write into history the downfall of a president
but in those same years, newark decayed from the heart of the garden state into the brunt of jokes. rodino's political base eroded, and three black democrats, including two newark city councilmen, announced plans this year to seek his 10th congressional district seat
rodino, respected even by those calling on him to retire, had survived earlier challenges. in 1984 and 1986, he won re-election even though jackson went to newark to lead the retirement calls himself
backers, both black and white, noted rodino served as house floor manager for the landmark civil rights act of 1966 and wrote the 1982 voting rights act. he is an honorary member of the congressional black caucus and has been honored by the naacp
rodino is a good man,'' jackson told the new york times in 1986. ``that's not the issue. we can have a good man and black man from new jersey at the same time.''
during his fight two years ago, rodino hinted strongly he would retire after another two-year term. he said said he wanted to stay in congress to counter the reagan presidency
but, as rodino began last year to raise campaign funds and plan for re-election, black and white leaders in his party accused him of breaking a promise
aides said he wrote the resignation statement in his capitol hill office on monday, then left for his home. the announcement brought immediate accolades for rodino
i will miss his knowledge and his friendship. he sets an extraordinarily high standard for whomever will succeed him,'' said sen. bill bradley, d-n.j
rodino served nearly 20 years as a representative before being thrust into the national spotlight
in 1974, barely a year after his predecessor's defeat in a renomination battle gave rodino the judiciary committee gavel, the panel was charged with reviewing nixon's role in the watergate affair
the televised proceedings won rodino respect for his evenhanded handling of an emerging national crisis. in an interview last year, rodino recalled weeping after he and a majority of committee members voted to deliver articles of impeachment to the full house
nixon resigned before the house voted
rodino also served on the house iran-contra committee, which investigated the reagan administration's handling of the sale of arms to iran and the funneling of profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels. he has been harshly critical of the reagan administration's handling of the arms-for-hostages debacle
president reagan today urged clemency for the ``sharpeville six'' in south africa, saying such action would be ``welcomed by all americans.''
the six blacks are scheduled to be hanged friday for being in a mob outside a home where a township official was killed
in johannesburg, south africa, the justice ministry said president p.w. botha has refused to block the hangings, but added that any further petitions for mercy would be given ``careful consideration.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters, ``the president urges clemency for the sharpeville six in south africa on compassionate and humanitarian grounds.''
we implore the south african government to respond favorably to these requests,'' fitzwater said. ``an act of compassion such as this by the south african government would be welcomed by all americans.''
our disgust for apartheid has been stated many times, and we continue to speak out for its total elimination,'' the spokesman said
he said the administration was appealing directly to south african officials for clemency, as well as making the paublic statement
he said the united states had previously appealed for clemency in the case through public statements, support of a resolution in the united nations and representations at diplomatic talks in geneva
we are making this view known officially as well as publicly to the south african government,'' he said
a federal official urged congress tuesday to eliminate the penalties that face states whose drivers ignore the 55 mph speed limit, but two senior lawmakers said they are writing bills that would do just the opposite
reps. james howard, d-n.j., chairman of the house public works and transportation committee, and glenn anderson, d-calif., who heads the public works surface transportation subcommittee, said they are working on measures that would extend the penalties to states that have adopted the 65 mph limit
states with 55 mph limits can lose up to 10 percent of their federal highway aid if monitors find that more than half their motorists are driving too fast. but when two laws were passed last year allowing 65 mph driving on many rural highways, the penalties were not extended to roads where states allow the faster speeds
the states are clearly in the best position to determine where speed enforcement is needed to enhance safety,'' diane k. steed, chief of the national highway traffic safety administration, said in a statement delivered to anderson's panel. ``they should be able to deploy enforcement personnel accordingly, without the threat of losing federal funds.''
lawmakers from the 11 states that have retained the 55 mph limit have complained that it is unfair for their states to face the loss of federal assistance while states that permit faster driving cannot be penalized for motorists speeding on 65 mph roads
anderson said he is writing a bill that would apply the penalties to 65 mph highways. an aide said the measure could be ready in a week
the states simply have no economic incentive to enforce the speed limit laws on higher speed routes,'' anderson said of present conditions
during a break in the hearing, howard said he is shaping a bill that could roll back the number of miles of roads where 65 mph driving is allowed, and make it easier for 65 mph states to be penalized for drivers violating the speed limit
it's a more dangerous speed,'' he said of 65 mph. europe</head>
the united states should give top priority to negotiating reductions of 50 percent to 75 percent in conventional military forces in the soviet union, and eastern and western europe, former u.n. ambassador jeane kirkpatrick said tuesday
mrs. kirkpatrick also said she believes the united states should continue restrictions on trade with moscow in an effort to win human rights improvements inside the soviet union
so long as the soviets do not permit the free flow of people across the borders i do not believe it is appropriate for us to permit the free flow of goods across borders,'' she said
at the same time, she said she is not opposed on principle to expanding u.s.-soviet trade ``as long as the trade is profitable to us and does not subsidize them.''
mrs. kirkpatrick commented at a hearing of the commission on security and cooperation in europe which was organized to monitor soviet compliance with the human rights provisions of the helsinki accords
she said it was not ``inappropriate'' for the united states to have signed the new intermediate-range nuclear forces agreement eliminating medium-range nuclear missiles worldwide
but she said she does not believe that agreements reducing specific nuclear weapons systems are very important as long as the soviet union and its warsaw pact allies retain superiority in conventional forces
i think the top priority of the united states should be to negotiate real reductions _ 50 percent to 75 percent _ in conventional forces in eastern europe, the soviet union and western europe,'' she said
the hearing was convened to explore the impact on the nations of eastern europe of the reforms insituted in the soviet union by mikhail s. gorbachev, general secretary of the soviet communist party
mrs. kirkpatrick called those reforms important, said they should not be belittled and said of gorbachev: ``i believe his sincerity cannot be reasonably questioned.''
i think in fact gorbachev is the kind of man who would like to dismantle the structure of oppression'' in order to revitalize the stagnant soviet economy and retain his nation's superpower status, she said
he has made ... significant steps toward the release of political prisoners and dissidents in the soviet union,'' she said
i think that for both internal and external reasons gorbachev has concluded that repression and reliance on force is undesirable,'' she said. ``what we don't know is how far he is willing to go.''
mrs. kirkpatrick said there is relatively little u.s. policy can do to influence the soviets as the gorbachev policies of glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) run their course
responding to questions, she said she does not believe that u.s. negotiators should hold agreement on reductions in intercontinental strategic nuclear weapons hostage to soviet agreement to make human rights improvements
i'm not personally in favor of using arms reduction to win concessions in human rights,'' she said
a colorful new english-language tabloid hit the streets tuesday in montreal, the best-served newspaper market in canada with six dailies
the splashy montreal daily news was an instant success in this bilingual city. many newsstands sold out of the first press run of 80,000 copies
with minority-interest financial backing from britain's robert maxwell, owner of the london daily mirror, the new tabloid features color pictures and the blue-collar standbys of sport, crime and sex
the lead headline was ``out _ no appeal for turk refugees,'' a story about the deportation of 40 turks
the principal owner of the paper is pierre peladeau, whose company quebecor inc. also produces canada's leading french-language daily, le journal de montreal
peladeau said he was prepared to invest $20 million in the tabloid in the next five years to firmly establish it in an english-language market previously monopolized by the serious-toned broadsheet montreal gazette, circulation 196,000
the daily news is the gazette's first direct competitor since the montreal star folded in 1979. canada's second-biggest city is also served by the french dailies la presse, le devoir and le matin
the gazette launched a new sunday edition feb. 28, but daily news publisher george maclaren said, ``we're not publishing on sunday. if the advertisers want to try us, they'll try us anyway.''
the new paper has an editorial staff of 76, many of whom sipped champagne as the first issue ran off the presses
we're starting from scratch, and just about everybody is under 30,'' said business reporter pierre goad, 26
cbs seems to have reclaimed the top spot in the news nielsens as the glow of the winter olympics wears off abc
for the week ending march 11, the ``cbs evening news'' had an average rating of 11.1 and a 21 share, its second win in a row. abc's ``world news tonight'' had a 10.2 and a 19 share. ``nbc nightly news'' had a 9.4 and 18 share
the rating is the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions. the share is a percentage of sets in use
after a lengthy reign at the top of the news ratings last summer, nbc is now struggling in third, although the close ratings make the news race virtually a three-way tie
we're in the middle of a big investigation,'' said nbc analyst gerald jaffe. he said the network is awaiting more information from nielsen on the february sweeps before deciding whether the slide is a result of nielsen's new people-meter sample or a real decline in viewership
jaffe pointed out that results from the november sweeps showed nbc with a distinct disadvantage in local news lead-in. nbc affiliates had an average rating of 11.5, which ``nightly news'' improved on, to 11.9
cbs had the best advantage. its affiliates had an average rating of 12.9, and the network newscast improved on that to 13.1. abc affiliates averaged a 12.0 rating and the network broadcast was a 12.3
network news is an island in a sea of local news,'' said jaffe. ``if the local news is going down, there's not much you can do to keep the network news from going down, too.''
if the winter olympics helped abc to first in news, nbc can look forward to potentially the same boost when it carries the summer olympics
soviet foreign minister eduard a. shervardnadze will visit washington on march 20-23 to continue preparations for a superpower summit meeting, the soviet union said tuesday
shevardnadze's trip is part of a series of meetings with secretary of state george p. shultz to iron out differences on an agreement to cut the superpowers' long-range nuclear missiles by 50 percent and discuss other disagreements between the superpowers
at the end of shultz's visit to moscow on feb. 22, he told a news conference that shevardnadze would travel to washington on march 22-23. there was no immediate explanation why two days had been added to shevardnadze's visit
shultz said he and shevardnadze directed their arms negotiators in geneva to draft verification and other key parts of a treaty on strategic weapons by the time of shevardnadze's visit
he said is was ``extremely important'' to speed up work on the treaty if it is to be signed by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and president reagan during an expected summit meeting in moscow in late may or early june
gennady i. gerasimov, head of the soviet foreign ministry's information department, told a news briefing tuesday that shevardnadze will meet with reagan and hold several sessions with shultz
the soviet news agency tass said friday that u.s. assistant secretary of state richard murphy made no progress in talks with shevardnadze on the middle east conflict, and that the two sides had agreed to continue the discussion during shevardnadze's visit to washington
the white house, pushing for new aid to the nicaraguan rebels, told congressional leaders today the sandinista regime appears to be preparing ``an all-out death blow'' against the contras, spokesman marlin fitzwater said
describing a lengthy meeting in which president reagan discussed the possibility of a new contra aid package with lawmakers, spokesman marlin fitzwater quoted national security adviser colin powell as saying: ``the resistance program is on the verge of collapse. it's only a matter of weeks.''
fitzwater said reagan ``asked for bipartisan support to keep the resistance from withering away and to prevent a dismantling of the infrastructure that supports the contras.''
the spokesman said that in the cabinet room meeting, ``general powell outlined the buildup of sandindista forces for an offensive in the bocay valley, and it was indicated that sandinista forces appear to be preparing to launch an all-out death blow to the contras by destroying the supplies now in major contra camps.''
there was a considerable discussion of this turn of events .. and the implication that has for the peace process,'' fitzwater said. but he stressed that no decisions were reached in the meeting about how to proceed with a humanitarian aid package
i think everyone in there agreed it was a time to look forward and to talk about how to fashion a new package, and let the fights and arguments in the past stay there,'' the spokesman said. ``there was no anger. ... everyone, i think, was intense in the sense that they think this was a time of decision for the national government.''
i think it's important to point out that everyone in that session agreed a cease fire is what we're going after and that if you get a cease fire, that relieves the tension for lethal aid and for an awful lot of other kinds of aid,'' he said. ``the important thing now is the humanitarian package that we could use to meet their human needs.''
reagan, speaking to the prime ministers club earlier, accused the sandinistas of practicing religious oppression, particularly against jews. he said president daniel ortega's government had aligned itself with libya, cuba and the palestine liberation organization
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, talking to reporters following today's meeting reagan, reiterated that he would be willing to reconsider a $30 million humanitarian aid package that was defeated 216-208 in the house on march 3
we told the president that we had worked very diligently, democrats and republicans, to put together a package'' which was defeated, wright said. ``we would be glad to run it again if they (the house republicans) would be of a mind to vote for it.''
wright said it would be virtually impossible to suspend house rules to get a vote on a new package this week, as the administration wants
and one congressional supporter of renewed contra aid, sen. david boren, d-okla., said an aid package he has been working on was ``on hold'' for the moment while aid backers look for a way to get agreement in the house, always the most problematic hurdle on the contra issue
reagan, appearing before the prime ministers club, a group of approximately 150 supporters of the united jewish appeal, said that among other reasons the united states should support the contra rebels is the oppression of jews in nicaragua
few regimes today so blatantly sanction and practice official anti-semitism as the sandinista communists in nicaragua,'' reagan said. ``the jewish community has been forced out almost entirely. managua's one synagogue has been defaced and firebombed. ... ''
nicaragua has officially aligned itself with moammar gadhafi,'' he said, ``and, of course, the plo _ an organization that has again revealed its true colors, opposing our efforts for peace and trumpeting its responsibility for a sickening terrorist attack on a bus carrying israeli men, woman and children.''
reagan said the sandinistas ``have led the way in sponsoring anti-israel resolutions in united nations. so i think it's time that some in congress who want to turn away from the reality of left-wing anti-semitism face the facts about the anti-semitism of the sandinistas as well as their ties to the plo and other terrorist groups.''
it is the nicaraguan freedom fighters who are resisting this kind of moral corruption,'' he said. ``it is the freedom fighters who are fighting for the political, civil and human rights of jews and christians in nicaragua.''
the rebels and the sandinista government have agreed to sit down and talk about their 7-year-old civil war on march 21-23 in the town of sapoa, nicaragua, 90 miles south of managua near the costa rican border
adolfo calero, a political director of the umbrella opposition group the nicaraguan resistance, is expected to represent the rebels, and defense minister humberto ortega, brother of nicaraguan president daniel ortega, is to represent the leftist sandinista government
nicaraguan cardinal miguel obando y bravo, who was removed as mediator for the talks, will attend as a witness, along with joao baena soares, secretary general of the organization of american states
a severe dollar shortage forced the cuban government to ask western creditor nations earlier this year to reschedule its foreign debt over 15 years, including a five-year grace period, according to an official document made public tuesday
cuba's inability to meet it debt repayment obligations was blamed on ``extremely adverse external factors,'' the report by the cuban national bank said
the study was obtained by freedom house, a conservative human rights group, and copies were distributed at a news conference
the authenticity of the report could not be verified independently but it was similar in style and content to a study by the same bank several years ago which also was made available in washington. at the time, the cuban government acknowledged that the report was an official document
there has been no report of the outcome of cuba's request for debt rescheduling, but manuel sanchez perez, a former deputy minister of trade in cuba who defected in 1985, told the news conference the appeal was unsuccessful
sanchez said that cuba's dollar shortages stem partly from the decline in the world market price of oil
under a special arrangement with the soviet union, the kremlin sells oil on the open market and sends the earnings to cuba
sanchez said these revenues reached a high of $584 million in 1984 but dropped to $284 million in 1986, the last year for which figures are available
disputing the report's claim that external factors are unfavorable for cuba, sanchez said cuba's situation is ``exceptionally good'' compared with other countries because of soviet generosity
in addition to the oil sales bonus, sanchez said the soviets pay four times the world market price for cuban sugar. this subsidy amounted to $22 billion between 1975 and 1985, he said
sanchez listed cuba's debt to western creditors at $5.5 billion. most of that money is owed to spain, france, britain, west germany and japan, he said
the report was prepared for a january meeting of cuba's creditors in paris. it described 1987 as ``one of the worst years'' for cuba because of the combined impact of adverse weather conditions, the sustained slide of the dollar and ``the dramatic decrease in imports from the freely convertible currency area.''
it said a number of industries dependent on these imports suffered ``diminished performance'' as a result. ``spitfire,'' not the broadway show; note language of 5th graf</note>
when katharine hepburn was starring in the 1934 film ``spitfire,'' her mother was getting plenty of her own attention as a ``spitfire'' for her outspoken support of birth control for women
today, the 79-year-old miss hepburn, with her family's characteristic wit and keen intelligence, has taken on her mother's cause and become one of planned parenthood's staunchest advocates
in a tribute monday night, entitled ``celebrating two generations of individual courage,'' the actress and her late mother, katharine houghton hepburn, were honored by planned parenthood for their efforts to gain greater reproductive rights for women
it's a frightfully important subject,'' the actress told the 1,100 guests gathered at the waldorf-astoria for the black-tie event
and i'm damn lucky to have had a mother who waked me up at an early age.''
tickets for the gala were priced from $500 to $1,000, with proceeds going to planned parenthood dedicated to the actress' three priorities: keeping abortion safe and legal, preventing teen pregnancies and preserving family planning for the poor
former tv anchorman walter cronkite, tennis champion martina navratilova, tv journalist barbara walters and actor robert lindsay, star of the broadway musical ``me and my girl,'' were among the participants
as guests arrived, they encountered a small protest by the stop planned parenthood organization
guests rose to their feet and applauded as miss hepburn, elegantly attired in a black pantsuit, approached the podium
it's so touching to me, i can hardly begin to say what i have to say,'' she said. but she had much to say
when a girl becomes pregnant, should she be forced by law to have this baby? she's 13. she doesn't want it. she can't support it. her family doesn't want it. it would seem to me that she should be allowed to have an abortion.''
by the same token, if an older woman with several children gets pregnant and feels that she can't support it or care for another child, i cannot for the life of me see that anyone but this woman has the right to decide what she's going to do,'' miss hepburn said
it's certainly much harder to be a woman than it is to be a man,'' she lamented. ``but men got here first and arranged everything to suit themselves. and it's taking women a long time to ... try to catch up.''
miss hepburn became involved with planned parenthood in 1981. the group's president, faye wattleton, said she recruited her because she was ``someone who really had the public's respect.'' her participation in the organization has brought an additional 200,000 donors and supporters
it was only after the actress agreed to work for planned parenthood that, ms. wattleton said, she learned ``serendipitously'' that miss hepburn's mother had been an outspoken advocate of birth control at a time when it was illegal
mrs. hepburn worked alongside planned parenthood founder margaret sanger more than 70 years ago
a member of the houghton family that founded corning glass, she testified before the u.s. senate in the 1930s on the need for birth control, particularly for poor women
women want children but they want children they can properly take care of,'' she testified. she died in 1951 at age 73. background.</note>
george bush bid tuesday for an illinois primary victory that would doom the republican presidential campaign of sen. bob dole. sen. paul simon dueled jesse jackson in a battle of democratic favorite sons that made third place attractive to their rivals
in the first industrial state to vote, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis sought to leave sen. albert gore jr. and rep. richard gephardt far behind
the illinois primaries included presidential straw polls and separate elections of delegates to the nominating conventions next summer
bush, winner of 16 out of 17 super tuesday contests last week, led dole by huge margins in the pre-election polls in the land of lincoln. he looked for his first primary win on midwestern soil, and an increase in his seemingly insurmountable lead in convention delegates
kansas sen. dole spent the day campaigning in wisconsin and connecticut in a demonstration of his determination to stay the course _ even though he had speculated about withdrawing if he suffered another big defeat. he said he hoped to win 40 percent of the delegates at stake during the day
pat robertson, the former television evangelist campaigning as a conservative alternative to bush, said he might quit if he failed to pick up 5 percent of the vote. ``i'm not don quixote and i'm not going to tilt against windmills,'' he said
simon was rated the slight favorite on the democratic side as he sought a victory he said was essential to sustain his candidacy. he campaigned as the man to represent illinois at the bargaining table of what he said would be a brokered democratic national convention in atlanta
but pre-election polls suggested jackson's popularity among black voters could propel him to his first industrial-state victory, and the chicago-based civil rights activist forecast a ``significant breakthrough.'' he voted at a south side church in chicago
dukakis used a combination of personal campaigning and $250,000 worth of television ads in an appeal to simon supporters to reject simon's strategy of forcing a brokered nomination
dukakis' aides said they would be pleased if that made jackson the winner, since a simon withdrawal would eliminate a rival for white, liberal support in the next states to vote. michigan, connecticut, wisconsin, new york and pennsylvania all follow next weekend's kansas caucuses
simon cast a primary-day ballot in makanda in southern illinois and said, ``we have to win both'' the popular vote and the delegate contest to stay alive in the race. he said he would do both, and spokesman terry michael predicted the illinois senator would pick up 135 of the 173 national convention delegates at stake
dukakis was locked in a close race nationally with jackson for national delegate superiority and hoped to establish position over the field for the michigan caucuses on march 26. dukakis' campaign said he has a reserve of some 100 delegates won in caucuses in other states that have been held but have not yet been counted
going into illinois, dukakis had 462.5 of the 2,082 needed to win the nomination. jackson had 423.55, gore 352.8, gephardt 145 and simon 35.5
republicans elected 82 of their 92-member delegation tuesday. democrats picked 113, with an additional 60 to be allocated later at a state convention on the basis of the evening's results
bush began the day the prohibitive leader in the delegate competition on the republican side with 705 of the 1,139 needed to clinch the nomination. dole had 165, while robertson had 17
illinois' separate delegate elections looked like an easier contest for simon, although jackson was expected to virtually sweep the competition in the predominantly black congressional districts in chicago
most of simon's delegate candidates were well-known figures locally, and they urged him not to drop out of the race after earlier primary disappointments, at least partly so they could have a chance at attending the democratic national convention in atlanta this summer
thus ended the campaign in the first of the industrial states to vote, a battle that seemed as clear-cut on the republican side as it was complicated for the democrats
bush campaigned like the prohibitive front-runner that he was after his super tuesday rout, in which he won all 16 primary elections and lost nly a caucus state _ washington _ to robertson. he ignored dole's repeated demands for a lincoln-douglas-style debate without moderators and began tailoring his campaign to the independent voters and potential democratic converts likely to hold the balance of power in the fall election campaign
he seemed to be gently trying to nudge dole out of the race, declaring, ``i'm not sure i understand what he's doing.''
i've made a judgment that illinois, whatever happens, we're going to keep going,'' dole said at a news conference on monday. but he conceded candidates sometimes fail to understand when it is time to get out
now if you're out there and you've been twisting in the wind for six or eight months and you're starting to smell a little, somebody has to cut the rope,'' he said
nonetheless, his campaign was looking ahead to april 5, releasing this to the political hotline:
on wisconsin, on wisconsin, grand old badger state,
we thy loyal sons and daughters hail thee good and great
...on wisconsin, on wisconsin, fight on for her fame,
fight, fellows, fight fight fight
we'll win this game.''
robertson vowed to stay in the gop race until the convention in new orleans as ``a champion of conservatives.'' but he also said a finish of less than 5 percent likely would force him to reassess his vow
bush's illinois supporters ranged from gov. jim thompson to edward vrdolyak, once the democratic kingpin of chicago's cook county but now a republican. and bush spent $400,000 in television advertising to boost his vote
dole called illinois a ``recovery state'' after his super tuesday debacle and paid a memorable visit to the hospital where he recovered from crippling world war ii wounds 40 years ago to underscore his point
but he conceded, ``we're hanging by our fingernails'' and he staggered through the week. he laid off more than half his staff, canceled television advertisements and was reported by aides to have discussed quitting the campaign even before illinois voted
he decided to remain a candidate and gambled on a 30-minute paid television broadcast saturday night _ only to fall victim to a power failure that interrupted his statewide appeal in mid-sentence
the democratic race was fittingly byzantine in the land where local politics is a year-round sport
simon was attempting a tough campaign restart _ without funds for advertising _ after sitting out the 21 super tuesday contests. he urged his home state voters not to desert him in his hour of need, and said he wanted to represent them at a brokered convention this summer
but dukakis responded that a brokered convention would be a ``disaster'' for the democrats and plowed $250,000 into television advertising in a bid to whittle away at simon's support
jackson, who won five super tuesday states and followed up on saturday with a victory in the south carolina caucuses, said a victory in illinois would be a breakthrough _ his first in an industrial battleground
gore came to illinois hoping to ride the crest of a super tuesday-generated wave, but it failed to show up in the pre-election polls. he spent an estimated $200,000 to $300,000 on television advertising in search of a place to ``punch through'' in his battle to compete with dukakis
gephardt, the candidate with political momentum only five weeks ago when he won the iowa caucuses, gave short shrift top illinois. aides said he was conserving his cash and his energy for a last stand in the michigan caucuses on march 26
students at the university of akron are aiming for a breakthrough that has eluded some of the best minds in government and the professions: a tax form that can be understood without a college education
we know it can be done and we're going to prove it,'' professor nicholas j. creme, director of the center for taxation studies in the university's law school, said in an interview tuesday. ``we're not saying we could bring it down to a second-grade level, but we certainly can make it simpler
if you simplify the forms, people will be a lot less hostile toward the internal revenue service,'' he said. ``and you'll raise a lot more revenue.''
creme said about 20 students majoring in law, business or education will be put to work on the project. testifying before a senate finance subcommittee monday, some of the students and their leaders promised chairman david pryor, d-ark., that most of the work will be done by september
the students got interested after seeing estimates that nine of 10 people with less than a high school education cannot understand the instructions for the simplest tax form _ the one-page 1040ez. that study also determined that it takes less reading skill to get through a typical issue of the wall street journal than through a tax form
the reasons for the complexity are simple, say creme and professor james w. childs, director of the university's tax clinic. ``the average sentence length of these (irs) publications exceeds 25 words ... one-third of the words in these publications are multi-syllabled words.''
by reducing the number of syllables and the number of words in a sentence we can the forms and instructions significantly more readable,'' said creme. ``and we want to change how the forms look _ change the spacing so things don't look so crammed in.''
it is not just college students or even high school dropouts who are having trouble with tax forms. even tax professionals shake their heads at some instructions that were prompted by some of the more complex provisions in the 1986 tax overhaul
this sentence, for example, is in the instructions for form 8598, which up to 1 million taxpayers will have to file this year to calculate their mortgage-interest deduction:
if you received monthly statements that show either the closing balance or the average balance for the month, you may determine your average balance by taking the average of either the closing balances or average monthly balances shown on your monthly statement.''
creme said participants hope to develop more-readable versions of the w-4 withholding form; w-2 year-end wages-earned statement; 1099 interest-earned form and the basic 1040, 1040a and 1040ez forms
irs forms are developed in consultation with lawyers, accountants and educators. in changing its forms last year to reflect the new tax law, the irs hired a consultant and even went to some shopping malls for instant reaction from random taxpayers
irs spokesman steve pyrek, who helped develop the 1040ez several years ago, says that form is written to an eighth-grade reading level. that does not mean, however, that a typical student in the eighth grade could understand it, he said
it means a grownup that understands certain concepts can understand the form,'' pyrek said. ``a fourth grader doesn't understand the concept of taxation, for example, although a 40-year-old with a fourth-grade education who has been on the job for 20 years probably does.''
the irs concedes that many taxpayers find taxes puzzling. the agency's own statistics show that 46 percent of taxpayers paid professionals to fill out their returns last year
nevertheless, the irs contends that the forms and instructions are about as simple as they can be to reflect a complicated tax law
creme, a tax lawyer for 20 years, said the irs has nothing to lose by making its forms more understandable. ``when people can't figure out the right answer,'' he said, ``they will take the answer that gives them the best break.'' to rephrase 2nd graf, deleting reference to `alleged sex life'; picks up 2nd graf</note>
a witness for the prosecution at gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial said that a defense lawyer tried to intimidate him with obscene language shortly before he testified, according to an affidavit released today by prosecutors
prosecutor william french, replying to defense accusations that witnesses were being intimidated, released an affidavit saying that defense attorney fred craft had himself berated a witness and made accusations about the sex life of the governor's chief accuser
craft accused state department of public safety of ``a consistent pattern of an abuse by the police power'' by intimidating witnesses. ``we are afraid in this state today because we've got a runaway police state.''
but french contended that a defense move to dismiss an obstruction of justice charge was a ``smokescreen'' put up because the governor cannot disprove it
the impeachment allegations against mecham, a first-term republican, include that he tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by then-state prison construction chief lee watkins against a former state official, donna carlson
peggy griffith testified last week that watkins, a mecham confidant, told her that if ms. carlson did not keep her mouth shut about an unreported mecham campaign loan she might ``go on a long boat ride'' and come to harm
it has become apparent that there is no defense'' to the charge that mecham tried to obstruct the probe, french said today
the senate voted to take under advisement a defense motion to either dismiss the obstruction charge or declare a mistrial. a decision is expected wednesday
the house panel overseeing the prosecution released an affidavit from state official antonio corio, who said craft made statements about the alleged sex life of department of public safety director ralph milstead
milstead has testified mecham ordered him not to cooperate with the death threat probe, while corio testified friday that he had been asked to search for listening devices in the governor's office and found none
craft claimed that corio changed his planned testimony after being seen with milstead, but corio's affidavit said, ``i contacted dps on my own. i have not been tampered with by dps.''
corio's affidavit said craft used obscene language on friday in saying he did not have time to deal with him
according to corio's affidavit, craft also said to corio that milstead has sex with ``the widows of fallen officers to console them.''
corio also claimed that craft said that milstead made dps bureau chiefs put on his uniform so they could have sex with him. the affadivit did not specify the gender of the bureau chiefs alleged involved, and it also did not indicate whether the conversation was tape-recorded or how he remembered the quotes
milstead is in israel for an anti-terrorism seminar, but dps spokesman sgt. allan schmidt called the alleged statements ``disgusting.'' asked for further comment, he said, ``you can't print it.''
craft indicated in arguments before the senate that he had seen the document, but he did not say whether he made the statements or not
on monday, a former cabinet member and mecham confidante testified that a key prosecution witness lied about the alleged death threat
max hawkins, who was fired as state department of administration director by acting gov. rose mofford, told the senate that griffith's public statements and testimony about the alleged threat were ``substantially different'' from what she told him in november
i think peggy really detested lee watkins,'' hawkins, a onetime mecham campaign chairman, testified. ``i think she really had it in for lee watkins,'' possibly because he had said bad things about her friend ms. carlson before
hawkins repeatedly told the senate that he did not consider the alleged threat to be a serious matter. he said the story told to him by mrs. griffith was similar to what watkins told him: ``people are excitable out there on both sides and she (ms. carlson) could end up getting hurt.''
hawkins said he did not remember mrs. griffith telling him anything about watkins saying ms. carlson could get killed or go on a ``long boat ride.''
sen. carolyn walker, a democrat, chided hawkins, saying, ``you hear a threat and you don't have the intelligence to discern a threat?''
the defense has accused the department of public safety of trying to intimidate terri fields, a defense witness who testified she did not believe a death threat was made
ms. fields, who is mrs. griffith's secretary, was arrested friday night on a january warrant accusing her of not attending court-ordered alcoholics anonymous meetings required after a drunken driving arrest
the dps has denied attempting to intimidate any witness, but the fbi began a preliminary investigation monday into the allegation
mecham, who was impeached by the house on feb. 5, also is accused of concealing the $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
he is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades. a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict him
mecham faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan, and a may 17 recall election
buzzard spotters got a welcome sign of spring despite today's 20-degree temperatures when two birds drifted into a park, officially marking their annual return to hinckley
it stopped snowing for a brief moment there, for 20 minutes, and the sun came out and the birds came drifting in,'' said ralph woinset, a ranger at hinckley reservation. ``capt. roger lutz called in the official sighting at 12:02 p.m.''
they probably would have been in earlier if it hadn't been snowing, but they have trouble negotiating the snow. by sunday, there should be quite a few of them in for the crowd,'' woinset said
a flock of the large, long-necked black birds supposedly returns to its northern home at the park's buzzard roost each year on march 15. the annual buzzard search began in 1957 in an attempt to verify the legend that the birds return on the same day each year
lutz, a cleveland metroparks ranger captain, agreed that the annual buzzard news tends to ``build on the tradition,'' but he discounted the possibility that the buzzards stay in hinckley through the winter months
there's a flock of about 75 to 80 that stay in the hinckley area during the year. we believe they fly to dade county, fla., during the winter ... though it's difficult to verify,'' he said
according to local legend, buzzards were drawn to hinckley in 1819 because of tons of decaying game killed in the great hinckley varmint hunt
on dec. 24, 1818, 475 men and boys attempted to rid the 25-square mile community of predatory animals that had been attacking farm stock. the carcasses froze during the winter and thawed in the spring, attracting the buzzards
elisabeth zinser, whose brief appointment as president of gallaudet university triggered vehement protests by deaf people nationwide, said she wasn't bitter about her resignation
i'm sad that i'm not going to be able to become a part of that community, but i was privileged to be invited to be the president,'' zinser, who stepped down as head of the nation's only liberal arts college for the hearing impaired after less than a week last friday, told the charlotte observer
she's privileged, too, she said, that she ``had become a key figure in the playing out of this civil rights movement for deaf people. i thought, well, this was a short presidency, but maybe i've accomplished as much as if i had been there for years.''
zinser, who is vice chancellor for academics at the university of north carolina at greensboro, n.c., hasn't relinquinshed her ambitions
i know that i will be a president some day, but it has to be a special place. i'm not interested in just throwing my resume all over the country and being a president just to be a president.''
the news from lake wobegon was good tuesday: garrison keillor is bringing back ``a prairie home companion'' for a ``second annual farewell performance'' at radio city music hall
it was so much fun leaving that we're coming back to say goodbye again,'' keillor said in announcing he would take to the stage june 3 and 4
keillor's weekly show featuring the fictional minnesota town of lake wobegon had been on the air for 13 years when he called it quits last june 13
the reunion show will feature butch thompson, the pianist who was a fixture on the original show. it also will include guitarists chet atkins and leo kottke, the everly brothers, singers robin and linda williams and the 1920s sound of vince giordano and the nighthawks
austrian church officials gave nobel peace prize laureate mother teresa a check for more than $250,000 tuesday for her work on behalf of the poor
the check was handed to her by catholic prelate adalbert holenstein, head of a church charity organization in voralberg, austria's westernmost province
''it's the first time that i have received such a large sum from private donations,'' mother teresa told reporters
while in austria, she is scheduled to address a world peace day assembly organized by the united nations here
audrey hepburn, recently appointed a unicef special ambassador, arrived here tuesday for a tour of the country's drought-stricken regions
unicef officials said the actress will visit relief and rehabilitation centers in the hardest-hit northern provinces of tigre and eritrea. hepburn also is scheduled to visit development projects in central shoa province on her three-day visit
crop failures last year threaten 7 million people with famine in northern ethiopia, where rebels fighting the nation's marxist government have hampered relief efforts
former u.s. president carter arrived here tuesday on the third and final leg of an african tour to promote his international environmental organization, global 2000
carter and his wife, who visited ghana and nigeria earlier this week, is scheduled to attend a conference of the nairobi-based u.n. environmental program and talk with kenyan president daniel arap moi
in west africa, carter visited projects sponsored by his non-profit institution based in atlanta
carolyn chute, whose novel about a life of rual poverty, ``the beans of egypt, maine,'' won literary accalim four years ago, promises here second novel will have a happy ending
chute, 40, says the new book, ``letourneau's used auto parts,'' is about the plight of people who cannot afford to live in their own hometowns. the book, her second novel, will be released in may, she said
a jury awarded the estate of a prematurely born boy who lived only 24 hours $75,000 for pain and suffering after he received allegedly negligent treatment from a city ambulance crew
the six-member jury also awarded $350,000 to the child's mother, marlene canty
the jury had ruled jan. 15 that the baby was conscious enough to experience pain and suffering, but city lawyers argued that the finding was medically impossible and said they would appeal
manhattan supreme court justice kenneth shorter refused on feb. 29 to overturn the verdict, the daily news said tuesday
mrs. canty, then 21, went into labor in her home two months early on april 24, 1975. her husband, winslow, called the emergency medical service at least once, possibly three times, according to conflicting accounts
the baby, still in its amniotic sac and moving one appendage, ``lay between the mother's thighs visible to her during the alleged 45-minute delay and negligent treatment ...,'' the judge wrote in his decision
mrs. canty said the ems technician who finally arrived told her the baby was dead and refused to open the sac
finally i asked her (the technician) if the baby was a boy or a girl,'' mrs. canty said. ``at that point she took a small instrument and slit open the sac. ... she lifted one leg, saw the gender of the baby, threw the leg down and said the baby was a boy. ... she then picked up the baby, wrapped the baby in the plastic and threw the baby'' into a cardboard box
mrs. canty and the baby were taken to harlem hospital, where the infant lived for 24 hours on a respirator
the palatial home within the houston astrodome is making way for sports fans
roy hofheinz, former mayor, county judge and prime mover behind construction of the stadium, built the six-story apartment, including a barber shop, game room, bowling alley, putting greens and a shooting gallery, not to mention a superb view of the playing field
hofheinz died in 1982, and had not lived in his stadium home since 1975. much of it already has been converted to viewing areas and special viewing boxes. this week the rest will be torn down, and will become part of a new 15,000-seat area
in hofheinz's master bedroom and drawing room, there are 30-foot ceilings, gold-plated fixtures, handcarved woodwork and a bathroom with sunken tub and sauna
a slanting floor in the tipsy tavern gives guests a feeling being so before they take a drink. in the apartment's chapel, changeable windows offered worshipers their choice of a cross, a star of david or a buddhist symbol
hofheinz lived in the apartment off and on from 1965, when the astrodome was built, to 1975. he died at age 70
only one man has lived longer on florida's death row than willie jasper darden
howard v. douglas, who turns 52 on march 30, has been on death row since dec. 4, 1973. darden was sentenced to death seven weeks later and was executed tuesday
douglas was convicted of killing his ex-lover's husband after forcing the pair to engage in a series of sex acts while he watched, court records say
former gov. bob graham signed a death warrant on douglas for july 26, 1979, but that was stayed and subsequent legal steps resulted in the case being sent back to polk county for resentencing
douglas was again sentenced to death in august 1985, and the appeal from that hearing now is with the florida supreme court, which heard oral arguments in september 1986
the court could affirm the death sentence or reduce it to life, clerk sid white said tuesday
in the original trial, the jury found douglas guilty and recommended life, but the judge imposed the death penalty based on a finding of no mitigating circumstances. in florida, jury recommendations in death cases are advisory, and the final sentencing decision is up to the judge
although douglas has been on death row for more than 14 years, his case could to drag on for years more
he would have the right to start the process all over again as far as the new sentence is concerned,'' said assistant attorney general richard martell. ``it's a new death sentence that has not been reviewed by any court, so he would have a right to take a petition to the u.s. supreme court.''
douglas was convicted of killing jesse w. atkins on july 17, 1973
atkins' body was discovered by a hunter july 21, and five days later the victim's wife reported the killing to authorities
helen atkins later testified she once had lived with douglas but returned to her husband following the birth of a baby in june 1973
mrs. atkins said she and her husband were forced to commit various sexual acts at gunpoint before douglas struck atkins with the butt of a rifle, then shot him
douglas and mrs. atkins returned later to move and cover up the body. she said went along with douglas out of fear
a homeless man who refused to help his dying brother until he was offered $1,000 finally submitted to a blood test tuesday to determine his suitability as a bone-marrow donor, blood bank officials said
randy chapman, 32, who lives on the streets and earns money by submitting to medical experiments, had initially refused to help his brother in indianapolis
if he dies, he dies,'' chapman had said. ``he's about as much a brother to me as you are.''
but he changed his mind after an anonymous indiana man who also suffers from a blood disease offered him $1,000 to take the blood test
other family members had been tested but were found unsuitable
i wasn't too proud of myself when i read in the paper what i had said. i sounded cold, but i guess all my repressed feelings came out,'' said chapman, who had not been in contact with his family in 14 years
i don't wish my brother any harm. it's just that my family only wanted me when they needed something from me. where were they when i needed them?,'' he said in an interview with the miami news
chapman submitted to the blood test tuesday at the american red cross blood bank of south florida, said spokesman chris chidley
the test will determine if randy is a suitable match for his brother, steve chapman, 38, who is dying from leukemia
if he proves suitable, randy chapman stands to gain an additional $2,000 for donating marrow, the source of blood cells
i'm glad he did it and i hope it all works out after all this trouble,'' said the ill brother, steve chapman, who is married and the father of two. ``i just wish he hadn't raised such a ruckus. there was no sense in doing that. he's a little rough around the edges, i guess.''
steve chapman was released from st. vincent's hospital in indianapolis last week after chemotherapy treatment. his disease is in remission, but he must have the marrow transplant within three to four months, his doctor says
without the transplant, he will die within two years, said dr. richard fayssoux
the philanthropist said he hopes his offer will not only save steve's life, but also help randy turn his life around
i hope it works out well for both of them,'' he told the miami news
randy said he hopes the money will enable him to give direction to an aimless life
i'm planning to do something constructive with my life, rather than destructive,'' he said. ``i'm thinking about leaving miami.''
ethnic feuding between sinhalese and minority tamils killed 10 more people tuesday, indian authorities said, bringing the two-day death toll to 17
sinhalese attackers dragged away three tamil bus passengers near tampalagama in eastern trincomalee district and hacked them to death, according to a representative of the indian high commission in colombo
an hour later in nearby gomarankadawela, tamil rebels shot and dismembered seven sinhalese, including a child, according to the indian-sri lankan joint operations command
the rebels reportedly belonged to the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, who have been fighting for a separate homeland in northern and eastern sri lanka
an indian peacekeeping force of about 50,000 came to sri lanka at the government's invitation to stem such attacks after a peace accord was signed in july
the violence has persisted, however. sri lankan and indian authorities say 98 civilians have died in trincomalee so far this month
at least 12 sinhalese villagers were killed monday in an attack by suspected tamil rebels on the village of galmetiya, according to sri lankan military officials
tamils, who are mostly hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people. they claim they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese buddhists, who control the government and military
militant tamils have been fighting since 1983 for a separate homeland. they have rejected the indian-brokered peace accord of july, saying it fails to protect their interests
india hopes to foster peace in sri lanka, an island just off its southern tip, because an estimated 60 million tamils live in india's southern states. many sympathize with tamils in sri lanka
convicted murderer willie jasper darden went to his death tuesday proclaiming his innocence and thanking people around the world, from andrei sakharov to jesse jackson, who aided his 14-year battle to escape the electric chair
for the widow of the man he shot between the eyes, darden's execution on an unprecedented seventh death warrant offered hope, finally, for peace of mind
i think it's long overdue,'' helen turman baum said minutes after the execution about 7 a.m. at the florida state prison. ``he did it to himself. i'm just thinking right now i want some peace of mind ... it's been a long time and i'm glad it's finally over.''
mrs. baum has remarried since her husband, james c. turman, was killed sept. 8, 1973, after turman walked into their lakeland furniture store and found his wife being robbed of $15
gov. bob martinez also was unmoved about the international attention darden attracted, from death penalty opponents and people who believed his conviction was racially tainted. darden was black; turman was white
among 1,600 telephone calls monday, the majority protesting, was one from jackson, a candidate for the democratic presidential nomination. nobel peace prize winner sakharov, actress margot kidder, rock star peter gabriel, amnesty international and other human rights and religious groups also all called for a halt to darden's execution
i think justice was served today,'' martinez said later. ``this was not someone out of a choir. he was a career criminal. this was a man who had a career of violent crimes.''
it was the 18th execution in florida and 96th in the nation since the u.s. supreme court ruled in 1976 that states could again invoke capital punishment
earlier tuesday, wayne robert felde was executed in louisiana's electric chair for the 1978 murder of a police officer. it was the first time two inmates were executed the same day in the united states since aug. 28, when executions were carried out in florida, alabama and utah
darden, 54, gave a final taped interview monday with abc-tv, broadcast on ``nightline.'' he had exchanged letters with many people and had become known as the ``sage of death row'' for the poetry he wrote as he pressed his claim that he was unjustly accused and convicted
but although he had promised in the ``nightline'' interview to be ``hollering `innocent, innocent' '' as he was strapped into the electric chair, darden instead offered, without notes, a firm, evenly delivered, last denial
i was not guilty for the charge for which i was arrested, and this morning i tell you i am not guilty of the charge for which i am about to be executed,'' darden said to 30 witnesses in the death chamber
i say to my friends and supporters around the world: i love each and every one of you. your love and support has been a great comfort to me, and my struggle for justice and freedom
i go this morning with a clear conscience. i bear no guilt. i'm at peace with myself, with the world, with each of you. god bless you.''
darden winked and nodded at one of his attorneys just before the hood was put over his head, and was declared dead at 7:12 a.m. after 2,000 volts of electricity flowed through his body for two minutes. two puffs of smoke rose from his right leg where one of the electrodes was attached
on monday, the u.s. supreme court, the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals, a federal judge and the state supreme court rejected darden's appeals on his seventh warrant. no inmate on florida's death row had ever survived more than three warrants on the same crime
before dawn tuesday, 40 people gathered in a pasture across from the prison. the protesters maintained silence until the execution took place, then began singing ``we shall overcome.''
court records say that after shooting turman, darden ordered his wife to perform oral sex on him while turman lay dying a few feet away
a neighbor, philip arnold, also identified darden during the trial. arnold, then 16, entered the store after apparently hearing the shooting and the woman's cries. he was shot three times but survived
death penalty opponents, led by amnesty international, have said darden had an alibi proving his innocence. they claim statements from a minister and a woman show darden could not have committed the murder
in sweden, about a dozen people demonstrated monday outside the u.s. embassy in stockholm. the florida catholic conference and bishops in florida had urged a halt to the execution
darden was born in snow hill, n.c., the second of four children. his conviction record dated to 1964 and included attempted rape
only howard v. douglas had been on death row longer _ by seven weeks. douglas was convicted of the july 1973 shooting death of his former lover's husband. his case is currently on appeal
richard gephardt, hoping to regain the momentum he established in long-ago iowa, waited for the democratic presidential field in michigan, site of free-for-all caucuses uncluttered by any favorite-son bias
the stakes in the march 26 caucuses were high and the campaign was already in gear as illinois voted on tuesday
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis wrapped himself in influential endorsements and sought to establish himself as the democratic front-runner
sen. albert gore jr. sought a big-state victory outside his native south. and jesse jackson looked for delegates in a state that shorted him in 1984
illinois, the first contest post-super tuesday, was destined to leave no deep imprint on the democratic race, given its two-way favorite son loyalties to jackson and paul simon. so michigan looms as the next big contest, with 138 delegates at stake
gephardt skipped over illinois and headed straight for michigan, a state that would seem tailor-made for his tough-on-trade, save-the-farms message with its $15 billion agriculture industry and import-triggered auto industry layoffs
gephardt is hoping the message saves the messenger
if we don't do well here, obviously we're not going to be able to continue in this race,'' he told michigan supporters last week
gephardt was the first to hit the airwaves with a commercial featuring his tough talk on trade sanctions, his family farm legislation and an endorsement from elderly champion rep. claude pepper of florida. ``from the farms, the factories, the neighborhoods, comes the yearning for change, and now our cause finally has a voice,'' the ad says
the united auto workers support that gephardt cornered in iowa is missing here
unlike 1984, when the union endorsed walter mondale more than a year before the balloting, labor leadership has taken a vow of neutrality. the word to the rank-and-file has been ``support the candidate of your choice.'' the 650,000 michigan members appear to have taken that word to heart: their support is fractured
former united auto workers president douglas fraser, still popular with the rank-and-file, has endorsed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, various union locals have donated telephones to jackson's phone bank, and other union leaders have asked for management favors to arrange short-notice plant tours for gephardt
even sen. albert gore jr. plays to the labor audience here, touting scorecards issued by the national afl-cio's political action committee
i have been a friend of organized labor ... in 12 years in the house and senate,'' he said monday night in detroit
in 1984, the michigan system left jackson's delegate winnings far short of his 16 percent popular vote. detroit mayor coleman young actively opposed him and mobilized the city's black vote for mondale
this time, the jackson campaign ambushed young by quietly winning over the ministers, unionists and party activists that form the backbone of the young machine. young favors dukakis in this race, but the mayor is unable to promise the turnout mondale enjoyed
the jackson campaign plans no television, instead concentrating on ethnic radio and making sure the core constituency of black democrats knows where to go to vote, said michigan campaign chief joel ferguson. he said jackson is also getting a good reception from white voters in michigan's campus communities
the gore campaign's goals seem to be twofold: prove a southerner can do well in the rust belt and siphon away enough votes to push gephardt below the 15 percent threshold for winning delegates
for a modest investment we can take enough votes to cut gephardt out of the race,'' one gore supporter said privately
illinois sen. paul simon had one of the first michigan campaign organizations in place, but his future was uncertain
a federal agency proposed to congress on tuesday that it be allowed to offer insurance to u.s. businesses to help them stay in countries threatened with political turmoil, such as the philippines and haiti
but the proposal by the overseas private investment corp. prompted rep. don bonker, d-wash., to say: ``wouldn't that be like offering health insurance to someone who's terminally ill?''
or like fire insurance on a house that's burning,'' agreed craig a. nalen, president of opic, which wants to sell the insurance against political risks
nalen was quick to add that such policies would only be offered in consultation with the state department
we would not go forward if molotov cocktails were coming through the windows of the plant,'' he told the house foreign affairs subcommittee on economic policy, which bonker chairs
nalen explained that an insurance policy would be offered in order to prevent a company leaving a country
that could be devastating to a country that's in difficulties,'' he said
bonker offered the philippines as an example and nalen suggested haiti as another
bonker said the idea needs further exploration
in testimony prepared for the subcommittee, nalen emphasized that the purpose of the insurance would be to keep the country concerned economically stable and would be offered only in rare circumstances
it is very unlikely that private insurers would be interested in underwriting the kinds of exposures opic would be considering under this authority,'' he said
the new authority would permit the agency to offer insurance to new or existing companies
nalen said members of his staff also have been discussing agreements for insurance of u.s. firms operating in the territory of two communist governments: poland and hungary
bonker reminded him of the u.s. law that prevents economic favors to countries that limit emigration of their citizens
opic's job is to insure u.s. investors in other countries against political risks, including war, domestic violence, confiscation and the freezing of their assets. it also makes loans for investment
nalen told the subcommittee that in the last three years it had promoted $8.7 billion worth of investment in 61 countries and turned a profit of $300 million. a motive</head>
the prosecutor in robert chambers' murder trial plans to suggest during closing arguments a motive that might have led him to deliberately kill jennifer levin in central park, a source said tuesday
assistant district attorney linda fairstein said at the beginning of the 11-week trial that she would prove chambers intended to kill miss levin, 18, and that it was not an accident during rough sex as he claimed
she told the jurors that the prosecution is not required to prove motive and that the real reasons for the killing might remain forever locked in the defendant's head
other lawyers, prosecutors and defense attorneys alike, agree generally that juries like to hear a motive when they are being asked to convict someone on a charge of intentional murder
chambers, 21, is charged with second-degree murder in the strangulation death of miss levin on aug. 26, 1986. chambers, a former drug abuser and boston university dropout who has been indicted on burglary charges in another case, admits he killed miss levin but says it was an accident after she attacked him sexually and hurt him
the summations by both sides are expected to take most or all of wednesday. state supreme court justice howard bell will likely give the jurors final instructions thursday before they begin deliberations
ms. fairstein said in her opening statement that chambers' assertion that the killing was an accident was ``ludicrous.''
a source said ms. fairstein, to emphasize the beating chambers allegedly gave miss levin before he killed her, might display a large color photograph of the teen-ager before she died next to a gruesome morgue picture showing red welts and bruises on her body
the judge has said he will instruct the jury to consider every category of homicide, including two charges that carry no mandatory minimum sentence
bell said that besides the two types of second-degree murder which with chambers is charged _ intentional and ``depraved indifference'' to life _ he will tell the jury to consider first-and second-degree manslaughter, and criminally negligent homicide
during tuesday morning's court session the jurors watched chambers' vidotaped admission for a second time so the lawyers would not have to interupt their summations to replay it
the replaying of the tape had an emotional effect on stephen and ellin levin, the victim's divorced parents. when ms. levin started crying, her ex-husband hugged her and eventually escorted her out of the courtroom. they had no comment as they left. reforms</head>
members of congress on tuesday proposed to impose a series of trade sanctions on haiti unless it takes steps toward establishing what the lawmakers regard as a more democratically elected government
the group introduced legislation to revoke haiti's 7,500-ton sugar quota, which enables the caribbean nation to sell sugar at a u.s. price-support level more than three times the prevailing world price; suspends other trade preferences; and directs the united states to oppose loans to haiti by international development banks
the bill also would formally continue in force the suspension of nearly $59 million in u.s. aid for haiti, would impose an embargo on any arms shipments from the united states, and would express concern about the growing use of haiti as a transshipment point for drugs from south america
rep. benjamin gilman, r-n.y., one of the backers of the legislation, said the current haitian regime of leslie manigat was the result of ``fraudulent elections'' held in january and that the military still rules the nation
many haitian citizens, in spite of the continuing oppression which they face, continue to work for democracy in their country,'' gilman said at a news conference. ``we must support them and their cause, and we should disassociate ourselves from the murderous thugs who unlawfully usurped the rights of the haitian people.''
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., another supporter of the bill, called for the dismissal of col. jean-claude paul, the haitian military chief
d'amato drew parallels between paul and panama's military leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega. both have been indicted in the united states on drug-related charges
jpd
a lawyer planned an appeal and the government agreed tuesday to hear more calls for clemency for the ``sharpeville six,'' a group of blacks sentenced to hang in two days
west germany and britain joined the growing international call for mercy for the five men and one woman, who were convicted of complicity in the 1984 lynching of a black township official
i am not saying that a sign of mercy will solve the problems of south africa but it might be a little signal that human feelings have not died out altogether,'' west german president richard von weizsaecker told a news coference in harare, zimbabwe, where he was on a state visit
president p.w. botha has rejected all clemency bids for the six, the goverment said tuesday. but he agreed to meet thursday with two members of the anti-apartheid progressive federal party who oppose the executions, the south african press association reported
also, the justice ministry said tuesday that further petitions for mercy would be given ``careful consideration.''
prakash diar, attorney for the six, said he would file an appeal in the rand supreme court on wednesday to seek a stay of execution
british prime minister margaret thatcher, meanwhile, said she asked britain's ambassador to pretoria to meet with botha on tuesday in another bid for clemency
the condemned are theresa ramashamola, 26; mojalefa sefatsa, 32; reid mokoena, 24; oupa diniso, 32; duma khumalo, 28; and francis mokgesi, 30
they were convicted in the september 1984 killing of black township councilor jacob dlamini in sharpeville, about 40 miles south of johannesburg
no evidence was produced that the six were among those who hacked and burned dlamini to death. they were convicted under the doctrine of ``common purpose,'' which holds they were responsible for the killing by being part of the mob that gathered outside dlamini's home with the intent to kill him
one of the progressive federal party members that botha planned to meet on thursday was helen suzman, a member of parliament who called the executions ``sheer madness'' in remarks to the body on tuesday
suzman said the executions would have have a devastating effect on international opinion
what reputation do we have in the outside world anyway?'' responded joan hunter, a member of parliament from botha's national party
an example must be set,'' mrs. hunter said. ``we can't allow these people to roam the streets and intimidate the moderate black who is only too willing to negotiate with us.''
thatcher said british ambassador robin renwick was given instructions ``to express my hope that president botha will see fit, even at this late stage, to exercise the perogative of mercy.''
von weizsaecker told reporters that the executions would contribute to the violence and tension in south africa, where the system of apartheid gives control of the country to the white minority
amnesty international, the london-based human rights organization, also urged botha to spare the six. the organization expressed shock that 164 people, only nine of them white, were hanged in south africa last year
dlamini's killing came during riots that sparked a two-year outbreak of nationwide anti-apartheid unrest that left more than 2,000 blacks dead
black activists frequently targeted black township councilors, considering them collaborators with the white-led government. the sharpeville riots were provoked by the local council's decision to raise rents
william e. belk, one of the americans held hostage in iran, will seek the republican nomination as lexington county clerk of courts in the june 14 primary
belk, 52, who declared his ambitions on monday, has been working part-time as a communications officer for the state department and is keeping busy with a company he helped found, counts rescue equipment co. in ballentine
belk was working in the u.s. embassy in tehran on nov. 4, 1979, when iranians seized the embassy and took more than 60 americans hostage. fifty-two of them were held 444 days and released on the day of president reagan's first inauguration in january 1981
belk's wife died in september 1986, and he since then has worked in the sudan, cyprus and west germany for the state department. the past two months, he has been in baghdad, iraq
he said it now is time for him to settle down
i think the lord is trying to tell me something. every time i leave one of these countries, somebody blows them up. so i will try to find my niche in the united states, hopefully in lexington county government,'' belk said
president reagan will propose an alternative when he vetoes a sweeping civil rights bill passed by congress, the white house said tuesday
the president is scheduled to act on the bill wednesday
the senate passed the bill 75-14 and the house passed it 315-98, which are margins substantially greater than the two-thirds majority needed to override a presidential veto
the measure is designed to reverse a 1984 supreme court decision that limited the reach of laws protecting women, minorities, the elderly and the disabled
the bill would require entire colleges, school systems, government agencies and private entities to comply with anti-discrifminaion laws if any program or activity within them receives federal money
the court decision limited this requirement to the specific program or activity involved
the bill is known as the grove city bill after the pennsylvania college involved in the supreme court case
noting that wednesday is the deadline for vetoing the bill, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said that ``at the time of that presidential action we will be offering an alternative administration proposal for overturning the grove city decision.''
the president has always believed that the grove city decision was a mistake and that the non-discrimination protection decisions that were available before that decision should be restored,'' he said
as far as the congressional bill is concerned, however, he said, ``we have said all along that we would veto.''
reagan has objected to the bill on grounds that it ``dramatically expands the scope of federal jurisdiction over state and local governments and the private sector'' and ``poses a particular threat to religious liberty.''
we think we have a very positive alternative bill that overturns the grove decision and also lays out our civil rights objectives in these areas and states the very important civil rights principles that we think need to be restored in terms of preventing discrimination,'' fitzwater said
the spokesman said white house officials ``believe that if this alternative bill has enough support that it would be voted instead of an override.''
fitzwater said the bill would be different from the republican alternative that was offered and defeated in the house. he declined to elaborate
albert gore jr. launched his campaign for michigan's democratic caucuses tuesday by trumpeting the endorsement of legislative leaders and depicting the race for the presidential nomination as a decision ``whether or not the democratic party is viable in national elections from here on out.''
gore, contending he stands a better chance than his rivals of attracting independent voters, was looking beyond tuesday's illinois primary _ to michigan's statewide caucuses on march 26
in a news conference near the state capitol, gore was endorsed by the speaker of the michigan house, gary m. owen, the democratic leader in the state senate, art miller, and other state legislators
this is a battle for the future of the democratic party, a battle that will determine whether or not the democratic party is viable in national elections from here on out,'' gore said
he was addressing his familiar appeal for support from ``working men and women'' to the state's heavily unionized work force, describing himself upon arrival in michigan monday night as a ``friend of organized labor.''
gore said he would use existing trade laws to bring down unfair barriers to trade overseas. however, drawing a distinction with rival richard gephardt's retaliatory policies, gore pointed to the reagan administration as bearing most of the blame for the nation's large trade deficit
now we must acknowledge that 80 percent of the problem is with our own policies and the policies of the reagan administration,'' gore said
he pointed to his own 88 percent approval rating by the afl-cio over his career in congress and said that was particularly noteworthy since he comes from tennessee, a state without the northern states' tradition of organized labor
it is a record that's been built up in the political fires and forces of a right-to-work state,'' gore said
gore said he backed the rights of states to have such laws banning compulsory union membership
i believe in the right to organize,'' he said, but ``what decisions states make, that's for them to determine.''
gore said he hoped to ``substantially exceed expectations'' in michigan but refused to predict a victory and said no state was make-or-break for him. ``we're starting at a point where other campaigns are ahead,'' he said of michigan
gore planned to fly to kansas to campaign wednesday and thursday toward that state's democratic caucuses march 19. aides said they were considering having gore go friday to puerto rico, where delegates are selected march 28
larry harrington, a gore strategist, described the race in puerto rico as between gore and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
gore also met privately with michigan fund-raisers and said his fund raising has improved greatly since his victories in the south last week
it was the difference between night and day before and after super tuesday,'' he said
police investigating murders blamed on mob warfare arrested 15 men in raids that began before dawn tuesday in calabria, a news agency reported
prosecutors issued 24 arrest warrants for suspects on charges of criminal association, italian news agencies reported. by late afternoon, police had served 15 of them, including three for men already in prison
the ansa news agency said that seven men were charged in two murders last year in villa san giovanni, a town on the calabrian side of the strait of messina
reggio di calabria province, the southernmost part of the italian mainland, has been bloodied by hundreds of murders linked to the 'ndrangheta mob in recent years
investigators say mobsters are fighting among themselves for control of lucrative construction and other public contracts in underdeveloped calabria, where the 'ndrangheta is the local version of the sicilian mafia
about 200 black and white christians will live and worship together this week in an unusual attempt to break down the psychological and social barriers created by apartheid
most of the participants are whites coming from across south africa to stay wednesday night through sunday in mamelodi, the main black township outside pretoria. about 35 blacks from mamelodi will stay in white homes in the capital
the encounter, culminating with a community barbecue and and a church service, will be the largest interracial get-together of its type in south africa
one of the principal organizers is the rev. nico smith, a dutch reformed minister in mamelodi since 1982. he moved there two years ago after becoming the first white permitted by the government to live in a black township
smith says relations between the races in south africa are warped by fear and estrangement
since i'm living in the black community myself, i have become aware of the almost total alienation which has developed between whites and blacks,'' said smith
apartheid was successful. it brought about what it promised to do. it separated people,'' he said. ``if people are forced to live separately they become strangers ... eventually on both sides they have certain perceptions are totally different from the real people. this eventually turns into fear of one another.''
smith and other clergymen organizing the four days of socializing, bible study and prayer have brought smaller groups of whites into mamelodi in the past. they said men and women sometimes tremble with fear as they enter a township that two years ago was wracked by violent anti-apartheid protests, political killings and factional battles
there has been some opposition to the encounter from militant groups in mamelodi who say whites should be viewed as enemies. a right-wing white group called united christian action sent letters to mamelodi's mayor and the commissioner of police asking that the meeting be banned
smith said some black hosts have expressed fears that they will be arrested if they participate
most south african blacks know how whites live because they work at white homes and businesses. few whites know first-hand how blacks live because they seldom venture into the townships located on the periphery of the cities
one of the delegates, eddie prest, said he has had blacks in his house near cape town many times but has never visited a black home
the black culture is so set up that they don't invite people to come,'' said prest, retired director of a bible study program. ``they'll say, `why don't you just come,' and i'll say, `i've not been invited
it's just a cultural problem,'' prest said, ``and also a logistics problem. also, it's very hard for an african to have you home, because of their accommodation, their facilities.''
the number of black delegates is much lower than the whites, said baptist rev. kevin roy, because it is harder for blacks to take two or three days off work. the main goal, he said, is to expose whites to the black lifestyle, encourage them to think about positive action to change the apartheid system, and take their knowledge back to their communities
maybe for four days we will treat them (the white visitors) as blacks. they will start seeing things from the way we look at things, not the way they are used to looking at things,'' said dan ramakgadi, a field worker for koinonia, one of the organizing church groups. discouraged</head>
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan told congress on tuesday that foreign investors make ``good corporate citizens'' and should not be discouraged from buying more u.s. assets
despite statistics showing the united state widening its lead as the world's largest debtor nation, greenspan said he had ``very little concern about the issue of direct foreign investment.''
we will find that foreign investment in the united states will be a plus,'' even at present record levels, greenspan told the house-senate joint economic committee
greenspan also suggested that a recession is unlikely throughout the next year. he cited recent positive economic statistics, including an unemployment rate that fell to 5.7 percent in february, its lowest level in almost nine years
he said the rate could drop further, probably somewhere between half a percentage point and a full percentage point, before triggering an increase in inflation
greenspan said foreign investments flowing into this country now from japan and from europe are a direct consequence of the large sums of money the united states spent in those areas in the aftermath of world war ii
he testified as the commerce department reported that the u.s. current account deficit _ the broadest measure of foreign trade _ surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987. the figures add trade in services and investment flows to other export and import numbers
greenspan said direct investment in the united states by foreigners was preferable to them putting their dollars _ amassed through the trade imbalance _ into ``short term liquid holdings.''
greenspan was asked by sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., whether he was troubled by the extent of the growing foreign investment in the united states, particularly by japanese companies. ``japan is buying america and leasing it back to us,'' d'amato suggested
on the contrary, the integration of the world economies ... is inevitable...and is a desirable trend,'' the fed chief said
greenspan said that foreign-owned businesses in the united states had become ``good corporate citizens in the localities in which they chose to locate.''
he noted that in terms of direct investment _ excluding government securities _ u.s. business holdings overseas remain about $50 billion above holdings by foreigners in this country
in terms of u.s. treasury securities, foreign investors held 16.4 percent of the total at the end of last year, greenspan said
greenspan also:
_urged taiwan to do more to reduce its trade surplus and bring its economic and monetary polices into equilibrium with the united states and other major trading partners
_said the british government took the ``correct action'' in not seeking to stem the recent sharp rise of the pound through heavy central-bank intervention
_praised japan for taking steps to stimulate its economy, but said that steps with a similar goal taken by west germany have not been as successful
_said the fed is keeping in close contact with the white house and the state department on the current turmoil in panama. the fed maintains an account for the government of panama in the new york federal reserve bank, greenspan said
bishop eugene a. marino, named tuesday as the first black roman catholic archbishop in the united states, said his appointment as head of the atlanta archdiocese is ``a great sign of hope to all our people.''
the appointment by pope john paul ii comes more than two years after marino and other black bishops wrote a pastoral letter calling on the church to increase the number of blacks in official positions
the church has spoken but has the church listened to itself?'' said the letter, suggesting that in the absence of a major appointment such as a black archbishop in a big city, ``the church's commitment to black leadership may be seen as half-hearted and superficial.''
the atlanta archdiocese has only 10,000 blacks among its 156,000 catholics. of 52 million catholics nationwide, 1.3 million are black
marino said he could see in his appointment ``a sign of hope to all men and women of good will that the church recognizes its wealth within its own ranks ...''
i think that this appointment is a sign of hope to all minorities that the church in general'' and the pope in particular are sensitive to the needs of blacks, marino told reporters
marino, 53, is one of 12 black bishops in the united states and has served as an auxiliary bishop in the washington, d.c., archdiocese since 1974. in 1985, he was elected secretary of the national conference of catholic bishops, the first black to hold an office in the organization. he is a member of the society of st. joseph, formed in the late 1800s to work in the black community
marino's selection was hailed by an advocacy group as an outstanding appointment
calling him ``quiet, but effective,'' walter t. hubbard, acting executive director of the national office of black catholics, said marino ``is a pastoral man and he is sensitive to the needs of lay people, especially the needs of black catholic lay people in the country
we have optimism that the church is showing us signs of being responsive to the call by black catholic lay people for black men to be elevated to positions of authority and responsibilty,'' hubbard said in a telephone interview from washington
hubbard noted that marino has represented the national conference of catholic bishops in congressional hearings, testifying about the needs of the unemployed and the homeless and for voting rights
marino said his appointment did not necessarily make him the church's spokesman on civil rights, despite atlanta's historical position in the civil rights movement
he also declined to be labeled an activist priest, saying he was ``not one to dodge issues; at the same time i am not one to go out and look for issues for issues' sake.''
marino, a native of biloxi, miss., said he hoped to be able to expand black membership in the catholic church
we (black bishops) feel that this is a good time for our sisters and brothers to come forward with their gifts to enrich the church,'' marino said
we have a rich tradition of spirituality in the african-american tradition ... but it is not a rich tradition that enriches the catholic church, unfortunately,'' he said. ``our people tend to be religious, our people tend to be spiritual, but they do not tend to be predominantly catholic and we feel that being catholic is something special.''
after meeting with some of the 200 priests in the archdiocese, marino led a noontime mass at the cathedral of christ the king before returning to washington
marino will be formally installed may 5, to succeed archbishop thomas a. donnellan, who died last oct. 15
the atlanta archdiocese covers 69 counties in north georgia and has some administrative responsibility for catholic dioceses in the rest of georgia and in north and south carolina
defense secretary frank c. carlucci met with his soviet counterpart tuesday, hoping to prod defense minister dmitri yazov into providing concrete evidence of a new soviet military doctrine
carlucci, speaking to reporters en route to meeting yazov in bern, said that despite publicity surrounding the kremlin doctrine of reasonable or defensive sufficiency, he had seen ``absolutely no practical change.''
if anything, their military continues to grow. they continue to modernize,'' carlucci said
yazov, who also arrived in bern on tuesday for the opening of the three-day session, said before he left moscow that he hoped for a ``frank, constructive discussion'' on arms control issues including strategic arms, nuclear testing, chemical and conventional weapons
carlucci emphasized that he did not want the meeting, the first business session between u.s. and soviet defense secretaries, to open a ``parallel channel'' to ongoing superpower arms negotiations in geneva
yazov and carlucci were attending a dinner by swiss defense minister arnold koller on tuesday night, and were to sit down for formal talks on wednesday and thursday
yazov and other soviet officials have said they are moving toward a new doctrine, relying on defense. but kremlin leader mikhail gorbachev, yazov, and other military and civilian commentators have offered different versions of the doctrine, puzzling western analysts
i'm still not sure what it is,'' said carlucci. ``that's a question, by the way, i intend to ask him.''
if yazov wants to prove that the kremlin is moving from an offensive to a defensive posture, said carlucci, he should seek ``a slacking off in tank production, in artillery production, maybe desisting from highly accurate follow-on systems like the ss-18'' intercontinental ballistic missile, which carries 10 nuclear warheads
u.s. negotiators have raised all those issues in the geneva talks, but it is not clear when agreements may be reached to cut strategic and conventional arsenals
carlucci said u.s. analysts were looking for unilateral soviet action to define the new kremlin doctrine
one of the most important indicators, i would think, would be tanks. but tanks continue to pour out. so there is no indication at the other end of the pipeline that there has been any change,'' said carlucci
yazov, in remarks reported from moscow by the official soviet news agency tass, said nothing about the doctrine
the goal'' of the session, he said, ``is to facilitate the search for ways of resolving the most acute and immediate issues of strategic offensive weapons and the (1972 anti-ballistic missile) treaty, reduction of the armed forces and conventional armaments in europe, termination of nuclear testing, and prohibition and elimination of chemical weapons.''
the two people whose identification and testimony sent willie jasper darden to the electric chair expressed relief tuesday that their ordeal had ended but anger that it had taken so long
i think it's long overdue,'' said helen turman baum, whose husband, jim, was shot dead in front of her in 1973. ``i need to get on with my life. ... he (darden) put me through torture. no one knows what i have suffered through his hands. ... it is torture when you see a loved one shot down in front of your eyes.''
a 16-year-old boy who came to her aid in the turmans' lakeland furniture store was shot three times but survived
justice has finally prevailed,'' phillip arnold said at the tampa asphalt company where he works. ``but it wasn't as swift and efficient as it's supposed to be.''
while death penalty opponents and darden supporters said his execution tuesday meant the judicial system had failed, the prosecutor, c. ray mcdaniel, criticized the length of the legal battles ``and the unnecessary waste of legal and judicial manpower that went into the case.''
those opponents of the death penalty simply hitched their wagon to the wrong mule,'' said mcdaniel, now a private attorney in bartow. ``i wish 10 percent of their efforts and the money spent could have gone to the victims. ... mrs. turman's life was ruined ... because of this.''
mrs. baum, 59, remarried four years ago
she was making breakfast and hurrying to take her husband, fred baum, to a doctor when she was called by a friend and told that darden had been executed. she cried a little
arnold and mrs. turman rejected recent statements by a baptist minister and a lakeland secretary, who disputed testimony about the attack. their statements provided ammunition for darden and supporters who said he had been wrongly identified as the killer
i identified him several days later (after the crime) because his face stood out to me. i know in my heart it was him,'' mrs. baum said
there's no doubt in my mind. there never has been,'' said arnold. association xxx a friend.'' ^by randolph e. schmid</note>
as summer edges over the horizon, millions of americans are contemplating exercise programs to help get into shape after a winter spent as couch potatoes; health experts also advise watcing the diet carefully
the american dietetic association has declared march to be national nutrition month, and is urging people to make good eating a personal way of life, not a dreaded prescription
we want everyone _ men, women and children of all ages _ to grasp one critical message: it's never too late to start reaping the benefits of healthy food choices,'' the association said in a statement
federal health officials, too, stress the importance of good diet, noting that food choices can be a major factor in having a healthy heart, avoiding cancer and in feeling well generally
to help, a variety of federal agencies have put together booklets which can be obtained from the consumer information center, pueblo, colo., 81009. among them are:
_ ``planning a diet for a healthy heart,'' item 521t, no charge
_ ``diet, nutrition and cancer prevention: the good news,'' item 517t, no charge
_ ``diet and the elderly,'' item 516t, no charge
_ ``food additives,'' item 518t, no charge
_ ``nutritive value of foods,'' item 119t, $2.75
_ ``some facts and myths about vitamins,'' item 523t, no charge
_ ``a word about low sodium diets,'' item 525t, no charge
generally, improving the diet should be done gradually, not all at once, says the dietetic association
set realistic goals and try to plan a diet with as much variety of food as possible
many very-low calorie diets can create potential problems by not supplying enough nutrition. in addition, while these semi-starvation diets may promote quick weight-loss, they don't promote a change in eating habits, so the weight is rapidly regained, the dietetic group points out
while many folks shy away from making sudden, major changes in their eating habits, the dietetic association says it can be simple to take small, healthful steps throughout the day
it's easy to skip breakfast in the morning rush, for example. so how about planning ahead by preparing breakfast the night before, including such foods as fruit juice, a whole-wheat bagel, yogurt or perhaps a banana
even if lunch means a business gathering, most restaurants offer dishes that are low in fat and cholesterol, such as chicken or fish or moderate portions of beef, as well as fresh steamed or raw vegetables
the association suggests ordering salad dressing on the side so you can control the amount put on the salad. if dessert is needed, consider fresh fruit or split a dessert with a friend
smart snacking doesn't mean going without, the group adds. snacks can include unsalted nuts, plain crackers, low-fat yogurt, seltzer water, fruit juice or ice water with lemon
popcorn _ leaving off the salt and butter _ also can make a good snack, as well as celery and carrot sticks or pieces of zucchini or green pepper
an irving berlin tribute on the composer's 100th birthday, may 11, will star an array of classical and popular musicians ranging from leonard bernstein to willie nelson, from isaac stern to frank sinatra
the tribute at carnegie hall will, at berlin's request, benefit the carnegie hall society and the american society of composers, authors and publishers foundation, ascap's ken sunshine announced tuesday
sunshine said the gala will be taped by cbs-tv and a broadcast date will be announced later. don mischer will be executive producer for the network
berlin is the last surviving founding member of ascap, which began at a dinner at luchow's restaurant on 14th street in manhattan in 1914. composers present, including berlin, victor herbert, jerome kern and john philip sousa, decided to form an organization to protect their copywrights
tickets to the concert and a ``top hat, white tie and tails'' dinner-dance afterwards are $1,000. tickets to the concert only are $250, $100, $75 and $50. the carnegie hall box office, taking its cue from berlin's ``easter parade,'' will start selling tickets on easter sunday. groups</head>
the senate sponsor of a $2.5 billion child care bill said tuesday he will change it to address complaints that it discriminates against religious groups who provide some of the nation's best child care
within the next week or so we are going to resolve that issue,'' said sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., sponsor of the act for better child care or abc bill. ``these concerns will be resolved to the satisfaction of all.''
the bill, which has 37 senate co-sponsors, would provide grants to nonprofit agencies to expand child care as well as money for child care certificates to working parents with incomes below a certain level
it would deny funding for ``any program or activity that has the purpose or effect of advancing or promoting a particular religion or religion generally.'' and it would cancel a civil rights act provision allowing religious institutions to hire employees on the basis of religion
john carr, an official with the u.s. catholic conference, said his group supports the goals of the abc bill and other child care legislation before congress but objects to those two provisions
we are working with the sponsors to see if the church-state problems can be resolved,'' carr, the conference's secretary for social development and world peace, said in an interview. ``much of the child care now provided is provided in churches and by religious groups, and we don't want to see an effort to broaden quality child care exclude those groups. we're quite hopeful a solution can be found.''
the abc bill was discussed at a hearing tuesday before the senate labor and human resources subcommittee on children, chaired by dodd
lawmakers across the ideological spectrum are reaching agreement that the nation needs more, better and expanded child care services to address what sen. orrin hatch called ``a bipartisan problem of families.'' the major points of contention are over how much to spend and whether states or the federal government should regulate day care
hatch, r-utah, has proposed a somewhat different and less expensive approach to the problem. he said the abc bill's price tag is prohibitive while its licensing requirements and religious provisions seem to discourage home-based care and participation by religious institutions
dodd said the bill's sponsors are ``strong supporters of home care. we just want to see minimum standards'' for day care workers, homes and centers. he said the religious problem would be worked out
the only witness against the bill was william bentley ball, a harrisburg, pa., lawyer representing the association of christian schools international, an organization of evangelical christian educational institutions including 1,000 preschools. ball said the schools on principle would not take federal money, but said parents otherwise eligible for aid should not be penalized for sending their children there
conservative activist phyllis schlafly, who opposes any federal encouragement of day care, led a protest outside the building where dodd was holding his hearing
in the february edition of her monthly newsletter, schlafly referred to the dodd bill as an attempt to ``sovietize the american family by warehousing babies in government-licensed institutions where they would be subjected to secular, unisex custodial care by government-trained personnel, while their mothers would be trapped full-time in the paid labor force.''
debra and and michael brooks of gunnison, colo., presented a different view inside the hearing room. the couple's first child was killed when his day care provider _ a woman with no training and little experience _ struck him on the head. the woman, now in prison, was ``not a stranger. i considered her a friend,'' said mrs. brooks
her husband said the experience shocked him into realizing that his government was not monitoring or regulating child care. ``i had no idea of the things that could go wrong,'' he told dodd. ``i trusted in a system that simply didn't exist.''
sen. david karnes said tuesday that he had reprimanded a member of his staff who met with palestine liberation organization leader yasser arafat
baker spring, a foreign policy assistant for the nebraska republican, met with arafat in baghdad during a trip to iraq in january. karnes said he was not aware of the meeting before it occurred. details of the two-hour meeting became public earlier this month
spring went to iraq under the sponsorship of a private group, the national council of u.s.-arab relations, and karnes said he approved the eight-day trip because it ``provided an opportunity for expanding trade with iraq.''
however, the meeting with arafat was not on the agenda, and karnes said he would not have allowed spring to go if it had been. karnes said the meeting was arranged after the group already was in iraq and that spring had no opportunity to contact him
meetings with known terrorists serve no purpose whatsoever, and should never be held,'' karnes said in a statement released from washington
karnes, named to the senate a year ago by republican gov. kay orr after the death of democratic sen. edward zorinsky, faces a may 10 primary battle against rep. hal daub. former gov. bob kerrey is favored to win the democratic nomination
wayne felde, who claimed post-vietnam war stress drove him to murder a rookie policeman, died in louisiana's electric chair tuesday after delivering a cryptic two-sentence message to those who watched him die
you can kill the messenger but you can't kill the message,'' he said slowly and matter of factly, giving three reporters separated from him by a glass window time to write down each word. ``sooner or later, you have to acknowledge it for what it means, not for what you want it to mean.''
the 38-year-old killer was then led by four guards a few steps from the microphone to the big oak electric chair. four alternating jolts of 2,400 volts and 500 volts of electricity were administered over one minute. doctors pronounced him deat at 12:14 a.m
felde died for killing officer glen tompkins in 1978, as felde was being driven to jail in shreveport. felde had been picked up on a drunkeness charge and apparently had not been throroughly searched. he pulled a gun from his clothes and shot three times through the front seat
three shreveport officers joined the few pro death penalty demonstrators who come to the remote prison each time the state schedules an execution
justice is being done tonight,'' said sgt. glenn ramsey. ``i hate it. it took 10 years.''
cpl. joe feconda, who drove tompkins' widow home from the hospital after the shooting, said he is still haunted by the memory. a third officer declined to be identified
felde was captured the night of tompkins' murder when a lawman's shotgun blast brought him down. scars from the blast could be seen on the lower right side of his chest as his body was examined in the electric chair
warden hilton butler told reporters shortly before the execution that felde did not desire or expect a last-minute stay of execution
at his 1980 trial, felde asked the jury that convicted him to recommend the death penalty, ``or other deaths will result.'' but he later helped in appeals that delayed his execution for eight years
felde had enlisted in the army at age 18 and was sent to war in 1967. the experience, he claimed, left him unable to tell right from wrong
felde's lawyers had hoped gov. buddy roemer _ who took office about 12 hours before the electrocution _ would grant felde a stay and a new pardon board hearing. but roemer, who had said last week he had no plans to delay felde's death, decided against stopping the execution after meeting late monday with bill quigley, a lawyer for felde
if you've been wondering why the u.s. space program has fizzled or why johnny can't multiply anymore, phil paeltz has an answer: the demise of the slide rule
the headmaster of the governor french academy is organizing a national slide rule museum in this southwestern illinois city as a shrine to the device, made virtually extinct by the onslaught of the pocket calculator in the early 1970s
the thing that frightens me to death is that we seemed to have gotten along a whole lot better with these than we are getting along with the computer,'' said paeltz
it was the slide rule that put together `e equals mc squared' and it was the slide rule that put together the beginning of the space program. much of what we talk about as america's pre-eminent technical position was all computed on slide rules.''
paeltz yearns for a return to pre-calculator days and thinks many schools put too much emphasis on machines
a slide rule is slower, but i wonder if it doesn't have some very beneficial things. when there is something physical as well as mental involved in a process i think people remember things better,'' paeltz said
there was only one thing the bi-state development agency could give edna schroeder to commemorate her retirement
the 73-year-old woman, who took public transportation to her downtown job for 55 years without missing a day or arriving late for work, received a lifetime bus pass in honor of her retirement last month
schroeder, who worked the whole time for norcliff thayer inc., the maker of tums, said she used to ride the street car before the bus came along. she said she never owned a car
we at bi-state take great pride in the fact that all that time you used the bus,'' said raymond jurkowski, bi-state's deputy director
schroeder said she would use the pass presented to her monday to ``ride the bus to places i've never ridden to before.''
bennion elementary school principal ken higgins has paid ``deerly'' for doubting his students' reading capabilities
the principal spent monday's lunch periods locked in a utah division of wildlife deer cage for losing a bet that students could not do 500,000 pages in outside reading. they ended up last week more than doubling that goal
after students hit an original target of 250,000 pages quickly, higgins raised the goal to 500,000 and offered a pizza party for the class that came up with the best penalty for higgins. eventually, he boosted the target to 1 million pages, a mark the students hit last week
what was really neat was everyone was into the project,'' he said
i was really nervous,'' he said about spending 90 minutes in the cage, ``but it worked out well. and the important thing was it got the kids reading.'' he spent the time chatting with students and reading to the younger students
higgins isn't done yet, however. one of the winning class suggestions was a ride in a hot air balloon. high winds monday grounded the plans, but the tire company that owns the balloon agreed to return when higgins can take the trip
the principal acknowledges a fear of heights, but has vowed to complete the agreement. ``i couldn't live with myself if i didn't do what i said i would do,'' he said
the deficit in the broadest measure of u.s. foreign trade surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987 as america fell deeper into debt to the rest of the world, the commerce department reported tuesday
the deficit in the u.s. current account was 13.7 percent higher than the 1986 deficit of $141.4 billion and marked the fifth consecutive year that this trade deficit has hit a new record
the reagan administration has sought to downplay the significance of the trade deficits, but private economists contend that the rapid buildup of foreign debt could eventually topple the country into another recession, triggered by a plunge in the value of the dollar
the increasing indebtedness of the united states is the most insidious and potentially damaging long-run problem the country must deal with,'' said allen sinai, chief economist of the boston co
the current account is the broadest gauge of america's dealings with other countries because it measures not only the flow of merchandise across u.s. borders but also the flow of services, primarily investment earnings
for 16 of the past 17 years, the country has run deficits in the merchandise trade category. but the current account was in surplus as recently as 1981 because americans' earnings on overseas investments were enough to offset the merchandise deficits
but in this decade americans have handed over billions of dollars to foreigners in exchange for imported goods, transforming the country from the world's largest creditor to the world's largest debtor nation
that means that foreigners now own more in u.s. investments than americans hold in foreign investments. america was last a net debtor in 1914. it regained that status in 1985 with a foreign debt of $111.9 billion. that debt grew to $263.6 billion at the end of 1986
based on tuesday's current account statistics, jeff faux, president of the economic policy institute, estimated that the u.s. foreign debt now totaled $424.2 billion, more than four times the burden of the previous debt leader, brazil
treasury secretary james a. baker iii and other administration officials have argued that the country's debt status was not a cause for alarm because the debt was still a tiny fraction of the total u.s. economy
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan, testifying before congress on tuesday, said the fact that more and more u.s. assets are being acquired by japanese and other investors was a plus for the u.s. economy, providing american jobs
but private economists argue that the increase in foreign investment means that more american assets will be flowing into foreign hands in the years ahead to service the growing debt, lowering american standards of living and leaving the country increasingly vulnerable to the whims of foreign investors
the most profound and enduring legacy of the reagan period is its conversion of the united states from the largest creditor country in the world to the largest debtor,'' said c. fred bergsten, director of the institute for international economics. ``as long as the united states has to rely on foreign financing of such magnitudes, events could at literally any moment trigger a sharp turndown in our economy.''
bergsten said that america endured two such turbulent episodes in early 1987 and again in the fall when weakened foreign confidence sent the value of the dollar plunging and u.s. interest rates up sharply. the last such event has been blamed as a contributing factor in the record collapse of stock pricesd which occurred on oct. 19
the new report on the current account showed that the trade deficit actually narrowed somewhat in the final three months of the year, dropping to $39 billion, compared to record quarterly deficit of $43.4 billion in the third quarter, reflecting higher american earnings abroad because of the decline in the value of the dollar
but this improvement did little to shrink the deficit for the year, an imbalance reflecting a continued worsening in merchandise trade and a shrinking of the investment surplus
the merchandise trade deficit, on a current accounts basis, totaled $159.2 billion last year. adding to that deficit were u.s. foreign aid and other government transfer payments totaling $13.5 billion
the deficit was lowered slightly by a surplus of $12 billion in the service category. while foreigners now own more in u.s. investments, the payments still show a slight surplus in america's favor because many of the older u.s. investments are earning a higher rate of return
economists said the $12 billion surplus in 1987, down from $18.6 billion in 1986, will shrink even more in 1988 and by 1989 will drop into a deficit, further complicating the country's efforts to reduce its trade imbalance
bergsten estimated that total u.s. debt held by foreigners would rise to around $700 billion to $800 billion by 1995, requiring net interest payments of around $25 billion annually
education secretary william bennett congratulated the 50 winners of an annual national award for outstanding teen-agers tuesday and declared that ``there's no shortage of character in our young people.''
ten of the 50 recipients of the sea breeze awards, a public service project of clairol inc., were honored at a luncheon in the senate caucus room, where each received a $500 grant and a framed citation
the winners received the awards for acting ``with courage, heroism, integrity, compassion or in a spirit of public service to make their world a better place.''
the 10 recipients honored at the lunch were rochelle badger, 18, valmeyer, ill.; steven bonacorsi, 18, salem, n.h.; darla byrd, 17, rutledge, tenn.; sean t. fox, 18, winlock, wash.; jennifer gates, 16, north palm beach, fla.; rosa gonzalez, 18, castro valley, calif.; alphonso guest, 16, north little rock, ark.; michelle jones, 13, mountain home, ark.; audrey nenoff, 18, westwood, n.j., and quoc van-dong, 17, elk mound, wis
bennett said the awards honor ``excellence in character.'' he thanked each of the teens for ``helping us believe in the spiritual wealth of the world.''
whatever your circumstances in life, you'll have opportunities to show what you're made of, where your heart is,'' he said
high-altitude ozone, which protects humans from skin cancer, shows an unexplained thinning of about 2.3 percent since 1969 over mid-latitudes of the northern hemisphere _ an area that includes most of the united states, scientists said tuesday
the decline, which is at least twice as large in winter at high latitudes, was almost certainly the result of human use of ozone-destroying chemicals, the researchers said in what is believed to be the most definitive report on ozone concentrations to date
ozone, a pollutant at ground level, makes possible life on earth by blocking the harmful ultraviolet rays of the sun at high altitudes. the environmental protection agency has estimated that every 1 percent decline in ozone overhead means an eventual increase in skin cancer of 5 percent to 6 percent
satellite data from 1978 on are consistent with a similar shrinkage in the southern hemisphere, according to the report of a panel assembled by the national aeronautics and space administration
the satellite data show a similar unexplained decline in ozone around the middle of the globe in both hemispheres of about 0.5 percent to 1.8 percent from 1978 to 1987. the actual decline is larger, about 2.5 percent, but most of it results from variations in the output of the sun, the panel said
at this point there is no other culprit to blame'' but the chlorofluorocarbon compounds, said sherwood rowland of the university of california, irvine, and head of a panel subcommittee. ``we have taken out all the natural phenomena that are believed to affect ozone.''
the senate on monday approved, 83-0, a 31-nation treaty calling for 50 percent cuts by 1998 in production of chlorofluorocarbons, which are used for refrigeration fluids, cleaning solvents and foam blowing agents
since 1985, there have been several reports of ozone decline worldwide in addition to the well-established ozone ``hole'' over antarctica _ a 50 percent decline in springtime, followed by recovery
but the reports have not been widely accepted because of such problems as out-of-calibration satellite instruments or failure to account for the solar cycle
the nasa panel of more than 100 scientists, convened 17 months ago, went back to the original data, analyzing possible errors in observations, cross-checking ground and satellite observations and making particular use of ground data taken when a satellite was overhead
it particular, it tried to estimate the effect of the 11-year solar cycle, which could decrease ozone by 0.7 percent to 2.0 percent in the period in question, and the effect of the two-year cycle of upper atmosphere winds
the northern mid-latitude decline was estimated from ground-based data taken by stations mostly in the united states and europe. there are too few stations at high latitudes, in the tropics or in the southern hemisphere, the panel said
the decline reached 8 percent at the highest latitudes studied in january, averaging 6 percent in winter, and at higher northern latitudes ``limited data suggest that there has been a decrease comparable in magnitude,'' the report said
the agency's computer models predicted only a 4 percent to 5 percent peak decline, and researchers are asking, ``can we believe our models?'' said robert watson, nasa's chairman of the ozone panel
estimated average year-round ozone declines from 1969 through 1986 were reported from ground-based data for three bands in the northern hemisphere: latitude 30 degrees (about the latitude of houston, texas, cairo and shanghai) to 40 degrees (philadelphia and madrid), down 1.7 percent; 40 degrees to 53 degrees (edmonton, alberta, and berlin), down 3.0 percent; and 53 degrees to 64 degrees (fairbanks, alaska, and reykjavik, iceland), down 2.3 percent
no estimate was presented for all three bands as a whole, but rowland said the simple mean average of the three, a 2.3 percent decline, would be close
each estimate contains a margin of error of about one percentage point
the satellite data were presented similarly, with a decline of 2.5 percent before corrections for solar and other fluctuations estimated for the band between 53 degrees north and 53 degrees south (about punta arenas, chile). this band covers all of the inhabited southern hemisphere
the antarctic hole is so pronounced that scientists now think of it as a year-round phenomenon because of its effects elsewhere. no one knows whether a similar ``hole'' could develop over the north pole
watson said planned high-altitude research flights over the arctic next winter will be ``absolutely essential'' in deciding whether to accelerate or change the cuts called for under the chlorofluorocarbons treaty
declining to make policy recommendations, watson said, ``a fully implemented ... treaty can do absolutely nothing to remove the ozone hole over antarctica,'' which scientists earlier had estimated could last 100 years
about 450 gallons of highly flammable and toxic chemicals found in drums along a busy road probably were the waste product of an illegal drug laboratory, authorities said tuesday
the chemicals, which included acetone and ether, were found monday in 10 drums about 4 miles west of this northern california town, according to greg smith, coordinator of emergency services and assistant fire chief for mendocino county
the chemicals, along with another 400 gallons found on two other occasions in the past two months, probably came from a laboratory making methamphetamine, commonly known as speed, in the area, he said
the problem with these people is they don't take any consideration of waterways or school children waiting nearby,'' said smith. he noted there was a creek 50 feet from the drums and a school bus stop 150 yards away
there were no injuries, but smith said there was concern about the chemicals because the drums had small leaks and some of the chemicals were crystalizing and foaming
nancy reagan canceled plans to visit a school in nashville, tenn., after coming down with a ``bad case'' of laryngitis, a spokeswoman said tuesday
the visit had been scheduled for wednesday. it was the second time the first lady had been forced to cancel the visit to warner elementary school and a drug and alcohol abuse prevention program; a snowstorm had prevented mrs. reagan from visiting the city the first time
wendy weber toler, a spokeswoman for mrs. reagan, said the white house physician, dr. john hutton, had advised the first lady not to travel
she can't talk. it's a bad case of laryngitis,'' mrs. toler said of the first lady. ``she started losing her voice last night.''
mrs. toler said mrs. reagan was ``just resting'' in the white house residence and was ``gargling with salt water'' to treat the laryngitis
mayor john fedo has been charged with swindling, falsifying entries in his city expense records and lying to the state auditor about how city money was spent, but he says it's a case of dirty politics
the indictment ``is not going to have an effect on city hall,'' fedo said at a news conference monday, insisting that the charges are an elaborate ploy by his political enemies
the indictment, including 22 felonies, was returned thursday by a st. louis county grand jury and was made public after fedo, in office nearly nine years, was arraigned monday
the indictment includes one count of theft, one count of failure to pay over state funds, six counts of presenting false claims to a public officer or body, 13 counts of permitting false claims against the government, one count of obstructing the state auditor and one count of misconduct of a public employee
if convicted, fedo, 37, faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison on the theft charge and up to five years in prison on most of the other charges. he was freed on his own recognizance. a hearing is scheduled for may 3
fedo's lawyer, douglas sauter, said he will move for dismissal of the charges. fedo was ``tried once in the election and found not guilty,'' he said
fedo, a member of minnesota's democratic-farmer-labor party, won his first four-year term as mayor in 1979 and has been re-elected twice
the theft charge concerns $13,500 given to fedo by three businessmen to lobby for state funds for a convention center in the city
during the 1987 election campaign, fedo said he passed the funds to an unnamed twin cities businessman in 1985 in exchange for information about other cities' convention center proposals
duluth, a city of 85,000 on the western tip of lake superior, was never in competition for a $200 million convention center for which bloomington and minneapolis vied, according to the charges. the legislature awarded duluth a total of $17.2 million for its relatively small center
prosecutors say the mayor played a limited role in lobbying for the convention center which he later claimed to have won almost single-handedly
the soviet union said tuesday negotations on banning chemical weapons are stagnating, and blamed the united states and britain
yuri nazarkin, chief soviet delegate to the 40-nation conference on disarmament, said some western delegations ``unfortunately make an ever greater emphasis on the idea that allegedly there is no need to hurry, that there is a lot more work to be done.'' his reference was to recent statements by u.s. and british delegates
tessa solesby of britain responded by telling the conference: ``we have to cope with a formidable number of technical difficulties. this is why i am uneasy and my authorities are uneasy when we are told a solution lies just around the corner.''
u.s. envoy max friedersdorf agreed and urged the soviet union to provide more information on the size of its chemical weapons arsenal
the disarmament conference began negotiations in 1968 on a convention to bar production, stockpiling and use of chemical arms
nazarkin, in a declaration he said was aimed at helping the exchange of information, claimed the soviets have not transferred chemical arms equipment or technology to other states
the soviet delegation is concerned about a slowdown, even stagnation'' of negotiations, but a draft convention could be finished this year if there is a drastic change of pace, he told reporters later
nazarkin spoke of three main obstacles to an agreement: the order of destruction of weapons over a 10-year period, inspection provisions for commercial chemical plants, and mandatory inspection of weapons sites on short notice if a violation is suspected
nazarkin repeated the soviet claim that washington is blocking progress by seeking exemptions for private industry
the wife and son of disgraced evangelist jimmy swaggart pleaded with television viewers tuesday to send huge donations to keep the $140 million-a-year jimmy swaggart ministries afloat
the holy spirit is telling you right now to send a large gift of help to carry my word, my program and my message around the world,'' frances swaggart said on the ministry's weeklong telethon
don't walk, run to that phone'' to make a pledge, donnie swaggart urged
tuesday's pleas were made in the third day of a scheduled weeklong telethon aimed at raising money for the ministry. tuesday's show also coincided with swaggart's 54th birthday
donnie swaggart, often sobbing, wished his father happy birthday and pledged ``i'll never leave or forsake you.''
donnie and his mother said that unless the telethon raises enough money, some of the ministry's work in foreign countries will have to shut down. in earlier broadcasts they said that even the ministry's regular daily television show may have to stop
swaggart said in a jsm publication that the ministries were about $14.7 million in deficit through february. the announcement is made in the march 1988 edition of ``the evangelist,'' a magazine published by the ministry
in an article outlining the telethon, swaggart claimed expenses average $13 million a month. the article did not detail how the money is spent or explain how the deficit was created
swaggart has not participated in the telethon
he voluntarily stepped down from his pulpit at the 7,500-seat family worship center and his worldwide television ministry shortly after news reports of his alleged involvement with a prostitute. national leaders of the assemblies of god denomination will decide later this month whether to discipline him for committing sexual misconduct
swaggart has publicly confessed to his family, church and television congregation that he had committed a sin but has not publicly revealed what sin he committed
published reports, however, have alleged that swaggart was photographed leaving a seedy new orleans-area motel room with a prostitute. it also is reported that swaggart paid prostitutes to perform lewd acts while he watched
since swaggart stepped down, the ministry has stopped work on one of its construction projects, laid off some 100 employees and canceled at least two ministry crusades
mrs. swaggart and her son said record donations are crucial to keep the ministry alive
god is going to touch you to give the largest gift you have ever given,'' mrs. swaggart said. ``the last few weeks satan has pressed his hand down strong to destroy'' the ministries
family worship center co-pastor jim rentz said news reports about swaggart are ``not the truth. they are being sidetracked.'' he did not elaborate
in the magazine article, swaggart complained ``the news media is opposed to us. most of the world's religions are opposed to us. sometimes i think every single denomination in america is opposed to us.''
a judge on tuesday made formal an order reinstating a pastor accused by church elders of adultery stemming from his exhortations to build ``spiritual connections'' through dancing with other members' spouses
donald lee barnett has admitted he sinned, but says he repented and wants to remain as pastor of community chapel and bible training center, based in burien, south of seattle
the dispute spilled into court last week, and king county superior court judge jim bates on tuesday signed an order he issued verbally on friday, which reinstated barnett
a week earlier, church elders ``disfellowshipped'' barnett, accusing him of sexual misconduct with several women in the congregation and saying he would not follow restrictions against being alone with any female parishioner other than his wife
church elders filed a new motion tuesday for a more detailed restraining order, which would prevent both sides from: firing church employees; interfering with worship services scheduled by either side; authorizing expenditures except through the established system; giving keys to buildings, offices r files to unauthorized people; destroying church documents; and hiring new employees except through the established system. bates set a hearing thursday
barnett, 57, founded the 1,500-member church in 1967. he has an unpublished telephone number, and could not be reached for comment
competing services were held sunday, and an affidavit by elder scott hartley said that while barnett attracted 240 and 195 people to two services, the elders' services attracted 600 and 660 people
church spokesman chuck kerr said a note from barnett was posted at the school chapel, reading: ``anyone who walks in this building will be `disfellowshipped' and staff will be fired.'' when barnett heard how many attended the elders' service, he rescinded the order, according to kerr
a former boeing draftsman, barnett guided the church from a bible study group to an organization that once had members in this country, western canada, and several other countries. membership locally was once about 2,500
dissident members have said many problems resulted from barnett's preaching of ``spiritual connection,'' a relationship between church members of opposite sexes with partners other than their spouses. the members are encouraged to dance with regular partners, or ``connections.''
some former members have said relationships that developed between these partners have led to suicide and broken marriages. more than a half-dozen former members have sued, some alleging barnett sexually assaulted them under the pretense of ministerial counseling
on march 20, 1986, a woman drowned her 5-year-old daughter in a bathtub, believing it would save the child from demons. court records said the woman was tormented by her 18 years of involvement in the church. she was sent to an institution
jeb stuart magruder, who became a presbyterian minister after serving a prison term for his role in the watergate scandal, was named tuesday to head a mayoral commission on values and ethics
a lot of my time outside has been talking about these issues,'' magruder said. ``i talk about these issues to the kiwanises and the rotaries around here, as well as deal with these issues through the church, so i would hope that my background would be helpful.''
mayor dana rinehart said the 15-member commission, on which he also will sit, will attempt to stimulate conversations on ethics
a city-wide ethics debate was prompted last year after bags of money fell from an armored truck on a downtown freeway. police said many of those who stopped to scoop up the cash never returned it to authorities
magruder held several white house positions from 1969 to 1973, including deputy director of communications at the time of the 1972 watergate break-in
he spent seven months in prison after pleading guilty to perjury and conspiracy to obstruct justice
after his release from prison in 1976, he entered a seminary and was ordained in 1981
since 1984, magruder has been executive minister at first community church in suburban marble cliff
he will receive no pay for serving on the commission
a national summit meeting of educators, business leaders and politicians should be convened to combat low morale and high dropout rates in urban schools, the president of the carnegie foundation for the advancement of teaching said thursday
i see it as a kind of manhattan project for urban schools,'' said ernest boyer, referring to the task force of scientists who developed the atomic bomb during world war ii
boyer, speaking at a news conference to release a foundation's report on the nation's big-city schools, said schools must be extricated from ``a web of mindless authority and contradictory responsibilities.''
i wonder if we don't need a national forum ... of top educators, politicians, corporate leaders, as voices most heard and listened to,'' said boyer, a former u.s. commissioner of education
the report, the first issued by the foundation trustees, said urban schols were riddled with problems ranging from low morale and high dropout rates to dilapidated facilities and crippling bureaucratic regulations
the nation was challenged (by president kennedy) to reach for the moon within a decade and we did. and i think it's not impossible for us to dream to have inner-city schools of excellence by the year 2000,'' boyer said
in the 38-page report called, ``an imperiled generation: saving urban schools,'' the carnegie trustees said: ``many people have simply written off city schools as little more than human storehouses to keep young people off th streets.''
stanley o. ikenberry, foundation chairman and president of the univeristy of illinois, warned: `` if people in our cities don't believe that our students can succeed and that our schools can succeed, they won't support them and the problem will continue.''
the foundation called for a ``crusade on behalf of urban education'' including greater financial support for inner-city schools and more freedom and accountability for teachers and principals
principals and teachers ``should be given more authority to run the schools,'' but if urban schools do not shape up, ``there must be outside intervention,'' the report said
it is our deep conviction that when schools fail, swift changes must be made. no other crisis _ a flood, a health epidemic, a garbage strike or even snow removal _ would be as calmly accepted without full-scale emergency intervention,'' the report said
the trustees suggested that an evaluation team of educators, parents and others be dispatched to a troubled school, where it could recommend sweeping changes including removing the principal and, as a last resort, closing the school
school reform is failing in the inner city because the diagnosis is wrong,'' boyer said. ``formulas for renewal _ more homework, more testing, more requirements for graduation _ work best for schools that already are succeeding and for students who are college bound
but to require a troubled student in an urban ghetto to take another unit in math or foreign language, without more guidance and support, is like raising a hurdle in the high jump without giving more coaching to someone who has stumbled.''
secretary of education william j. bennett issued a statement saying: ``i am generally encouraged by this report. it's good to have major figures from the education establishment strongly endorse the principle of accountability. now let's see if agreement on this idea can be followed by the political courage required to put it into practice.''
support for the foundation's effort also came from the national education association and the american federation of teachers
carnegie surveyed teachers and visited schools in six cities: chicago, cleveland, houston, los angeles, new orleans and new york
it proposed fighting the problem on several fronts, including:
_setting high expectations for all students. it decried the 28 percent of urban teachers surveyed by carnegie who thought a 25 percent dropout rate was tolerable
_freeing principals and teachers ``from a system of red tape that causes them to scrounge for chalk and paper clips while bombarding them with a steady flow of procedural directives.''
_a national urban schools program that would feature expanded federal funds for head start, child nutrition, and the chapter 1 remedial program, as well as loans to refurbish buildings and other new aid targeted at the nation's 100 biggest cities, from worcester, mass. (population 160,000) to los angeles and new york
_expanded partnerships between the schools and colleges and corporations
opponents of prime minister rajiv gandhi shuttered businesses and took to the streets in six indian states tuesday, but the general strike failed to win widespread support
police arrested 7,000 people in the street clashes, which left seven dead and 200 injured, news reports said
shops and offices were closed and traffic was disrupted in bombay, india's business center, and calcutta, its largest city
there were few signs of support, however, for the opposition-led strike in the other 19 indian states. it drew little apparent backing in new delhi, where most businesses remained open
the strike was called by most major opposition parties to protest sectarian violence, rising prices and alleged corruption in government. the parties, which include two communist groups, demand that parliament be dissolved and new elections held
in parliament, proceedings were disrupted for more than an hour tuesday when opposition members raised anti-government slogans in the upper house. earlier, the entire opposition boycotted the first hour of business in both houses in support of the strike
gandhi's congress party holds more than 400 of 542 seats in the popularly elected lower house. the rest are divided among opposition parties which have been divided despite common demands that gandhi resign
at least five people were killed in clashes in eastern bihar state, according to the united news of india. the news agency also reported that two people were killed and seven injured when a flour mill owner opened fire at opposition party supporters attacking his mill near the coastal city of ernakulam in southern kerala state
the agency said at least 75 people were hurt in political violence in west bengal state
state-run television said only two people died in strike-connected violence
at least 1,500 people were arrested in central madhya pradesh state and another 1,000 in eastern assam state, uni said
it said 14 policemen were injured near the pakistani border in rajasthan state when they were pelted with stones as they tried to remove roadblacks
a woman who paid up to $200,000 to have commandos snatch her daughter from jordan fears her ex-husband may try a similar tactic to get the girl back in the custody dispute, people familiar with the case said tuesday
the woman hired retired u.s. commandos to help her whisk lauren bayan, 7, off a school bus in jerash, north of amman, in late january, and has kept her whereabouts secret, even from her husband, since returning to this country, family members confirmed
cathy phelps mahone now fears her husband could try a similar maneuver to get the girl back, said holly planells, who heads american children held hostage, a brentwood, n.y. advocacy group set up to provide help in international child custody cases
once you get the child back, it isn't over,'' said ms. planells, who has been seeking the return of her own 4-year-old son from jordan in a similar custody battle
ms. planells said she had been in contact with ms. mahone since she and her daughter returned from the middle east but did not know her whereabouts other than somewhere in texas
ms. mahone claims her ex-husband, jordanian-born mohammed ali bayan, failed to return the child to her mother after visiting last halloween. a dallas judge gave ms. mahone custody after her december 1980 divorce, but bayan reportedly claims custody under jordanian law
ms. mahone has not divulged her whereabouts even to her current husband, lytt, whom she married five years ago
the main thing is their safety and their being together and hopefully not having anything else happen,'' mahone said in an interview with the marshall (texas) news messenger
however, mahone said he was not in favor of the commando operation, saying he felt the odds his wife and stepdaughter would be injured were too great
ms. mahone has talked about possible movie and book deals about the raid to bring attention to 2,500 similar cases, ms. planells said
an official at the u.s. embassy in amman knew the group was in jordan, but was misled about their intentions, state department spokesman charles redman said. the embassy officer was recalled to washington for questioning, he said
redman also said the united states had expressed regrets over the officer's possible involvement in the violation of jordanian law
jordanian authorities have had no official comment on the case. but one official, who did not want his name used, said a jordanian citizen was involved in getting the girl out of the country
the man, an employee of an agency that does security work for the u.s. embassy, was held for questioning, the official said
the operation was planned and executed jan. 28 by corporate training unlimited, a fayetteville, n.c., company that specializes in ``hostage rescue training,'' the philadelphia inquirer reported saturday, quoting anonymous sources close to the participants
company president donald feeney denied involvement
ms. planells said the operation cost $200,000, but ms. mahone's brother, david phelps of niceville, fla., said he had been told the mercenaries were paid $100,000
another brother, danny phelps of woodbridge, n.j., confirmed reports of the rescue were generally correct
the phelpses and their sister helped pay some of the costs of the mission, the northwest florida daily news of fort walton beach reported
an 11-year-old boy who shot and killed two men who broke into his home and tried to steal a vcr had never been left home alone before the fatal day, his mother said tuesday
todd knight shot the two men with his .22-caliber rifle monday afternoon when they broke into his family's rural home and tried to steal a videocassette recorder, authorities said
ann knight said her son did not think he had even wounded the men and was very upset when he learned they were dead
i think he went to pieces after it was all over,'' she said
he has never been here by himself _ not even for a minute,'' mrs. knight said. she said the boy still was shaken and the family stayed home tuesday to be with him
the boy will not be charged, officials said
i feel sure he felt very much as having his life in danger and i certainly look at it as being justifiable,'' said spartanburg county sheriff's capt. john blackwood
his life was in danger, he looked for an escape and could not find one .... he was a very brave young man,'' said county coroner jim burnett
he ``acted very wisely,'' burnett said
todd, a fifth-grade student at woodruff elementary school, was left alone in the house when his sister, tammy, left to practice for a weekend beauty pageant, mrs. knight said
todd would normally have gotten off his school bus at mrs. knight's parents' home nearby until the rest of the family came home, but her parents were not home monday afternoon
mrs. knight works at a greenville insurance agency and said she left work early to minimize the time todd would be home alone
the boy told authorities that he was watching television when he heard noises at the front door. he said he got the .22-caliber rifle his father gave him for christmas and loaded four rounds
a man he described as ``rough'' was pounding on the door, but the man drove away and todd went back to watching cartoons, keeping his gun nearby
about 10 minutes later he heard banging at a dining room window. he saw two men this time; unaware of his presence, they climbed through the window
the boy went into a bathroom to climb out the window but saw the men's car parked outside
he went back to the hallway, peeked around the corner into the den and was spotted by one of the intruders as they were taking the vcr off the television set
todd fired three shots at the men, who dropped the vcr and fled through a door into the garage
todd immediately called 911 for help
police found one of the men face down in the back yard, about 50 to 75 feet from the house, while the second man was in the driver's seat of their car, burnett said
mrs. knight said she and her husband, william, were thankful their son was unharmed but they spent most of the night awake
there wasn't much sleeping here last night,'' mrs. knight said. ``there are so many `what ifs.'''
dead at the scene were danny ray abernathy, 35, and broadus petty, 39, both of spartanburg. police were searching for a third person they suspect might have been involved
government spokesman jerzy urban on tuesday disputed reports that riot police clubbed students last week to break up marches commemorating the anniversary of campus protests 20 years ago
he said no general orders were issued for police to use force to stop the march 8 student demonstrations in warsaw and krakow. if force was used, it was applied only sporadically when demonstrations turned violent, he added
i deny western reports that police used clubs to disperse demonstrations,'' said urban at his weekly news conference. ``police did not have any orders to use force without necessity, without some aggression from the side of illegal demonstrators.''
the demonstrations for more academic freedom coincided with the anniversary of march 1968 student protests against censorship and political repression that were violently broken up by police and pro-government workers
the outlawed solidarity union condemned the authorities' reaction to the march 8 demonstrations. it issued a statement saying that several people were hospitalized after they were beaten by police
the labor group, in a statement drawn up at a meeting sunday of its national executive commission, said the police action reflected ``a growth of repressive tendencies'' on the part of communist authorities
lech walesa, who won the nobel peace prize in 1983, heads the committee
so the situation of 20 years ago has been repeated, which finally puts the lie to the authorities' statements about a change of judgment of the disgraceful events of '68,'' said the statement, which was read over the telephone tuesday by solidarity's national spokesman janusz onyszkiewicz
at urban's news conference, western reporters said they had seen riot police charging demonstrators and hitting them with clubs to disperse a march by several hundred students after a mass at warsaw's st. anne's church
urban replied, ``you have an undoubted advantage over me ... but it's the task of police to prevent an illegal demonstration.''
the students were demanding restoration of academic freedoms won during the 1980-81 solidarity labor upheaval and legalization of the independent students union, which was outlawed under martial law in 1982
the government said police detained 83 people taking part in the student protests in warsaw and krakow
solidarity was chartered by the government during nationwide strikes in the fall of 1980. it was suspended in december 1981 and subsequently outlawed by parliament
a couple searching for aluminum cans stumbled on a set of bleached bones in the desert northeast of el paso where five young women have been found in shallow graves since september, police said tuesday
police were painstakinly removing the remains tuesday and did not know the victim's age or sex or how long ago the person had been buried
the bones were found a few hundred yards southeast of where the remains of five young women were discovered last fall, said police chief john scagno
the women's deaths could be the work of a serial killer, said police, who have resumed searching for additional bodies
the body has not been removed,'' scagno said tuesday morning. ``we're doing it inch by inch, like we've done in the past. we hope to have it out by this evening.''
the couple found exposed bones monday afternoon and told police, scagno said. scagno would not say whether clothing or a weapon were found
the only detail we're going to tell you is ... the body had braces (on the teeth),'' scagno said. ``the body itself is just skeletal remains.''
the bodies of maria rosa casio, 24, and karen baker, 20, were found buried close together sept. 4. the bodies of desiree wheatley, 15, and dawn smith, 14, were found oct. 20, about 200 yards away. on nov. 3, the body of angelica frausto, 17, was found between the first two pairs of graves. all were el paso residents except ms. casio, who was from the dallas suburb of addison
no one has been arrested, but a detective testified in january that david leonard wood of el paso is one of several suspects. wood's trial on an unrelated sexual assault charge began monday. he is accused of an assault last summer near where the bodies were found
after two bodies were found, police used dogs and airborne infrared cameras to find the other bodies. deputy chief gus massey and scagno said they were not surprised that their search did not turn up the sixth body
the dogs, of course, have difficulty, given a certain period of time a body has been out there,'' scagno said. ``the longer the period of time, the more difficult it is to locate.''
massey said strong winds may have uncovered the bones
the fbi and border patrol are assisting in the investigation, and a u.s. customs airplane circled the area tuesday. customs officials on tuesday ordered a plane carrying an el paso herald-post photographer to stop taking pictures and leave
scagno said residents of northeast el paso should be ``concerned and careful as always.''
do we think at this moment that there is any need for any type of panic? the answer is no,'' he said
an instructor's failure to keep his plane out of restricted airspace on a student training flight was the primary cause of a 1987 collision that killed 10 people in utah, a federal panel concluded tuesday
the single-engine training plane and a skywest commuter plane collided near kearns, utah, on jan. 15, 1987, while making an approach to salt lake city international airport after a flight from pocatello, idaho
the national transportation safety board absolved the air traffic controller handling the skywest plane. the other aircraft was flying under visual flight rules and was not under the direction of air traffic control
nevertheless, the ntsb said the accident might have been avoided if the private aircraft had equipment that would have provided the controller information on the plane's altitude. investigators said the single-engine mooney m-20c was on the radar screen, but without altitude information the controller would not have known the two planes were about to collide
the controller, in any case, insisted to investigators that he never saw the mooney on his screen
with a ``mode-c'' transponder the controller's screen would have shown a larger ``data bloc,'' including altitude information that might have caused the controller to notice the plane more easily, the report said. the plane did not require such equipment, however
the safety board put the primary blame for the accident on the instructor of the private aircraft's ``lack of navigational vigilance ... which led to the unauthorized intrusion'' into the restricted airspace that surrounds the salt lake city airport
a plane may not enter the airspace without permission from an air traffic controller. no contact was ever made between the mooney aircraft and the control tower, investigators said
the mooney had been making ``touch-and-go'' takeoffs and landings at salt lake airport no. 2 near the main airport and apparently strayed into the airspace being used by commercial aircraft, investigators said
the safety board cited as another contributing factor ``the limitations of the air traffic control system to provide collision protection under the circumstances of this accident'' although it did not blame the controller specifically
the mooney's pilot was chester baker of sandy, utah, and the flight instructor was paul lietz of salt lake county, utah
the crew of skywest flight 1834 was: capt. michael d. gambill of helena, mont., and first officer walter f. ray jr. of chubbuck, idaho
while the ntsb staff recommended in a draft report that blame be limited to the pilots of the mooney, one board member, john lauber, pushed for at least some blame being directed at the air traffic control system as well
lauber, while saying he wasn't blaming the controller, said he had ``fundamental concerns'' about the federal aviation administration policy that generally limits a controller's responsibilities to those aircraft that are flying under instrument flight rules under direct air traffic control
lauber and several other board members suggested that the two skywest pilots might have been preoccupied with trying to find a western airlines boeing 737 that also was in the area. shortly before the accident, air traffic control advised the crew about the boeing 737, but radio transmissions showed the pilots were having trouble finding the plane, which was several miles away
the u.s. embassy in panama has rejected an attempt by panama's two-week-old government to order an american embassy officer out of the country, the state department said tuesday
the panamanian government on monday asked terrence kneebone, director of the u.s. information service, to leave the country within 48 hours. no explanation was given
state department spokesman charles redman said the u.s. embassy rejected the panamanian note because it was delivered by representatives of a regime not recognized by the united states as the legitimate authority in panama
there was no immediate indication what panama's next step would be
in late february, president eric arturo delvalle was ousted and replaced by the education minister, manuel solis palma. the united states continues to recognize delvalle as panama's president
queen elizabeth ii and her 11 relatives received an average 4.6 percent pay raise in tuesday's annual government budget. prince andrew will get the biggest increase _ 73 percent
in all, the civil list section of the budget allocated $10,241,000 to the royal family. queen elizabeth received $8.3 million
the civil list, announced in parliament by chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, gave the queen and nine other members of the royal family 4 percent raises
but 28-year-old prince andrew's pay went from $92,500 to $159,100. the share of prince edward, 24, who has been receiving $37,000, remained unchanged
the government said andrew's allowance, which more than doubled after he married sarah ferguson in july 1986 and became the duke of york, was insufficent to meet his royal expenses
before marrying his allowance had stood unchanged since 1972
andrew also earns $32,400 a year as a royal air force instructor in helicopter warfare
his new allowance pushed up the royal family's appropriation up 4.6 percent from $9,785,600 last year. the current inflation rate is 3.3 percent
money magazine last month listed the 61-year-old queen as britain's richest person, estimating her personal fortune at $5.87 billion
queen mother elizabeth, 87, received the second-largest sum of $722,050 in the budget. queen elizabeth's husband, prince philip, received $402,750
the civil list does not include such items as running the royal yacht britannia or royal aircraft, or money for prince charles, the 39-year-old heir who gave up his share to live on income from land and investments
royal family members officiate at public ceremonies and represent britain abroad in many trips each year. published reports have estimated that the country spends at least six times the civil list sum on the monarchy
staff costs account for up to 75 percent of the civil list, buckingham palace said. salaries in the royal households correspond whenever possible to their equivalents in the civil service, a spokesman said
twenty-three protesters in wheelchairs and a blind person were arrested tuesday after blocking buses during morning rush hour at the department of transportation, police said
the demonstrators, members of americans disabled for accessible public transit, were protesting the appeal by the transportation department of a judge's ruling that all public transit authorities provide services for the handicapped regardless of cost
the protesters had chained themselves to the entrances of the transportation building monday afternoon and stayed there through the night as temperatures dipped below freezing. in the morning, they wheeled themselves into the traffic, district of columbia police officer walter ferguson said
we kept warm with the thought we were sending the department of transportation a message that we will take any action necessary to obtain our civil rights,'' protester stephanie thomas told hearing commissioner john treanor after her arrest
treanor released the protesters on $10 bond each, saying they could forfeit the bond in lieu of a fine
the demonstrators were charged with obstructing traffic at about 9 a.m., police said
it is unfortunate disabled people have to take these actions. but we'll continue to do so until the federal government acknowledges our right to use public transit,'' said clayton jones, a protester from hartford, conn
the department of transportation is appealing the jan. 4 decision by u.s. district judge marvin katz in philadelphia which struck down the department's regulation that transit agencies spend 3 percent of their budgets on the disabled
katz called the 3 percent an ``arbitrary and capricious'' figure that was so low it denied the handicapped ``the minimum quality of service mandated by the congress.''
transportation secretary jim burnley spoke briefly with the demonstrators monday and offered to meet them again next week, said hal paris, spokesman for the department
we haven't heard anything from them,'' burnley said tuesday
he confirmed that the department was appealing katz' decision but would not elaborate while the case is pending
wilson ferreira aldunate, head of the national party, the largest opposition party in uruguay, died tuesday of cancer, his family said. he was 69
the government declared 24 hours of national mourning
his wife, susana sienra, sons gonzalo and juan raul and daughter silvia were at his side when he died. hundreds of mourners gathered outside his home in the seaside suburb of pocitos to pay respects to the political leader, who had been ill since july
ferreira aldunate ran for president in 1971 and narrowly lost to juan bordaberry of the colorado party
he went into exile in 1973 and lived abroad for 11 years after the military seized power
an outspoken critic of the right-wing military regime, he was imprisoned upon his return to uruguay in 1984. the military government refused to let him run for president in 1985, but released him five days after the elections
ferreira aldunate, son of a rancher and rural doctor, studied for the law, but then went into politics. he was a member of congress for 34 years and was agriculture minister from 1963-67
he consolidated control over the centrist national party in the 1960s while in the senate
president raul alfonsin of argentina mourned the death of his friend ferreira aldunate as the loss of ``a notable figure in uruguayan democracy and in latin america.''
a mass is planned tuesday in the metropolitan cathedral. burial will be wednesday in montevideo. nixon</head>
a group of judges that makes policy for the federal courts urged the house on tuesday to consider impeaching u.s. district judge walter l. nixon of mississippi, who is scheduled to go to prison for perjury on march 23
the group, the judicial conference of the united states, unanimously supported a resolution that says ``consideration of impeachment may be warranted.''
nixon, 59, sentenced to five years in prison following his 1986 perjury conviction, has remained a judge but has not been hearing cases since he was indicted in 1985. he continues to be paid his annual salary of $89,500
nixon would forfeit his salary and his eligibility for a pension at age 65 if he is impeached by the house and removed from office by the senate
the recommendation that the house consider impeaching him was approved by a vote of 24-0 by the judges' group. three members abstained, including chief justice william h. rehnquist, who traditionally does not vote on such matters
nixon has been a federal judge since 1968 and chief judge for mississippi's southern district since 1982
his legal problems stemmed from his business relationship with wiley fairchild, a wealthy investor who sold three oil well properties to nixon in 1980 at bargain prices
nixon, who netted more than $50,000 from the deal, testified he bought the oil and gas rights in three wells for $9,500 in a legitimate transaction and promised no favor to fairchild in return
he was acquitted of bribery by a federal jury, but was convicted of lying to a grand jury when he denied discussing drug charges against fairchild's son with the elder fairchild and with a mississippi prosecutor
the supreme court on jan. 19 denied nixon's appeal, clearing the way for his imprisonment
nixon is the third federal judge ever to be indicted for crimes allegedly committed while in office
u.s. district judge alcee hastings of florida was acquitted of bribery in 1983 and impeachment proceedings against him are pending in the house
former federal judge harry claiborne of nevada was convicted in 1984 of failing to report $106,000 on his federal income tax returns and was sentenced to two years in prison. he was impeached and removed from office in 1986
processors who make hotdogs, bologna and other cooked sausages soon will be allowed to make leaner products by substituting water for fat, so long as there is no loss of nutritional value, the agriculture department said tuesday
the leaner products can be labeled as ``lite,'' ``light,'' or ``lower fat'' if they contain at least a fourth less fat than similar cooked sausage products on the market, officials said. the labels must include a comparison that explains the term
for example, the label for lower-fat hotdogs might say: ``this product contains 20 percent fat, while usda allows 30 percent fat in meat hotdogs.''
lester m. crawford, administrator of the department's food safety and inspection service, said the change in regulations will be effective on april 14 and ``reflects our desire to facilitate the marketing of lower-fat products.''
current federal rules for cooked sausages limit fat to 30 percent and ``added'' water to 10 percent. the new rule will limit the combination of fat and added water to 40 percent of the product
the maximum fat content in the finished product will continue to be limited to 30 percent, but the water restriction will be removed so that processors can substitute some of the water for fat _ and wind up with a lower-fat product, crawford said
protein content, which is indirectly controlled by the limits on fat and added water, will remain unchanged and will be comparable to other cooked sausages, he said
the rule change is being made at the request of the american meat institute, a private trade association, which asked usda to develop a standard for light frankfurters and similar cooked sausages. the proposed change was announced by the agency on nov. 25, 1986
the senate voted 88-4 on tuesday for legislation that would expand legal immigration to the united states and open the gates wider for western europeans who once dominated the flow of foreigners to this country
the bill went to the house, where its future is uncertain. rep. charles e. schumer, d-n.y. has introduced a similar bill to the senate measure. he said there may be attempts to link the bill with proposals to extend an amnesty program for some of those who came here illegally
the senate rolled up its overwhelming majority because the two leading immigration authorities in the chamber, democrat edward m. kennedy of massachusetts and republican alan k. simpson of wyoming, teamed up as bipartisan sponsors
sen. dennis deconcini of arizona was the only democrat to oppose the bill. three republicans voted against it: jesse helms of north carolina, pete wilson of california and mark hatfield of oregon
simpson and kennedy took aim at a legal immigration system in which 90 percent of those granted visas are admitted because they have close family members living legally in this country. only 10 percent of the immigration visas are granted to fill the needs of the labor market
this system has resulted in 85 percent of u.s. immigrants coming from asia and latin america. a new ``independent'' category, based on labor skills and other factors, would be expected to admit large numbers of western europeans
the legislation would apply to those who try to obtain legal residency through normal u.s. government channels. sixteen months ago, congress ended a six-year debate by enacting legislation to curb massive illegal entries into the united states
the 1986 law included the provision granting amnesty to those who came here illegally, but resided continuously in this country since before jan. 1, 1982. the one-year legalization program ends may 4, and schumer and others believe it should be extended
kennedy and simpson agreed not to link an extension to their bill to avoid a possible filibuster led by sen. phil gramm, r-texas
the senate legislation would maintain priority for applicants with close relatives here and significantly expand available visas for the new independent category
the bill also would establish an overall cap on immigration
the level for the first three years would be 590,000 annually, which is 100,000 higher than the current number of visas
under this umbrella, 470,000 visas in each of the first three years (440,000 thereafter) would be reserved for family immigration, and 120,000 (150,000 after three years) would be for the new ``independent'' category
currently, spouses and minor children of u.s. citizens can enter the country without limitation
sen. rudy boschwitz, r-minn., a refugee from nazi germany, said he was concerned that the limitation could someday close the doors to many wishing to come here. but simpson said the cap is more than adequate to handle today's applicants, and pointed out the cap could be changed every three years
schumer's bill would address this problem with a cap of 750,000, including refugees fleeing from persecution. the senate cap does not include refugees, who now are admitted under a separte law that sets annual limits. the current refugee cap is 68,500
the senate bill also would:
_revise family preferences to give higher priority to the closest family members of citizens and permanent residents
_require the administration to report every year on the effects of immigration, and to recommend changes in the level of immigration every three years
_create the independent visas by combining: existing preferences for professionals, persons of exceptional merit, and those with needed skills; and establish a new 55,000-visa category based on a point system
points would be awarded for education, work experience, english language skills and age
_establish a conditional visa for those who will invest at least $2 million in this country and employ at least 10 americans or legal residents. up to 4,800 conditional visas would be available annually, requiring the investor to return to immigration authorities in two years for adjustment to permanent resident alien status
the applicant would face deportation unless he or she continued to meet the job-creation requirement. details</note>
mikhail s. gorbachev toured a factory tuesday that exports industrial robots to the soviets and americans and told the workers the soviet union is too big to give up all central control
the yugoslav factory operates under the government's local-management system
the reform-minded soviet leader is on a five-day visit to yugoslavia, getting his first look at this independent communist country's freer economy
soviet officials said gorbachev was ``very satisfied'' with his first two days of talks with yugoslav leaders and seeks ways of developing closer relations with the country moscow once denounced for ``revisionist'' policies
president tito broke with soviet dictator josef stalin in 1948, defying the kremlin's authority in the communist world, and developed ties to the west. years of plots and threats from moscow followed
relations were mended in the 1950s, with nikita s. khrushchev in charge at the kremlin, but the last visit to yugoslavia by a soviet leader was in 1980, when leonid i. brezhnev attended tito's funeral
during a brief photo session tuesday, gorbachev told reporters: ``we got off to a good start.''
the two sides exchanged copies of a new declaration acknowledging yugoslavia's independence from soviet control, which replaces similar statements issued in 1955 and 1956. a yugoslav spokesman said the document would not be made public until the end of gorbachev's visit friday
fyodor burlatsky, a soviet columnist traveling with gorbachev, said the kremlin is preparing to adopt some practices similar to those in yugoslavia, among them allowing the open sale of international newspapers and magazines
everybody can hear many voices'' in yugoslavia, burlatsky said in an interview. ``i believe there will be new decisions taken in a short time'' to let soviet newstands sell non-soviet publications
he also praised progress yugoslavia has made ``from bureaucracy to self-managing socialism.''
public interest remained high in the visit by gorbachev and his wife, raisa
crowds gathered to watch the motorcade pass. when word spread tuesday evening that the soviet leader would stop in a downtown square, several thousand people turned up, but the stop turned out not to be on his schedule
earlier in the day, the gorbachevs visited the park of peace to plant a tree, a customary practice
to a group of children attending the ceremony, gorbachev said the park contains trees planted by many leaders of the non-aligned movement, of which tito was a founder
you take care of this park,'' he said, and carefully shoveled every bit of dirt from a small pile set aside for the planting
after chatting and joking with the children, the gorbachevs lined up with them for photographs. he promised the children they would receive copies
at the ivo lola ribar factory outside belgrade, the gorbachevs were shown modern machine tools and robots used by auto-assembly plants in both the east and west
gorbachev met with the factory worker council, which is responsible for plant operations
his ``perestroika'' program, designed to modernize the soviet economy, proposes reducing central planning and giving managers and workers more control over their own factories, but he told the workers some central control will remain
we have to maintain a regulatory role at the center to safeguard us against mistakes, particularly because the country of the soviet union is so large,'' gorbachev said
he brushed off a reporter's question about what useful knowledge he might take back to the soviet union. gorbachev said his schedule was too tight for questions
in a dinner toast, gorbachev said ``eastern and western europe are gradually becoming less and less suspicious of each other.''
he criticized what he called unfounded charges in the western media that he is trying ``to drive a wedge'' between the united states and its nato allies
i have already stated and will repeat once again: we never had, nor do we now have any such ideas,'' gorbachev said
the soviet union is yugoslavia's largest trading partner. it ships raw materials in exchange for manufactured goods that generally are of higher quality than those made at home
in contrast to perennial soviet shortages of consumer goods, yugoslavia's shops and markets brim with domestic and imported products. inflation is running at about 170 percent, however, the unemployment rate is 15 percent and yugoslavia has a $20 billion debt to foreign creditors
farm lawmakers drafting a compromise trade bill agreed tuesday to expand by more than $1 billion an export subsidy program designed to spur worldwide sales of u.s. agricultural commodities
with this action, congress has demonstrated that it will continue to fight european economic community subsidization and give american farmers a fair chance to compete in world trade,'' senate agriculture committee chairman patrick j. leahy, d-vt., said in a statement
the decision to expand to $2.5 billion the export enhancement program came at a subcommittee session of the house-senate conference committee that is seeking a compromise version of 1,000-page trade bills passed by both houses
under the program, which was first established by the 1985 farm law, grain exporters are provided with government bonuses in the form of surplus commodities in return for shipping american farm goods. proponents say the bonuses offset the difference between u.s. prices and lower price tags abroad
but the panel put off action on the most controversial issue it faces, a senate plan to prod the european community to drop export subsidies with the threat of a so-called marketing loan program for wheat, corn and soybeans
marketing loans represent a form of subsidy that provides producers with the u.s. price while selling the commodities abroad at world prices. the government makes up the difference
marketing loans established by the 1985 farm law sent exports of american cotton and rice skyrocketing while stemming a surge in honey imports
being weighed by the panel is a so-called ``triggered marketing loan'' that would be put into effect only if current negotiations under the 92-nation general agreement on tariffs and trade failed to produce an agreement on eliminating agricultural export subsidies by the 1990 wheat marketing year
supporters of the concept said a congressional visit to the gatt talks in geneva last week found european negotiators dug in over the subsidy issue and added that american negotiators want the ``club'' of a triggered marketing loan to hold over the heads of their counterparts
if you were talking to some of the people we have to negotiate with, then you might think we need it, too,'' said leahy. he said the attitude of some of the europeans has become ``arrogant.''
critics said however that such a plan would strain the budget
this is potentially a huge amount of money we're talking about in agricultural programs,'' said rep. sam gibbons, d-fla., whose export-minded home-district citrus producers have traditionally been as wary of import curbs as they have of barriers to their products overseas
gibbons distributed a letter signed by agriculture secretary richard lyng, u.s. trade representative clayton k. yeutter, white house council of economic advisers chairman beryl sprinkel and james miller, director of the office of management and budget
it described the triggered marketing loan as a concept that could bring about a presidential veto of the trade bill. it was designed to counter claims that american negotiators in geneva are encouraging the proposal
rep. leon panetta, d-calif., whose home district includes numerous fruit and vegetable producers, described the concept as one that could boomerang on the lawmakers politically
i can see us passing a $600 million marketing loan and the administration saying on the record that they don't want it,'' panetta said. ``we get attacked on that point and there's no mention that this was a bargaining chip for the gatt negotiations. i sense that coming.''
wheat belt lawmakers countered that the proposal would cost the treasury nothing because it would merely serve as ammunition to hasten agreement on subsidy reductions
we're not asking you to take her home,'' said rep. pat roberts, r-kan. ``we're just asking you to dance with her. then when it's closing time, you can go out the back door.''
arctic air broke or tied low-temperature records in 38 cities across the south on tuesday, while snow was scattered from the great lakes to the southern appalachians and a new storm was brewing in the west
more record cold was forecast for wednesday morning and freeze warnings were posted across georgia, most of mississippi and northern florida. a hard freeze was forecast for northern and central georgia, threatening damage to fruit trees
tuesday's record or record-tying lows were 31 at alexandria, la., a tie; 33 at apalachicola, fla.; 23 at auburn, ala.; 33 at austin, texas, tie; 19 at batesville, ark., tie; 31 at baton rouge, la., tie; 24 at birmingham, ala.; 19 at bristol, tenn.; 33 at bryan-college station, texas, tie; 13 at calico rock, ark.; 19 at conway, ark.; 22 at el dorado, ark.; 15 at fayetteville, ark.; 48 at fort myers, fla., tie; 20 at fort smith, ark., tie; 23 at greer, s.c., tie; 32 at houston, texas;
and 22 at huntsville, ala.; 22 at jackson, miss.; 21 at jonesboro, ark.; 20 at knoxville, tenn., tie; 31 at lake charles, la.; 27 at little rock, ark.; 27 at macon, ga.; 20 at mena, ark.;25 at memphis, tenn.; 20 at meridian, miss.; 27 at mobile, ala.; 26 at monroe, la.; 25 at montgomery, ala.; 40 at new orleans, tie; 30 at pensacola, fla.; 26 at pine bluff, ark.; 18 at pinson, ala.; 31 at san antonio, texas; 31 at savannah, ga.,tie; 27 at shreveport, la.; and 25 at texarkana, ark
snow showers fell during the afternoon across much of the northeast, especially near the great lakes and from western illinois across the ohio valley and the central and southern appalachians to the mid atlantic coast
four to 6 inches of snow fell in some lakeshore counties of northeastern ohio, while 2 to 4 inches fell across southern west virginia and around an inch at boone and west jefferson, n.c
snow also fell in parts of michigan, where marquette got 2 inches of snow during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est, bringing their total snow depth to 43 inches
a storm system developing in the west was centered over western utah, spreading snow across sections of wyoming, utah, idaho and nevada
up to 3 inches of snow was reported at hill air force base in northern utah during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est, while 3 to 6 inches fell in the mountains of northern utah
a winter storm watch was posted for central and southwestern wyoming overnight and into wednesday
the storm in utah also generated high wind in sections of the southwest, with gusts to 66 mph at mammoth lakes, and gusts to 45 mph in the owens valley of california and in sections of the mojave valley near las vegas, nev
unseasonably cold weather also moved into the pacific northwest during the morning, dropping temperatures near the freezing mark in the seattle and portland areas
astoria, ore., tied its record low of 28 and olympia, wash., dipped to a record 24 degrees
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 16 degrees at ellsworth air force base outside rapid city, s.d., to 75 in the california desert at blythe, imperial and thermal. the early morning low for the day was 9 degrees below zero at dickinson, n.d
for wednesday, snow showers were forecast from much of new england across the northern and central appalachians to northern indiana and michigan. snow or snow showers also were forecast in utah, and from the northern and central rockies to much of kansas. showers were forecast in oklahoma and northern texas
highs in the 20s or 30s were predicted from new england across the northern and central appalachians, the great lakes, the upper mississippi valley and the northern and central plains to the northern half of the rockies; in the 60s in florida and louisiana, and in parts of western oregon; in the 60s or 70s across most of texas, southern new mexico, southern arizona and much of california; and in the 40s or 50s elsewhere
arctic air broke or tied low-temperature records in 38 cities across the south on tuesday, while snow was scattered from the great lakes to the southern appalachians and a new storm was brewing in the west
more record cold was forecast for wednesday morning and freeze warnings were posted across georgia, most of mississippi and northern florida. a hard freeze was forecast for northern and central georgia, threatening damage to fruit trees
tuesday's record or record-tying lows were 31 at alexandria, la., a tie; 33 at apalachicola, fla.; 23 at auburn, ala.; 33 at austin, texas, tie; 19 at batesville, ark., tie; 31 at baton rouge, la., tie; 24 at birmingham, ala.; 19 at bristol, tenn.; 33 at bryan-college station, texas, tie; 13 at calico rock, ark.; 19 at conway, ark.; 22 at el dorado, ark.; 15 at fayetteville, ark.; 48 at fort myers, fla., tie; 20 at fort smith, ark., tie; 23 at greer, s.c., tie; 32 at houston, texas;
and 22 at huntsville, ala.; 22 at jackson, miss.; 21 at jonesboro, ark.; 20 at knoxville, tenn., tie; 31 at lake charles, la.; 27 at little rock, ark.; 27 at macon, ga.; 20 at mena, ark.;25 at memphis, tenn.; 20 at meridian, miss.; 27 at mobile, ala.; 26 at monroe, la.; 25 at montgomery, ala.; 40 at new orleans, tie; 30 at pensacola, fla.; 26 at pine bluff, ark.; 18 at pinson, ala.; 31 at san antonio, texas; 31 at savannah, ga.,tie; 27 at shreveport, la.; and 25 at texarkana, ark
snow showers fell during the afternoon across much of the northeast, especially near the great lakes and from western illinois across the ohio valley and the central and southern appalachians to the mid atlantic coast
four to 6 inches of snow fell in some lakeshore counties of northeastern ohio, while 2 to 4 inches fell across southern west virginia and around an inch at boone and west jefferson, n.c
snow also fell in parts of michigan, where marquette got 2 inches of snow during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est, bringing their total snow depth to 43 inches
a storm system developing in the west was centered over western utah, spreading snow across sections of wyoming, utah, idaho and nevada
up to 3 inches of snow was reported at hill air force base in northern utah during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est, while 3 to 6 inches fell in the mountains of northern utah
a winter storm watch was posted for central and southwestern wyoming overnight and into wednesday
the storm in utah also generated high wind in sections of the southwest, with gusts to 66 mph at mammoth lakes, and gusts to 45 mph in the owens valley of california and in sections of the mojave valley near las vegas, nev
unseasonably cold weather also moved into the pacific northwest during the morning, dropping temperatures near the freezing mark in the seattle and portland areas
astoria, ore., tied its record low of 28 and olympia, wash., dipped to a record 24 degrees
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 16 degrees at ellsworth air force base outside rapid city, s.d., to 75 in the california desert at blythe, imperial and thermal. the early morning low for the day was 9 degrees below zero at dickinson, n.d
for wednesday, snow showers were forecast from much of new england across the northern and central appalachians to northern indiana and michigan. snow or snow showers also were forecast in utah, and from the northern and central rockies to much of kansas. showers were forecast in oklahoma and northern texas
highs in the 20s or 30s were predicted from new england across the northern and central appalachians, the great lakes, the upper mississippi valley and the northern and central plains to the northern half of the rockies; in the 60s in florida and louisiana, and in parts of western oregon; in the 60s or 70s across most of texas, southern new mexico, southern arizona and much of california; and in the 40s or 50s elsewhere. lines. pick up 2nd graf, `according to ...'</note>
israel imposed a travel ban tuesday, one of several moves a moderate arab mayor said would increase bitterness and hatred in the occupied lands. hospital officials said soldiers killed two arabs and wounded 12
the military administration also cut telephone lines connecting the occupied west bank and gaza strip with foreign countries, israel radio reported. it said the measure apparently was to prevent ``plo members in europe from passing orders to residents of the territories.''
the military command declined to comment on the reason for the action, saying only that the army ``is taking different steps to treat problems in the territories.''
according to u.n. figures, 96 palestinians have been killed since violence began dec. 8 in the territories israel occupied during the 1967 middle east war, three from the effects of tear gas and the rest from gunfire or beatings
as the ban on travel between the occupied west bank and gaza strip took effect, arabs began a two-day general strike that kept most of the 110,000 who work in israel away from their jobs
the travel ban is one of several restrictions israel hopes will reduce the underground palestinian leadership's success in running strikes and forcing the resignations of arab police and tax collectors
others include a nightly five-hour curfew on the gaza strip's 650,000 residents and selectively cutting off electricity as punishment
what is the result? more bitterness, more hatred, more friction between the two peoples,'' said elias freij, a palestinian christian who is mayor of bethlehem, the west bank town where christ was born
the israelis have to realize that after 100 days of uprising, the palestinians don't want the occupation,'' freij said. ``if they keep rejecting our demands the unrest will go on.''
hashem al shawa, director of the bank of palestine in gaza, said the latest measures could hamper gaza's ability to export citrus, its major earner of hard currency. half the territory's 52,118 tons of citrus exports last year went to jordan over the west bank bridges
the economy is in a very bad situation. merchants cannot meet their obligations,'' he said, adding that the bank's depositors wrote $10 million worth of bad checks last month
an official in the army-run territorial administration said the travel ban was designed to keep agitators and anti-israeli leaflets from moving freely between the west bank and gaza strip
the latest strike coincided with prime minister yitzhak shamir's visit to the united states. underground leaflet no. 10, said the strike slogan was: ``no alternative to an independent state led by the plo, our sole respresentative.''
a campaign inspired by the palestine liberation organization caused hundreds of arab police to resign. israel radio said tuesday that 500 officers had quit, 300 of them in gaza city, but added that 40 later returned to work
police spokesman rafi levy said seven arab officers in jerusalem turned in their badges tuesday, the first resignations in the holy city
hamza turkmani, the israeli-appointed mayor of gaza city, said he had threatened to shut down the municipal government and services if israeli authorities withheld power or other utilities from residents
he said the israeli army cut power monday to the shati refugee camp next to gaza city as punishment for a demonstration
the israelis cut the electricity because they want to show everybody that they need the state of israel,'' turkmani declared
army spokesmen said soldiers shot one palestinian dead in the west bank village of deir jarir and wounded four in a separate clashes in qalqilya
hospital officials said two arabs were killed and 12 wounded in street battles that swept the gaza strip and west bank
among those wounded tuesday were rahme muklad, 50, shot in the leg, and his sons, jamal, 20, who was shot in the stomach, and rasfat, 22, with a bullet in the back. both young men were in serious condition, said officials at qalqilya hospital
the army said tuesday a military judge sentenced two soldiers monday after they were convicted in the brutal beating of palestinian detainees photographed by a cbs news crew feb. 25
a spokesman said ronnen sasson was sentenced to 21 days in jail and arieh moalem to 10 days, minus four days spent in detention. two other soldiers and their commanding officer face more serious penalties if convicted
according to the army, an investigation showed moalem and sasson played a relatively minor part in the beating. lautenberg quoting shamir as saying nothing is off the table; picks up 19th graf pvs, shultz set</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz said tuesday he was unable to bridge differences with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir over a u.s. plan for opening mideast peace negotiations by may 1
but he called the first of three days of talks with shamir constructive and said ``we feel encouraged to continue our efforts to work with israel and others in the middle east.''
shamir underscored one of the main differences. he said that in israel's view, the middle east peace conference shultz wants to convene next month to set the stage for negotiations could not play ``any positive role.''
president reagan sought, meanwhile, to reassure shamir he would not be put under u.s. pressure to agree to any particular solution to israel's 40-year dispute with the arabs
but reagan stressed that ``making progress toward peace in the middle east not only serves mutual interests, it is urgent.''
in a speech to the united jewish appeal, the president said he would tell shamir at the white house on wednesday that ``peace will not be imposed by us or anyone else.''
shultz met with shamir for about three hours, first over blueberry pancakes at the secretary's home in suburban maryland and then at his state department office
we haven't found our way to bridge all of the differences,'' shultz said afterward. ``i see quite clearly what the nature of the differences are and what they aren't.''
shultz did not offer any details, but shamir restated his opposition to an international forum that would include the soviet union and china, which do not have diplomatic relations with israel and usually support arab positions
we are interested, first of all, to negotiate directly with all the parties concerned,'' shamir said. ``we don't see any positive role for an international conference.''
the prime minister described his first round with shultz as ``very serious and thorough.'' he pledged to cooperate ``to get peace and to enhance the prospects for peace in our area.''
but, he added, the arabs were not willing to negotiate with israel
avi pazner, a spokesman for shamir, said the u.s. proposal for an international conference was ``a sticking point that has to be resolved if we are going to go ahead.''
king hussein of jordan has demanded the conference. pazner said hussein sees it as ``an instrument which would be used by the enemies of israel, both arabs and non-arabs, like countries that do not have diplomatic relations with israel, to put pressure on israel, to try to bring israel to agree to solutions it would not agree to in free negotiations.''
shamir offered last october to hold israeli-jordanian negotiations in washington with u.s. and soviet ``blessing.'' pazner said shamir stands by the offer even though it was rejected by the king
the israeli spokesman said shamir did not give shultz ``an answer'' to the overall proposal for negotiations. ``he did not say yes, he did not say no,'' he said
speaking a half-mile away, at the old executive office building next to the white house, reagan said he would tell shamir that ``when it comes to israel the united states is not a bargainer or a broker; the united states is a friend and an ally.''
the president offered assurances to the jewish gathering that ``we will not leave israel to stand alone, nor will we acquiesce in any effort to gang up on israel.'' he added: ``peace will not be imposed by us or by anyone else. it will and must come from the genuine give-and-take of negotiations. that's what we're working to set in motion now.''
in a meeting with a small group of senators at the capitol, shamir was quoted as saying he was not ruling out any issue or proposal as the subject for negotiations
the prime minister said there is nothing that is off the table in terms of negotiations,'' said sen. frank lautenberg, d-n.j
lautenberg said shamir was asked whether he was ruling out trading territory for peace with israel's arab nations
i didn't hear anything that said territory is excluded,'' lautenberg said
lautenberg said he got the impression that shamir would be prepared to be ``a lot more flexible'' in direct talks with arab states than he is in ``this pre-negotiation period.'' but he added: ``i don't think the prime minister's obstinancy about an international conference is any less than it was earlier.''
he said shamir indicated he might be able to accept ``a ceremonial group'' of other nations at the opening of discussions. ``but once serious discussions started he wanted to talk only to israel's (arab) neighbors,'' the senator said
shultz set this week as a deadline for a reply from israel and jordan, which would form a delegation with palestinians for the negotiations
in amman, a senior jordanian official told the associated press that jordan was not yet ready to give a final response to shultz's plan
we are consulting with other arab leaders,'' said the official, who demanded anonymity. asked when he expected the jordanian stand to be announced, he said: ``in the next 10 days or so.''
on capitol hill, assistant secretary of state richard w. murphy sought to reassure supporters of israel that an international conference would not dictate solutions to any side. ``we won't tolerate efforts _ such as ones by the soviets or the syrians _ to turn this into an authoritative, plenipotentiary forum,'' he told a house foreign affairs subcommittee
murphy said the administration still has questions about the terms under which the soviets could participate in such a forum, and these would be discussed next week when foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze visits washington for talks with shultz
pressed by several congressmen why shultz had softened his opposition to soviet participation, murphy said no arab state would enter peace talks without a soviet presence. ``they're (the soviets) in the region, and we have to find a way to deal with them,'' he said
meanwhile, nine senators made public the text of a letter to shultz urging him not to subject shamir to u .s. criticism or pressure
american support should not be used ``as a lever to force israel's leaders to adopt a policy which they see as dangerous to the national security of their country _ especially when such policy entails injecting the soviet union into the peace process,'' the letter said
the letter was signed by sens. chic hecht, r-nev.; jesse helms, r-n.c.; steven symms, r-idaho; david karnes, r-neb.; william l. armstrong, r-colo.; gordon j. humphrey, r-n.h.; phil gramm, r-texas; larry pressler, r-s.d.; and christopher bond, r-mo
shultz's plan for peace talks anticipates israel relinquishing at least part of the west bank and gaza strip it has held since the 1967 six-day war in exchange for arab recognition of the jewish state
in a tough speech monday night to another uja group, shamir said yielding territory would invite another attempt by the arabs to destroy israel
these matters are questions of life and death, of our very existence,'' he said
also on shamir's schedule tuesday were meetings with treasury secretary james a. baker iii, republican presidential aspirant pat robertson and congressional leaders
a new york congressman proposed on tuesday a bill to require the internal revenue service to send taxpayers a ``credit card statement'' highlighting the cost of federal deficit spending
rep. joe dioguardi, r-n.y., who is a certified public accountant, would require the irs to put the national balance sheet in the format of an individual's regular monthly credit bill. the statement would be mailed with the government's annual income tax forms
and i am sorry to report that the bottom line is that the average american owes uncle sam $18,569.10 from all the unpaid bills we have allowed to pile up,'' he said. the national debt is about $2.5 trillion
dioguardi's sample statement for fiscal 1987 includes the previous balance of $17,118.08. it then details the purchases ranging from $2,769.34 per taxpayer toward social security to $73.60 for criminal justice
it then subtracts payments _ taxes _ and adds in the debt's finance charge of $1,358,03 per taxpayer
ari fleischer, a spokesman for dioguardi, said the congressman had not determined how much producing and mailing the annual statement would add to government spending. but it would be minimized by including it with the other tax forms, he said
a south african military plane landed tuesday in luanda and released 12 angolan soldiers in exchange for the bodies of two south african corporals killed in northern angola in 1985, angolan officials said
they also said u.s. envoy chester crocker was expected to arrive in this angolan capital by wednesday for talks with angolan leaders following his meetings in geneva on a southern african peace settlement with south african foreign minister roelof f. botha
the officials, who spoke on condition of not being identified, said tuesday's exchange took place at luanda airport. they said 12 angolan soldiers were freed. the south african military said 12 captured angolans were freed, but refused to say if they were soldiers or civilians
south africa identified the two dead soldiers as cpls. rowland liebenberg and louis van breda, both 25. angola said they were killed in cabinda province may 21, 1985, when angolan troops surprised their commando unit outside an oil depot
the unit leader, maj. wynard du toit, was captured. he said the commandos were sent to blow up the depot belonging to cabinda gulf oil, a subsidiary of the u.s. oil company chevron
du toit was exchanged last september for 133 angolan soldiers reportedly captured by the national union for the total independence of angola, the south african-backed rebel movement known as unita
the tuesday exchange appeared to be a further step in intense diplomatic efforts to reach a settlement in marxist angola's 13-year conflict. unita, which also is supported by the united states, is fighting to force the cuban- and soviet-backed government to share power
the talks monday between crocker, assistant secretary of state for african affairs, and botha focused on efforts for an agreement on withdrawal of an estimated 40,000 cuban soldiers stationed in angola
crocker is trying to negotiate a withdrawal of the cubans in return for south african withdrawal from neighboring south-west africa, also known as namibia. south africa administers namibia under a post-world war i mandate from the defunct league of nations and has rejected united nations's resolutions demanding that the territory be independent
south africa recently acknowledged having troops in southern angola, but said they were in the process of withdrawing
however, president p.w. botha of south africa was quoted in the washington times newspaper monday as saying south african troops would not leave angola unless cuban troops also left
angola says it will send the cubans home only when south africa pulls its troops out of southern angola, america halts aid for unita and an independence settlement is reached for namibia
president jose eduardo dos santos of angola says 9,000 south african soldiers are in southern angola
unita said tuesday in a statement distributed in lisbon, portugal, that its guerrillas captured the town of kiwaba-n'zogi in northern malange province, killing 12 soldiers and seizing arms
it said guerrillas attacked the town 42 miles north of the provincial capital of malange on sunday
the rebels said they also captured three angolan soldiers and destroyed five trucks in an attack saturday on a military convoy in malange province. they claimed to have killed 10 angolan soldiers in an attack on an army post at elola in southwestern huila province, but did not say when
unita gave rebel casualties in the clashes as three killed and eight wounded. there was no independent confirmation of the claims
in brussels, belgian professor aubin heyndrickx, a specialist in toxicology, claimed that cuban troops were using chemical weapons in angola
heyndrickx visited southeast angola three weeks ago at the invitation of jonas savimbi, leader of unita, and examined eight unita soldiers in a field hospital in the mavinga area
he said in stories published tuesday that examinations showed the soldiers were victims of toxic gas and further laboratory checks made later in ghent confirmed that diagnosis. bgng: as is ...</note>
the senate, trying to avoid another iran-contra affair, voted 71-19 approval tuesday of a bill requiring a president to tell congress about all covert operations within 48 hours after the action begins
the decision came after the democratic-controlled chamber voted overwhelmingly to invoke cloture and end an attempt by republican conservatives to block final action on the measure
the chamber also voted down, 60-32, a move to permit up to 10 days, instead of 48 hours, for notification
the house is considering a similar bill, but president reagan has threatened to veto the legislation because he argues that it is an unconstitutional restriction on his authority in the foreign policy field
the bill overhauls procedures for informing congress about intelligence activities. the most controversial provision was the one requiring that capitol hill be told about covert operations within 48 hours after they begin
the bill was chiefly written by sen. william cohen, r-maine, vice chairman of the intelligence committee and also a member of the committee which last summer investigated the iran-contra affair
reagan withheld notice from capitol hill for 10 months that u.s. arms were secretly being sold to iran. some of the money was diverted to the anti-nicaraguan contra guerrillas
current law requires only that the president give ``timely notice'' to capitol hill about covert action, but does not define the term
cohen and other backers of the legislation have argued that had reagan told congress about the planned sale of weapons to iran, the legislators might have complained so loudly that the deal would have been scuttled
cohen said the 48-hour time period was suggested by intelligence officials, who said it could be met
as it returned to the bill, the senate voted 73-18 to limit debate. that was 13 more votes than needed to invoke cloture and halt the senate practice of unlimited debate
then, the chamber killed, by a 60-32 margin, an amendment proposed by sen. john chafee, r-r.i., to extend to up to 10 days the period during which information about covert actions can be withheld. chafee said, ``i think this is a sufficient time'' for the completion of covert actions such as a hostage rescue, but it would block anything like the iran-contra situation
the house intelligence committee is considering a similar bill, but reagan has already decided to veto any such legislation because he believes it is an unconstitutional restriction on his authority to conduct foreign policy, defense secretary frank c. carlucci said last week
carlucci took over as reagan's national security adviser in the wake of the iran-contra affair
sen. malcolm wallop, r-wyo., told his colleagues tuesday that ``this bill is badly drafted, badly conceived, and the worst of its conceptions is that somehow you can legislate intelligence. ... it's hard for me to believe that one piece of legislation can obviate stupid activity.''
if the measure passes, ``we can perhaps prevent another iran-contra,'' said wallop, but ``we would deny some very wholesome activity.''
wallop claimed that the bill ``would substitute our judgment for that of the president.''
but cohen said, ``nothing could be further from the truth'' and argued that the senate ``should not abdicate its constitutional responsibility.''
the senate is a ``co-equal'' to the white house and should shoulder the burden of overseeing actions by the intelligence agencies, cohen said
an american photographer has been accused by the army of throwing stones at israeli soldiers during a violent palestinian protest in the occupied west bank
the army on tuesday identified the photographer as william biggart, and israel radio said he had been on assignment for the village voice, a weekly newspaper published in new york city. biggart and the newspaper denied the army allegations
biggart was detained last week during a palestinian riot in nablus, the west bank's largest arab town, the army said. a spokesman said the photographer was wearing a traditional checkered arab headdress and was seen throwing stones at soldiers
the army filed a complaint with nablus police, the spokesman said, refusing to let his name be used because of military regulations
martin gottlieb, editor of the village voice, said in new york that biggart apparently went to the west bank to see if he could take pictures to sell to other news organizations
he's a free-lance photographer on assignment from us to take some very routine head-and-shoulder shots and real estate pictures of the knesset (the israeli parliament),'' gottlieb said
he adamantly denies the charges. our position here is one of outrage. we think that although he wasn't specifically working for us on the west bank, we would have been anxious to see the photos he took.''
gottlieb quoted the photographer as saying: ``it's ridiculous. i'm 40 years old. i have three kids. i didn't come to israel to thrown stones.''
we think he did absolutely nothing wrong and one can only wonder why israeli soldiers would concoct charges against this man at a time when every effort is being made to keep the area closed to the press,'' gottlieb said. ``the democratic freedom of the press seem to be under a severe attack in israel.''
he said the paper would lodge a protest with the israeli consulate in new york
israel radio said soldiers confiscated biggart's u.s. passport and israeli-issued press card but a senior officer ordered the passport returned. it said biggart described himself as a staff photographer for the village voice
biggart had applied twice for an israeli government press office card, once with a beard and the second time clean-shaven, the radio said, and quoted the photographer as saying he ``did not want to look like a jewish settler.''
it said a policeman went to the american colony hotel in east jerusalem, where biggert was staying, last saturday and presented a summons for a court appearance the next day but biggart left the country sunday
a senior official at the u.s. consulate said biggart was in touch with a duty officer saturday night and ``said that he was summoned to court and that he was due to leave on sunday. the officer said he can't give a legal advice.''
gottlieb said biggart gave this description of events:
on march 7, he was on a street in the balata refugee camp when israeli soldiers began lobbing tear gas grenades. the soldiers later charged into the street
like everybody else on the street, i began to run. i slipped. i was the only one who didn't get away.''
after an israeli soldier struck him on the legs and ripped the film out of his camera, an officer took him to a military post and accused him of throwing rocks
his passport was returned but the soldiers kept the press card. he was presented with a document, written in hebrew, by a police officer who spoke only arabic
he left israel on sunday after a u.s. consulate official told him he could leave the country but might have trouble returning
from 1975 on, wedtech corp. deceived federal agencies into believing it was a minority-controlled business that qualified for no-bid government contracts, a former company executive testified tuesday at the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi
mario moreno, one of four ex-wedtech officials who have pleaded guilty to bribery and other state and federal charges, was the first prosecution witness to testify at the trial of biaggi and six co-defendants
biaggi, a 10-term bronx democrat; his eldest son; his former law partner; and four others are charged with turning wedtech into a racketeering enterprise that paid millions of dollars in bribes to win government contracts. since the allegations became public, the company has filed for protection under bankruptcy laws and suspended most operations
moreno, who is cooperating with the government in return for leniency, also described biaggi's lobbying efforts on wedtech's behalf in 1980 when the company was trying to win an army contract to build small engines
prosecutors have charged that wedtech grew from a small bronx machine shop into a $100 million-a-year government contractor, in part, by falsely portraying itself as minority-controlled, in order to qualify for a small business administration program that gave out government contracts without competitive bidding
moreno said he met wedtech co-founders john mariotta and fred neuberger in 1976 when he served as consultant for a local program that assisted small minority-owned businesses
moreno said the pair later told him that mariotta, who is of hispanic descent, owned two-thirds of wedtech, then known as welbilt electronics die corp., and neuberger owned the other third
mariotta is one of those on trial with biaggi. neuberger is one of the four ex-wedtech officials cooperating with prosecutors after pleading guilty to state and federal charges
in 1979, moreno testified, mariotta and neuberger ``told me they each owned 50 percent of the company'' and that they had a ``handshake agreement'' dating back to 1975
but the pair did not reveal that mariotta no longer controlled the company in records presented to the small business administration ``in order to comply with the ... regulations,'' moreno said
the witness also said that in 1979, the company had gross revenues of $1.5 million and about 60 employees but by the following year ``the company was going bankrupt any minute'' because of a scarcity of funds
moreno said wedtech was in line to get more than $4 million in loans through the federal economic development administration in january 1980, but the loan approval was bottlenecked by an overworked eda official in philadelphia
we looked for assistance from several people,'' said moreno, adding that it came from biaggi's former law partner and current co-defendant, bernard ehrlich, who took moreno and mariotta to seek the congressman
biaggi turned the matter over to an aide who knew the philadelphia eda official's boss and a month later wedtech had the loans approved, said moreno
wedtech also tried to win an army contract through the minority business program. the contract was for small, gasoline-powered engines even though wedtech had neither the experience or facilities to build the engines
when the army turned down wedtech's first proposal as too high, company officials again went to biaggi and ehrlich for help, said moreno
biaggi enlisted the help of sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., and the late rep. joseph addabbo, a powerful queens democrat, who wrote the secretary of the army on behalf of wedtech, which eventually got the contract
moreno was scheduled to returned to the stand wednesday
iran lashed out at the security council again tuesday, accusing it of wasting time on an arms embargo proposal instead of ending the deadly missile duel between tehran and baghdad
the security council is responsible for every drop of blood of iranian people, innocent civilians who are the victims of inhuman attacks,'' said iran's u.n. envoy, mohammad ja'afar mahallati
mahallati spoke at a news conference after delivering a protest to secretary-general javier perez de cuellar that accused the council of taking no action to stop the surface-to-surface missile attacks on the iranian and iraqi capitals known as the ``war of the cities.''
the most recent phase of the duel began in late february. after a two day halt, it started again monday. iran and iraq both claim hundreds of civilian casualties
mahallati blamed the united states for encouraging the attacks on cities by pushing for a worldwide arms embargo against iran
the embargo would punish iran for failing to honor the council's july 20 resolution demanding a cease-fire and withdrawal to pre-war boundaries as the first step in a negotiated end to the 7{-year-old iran-iraq war
mahallati told reporters that questions about iran's position on the resolution are ``outdated questions.'' instead, he said, the council should condemn iraq for starting the latest round in the ``war of the cities'' and take action to stop the attacks
he also accused iraq of using chemical weapons and intensifying attacks on neutral shipping in the persian gulf
mahallati would not say precisely what iran wants the council to do other than condemn iraq and stop talking about an embargo
iraq blames iran for starting the missile duel that has killed scores of civilians since feb. 29. both sides describe their attacks as retaliatory and defensive
the united states increased its pressure for an embargo after perez de cuellar ended months of negotiations late last year proclaiming frustration at iran's recalcitrance
the soviet union, which wants better relations with neighboring iran, has not agreed to support an embargo. last week the soviets called for more negotiations and a new security council resolution dealing only with the attacks on cities
the soviets acknowledged monday that they had failed to win council support for that plan
iran and iraq blasted each other's cities tuesday with missiles, bombs and artillery in apparent attempts to terrorize each other into submission in a new ``war of the cities.''
communiques from both sides, monitored in nicosia, reported scores of civilians killed or wounded in the third straight day of new attacks on population centers
we are determined to turn tehran into a hell, the like of which the barbaric scoundrels have never seen before,'' said the iraqi news agency following another barrage of missiles into tehran
persian gulf shipping executives said iraqi warplanes attacked a liberian-flag tanker, chartered by iran, off the iranian coast
they had no details on casualties or damage aboard the 249,223-ton trade fortitude, the second ship damaged in iraqi raids in the gulf since march 8
iraq, which has long held the technological edge in the deadly duel, said it fired six long-range missiles tuesday into tehran, the iranian capital, while its air force bombed seven cities in western iran
iran said it bombarded the southern iraqi port city of basra and nashwa, 12 miles to the north, with 11 short-range missiles and artillery fire and hit four other cities in the northeast and southeast with air raids
the iranians reported no long-range missile attacks on baghdad, the iraqi capital, or any other cities
the absence of any missile attack on baghdad prompted speculation that the iranians may have exhausted their arsenal of long-range missiles in an exchange with the iraqis that began feb. 29 and ended for two days last friday
so far, the iraqis have reported shooting 86 long-range missiles into tehran and other iranian cities in the last 16 days. in contrast, iran has claimed to have fired 31 in that period
in the gulf, the kuwaiti tanker gas prince, one of 11 kuwait tankers reflagged with the stars and stripes to afford them u.s. navy protection from iranian attack, sailed northward in the 17th convoy operation this year
the convoy was the 39th since july, when the navy began escorting the kuwaiti tankers
in riyadh, saudi arabia, foreign ministers of six conservative gulf arab states met to discuss the iran-iraq war
iran's islamic republic news agency said a number of civilians were killed in missile attacks on residential areas of the capital, but did not say how many rockets hit the city of 6 million
iraq also reported civilian casualties in several cities, but gave no figures beyond nine killed and 20 wounded in basra
ap reporter salah nasrawi reported from basra on tuesday that the city was rocked throughout the day by exploding artillery shells and soviet-made katyusha rockets fired by iranian forces east of the city
iranian revolutionary guards battled to within six miles of the city a year ago in a major offensive and have held onto their bridgehead despite iraqi counter-attacks
basra's governor, anwar al-hadithi, said that more than 2,900 shells and nearly 200 rockets have hit the city since feb. 28, killing 50 civilians and wounding around 250 others
the katyushas are the worst,'' al-hadithi said. ``the iranians use truck-mounted launchers which means they can fire and run before our people can locate them. the shrapnel bursts from the rockets is worse than the shells and they kill more people.''
basra was once iraq's second largest city. but its pre-war population of 1 million has dwindled to around 300,000 in the last two years as people fled the iranian bombardment
western military analysts believe baghdad, which began hitting tehran with missiles for the first time feb. 29, wants to provoke iran into retaliation that will intensify pressure on the u.n. security council to impose an arms embargo on iran
western diplomats believe the iraqi strategy is ill-advised because it has provided the soviet union with an excuse to stall on swinging behind u.s. efforts to secure the embargo
moscow is iraq's main arms supplier, but has been at pains in the last two years to improve its relations with tehran in an apparent effort to mediate a cease-fire in the war
in new york, the soviets' u.n. ambassador, alexander belonogov, acknowledged monday that the soviet bid for a resolution calling for an end to the ``war of the cities'' had failed. the united states saw the proposal as a maneuver designed to deflect attention from the american drive for the embargo on iran
and iran's u.n. envoy lashed out at the security council, accusing it of ``wasting'' time on the arms embargo proposal instead of ending the missile duel between tehran and baghdad
the security council is responsible for every drop of blood of iranian people, innocent civilians who are the victims of inhuman attacks,'' said the envoy, mohammad ja'afar mahallati. update with funeral mass. pick up 7th graf, `their bodies ...' adds byline.</note>
two roman catholics were shot dead and hearses bearing the coffins of three irish republican army guerrillas were pelted with stones by jeering protestants, police said tuesday
charles mcgrillan was gunned down from a motorcycle outside a belfast supermarket as he arrived for work tuesday, police said
his death bore the hallmarks of a sectarian murder by protestant terrorists, they said
the night before, police said, troops shot a gunman who fired on an army patrol near the belfast home of one of the dead guerrillas. kevin mccracken, 33, who had a record of ira activity, died later in the hospital
the three guerrillas, killed in gibraltar march 6 by a british anti-terrorism squad as they were planning a car bombing, were to be buried wednesday in the biggest such funeral since 1981, when 10 guerrillas died in prison hunger strikes
catholic sympathy for mairead farrell, 31, sean savage, 24, and daniel mccann, 30, is heightened by the fact that they were unarmed, and the irish government has protested they shouldn't have been killed
the rev. raymond murray, chaplain of the armagh jail where miss farrell spent 10 years on a bombing charge, denounced the killings at a mass for her tuesday night in west belfast
she was done to death, barbarously assaulted by a gunman as she walked in public on a sunny sunday afternoon,'' he told 2,000 people crowded into a catholic church
the three bodies were flown from gibraltar to dublin on monday and driven for nine hours in a cortege to belfast, 100 miles north
thousands of ira sympathizers waved black flags of mourning along highway, while at six points along the 40-mile northern ireland segment of the route, the three hearses were stoned and jeered by protestants to whom the predominantly catholic ira is a mortal enemy
at the ireland-ulster border, the procession ran into northern ireland police demanding the removal of irish flags draped over the coffins. after 30 minutes of argument the mourners compromised by folding the flags, replacing them on the coffins and covering them in wreathes
the tricolor, ireland's national flag, is identified in most protestant minds with the ira
the outlawed ira's legal political wing, sinn fein, said police tried to break up the cortege and twice crashed a vehicle into a hearse
at newry, five miles inside northern ireland, the hearses were paraded around the largely catholic town for two hours in front of cheering ira supporters
on newry's outskirts, protestant crowds jeered, waved british flags and hurled bricks, bottles and stones at the cortege, breaking some car windows
similar scenes repeated themselves along the road to belfast
on monday the ira said its members fired a volley over a makeshift shrine in belfast as a farewell salute to the guerrillas
the traditional paramilitary salute, which is banned in northern ireland as an illegal display of firearms, was fired monday as the bodies landed in dublin, the ira said in a statement issued through sinn fein
the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, promised in newspaper advertisements not to interfere with the funerals if the ira did not mount a gunfire salute over the coffins
sinn fein president gerry adams accused the the police of partially splitting up the convoy, sending cars with relatives of the three guerrillas into mainly protestant lisburn, eight miles outside belfast where they were stoned
in belfast, adams said, the ruc ``hijacked the three hearses by forcing them down to broadway and refused to allow the remaining relatives to accompany their loved ones.''
police said that near belfast they separated the hearses from the rest of the slow-moving funeral procession, which had grown to several miles in length
the coffins were taken to the homes of the guerrillas' families in belfast. they will be buried at belfast's catholic milltown cemetery alongside many other ira guerrillas killed in nearly 20 years of strife in the province
since 1969, 2,630 people have died in sectarian violence. the ira is fighting to rid northern ireland of british rule and unite the province with ireland
a democratic fund-raiser on whose behalf house speaker jim wright once interceded was indicted tuesday in an alleged scheme to defraud an iowa thrift institution in a land deal
thomas merrill gaubert, 48, of desoto, texas, was accused by a federal grand jury in des moines, iowa, of arranging for the capitol savings and loan association of mount pleasant, iowa, to unwittingly finance a ``land flip'' in dallas county, texas
gaubert bought some 44 acres of the dallas county land at less than 50 cents per square foot, then sold it the same day through a middleman to 22 buyers at $5.25 per square foot, the indictment alleged
he also was accused of denying involvement in the project and failing to disclose to s&amp;l regulators, as well as state and federal regulators, that during the transaction he was to be a buyer and a seller of the land
the real estate developer was accused of wire fraud, making false statements to a federally insured financial institution and making a false statement to the government
gaubert is a prominent democratic fund-raiser and former owner of the independent american savings association in irving, texas, who contributed $7,000 to a pair of wright political committees in 1985
in the fall of 1986, wright, d-texas, then house majority leader, urged federal home loan bank board chairman edwin gray to meet with gaubert to hear his complaints about the board's treatment of independent american
at wright's urging, gray spent 2{ hours with gaubert. wright said he was simply encouraging gray to ensure that his agency was being fair to one of wright's constituents
the s&amp;l industry in texas is focus of a massive federal criminal investigative effort that has resulted in a number of indictments of prominent businessmen. gaubert has called the federal effort ``a witchunt.''
texas leads the nation in s&amp;l losses and failures, and federal insurance officials say fraud, inside abuse and gross mismanagement have contributed to the problem as well as the economic recession in texas
the maximum penalty for wire fraud is a $1,000 fine and five years in prison. making false statements to a federally insured financial institution carries a maximum $5,000 fine and two years in prison. making false statements to the government carries a maximum $10,000 fine and 10 years in prison
former national security council staff aide roger w. robinson made a 2{-hour federal grand jury appearance tuesday in the criminal investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii and a proposed $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline
robinson declined to discuss his testimony following his appearance. he was the aide designated by then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane in june 1985 to work on expediting the pipeline, which was floundering for lack of an insurance package sought by iraq to insure it from israeli attack
robinson was assigned to get the project back on track following a meeting by mcfarlane, longtime meese friend e. robert wallach and wallach's client swiss oilman bruce rappaport, a partner in the proposed pipeline. meese had referred wallach to mcfarlane the previous month
working with wallach, robinson tried unsuccessfully to help assemble a $400 million bank-backed insurance package acceptable to the overseas private investment corp
the government agency insures foreign investments by u.s. firms such as bechtel group inc., which was going to build the project. opic officials wanted guarantees that funds would be available from some source to cover losses if the pipeline were destroyed
robinson is the second nsc aide in two weeks to testify in the probe of meese being conducted by independent counsel james mckay. the other was david wigg, who took robinson's place on the project
two former aides in meese's office, john richardson and john harrison, testified last week before the grand jury to which mckay's office is presenting evidence. richardson was meese's chief of staff before leaving the justice department several months ago. harrison, now with the solicitor general's office, worked on meese's staff in mid-1985
the probe of meese revolves around whether he may have violated the 1977 foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits bribes by u.s. companies or their agents to foreign officials
wallach wrote a memo to the attorney general in september 1985 saying that a portion of up to $700 million from the pipeline would be paid to the israeli labor party of then-prime minister shimon peres. meese says he doesn't recall reading the portion of the memo relating to labor party payments
robinson left the nsc on sept. 14, 1985, and his place on the pipeline project was taken by wigg, who worked with wallach on alternative proposals. those included pledging u.s. aid to israel as a guarantee for the pipeline and seeking to put pentagon budget money for israel in an overseas escrow account as insurance
none of the insurance proposals was adopted and the pipeline wasn't built
on tuesday afternoon, john h. mcneill of the pentagon office of general counsel appeared before the grand jury
mcneill worked with wigg on the pentagon budget proposal, according to sources familiar with mckay's probe, speaking on condition of anonymity. mcneill, who declined comment on his testimony, is the assistant general counsel for international and intelligence matters
mcneill and robinson are both witnesses in the probe rather than subjects or targets and do not have legal counsel. name of kneebone to terence, not terrence. no pickup</note>
by reid g. miller
medical workers hurled firebombs at police outside a hospital on tuesday, joining a wave of public employees rallying against the cash-strapped government of gen. manuel antonio noriega
sections of the capital were turned into battlegrounds as hundreds of civil servants took to the streets to demand their paychecks. riot squads fired tear gas, water cannons and shotguns loaded with birdshot. at least a dozen people were injured
americans became involved
_panama ordered terence kneebone, director of the u.s. information service here, to leave the country within 48 hours, a u.s. embassy source said. the united states said it would ignore the directive because it was delivered by a regime not recognized by the united states as the legitimate authority
_the u.s. southern command said panamanian police detained three american soldiers in the port of colon, at the caribbean entrance of the panama canal, but released them several hours later. the command also said it upgraded the alert status for its 10,000 personnel and 20,000 dependents
_a photographer for the dallas morning news, david leeson, was among those hurt in the worst demonstration at the main social security institute hospital in northern panama city. a shotgun pellet pierced his cheek and chipped a tooth
leeson was treated at the hospital's emergency room, along with at least seven othe people. three were hit in the face by birdshot and two children were overcome by tear gas
other slightly wounded demonstrators spurned hospital care
medical workers hurled molotov cocktails at police just outside the grounds of the sprawling facility and riot police responded with shotgun fire and tear gas grenades. fumes penetrated the interior of the 500-bed hospital
assassins,'' cried hospital employees. ``noriega, tyrant, your end is near!''
the complex includes the six-story hospital, a specialized clinic and administrative offices
several miles away, in the heart of the city, police spraying diluted tear gas from a water cannon broke up a demonstration by about 300 teachers and employees of the ministry of education
disturbances flared monday when thousands of public employees failed to receive semimonthly paychecks. strikes begun by teachers, telephone workers and longshoremen were joined tuesday by employees of the ministry of treasury and finance
the government announced it would begin making at least partial salary payments tuesday to its employees. but workers at the hospital, the treasury and education departments said they had not heard of the plan
it was not known late tuesday how many workers actually got paid, either in full or partially
we were protesting peacefully because we were supposed to get paid yesterday (monday) and we still do not know anything,'' said a nurse, who refused to give her name. ``i had to borrow money from my grandfather to come to work.''
in washington, the reagan administration has let it be known it hopes panama's difficulties in meeting its payrolls will lead to strongman noriega's removal as head of the 15,000-member defense forces
two u.s. grand juries indicted noriega last month on charges of trafficking in drugs. noriega denied the charges
riot police stepped in to quell the demonstration at the social security hospital when workers built barricades of rubbish across a four-lane, divided highway, halting heavy morning rush-hour traffic in both directions
firing tear gas grenades, police moved the workers back behind a heavy wire fence surrounding the hospital. some employees, wearing surgical masks against the gas, used metal tabletops as shields to throw rocks at the police
then some workers, mostly young men, made firebombs and hurled them at police. they used surgical gauze for wicks after pouring gasoline into empty rum bottles
other employees were seen throwing furniture from upstairs windows of the six-story hospital. at least one policeman was struck on the head by a rock
this is a hospital!,'' cried a nurse. ``how can they do this! we are under siege!''
students threw rocks at police from a university building across the highway
treasury minister hector alexander said the government planned to pay workers on a sliding scale. employees making less than $200 a month would get full wages. those getting up to $999 would get $75. people making more than $1000 would get nothing
more than 1,000 dockworkers remained on strike at colon and panama city, the entrances to the the 50-mile-long panama canal that links the pacific and atlantic oceans
the panama canal commission said tuesday the walkout had not affected transit through the waterway, which handles an average 30 ships a day
the reagan administration hopes government inability to pay its workers will bring down noriega, who engineered the ouster of president eric arturo delvalle on feb. 26 after delvalle tried to fire him
the united states imposed new economic sanctions on panama last friday, including withholding $6.5 million in canal fees due this week. it earlier cut off all economic and military aid to panama
foreign and local banks have remained closed in panama
in washington, the panamanian embassy said delvalle instructed ambassador juan b. sosa that once noriega is gone, ``all funds that have been frozen in escrow will be primarily used to pay the salary of public workers, a duty that the illegimate government has been unable to accomplish.''
sosa refused to recognize the feb. 26 change in government and continues to support delvalle
asked tuesday about the possibility of waiving extradition to speed noriega's departure from panama, president reagan said, ``we do want noriega out of there and a return to a civilian democratic government.''
the pilot of a soviet jetliner that crashed killing 11 passengers allowed his co-pilot to try a difficult night landing for which he was not prepared, a government commission said tuesday
the government newspaper izvestia published the findings of a commission that studied the crash of an aeroflot tu-154b at the caspian sea port of krasnovodsk on jan. 18
it said prosecutors have started criminal proceedings in the case
the three-engine jet, carrying 137 passengers from moscow to krasnovodsk and then on to ashkabad was flying normally until the approach to krasnovodsk in the early morning hours, the report said
pilot v.s. churayev permitted co-pilot v.d. yegorov to land the plan, even though yegorov was not trained sufficiently for landing in the difficult conditions at krasnovodsk, according to the report
the report did not say why the landing in krasnovodsk was difficult
it said yegorov made mistakes in his approach that brought the plane down too rapidly from a height of 150 feet and even though churayev took over the controls at the last minute, the plane flipped over on landing and broke in two
it was one of three times this year that passengers were killed in aeroflot flight crashes reported by the soviet media
on feb. 27 a tupolev 134 crashed at the siberian city of sumgut. the media said there were casualties, but did not say how many
on march 8, a family musical group from irkutsk tried to hijack a tupolev 154 bound for leningrad. a stewardess, three passengers and five of the hijackers were killed before the plane was retaken by security officers
the head of the justice department's criminal division said tuesday that an early draft of a federal prosecution strategy against drugs would have targeted resources almost exclusively at the world's 150 biggest narcotics rings
assistant attorney general william weld said the approach has been broadened after extensive discussions with u.s. attorneys so that smaller operations will be targeted in federal drug prosecutions
i want that dealer in lowell, mass., not to be sure he won't be picked up in a federal undercover operation,'' weld, a former u.s. attorney in boston, said in an interview. ``i don't want people to be able to relax anywhere.''
weld said that when he first considered focusing exclusively on the largest drug rings, ``i ran into a little bit of a buzz saw'' from some u.s. attorneys
committing ``an untoward percentage of those resources to miami, new york, chicago'' and the other major drug centers ``creates the public perception of gaps in enforcement,'' said weld. ``the bad guys are going to play hit 'em where they ain't.''
if we were going to be entirely logical we might say the only purpose of prosecution is to disrupt the supply'' by aiming ``at the top-most levels of supply in the world,'' weld said. abandoning regions of the country would send a mixed signal that ``it's not ok to be a member of the medillin cartel, but it is ok to be a little fish.''
of the refinements, he said: ``frankly, i'm happier with the compromise than i was with my own first draft.''
the prosecution strategy is one proposed piece of the federal drug-fighting effort now being mapped out by a number of agencies. the proposals, now in final form, will be presented to the national drug policy board for approval and will be publicly announced by early next month
the 159-nation general assembly is expected to ask the world court to rule on whether the united states can close the plo's u.n. observer mission in new york, an arab league spokesman said tuesday
league spokesman clovis maksoud and u.n. sources said the assembly would convene friday
the u.s. justice department has said it would move on or around monday to enforce a new anti-terrorism law calling for the closure of the palestine liberation organization's mission office
maksoud said the league will ask the assembly to take a cautious approach
he said it will not ask the assembly to suspend israel from debates on the middle east, as the plo has suggested, or to move to another country. both would be premature, he said
the provocation was reckless. we don't want to respond with recklessness,'' maksoud said in an interview
scores of nations said during a special session earlier this month on the plo dispute that the independence of the united nations is at stake
the increasingly bitter confrontation has prompted some calls to move the world body to geneva, which western diplomats say is unlikely
nobody wants to move the headquarters,'' maksoud said
u.n. sources said tuesday that preliminary studies show the cost of moving the assembly to geneva would be ``excessive,'' in part because u.n. facilities there are not adequate
both the united nations and the u.s. state department have said closing the plo mission would violate the 1947 treaty under which the united states became u.n. headquarters
maksoud said the arab league will not ask the united nations to go to federal court to fight the justice department
he said the united nations should not subject itself to the jurisdiction of a domestic court
instead, the league will ask the assembly to request a ruling from the world court in the hague on whether the united states has the right to close down any mission to the united nations
the plo, an official observer at the general assembly since 1974, has said it will apppear in a u.s. court only if ``dragged in,'' and then only to challenge the court's jurisdiction over a u.n. matter. accuser</head> background on trial, defense contention on milstead sex life, picking up 19th graf, `house prosecutor...'. subs grafs 25-28 bgng `before mrs...'. with 2 grafs to add that no decision on motion to increase length of sessions, deleting material to trim. should stand for ams.</note>
a woman who claims she was a lover of gov. evan mecham's chief accuser testified at mecham's impeachment trial tuesday about the relationship despite the presiding officer's order to keep sex out of the trial
defense witness christina johnston told senators she was ``intimate'' with the state's top lawman, department of public safety director ralph milstead
milstead has testified that mecham ordered him not to cooperate with an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official against a prospective grand jury witness. milstead has said he did cooperate
the alleged obstruction of the death-threat probe is one of three broad charges against mecham at his impeachment trial. he also is accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and of misusing $80,000 from a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
mecham, 63, a first-term republican and the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, has not attended since the proceedings began feb. 29
the defense has claimed it can raise milstead's sexual activities to attack his crediblity and character, but arizona supreme court chief justice frank x. gordon jr. earlier ruled the issue irrelevant
prosecuting attorney paul eckstein repeatedly objected tuesday that mrs. johnston's testimony, elicited by mecham lawyer fred craft, violated gordon's order, but she managed some comment on their relationship
mrs. johnston testified she had known milstead since 1979 and had no professional relationship with him
have you had a personal relationship with him?'' asked craft
intimate and personal,'' she answered in a forceful voice before a prosecutor could object
milstead has said he knew her as a dps informant, but he was not asked about a sexual relationship
mrs. johnston and her husband, mark, a former dps officer, have said publicly they are ``out to get'' milstead
craft angrily declared tuesday he was being prevented from ``getting at the truth'' as he asked mrs. johnston personal questions, including why she had been married six times. she said she was not married when she met ralph milstead
was he married?'' craft asked
he told me he wasn't,'' she said with a smile as the prosecution objected
the judge began sustaining a blizzard of prosecution objections, and craft finally sputtered: ``maybe i just don't understand the rules.''
that may be a good statement,'' said gordon
mrs. johnston was permitted to denounce milstead as a liar
he's a liar. he's corrupt. he's an egomaniac and he's power-hungry,'' mrs. johnston declared as she was asked by mecham's lawyer to evaluate milstead's truthfulness. ``i'm sorry, but that's the truth,'' she added softly
milstead has said that mark johnston quit the force under strange circumstances, disappearing for about a week while on duty. he said that mrs. johnston recently had sought her husband's reinstatement with the dps but that he had failed a psychological test
house prosecutor william french accused craft of creating a smokescreen with claims of witness-tampering to disguise that ``apparently there is no defense.''
among craft's allegations was the arrest of defense witness terri fields on friday, the day after she testified, on an outstanding warrant charging that she failed to attend court-ordered alcoholics anonymous meetings following a driving-while-intoxicated conviction. she was released on $1,000 bond. the dps has denied the arrest was an attempt to intimidate impeachment trial witnesses
french, in response to craft's claim that dps officers were intimidating witnesses, submitted an explosive affidavit from a defense witness
antonio corio claimed that craft spewed profanity at him, made bizarre claims about milstead's sex life and threatened to ``tear up'' the witness if he didn't give the right answers
craft later called those allegations ``scurrilous in the extreme. ... it's a lie.''
milstead is in israel for an anti-terrorism seminar, but dps spokesman sgt. allan schmidt called the alleged statements by craft ``disgusting.'' asked for further comment, he said, ``you can't print it.''
the senate did not immediately rule on a mistrial motion by craft based on the tampering allegations, and continued the proceedings
the senate also made no decision tuesday on a proposal to extend the length of the trial day by two hours to speed up the proceedings. craft said it would be a hardship for defense attorneys and the judge indicated he felt the current schedule already is longer and more arduous than a normal trial schedule
senate republican majority leader robert usdane said the matter would be reconsidered later in the week
it would take a two-thirds vote of the senate to convict mecham. the senators could vote again and bar the governor from holding state office again. mecham also faces an april 21 criminal trial on the charge that he concealed the $350,000 loan, and a recall election is scheduled may 17
lord hugh rupert courtenay sold his bookshelves and got to keep them, too, on tuesday, for a record-setting $841,750
london's victoria and albert museum bought the two antique bookcases but agreed to let courtenay keep them so long as they are on show to the public in his library
the museum said the price was a record for a piece of english furniture sold in britain
the bookcases will stay in courtenay's ancestral home, powderham castle, devon, which courtenay runs for his father, the 17th earl of devon
the bookcases were made in 1740 by john channon of exeter. the museum was given the money by the national heritage fund, a charity which preserves historic objects for the nation
courtenay, 46, said he loses $74,000 a year on the castle and needs more than $1.85 million to pay taxes and fund improvements in the castle. details of later rally, dissident says he was released. picks up 10th graf pvs, hungary dissidents ...</note>
about 10,000 people chanting ``democracy! democracy!'' marched through the streets of this communist capital tuesday and called for a free press and free elections
police turned out in force, but took no action as protesters yelled anti-government slogans and speakers criticized the soviet system
the throng marched several miles down budapest's main boulevards, blocking traffic and waving red, white and green hungarian flags
the unofficial protest followed a rally organized earlier in the day by the communist party to mark the anniversary of hungary's abortive 1848 revolution against austria, one of this east european nation's biggest holidays
the time is over for self-appointed governments,'' prominent dissident gabor miklos tamas told the throng, in a reference to the nation's communist authorities. ``a modern democracy has to be created with a new constitution and free elections.''
the crowd marched to monuments of hungarian national heroes and paid particular tribute to firebrand poet sandor petoefi, whose name is symbolic of resistance to foreign suppression in hungary
protesters chanted ``democracy! democracy!'' and waved banners reading, ``we want real reforms'' or ``we demand freedom of the press.''
later tuesday night, a crowd of about 1,500, most of them young people, gathered at the petoefi monument and then moved across the margaret bridge to the castle hill, where they repeated calls for democracy and press freedom
about 150 people then moved back to the chain bridge, intending to return to the petoefi monument, but witnesses said the demonstrators were dispersed by waiting riot police, who held clubs but did not hit anybody
hours after the unofficial demonstration was over, the state news agency mti reported that eight people, mostly dissident intellectuals, were arrested. the five-line report gave only their names
they were writer miklos haraszti, sociologist ottlia solt, publisher gabor demszky, artist tamas molnar, gyoergy gado, jenoe nagy and two lesser known dissidents, sandor racz and robert palinkas
haraszti later said he had been released and that he assumed the others had also been set free, but this could not be confirmed immediately
hungarian dissidents have staged unofficial demonstrations on march 15 since 1973. police generally have shown restraint, although dozens of officers clashed violently with protesters in 1986
hungary has won a reputation as a relatively liberal soviet bloc country, although far less dissent is tolerated than in western countries
at tuesday's rally, groups of protesters whistled and applauded rhythmically as police vehicles passed by, but authorities did not react to what appeared to be attempts to provoke them
roza demszky, the wife of one of the arrested dissidents, read her husband's speech to the crowd
the soviet system has led hungary into a crisis ``and does not show any way out,'' she said
the reforms promised by the hungarian revolution of 1848 ``have not yet been realized in this country,'' she added
speakers gathered at a monument to lajos kossuth, the leader of the 1848 revolt, to read poems by petoefi
in the earlier official rally, a crowd of 5,000 people gathered near budapest's national museum, where the 1848 revolution first began
communist party speakers called for more national unity and economic progress, and laid a plaque commemorating the revolution
small groups dressed in folk costumes sang national songs and told events of the aborted revolution
hungary recently has imposed an austerity program to try to reverse economic stagnation, and its leadership is contemplating political reforms
george bush won the illinois republican presidential primary tuesday and received an early evening concession from sen. bob dole's campaign manager. as the votes were being counted, dole vowed ``to keep working'' in the primary states to come
an american communications satellite launched into a low orbit last week rocketed successfully tuesday into a geosynchronous orbit 22,300 miles above the earth's equator
the satellite, spacenet iii, owned by gte corp., fired its apogee kick motor, a small rocket engine, at 11:57 a.m. est, some 90 hours after its launch friday night by a french ariane rocket
gte officials said the 1,562-pound spacenet iii would initiate a stabilizing spin tuesday night. this will lock its antennae into contact with earth. once that is accomplished and verified, the satellite will deploy an array of solar power cells that provide the craft with electricity
gte engineers will conduct a series of tests of the craft and the the satellite will start operations early in april
spacenet iii provides a communications link between points in all 50 of the united states. clients include the associated press and the television groups of abc, cbs, cnn and gannett
the u.s. satellite and a french communications satellite were launched together on friday aboard an ariane rocket from the european space agency launch site in kourou, french guiana. gte spacenet is the first american client of arianespace, the operating arm of the european space agency. routine aids tests legal in california.</note>
all blood samples taken for routine clinical testing at 40 hospitals in 30 states now are also being tested for aids, the director of centers for disease control said tuesday
dr. james mason, director of the cdc, said at a congressional hearing that ``blinded'' blood tests are being conducted at the hospitals in an effort to help determine the incidence of aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome
rep. william e. dannemeyer, r-calif., a member of the house energy and commerce subcommittee on health and the environment, asked mason if he was aware that california has a law that forbids aids testing without consent
then i sure am committing lots of crimes every day,'' said mason
an official with the california state committee on aids such certain ``blinded'' tests are legal
mason said the tests were under way in hospitals in both san francisco and los angeles
mason said results of the testing are now being compiled and will be released to the public in two to three weeks
in the ``blinded'' tests, said mason, a portion of each routine blood sample taken at the hospitals is separated out and then tested for aids. he said the blood used for the aids testing carries no identification of the patient who provided the sample, hence the identity of the donor is ``blinded'' to the laboratory conducting the tests
debra smith, administrative secretary to a california state committee on aids, said the ``blinded'' tests are legal. she said a statute passed in 1987 permits such tests for statistical purposes
mason's statement came during hearings chaired by rep. henry a. waxman, d-calif., into the way that the nation's aids research dollars are being spent
mason, along with dr. frank young, commissioner of the food and drug administration, and dr. james wyngaarden, director of the national institutes of health, all said they were experiencing difficulty in hiring scientists and other health care professionals because the federal salaries are below those offered in universities or in industry
wyngaarden said that the turnover among investigators is about 2 percent a year
we're losing some of our most outstanding people,'' he said, for reasons that involved salary, laboratory facilities and other ``complex'' reasons
he said this is particularly true of allied health workers, such as nurses, laboratory technicians and x-ray technicians. he said there is a salary differential among those workers of about 25 percent
they will stay through the training period and then leave for more money,'' said wyngaarden
dr. tony fauci, deputy director for aids research at nih, said top investigators frequently receive offers to move to university or industry positions that offer a higher salary, better facilities and more laboratory personnel
there is a rather significant difference in salaries (between federal and private),'' he said. ``we are constantly fighting that battle.''
fauci said the outpatient clinic at the nih treated 4,500 aids patients during 1987 and that more and more of them are becoming critically ill and in need of intensive care
the staff problems will have a negative impact'' on the amount of care available at the clinics, he said
young said his agency is experiencing difficulty in recruiting personnel trained to evaluate drugs and medical issues. he said it typically takes about two years to train personnel, and they often leave the fda shortly after the training is completed in order to receive higher pay elsewhere
frustrated, angry and unwilling to admit defeat, bob dole insisted there was a turning point out there, a state where voters would say, ``wait a minute, we don't want george bush.'' but dole's campaign was hard-pressed to identify that turnaround state
it wasn't likely to happen in connecticut, one of the states bush calls home. and the republican presidential polls don't look promising for dole in wisconsin, new york or pennsylvania
so that takes us another month and a half without a big opportunity for a victory,'' said one top dole adviser, insisting on anonymity
before the polls opened tuesday in illinois, dole conceded that big state to bush
with bush continuing to build his delegate lead, dole was dogged by the question of how long he could or would stay in the race
when dole returned to washington tuesday night, he insisted, ``we're just going to hang in there. ... we're staying in, we're staying in.''
was there a realistic chance of catching the vice president?
the numbers suggested there wasn't
going into the illinois primary, bush already had 705 of the 1,139 delegates needed for the nomination. dole had 165
bush would need only one-third of the 1,318 delegates still to be chosen
obviously, if dole started winning two-thirds of the delegates in upcoming contests, the vice president's huge lead would evaporate. but there was no sign of that happening
the iran-contra affair appeared to offer a bit of hope to dole
when robert mcfarlane agreed to cooperate with the special counsel investigating the affair, it renewed the hope within the dole campaign that attention once again would focus on what role bush had in deliberations that led to the sale of arms to iran and diversion of funds to the contras
in a speech to the chicago council on foreign relations, dole referred to presidential advisers ``peddling arms to the ayatollah while others hear no evil, see no evil.''
but he later conceded that iran-contra was not an issue among republicans, though he predicted it would be used against the party's nominee by the democrats
dole's frustration was apparent when he was asked why he didn't attack bush more directly on iran-contra
if i hit him, i get ronald reagan first and then they say, oh, oh, he's out there attacking ronald reagan,'' he replied
nothing so frustrates and angers dole as bush's success in tying himself to reagan, a president who remains enormously popular among republicans
dole referred to bush commercials that show the vice president conferring with reagan and, in one scene, the president putting an arm over bush's shoulders
i don't have nearly as many pictures of ronald reagan as george bush has,'' said dole. ``he must have a pile six feet deep. i can't match him in photos. but i can match him in record.''
bush blew the republican race open with his sweeping victory on super tuesday
but dole is reluctant to give the vice president credit for accomplishing anything on his own. ``super tuesday was, in my view, a referendum on ronald reagan and reagan won,'' said the senator
he sees bush as someone who has ``sort of had a charmed life in politics. he's gotten quite a ways without ever doing much.''
that view may contribute to dole's belief that it could all unravel for bush if he can ``get people to stop and think.''
the senator admitted he has considered various tactics that might blunt the bush momentum, including borrowing one from ronald reagan _ naming his running mate. reagan tried that in 1976 when he challenged incumbent republican president ford
reagan, fighting to overcome a perception that he was too conservative, said early in the race he would name moderate republican sen. richard schweicker of pennsylvania as his running mate
it didn't work for reagan, but as dole said, ``when you're looking for ways to catch up, you think of maybe naming your running mate.'' one of the names on dole's list was former gov. lamar alexander of tennessee. he said there were others, but he didn't name them
on election day in illinois, dole campaigned in wisconsin and connecticut
but connecticut, with 35 delegates, is the state where bush grew up and where his father served as a senator. connecticut didn't look like a good state for dole, said the senator's adviser
polls in wisconsin, which chooses 47 delegates in a primary on april 5, gave bush a big lead. only a dole victory in illinois seemed likely to turn it around
the biggest upcoming prize is new york, which elects 102 gop delegates on april 19. bush has already been credited with 24 of those because his backers are running unopposed in several districts
a week later, pennsylvania, with 78 delegates, votes, and the dole adviser described the state as ``controlled pretty tightly'' by bush
even while claiming he was going to fight on, dole showed glimpses of the political realist
he referred to candidates who don't realize when it's time to bow out
he said, ``now if you're out there and you've been twisting in the wind for six or eight months and you're starting to smell a little, maybe somebody has to cut the rope.'' also strangled, giving victim's name, hometown; no one else believed missing from the ship. picks up 5th graf pvs, `a search...'.</note>
a naval paymaster was found beaten and strangled tuesday aboard the destroyer uss john hancock and $120,000 was stolen from the ship's safe, a naval spokesman said
the officer's body was found stuffed into a sea locker in another part of the ship, said chief petty officer art riccio. ``he was beaten up pretty bad.'' later, officials said the victim, identified as for lt. ratish prasad, 24, of park forest, ill., also had been strangled
the search for prasad began when he failed to report to muster at 7:15 a.m., said riccio. mayport petty officer billy hill said tuesday evening that nobody else was known to be missing from the ship
a search of the disbursement office found the safe open and $120,000 in cash and an undetermined number of blank checks missing, riccio said
tuesday was payday for navy personnel, who are paid the first and 15th of each month, said riccio. ``an audit of the ship's funds is pending and alternate arrangements have been made to pay the crew,'' he said
navy and jacksonville sheriff's investigators were working on the case, he said
mayport is the hancock's home port. access to the ship, which was tied in the port, is strictly controlled, said riccio. anyone wanting to board must pass checkpoints at the base entrance, the pier area and the ship itself
only relatives and friends of the crew who have been previously cleared are allowed aboard the ship in port, he said. even navy personnel who do not have business on the ships cannot board, he said
construction workers doing repairs can go aboard, but riccio said the hancock had no repair work scheduled
the navy refuses to comment on whether nuclear weapons are aboard a vessel, but destroyers do not ususally carry such arms. to update with nicaraguan officials confirming offensive, denying that honduran territory penetrated; picks up 4th graf pvs bgng: the operation ....</note>
nicaraguan forces, using aerial bombardment and heavy artillery, launched a major offensive tuesday against contra rebels in the northern part of the country and sent troops into neighboring honduras, u.s. and contra officials said
they have overrun certain of our positions,'' said ernesto palazio, director of the contra's washington office
palazio estimated that about 3,500 front line sandinista forces aided by 4,000 backup troops were involved
in managua, nicaraguan officials confirmed that a ``major military offensive'' had been launched, but denied that sandinista forces had penetrated into honduran territory
the operation occurred less than a week before the rescheduled resumption of cease-fire talks and some democrats in congress pictured it as a sandinista attempt to go into the negotiations from a stronger position
one state department official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said initial reports suggested the sandinistas hoped to deliver a ``knockout blow'' against the contras
the military engagements came shortly after a 1{-hour white house meeting at which president reagan pleaded with congressional leaders for a renewal of american aid to the contras, but met an icy reception from democrats
congressional sources, declining to be identified, said reagan pounded the table and said, ``there are some people around this table who don't seem to know who the bad guys are down there.''
contra spokesman bosco matamoros said the sandinistas' soviet-made antonov planes dropped 500 to 1,000-pound bombs on contra troop concentrations
he said contra air resupply capability is extremely limited. the rebels are low on food and lack the ability to evacuate their wounded, he said
in miami, marta sacasa, another spokesman for the resistance, said the sandinistas struck at contra positions with heavy artillery, including multiple rocket launchers
the situation is critical,'' she said
the state department said earlier that preparations by government forces appeared to foreshadow ``the largest offensive we have seen the sandinistas undertake.''
but house democratic aides, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said the offensive by sandinista troops was merely ``business as usual'' and an attempt to ``soften up'' the contras before the cease-fire negotiations resume
house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash., acknowledged that ``there is some military activity'' in the country, but declined to elaborate
we don't know their intentions, and they (the administration) don't know their intentions,'' said one democratic congressional source
another democratic congressional source said it was clear that the contras are having supply problems, in part because of an administration decision to spend the last aid money on long-term truck and air delivery contracts, anticipating that a house-drafted ``humanitarian'' aid package would be approved. instead, the package was voted down on march 3
after the white house session, house speaker jim wright said reagan's plea for a renewal of aid puzzled him
it doesn't really seem to make total sense,'' wright, d-texas, said
he said it was house republicans, acting in concert with reagan, who defeated a $30 million package of food and clothing for the rebels two weeks ago, just after their u.s. aid pipeline had run dry
he expressed ``amazement'' that reagan would cheer the defeat of that package, then two weeks later come to congress with an urgent request for new supplies. ``i can't conceive of it,'' wright said
wright quoted reagan's national security adviser, colin powell, as telling congressional leaders that ``virtually all aspects'' of the contra effort are ``in crisis and on the verge of collapse, that food for the contra families will run out the first of april. the program is drying up and dying before our very eyes.''
in december, 1986, honduran warplanes and artillery pounded sandinista soldiers who mounted an incursion into honduras to attack contra bases. on that occasion, u.s. army helicopters were brought in to ferry honduran infantrymen to the front
at that time, honduras charged that 800 to 2,500 sandinista soldiers crossed the border and penetrated up to nine miles into honduras before returning to nicaragua about a week later
since u.s. aid to the rebels expired feb. 29 and the house voted narrowly on march 3 against a new ``humanitarian'' aid package, the contras have fallen back toward border areas to defend supply caches, state department spokesman charles redman said. that means ``they cannot use normal guerrilla tactics to disperse and escape superior sandinista firepower and manpower being brought to bear on them,'' he said
wright said he did not know the extent of any sandinista preparations, but said he has ``earnestly implored'' the managua government to act in good faith. he said his message for the sandinistas was: ``you are in a position of strength. do not abuse that strength.''
democratic house leaders said they had offered to revive the $30 million ``humanitarian'' aid proposal they had offered on march 3, but got no immediate response from white house officials. they said if they were to revive the package, it would be only with the guaranteed backing of gop members who opposed it the last time around
but wright appeared unwilling to budge on the central issue of whether any aid package would include the right for the president, under certain conditions, to ask for and get a quick, guaranteed congressional vote on additional military aid for the rebels
the bottom line is ... members are not willing to vote for another expedited procedure,'' as the guaranteed vote is called, he said
sen. paul simon cashed in on home-state loyalties in the illinois democratic presidential primary and won support even from voters who doubt he can win the nomination or the presidency, exit polls said tuesday
jesse jackson, another illinois resident, again won overwhelming support from black voters, and increased his share of the white vote to about 8 percent, three percentage points better than he did in illinois in 1984, polls said
the way i'm looking at the numbers, hometown boys do good,'' said doug muzzio, an abc news poll analyst
among republicans, vice president george bush defeated sen. bob dole among virtually all ideological and demographic groups. dole kept pace with bush only among independents who voted in the gop primary
bush once again defeated former television evangelist pat robertson even among his most likely supporters, born-again christians and those concerned with moral values, abc, nbc news and cbs news-new york times polls said
overwhelmingly, supporters of jackson and of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said their candidate had the best chance to win in november, abc said. but only 40 percent of simon's supporters gave him the best chance, and 35 percent named dukakis even though they voted for simon
simon's voters don't think he has the best chance in november but they're voting for him anyway,'' said muzzio. ``his vote seems to be a home-state favorite vote.''
similarly, nbc news found that 80 percent of dukakis' supporters and 60 percent of jackson's thought their man would win the nomination, while only 35 percent of simon's voters thought he would be nominated. more simon voters _ 39 percent _ thought dukakis eventually would win the nomination
simon is a true favorite-son type candidate,'' said sheldon gawiser, an nbc poll analyst. ``he has a 67 percent favorable opinion rating. they think he's doing a good job as senator.''
though dukakis finished third in the voting, abc said a plurality of democrats, 35 percent, thought he was the democrat most likely to win the general election in november. next was jackson with 27 percent; simon had 18 percent and 12 percent selected gov. mario cuomo of new york, who is not a candidate but has refused to rule out a convention draft
about a quarter of the electorate was black, and jackson won 91 percent of the black vote, 20 points better than in 1984, abc said
jackson improved his showing among whites, but less so, winning 8 percent compared to 5 percent in 1984, muzzio said. the racial division was so dramatic, said gawiser, ``there are two electorates: black and white.''
the groups had somewhat different concerns. the cbs news-new york times poll found that 53 percent of blacks cited unemployment as one of their two greatest concerns and 45 percent cited poverty. unemployment also led among white concerns, at 39 percent; protecting social security was second, cited by 29 percent
in the republican vote, the cbs-times poll said 70 percent of the voters had selected their candidate before super tuesday, when bush won 16 of 17 states. the polls again indicated that good will toward president reagan had translated into support for the vice president
nbc said 27 percent of the republican voters said they were born-again protestants, and 54 percent voted for bush, to 27 percent for dole and 17 percent for robertson. abc said 17 percent were white born-again christians; bush got 37 percent, dole 35, robertson 26 percent
robertson is not doing well among his core constituency, and he's not moving beyond it,'' muzzio said
the cbs-times poll said 21 percent of the republican voters cited traditional moral values as one of their chief concerns, and bush won that group with 43 percent, to 29 percent for robertson and 25 percent for dole
it's a very broad bush victory,'' said gawiser. ``he's solid across the board.''
the surveys were conducted by interviewing a random sample of voters as they left their polling places. the margin of sampling error for the results was about 5 points
a radio journalist was suspended tuesday for breaking broadcast laws by interviewing a sympathizer of the irish republican army, considered a ``subversive group.''
ireland's state-run rte broadcasting network took jenny mcgeever off the air by after the broadcast of her interview with martin mcguinness
mcguinness, a vice president of the ira's political arm sinn fein, commented on the return of the bodies of three ira members killed in gibraltar while on an alleged bombing mission
her suspension followed an irish government request for an investigation of the broadcast
the irish broadcasting act prohibits interviews with or comments from subversive groups
these include the ira and its splinter group, the irish national liberation army, which are both outlawed; sinn fein, which is legal, and northern ireland paramilitary groups
aiming for a third straight victory as the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race neared its end, susan butcher left this eskimo village tuesday with martin buser just two hours behind her
on the trail to koyuk, butcher and her 11-dog team overcame a one-hour deficit, passing buser and building a lead of five hours by the time she reached this village, 171 miles from the finish line in nome. butcher rested and fed her weary dogs for more than five hours, leaving at 7:43 a.m
buser, of big lake, made up time by cutting his stay in koyuk short. with 12 of his 20 original dogs still in harness, he followed butcher out at 9:55 a.m
subzero temperatures and biting winds still hindered the leaders, and forecasters said the wind chill factor could sink to minus 70 degrees along the trail's final miles into nome
the winner is expected to cross the finish line at midmorning wednesday
butcher, of manley, has won the last two iditarods, each time proving the strength and endurance of her team in the final, windswept miles along the barren bering sea coast. she set a course record with each victory, last year burning up the trail in 11 days, 2 hours
her closest rival last year was four-time iditarod champion rick swenson, who waged a neck-and-neck race with butcher until his dogs staged a sit-down strike just 22 miles from the finish
this year, swenson, of two rivers, about six hours behind butcher at last report, leaving koyuk at 2 p.m. in third place. running in fourth was joe garnie of teller, who arrived in koyuk at 11:49 a.m
herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref was fifth. seventy-year-old joe redington of knik, credited with organizing the race but never a winner, was running sixth. he had captured an early-race lead and held onto it for more than 400 miles before falling back
the 16th annual race started march 5 in anchorage. the first musher to nome will collect $30,000 of a $150,000 purse; the next 19 finishers will split the rest. finishers have to have at least five dogs in harness at the end of the race in order to qualify
five of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out. no incursions. pick up 5th graf, `in a ...'</note>
nicaraguan troops launched a major offensive tuesday against u.s.-supported rebel forces in northern nicaragua, a defense ministry spokesman said
leaders of the rebels, known as contras, claimed sandinista troops entered honduran territory. the sandinistas denied the claim and a honduran military spokesman in tegucigalpa, the honduran capital, said he had received no reports of incursions into his country's territory
the defense ministry spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said ``the army has undertaken major offensive operations ... reports that the army has penetrated honduras are not true.''
the army is developing a major military offensive at this moment. we will inform you in due time,'' he added
contra spokesmen in washington and miami claimed that sandinista troops had crossed into neighboring honduran territory in pursuit of rebel forces, who have secret base camps across the border
col. manuel suarez benavides, a spokesman for the honduran armed forces, said he had no reports of sandinista incursions
nevertheless, tomorrow we will probably be able to report on the situation (along the border),'' he said
a honduran government source, who spoke with the condition he not be identified, said president jose azcona hoyo was watching the situation closely and a government team ``is monitoring reports on the subject.''
in a speech to celebrate women's day, president daniel ortega said on march 8 that ``the sandinista army is on combat alert'' but gave no details at the time
ortega at the time said the combat alert was in response to the contras' refusal to join the sandinistas in cease-fire talks they had planned beginning march 9 in the small southern nicaraguan town of sapoa
ortega said his government had information the rebels were planning to attack the sandinista army ``at border points on the honduran frontier.''
vice president sergio ramirez confirmed to reporters monday that the sandinista army was engaged ``in actions of a certain size'' in different points in the country, but did not specify what locations were involved
the contras' clandestine liberation radio claimed tuesday there was heavy fighting for the past week in the northern 5th military region that includes boaco, chontales, rio san juan and zelaya south provinces
sandinista military sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 6,000 government troops were involved in what they called ``an important anti-insurgent operation.''
contra radio claimed the sandinista army was carrying out ``genocidal bombardments'' in chontales province, dropping 500- and 1,000-pound bombs from helicopters
many peasants had to flee for fear of being torn to pieces,'' the radio said
sandinista military sources in juigalpa, capital of chontales province, told the associated press on tuesday the sandinista army was using ``various military means, including helicopters'' to dislodge contra rebels who had been dominating the region for months
sandinista and contra leaders had agreed to hold cease-fire talks, for the first time inside nicaraguan territory, at sapoa march 21-23. the offensive appeared to be an effort by the sandinista regime to start negotiating from a position of strength
other military sources in managua, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said the sandinista army ``unleashed a great offensive in the northern part of the country,'' but the defense ministry issued no reports
up until tuesday afternoon, the ministry and military sources limited themselves to issuing ``routine'' news bulletins and other reports to keep the offensive a secret, the sources said
in washington, contra leaders said nicaraguan forces were knocking the contras back
they have overrun certain of our positions,'' said ernesto palazio, director of the contras' washington office
sandinista sources said the army sent reinforcements to chontales province, where fighting appeared to be heaviest, and government troops were using helicopters and heavy artillery against the rebels
defense ministry reports tuesday said two rebels were killed monday near rio blanco, a town in northern matagalpa province, where a civilian was also killed by the contras. they said two other rebels were shot dead near the town of pancasan
an additional 31 contras were killed in scattered fighting in chontales, rio san juan and the southeastern province of zelaya south since friday, the reports said. they said a rebel ambush killed seven sandinista soldiers and wounded eight near the zelaya south town of nueva guinea
by a wide margin, the massachusetts senate on tuesday approved a revised version of a universal health care bill championed by gov. michael s. dukakis to launch the state on an experiment in ``health care for all.''
dukakis has touted the proposal in his democratic presidential campaign as a model for the nation
the senate endorsed the measure 23-11, sending the bill to a house-senate conference committee to iron out differences with a house version that would exempt many small businesses and shower favors on certain hospitals
sen. patricia mcgovern, the senate ways and means chairwoman and the chief architect of the senate bill, said she was confident a compromise could be worked out swiftly
there are an estimated 600,000 uninsured residents in the state, more than half of them working people whose employers don't provide health benefits. among other things, the bill would provide incentives for businesses to offer their own health insurance
senate supporters fought off repeated challenges throughout the day. in a key test, a republican effort to strip the huge health care bill of provisions guaranteeing health care protection to all massachusetts residents by 1992 was defeated by a 27-9 vote
senate minority leader john parker, who championed the amendment, tried again later, offering an amendment to match the house language and exempt all businesses with nine or fewer employees. that amendment fell short on a vote of 17-19
the exemption, included in the house measure, has been criticized as leaving the entire program open to a challenge on the grounds that it makes the benefits mandatory for some employees and not others
the universal health care proposal has been tied to a bill renewing the state's hospital financing law, providing nearly $1 billion in revenue increases for the state's 106 acute-care hospitals over the next four years
the house passed the health care bill two weeks ago, with a maximum price tag for the state of about $1 billion over four years to provide insurance coverage for uninsured and incentives to business to offer the benefit to employees
the senate has estimated the state's cost at about $540 million over the same period
president corazon aquino said wednesday she was prepared for new talks with moslem insurgents as her government sought to head off a bid by the rebels for international islamic support
mrs. aquino told reporters she was willing to talk with the moro national liberation front and ``all moslem leaders of mindanao,'' the country's second largest island and stronghold of the 5-million member moslem community
on tuesday, zain jali, a religious adviser to the liberation front, told reporters that his group would resume peace talks but threatened to establish a government-in-exile if the aquino administration did not agree to negotiations by next week
the front, largest of three moslem rebel groups, is expected to seek full membership in the organization of islamic conference when ministers of the worldwide moslem group meet next week in amman, jordan
filipino officials have said the move would be tantamount to recognition of the front as a ``state within a state'' and full membership could lead to civil war
the front has been waging a campaign for 16 years for self-rule, but the rebellion has been largely limited to small-scale ambushes and raids. the revolt peaked in the mid-1970s after claiming more than 50,000 lives
before wednesday's cabinet meeting, mrs. aquino said she had received no formal request from the front for new talks. negotiations broke down last may because of differences over the conditions and scope of self-rule
a former front official, zacaria candao, left tuesday for saudi arabia for talks with other rebel leaders. candao, governor of maguindanao province, said he would seek a meeting with secretary-general shariffudin pirzada of the islamic organization to discourage full front membership in the organization
meanwhile, a rival moslem rebel group announced it also was seeking full membership in the islamic group. officials of the moro islamic liberation front told reporters in mindanao that their organization was more stable than the moro national liberation front
last april, the moro islamic liberation front organized a series of attacks across central mindanao to protest the decision of the government to hold talks only with the moro national liberation front
sen. paul simon defeated jesse jackson on tuesday in the illinois democratic presidential primary, claiming the victory he said he needed to sustain his candidacy. michael dukakis said he was satisfied with ``a respectable third'' behind the two favorite sons
michael dukakis tried to put the best face on a third-place finish in the illinois democratic primary tuesday night, saying ``it's not a setback because we ran against two favorite sons.''
after numerous questions about whether his showing in illinois was a disappointment, the massachusetts governor was making no predictions about the next big contest, the michigan democratic caucuses on march 26
i don't believe we have any front-runners, i don't think we're going to have a front-runner until the convention,'' he said
dukakis said he didn't think the illinois results increased the chances of a brokered convention
i've been making a number of calls around the country to key democrats, and there is an overwhelming sentiment that we should get behind a nominee,'' he said
illinois sen. paul simon and jesse jackson took first and second respectively in the illinois primary, leaving dukakis third in the popular vote
it's not a setback, because we ran against two favorite sons who started off with a lead and stayed there,'' dukakis said. ``we did what i can characterize was a respectable third.''
the seven days between super tuesday and the illinois primary left dukakis too little time to attract strong support in illinois, the massachusetts governor said at a news conference at a local television station. dukakis spent $246,000 in media advertising in illinois
during the illinois campaign, dukakis had said a vote for simon would increase the chances of a brokered democratic national convention, something he said would be a ``disaster.''
but tuesday night, dukakis said he had spent the days on the telephone with congressmen, senators and other leading democrats, and most told him they favored a decision by the voters, not by convention negotiators
dukakis' demeanor was in marked contrast to his gala celebration the night of super tuesday, when he won the most delegates and the most states
smiling tightly, dukakis said with apparent relief: ``now, we move on to michigan, where there are no favorite sons. the field is wide open.'' news digest: washington _ pm-us-israel, a0491; jerusalem _ pm-israel, a0422. panama city, panama _ pm-panama, a0471; chicago _ pm-primary rdp, a0443; washington _ pm-dole's problems, a0473; belgrade, yugoslavia _ pm-gorbachev, a0493; starke, fla. _ pm-darden execution, a0507; salyersville, ky. _ pm-sex-abuse, a0488; washington _ pm-foreign trade, a0420; new york _ pm-biaggi-wedtech, a0495; phoenix, ariz. _ pm-mecham, a0499; sumner, wash. _ pm-back from a coma, a0489
</note>
the reagan administration is looking at ways that panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega might be allowed to leave panama for a third country without having to face extradition to the united states on drug charges
some officials see that as a key to encouraging a quick departure by noriega, whom the united states is trying to force out of panama
there were a number of signs monday that the administration was reassessing its position but it was not clear whether the withdrawal of federal drug smuggling indictments against noriega was among the options
america's urban schools are in deep trouble, beset by problems ranging from low morale and high dropout rates to dilapidated facilities and crippling bureaucratic regulations, the carnegie foundation for the advancement of teaching said today
the foundation called for a ``crusade on behalf of urban education'' including greater financial support for inner-city schools and more freedom and accountability for teachers and principals
in a 38-page report called, ``an imperiled generation: saving urban schools,'' the carnegie trustees said: ``many people have simply written off city schools as little more than human storehouses to keep young people off the streets.''
the changing face of his home district finally caught up with rep. peter rodino, an italian-american who spent 20 terms crusading for civil rights but who is now reluctantly giving up his house seat to make way for a black successor
the new jersey democrat, who gained national prominence when he chaired the impeachment hearings of former president richard nixon, yielded monday to calls from minority constituents who want one of their own to represent them
rodino, 78, one of the most senior members of the house and chairman of its powerful judiciary committee, issued a statement saying he would step aside in january
democratic chairman paul kirk wants to head off a bruising battle for the party's presidential nomination and would mediate efforts to close ranks behind a probable nominee if nobody finishes the primaries with enough delegates to win
when you get to a point when there is someone who is somewhat shy of a mathematical majority, i think the opportunity exists to try to strengthen that person and not weaken him as you come into the convention,'' kirk said monday
the delegates who could tip the balance for such a candidate are the 645 so-called ``super delegates,'' the party leaders, members of congress and governors of states and territories who automatically will be convention delegates because of the offices they hold. four years ago, 568 convention seats were used for this purpose
the army has secretly devised a new armor plating for its main battle tank that combines uranium with steel to produce an almost impenetrable skin, military officials say
we're talking about something so good the experts think it will take the russians almost a decade to catch up,'' said one official who spoke only on condition of anonymity
this is a major advance; a very major advance.''
the afghanistan peace talks today reached a soviet-set target date for their conclusion, with officials apparently still short of a final breakthrough despite nearly six years at the negotiating table
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev named march 15 as the date a peace package should be signed by soviet-backed afghanistan and pakistan, which represents afghan guerrilla groups, if moscow was to start bringing home its troops in mid-may
both sides have hinted they do not consider the date a binding deadline after which moscow would reconsider its offer, but gorbachev's statement is seen as having put psychological pressure on the talks
almost nine of 10 americans with less than a high school education can't understand the instructions for the simplest tax form, and irs forms in general require greater reading skill than the wall street journal, a study concludes
even more reading ability is required to comprehend an internal revenue service notice of taxes owed, says james w. childs, director of the tax-clinic program at the university of akron school of law
if the taxpayer cannot read the instructions, how can the government expect compliance?'' childs asked monday as the senate finance subcommittee that oversees the irs took testimony about the maze of tax penalties that americans may encounter. news digest: chicago _ primary rdp; wash _ us-israel; jerusalem _ israel; halhoul, occupied west bank _ israel-battlefield; wash _ contra aid; panama city, panama _ panama; wash _ ozone; geneva _ afghanistan; belgrade, yugoslavia _ gorbachev; belfast, northern ireland _ ireland; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham.</note>
frustrated, angry and unwilling to admit defeat, bob dole insisted there was a turning point out there, a state where voters would say, ``wait a minute, we don't want george bush.'' but dole's campaign was hard-pressed to identify that turnaround state
it wasn't likely to happen in connecticut, one of the states bush calls home. and the republican presidential polls don't look promising for dole in wisconsin, new york or pennsylvania
so that takes us another month and a half without a big opportunity for a victory,'' said one top dole adviser, insisting on anonymity
richard gephardt, hoping to regain the momentum he established in long-ago iowa, waited for the democratic presidential field in michigan, site of free-for-all caucuses uncluttered by any favorite-son bias
the stakes in the march 26 caucuses were high and the campaign was already in gear as illinois voted on tuesday
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis wrapped himself in influential endorsements and sought to establish himself as the democratic front-runner
the senate voted 88-4 on tuesday for legislation that would expand legal immigration to the united states and open the gates wider for western europeans who once dominated the flow of foreigners to this country
the bill went to the house, where its future is uncertain. rep. charles e. schumer, d-n.y. has introduced a similar bill to the senate measure. he said there may be attempts to link the bill with proposals to extend an amnesty program for some of those who came here illegally
the senate rolled up its overwhelming majority because the two leading immigration authorities in the chamber, democrat edward m. kennedy of massachusetts and republican alan k. simpson of wyoming, teamed up as bipartisan sponsors
nasa revised its schedule of space shuttle flights and cargoes tuesday, adding a mission that will retrieve a bus-size experimental station left in space in 1984 for what was to have been a one-year stay
the orbit of the satellite, which gauged the effects of space's hostile environment on 13 million seeds, metal coatings and surfaces, is decaying and there were fears it would crash through the atmosphere and burn up if it weren't recaptured in time
the new schedule makes no change in the date of the much-delayed first post-challenger flight, now set for aug. 4. there have been no american manned missions in space since the challenger _ the 25th shuttle mission _ exploded on jan. 28, 1986 and killed its seven-member crew as it lifted off from kennedy space center in florida
bishop eugene a. marino, named tuesday as the first black roman catholic archbishop in the united states, said his appointment as head of the atlanta archdiocese is ``a great sign of hope to all our people.''
the appointment by pope john paul ii comes more than two years after marino and other black bishops wrote a pastoral letter calling on the church to increase the number of blacks in official positions
the church has spoken but has the church listened to itself?'' said the letter, suggesting that in the absence of a major appointment such as a black archbishop in a big city, ``the church's commitment to black leadership may be seen as half-hearted and superficial.''
convicted murderer willie jasper darden went to his death tuesday proclaiming his innocence and thanking people around the world, from andrei sakharov to jesse jackson, who aided his 14-year battle to escape the electric chair
for the widow of the man he shot between the eyes, darden's execution on an unprecedented seventh death warrant offered hope, finally, for peace of mind
i think it's long overdue,'' helen turman baum said minutes after the execution about 7 a.m. at the florida state prison. ``he did it to himself. i'm just thinking right now i want some peace of mind ... it's been a long time and i'm glad it's finally over.''
the deficit in the broadest measure of u.s. foreign trade surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987 as america fell deeper into debt to the rest of the world, the commerce department reported tuesday
the deficit in the u.s. current account was 13.7 percent higher than the 1986 deficit of $141.4 billion and marked the fifth consecutive year that this trade deficit has hit a new record
the reagan administration has sought to downplay the significance of the trade deficits, but private economists contend that the rapid buildup of foreign debt could eventually topple the country into another recession, triggered by a plunge in the value of the dollar
students at the university of akron are aiming for a breakthrough that has eluded some of the best minds in government and the professions: a tax form that can be understood without a college education
we know it can be done and we're going to prove it,'' professor nicholas j. creme, director of the center for taxation studies in the university's law school, said in an interview tuesday. ``we're not saying we could bring it down to a second-grade level, but we certainly can make it simpler
if you simplify the forms, people will be a lot less hostile toward the internal revenue service,'' he said. ``and you'll raise a lot more revenue.''
american journalist terry anderson, the longest-held of 22 foreign hostages in lebanon, was kidnapped three years ago wednesday, and there has been no word of him for three months
gunmen believed to be shiite moslem zealots abducted him march 16, 1985, a saturday morning, as he was returning home from a game of tennis. it was before kidnappings became epidemic in moslem west beirut, and many foreigners lived there
police say they have no information on anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, or any of the other missing foreigners, who include eight other americans. most are held by shiite moslems loyal to ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, the revolutionary patriarch of iran
students who skip professor gerald m. phillips' opening lecture in his course on group decision-making may find themselves searching the campus in vain for any trace of him the rest of the semester
that's because the penn state university professor communicates with his speech communications 350 class only through the school's computer system, by electronic mail or ``e-mail.''
the class does get weekly lectures, from two graduate students, and other graduate students sit in on group discussions as ``consultants.''
once a young couple obtains the down payment for a house, the cost of operating it may be no more than might be needed for rent and maintenance of an apartment
moreover, the benefits of homeownership are great
owners become member of the elite tax-privileged class, since mortgage interest and real estate taxes are deductions on federal income tax returns. they build equity. and their house is a good hedge against inflation
it is for such reasons, and several more, that suggestions are now pouring into congress on ways to help young folks get a financial foot in the door of their own house. what they seek, in effect, is government sponsorship
this wouldn't be the first time that government provided such assistance, of course, but in recent years it has indicated a desire to reduce, not add to, its programs. but, say proponents of aid, there are special factors today
indeed there are
first on the list is the down payment. housing prices have risen sharply in recent years, far outperforming the after-tax paychecks of young workers. as a consequence, ownership is down
between world war ii and 1980 the ownership rate rose without significant interruption, reaching 65.6 percent in 1980. but then it began receding again, settling at 63.8 percent in 1986
even more disturbing, according to the national association of realtors, the rate for people under age 25 and for those in the prime homebuying ages of 25 to 43, fell more steeply. for the former, the rate dropped to 21.6 percent from 26.4 percent; for the latter, the drop was to 45.4 percent from 55 percent
these figures have become the cue for proponents of government assistance, and the realtors are among the most insistent, as witness the statement by nestor weigand jr., realtor president, that ``it is time for the federal government to recognize that homeownerhip is beneficial to everyone.''
everyone'' includes lumber suppliers, plumbers, carpenters, roofers, appliance and carpet manufacturers, real estate agents, lawyers and many other folks besides the young couples seeking a home of their own
their efforts, especially when coordinated, can mean formidable pressure for another housing program, even in the face of opposition from those, such as the white house, that would like government out of private-sector matters
out of this self-interest _ which isn't to deny an element of true public concern _ some creative, though not especially new, proposals have emerged, such as these from the realtors:
_a program to enable first-time homebuyers to withdraw without penalty a certain amount from their individual retirement accounts or other tax-deferred savings to be used only for a down payment
_establishment of an individual housing account, the money from which would mean eligibility for an income tax credit if used as a down payment
_creation of a national employee homeownership program to allow employers to provide down payment assistance to employees, with tax advantages to both
but just as creative is a strictly private-sector plan that also might be considered. it is simple, informal, responsible, familial and probably beneficial not just to the individuals involved but for all society, too
proponents of this plan observe that many homeowner parents have built up tremendous equity, in part because of the sharp rise in prices that denies their children the opportunity for a home of their own
many of these parents are at peak earning power, simultaneous with a reduction in their expenses. couldn't they tap some of that equity in order to lend a down payment to their children? don't they owe it to their offspring?
a main feature of the plan, say its proponents, is its non-bureaucratic nature. the only way uncle sam gets into the act is to allow a tax deduction to the parents who borrow the money
in an explosive time about a tense issue _ israel's dealings with palestinians _ a highly unusual american religious alliance has been formed to press for solutions to the crisis
moslem, jewish and christian leaders are included in the new u.s. interreligious committee for peace in the middle east
what made possible the unlikely combination on the keenly divisive problem was that ``it was an idea whose time had come,'' says ronald j. young, executive director of the organization
it couldn't have happened, he adds, ``unless the time was ripe for it.''
in any case, prominent u.s. jews and moslems, who have been on opposing sides in middle east conflict, along with top protestant and roman catholic officials, are extensively involved in the common effort
about 600 religious leaders are initial backers, with other being enlisted, to work for a ``moral climate'' that would spur politicians to take initiatives regarded necessary for middle eastern peace
seeking to set forth a middle ground in the conflict, which has particularly divided jews and moslems, the committee's joint statement affirms these principles:
_ support of israel's right to secure borders, and also of u.n. resolution 242 calling for israel's withdrawal from the now violence-racked west bank and gaza taken in the 1967 war, and security of all states in the region
_ the palestinian people's right to self-determination and to choose their own leadership
_ the urgency of an international conference for peace involving all parties in the conflict, as well as members of the u.n. security council, including the u.s. and the soviet union
the reagan administration has been reluctant about taking these positions,'' young said in an interview. ``it has given a higher priority to keeping the russians out, and this has not been helpful.''
he also said that the u.s. administration also has not explicitly supported the palestinians' right to self-determination, although such a right ``has a history that started in this country.''
young said discussions about a joint approach by american christians, jews and moslems started last june, before the outbreak of riots in gaza and the west bank, but events there gave the cause increased urgency
they ``dramatically demonstrate that the current situation is disastrous for the palestinians and, in the long run, will be disastrous for israel as well,'' he said
he said local units of the new organization have formed in st. louis, kansas city, portland, ore., and syracuse, n. y., and are being planned in 11 other cities _ atlanta, los angeles, san francisco, seattle, chicago, boston, atlanta, philadelphia, pittsburgh, new york and washington, d.c
he said the aim is to build up a national mood of jews, moslems and christians that would encourage political leaders to act on the problem
in dealing with the middle east, we are dealing not just with the complexities of the particular situation, but with the whole history of prejudice against jews and also against arabs and moslems,'' young said
as a result, he said, ``they have a strong fear against trusting anyone else with the welfare of their people. there also is a great deal of insensitivity among christians about how deep those fears are.''
the alliance maintains it is urgent that the u.s. make middle eastern peace a priority of foreign policy
among backers listed of the new effort:
moslem _ dawud assad, president of the council of mosques, and fahd m. al-nassar, president of the moslem world league, both of new york; iman w. deen muhammad of chicago, and cherif sedky, an american-arab attorney of washington, d.c
jewish _ rabbi alexander schindler, president of the union of american hebrew congregations; its senior vice president, albert vorspan; rabbi wolfe kelman, executive of the rabbinical assembly; rabbi eugene lipman, present of the central conference of american rabbis, and rabbi arthur schneier, president of the freedom of conscience foundation
christian _ archbishop roger mahony of los angles; the rev. theodore m. hesburgh, president emeritus of notre dame; eugene fisher, head of the u.s. catholic bishops' committee on catholic-jewish relations; greek orthodox archbishop iakovos; episcopal presiding bishop edmund l. browning; the rev. avery post, president of the united church of christ; the rev. john humbert, president of the christian church (disciples of christ) and united methodist bishop george bashore of boston
young, a quaker, formerly director of peace programs for the american friends service committe, said jews and moslems have differed on mid-east issues, but ``see effort for peace as not contradicting their consistency.''
he said:
we are committed to challenging historic and persistent prejudices against the jewish people, moslems and arabs _ prejudices that inhibit the kind of cooperation for justice and peace that clearly is a moral imperative of our common abrahamic faith.''
fourteen-year-old tiffany salzer got an ``a'' on her book report without opening the book. she watched the movie instead
it only took me three hours to watch the movie and it would have taken me 12 hours to read the book,'' said the ninth-grader from ventura, calif
her father, jim, owner of salzer's video store and a board member of the video softwares dealers association, is familiar with the situation
it's a problem,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``a kid essentially can rent a classic movie and do a book report from it. kids are taking shortcuts.''
videotape retailers across the nation say many teen-agers, children of the television generation, are taking study guides that summarize literature one step further and turning to videotapes for help with homework, renting rather than reading
tiffany said her teachers sometimes show movies in class, but only after students presumably have read the corresponding literature. she said she watched ``clan of the cave bear'' the night before a report on the book was due
the teachers say the movie is different. sometimes it is, but students don't really care,'' she said. ``it's better to get a `c' than an `f.'''
at parents' requests, art marra pulled ``to kill a mockingbird'' from the shelves at his hto video store in suburban pittsburgh after students were assigned to read the book
since then, marra periodically has refused to rent certain videotapes to youths because he learned the corresponding books were homework assignments
we're a community-oriented shop. we try to give the community any cooperation we can,'' marra said
mike petraglia noticed young people make sporadic runs on certain films at his video-o-video store in pittsburgh. he said a popular videotape among teens is ``dirty dancing,'' but when assignments dictate, he can't find enough copies of ``death of a salesman,'' ``treasure island,'' ``grapes of wrath'' and ``billy budd.''
`gone with the wind' has been picking up a little bit. i think it's book-related,'' he said
students always have searched for the easier way, and the video scholar is just a variation of the cliff notes customer, said scott treibitz, spokesman for the american federation of teachers, based in washington, d.c
for 29 years, students have used cliff notes to provide summaries and analysis of books, and sales of the study guides still are growing, said doug lincoln, spokesman for cliff notes inc. of lincoln, neb
the problem now is with the access of video cassette recorders and with the access of video stores,'' treibitz said
lincoln said cliff notes may produce its own videotapes, but he declined to discuss details
the generation that is in elementary school now, they're certainly in the video age,'' lincoln said. ``i would have to say the (use) of video will probably only increase.''
teachers are increasingly using videotapes in the classroom, and as a supplement the tapes are helpful, said judi boren, spokeswoman for the north allegheny county school district in suburban pittsburgh
you can't use the video as a cliff note kind of crutch,'' ms. boren said. ``there's a saying, `i read the book. i don't need to see the movie.' if you make some comparisons, maybe you need to do both.''
a teacher can give a lecture on the grand canyon, niagara falls, space exploration,'' treibitz said. ``a video not only gives that same material, but shows the visuals to reinforce that material
it can't replace reading, it can't replace writing and there are times it can't replace the lecture,'' he said
the white house plans to create a new group that will make final, unified reagan administration recommendations on how to prevent another stock market collapse, according to a published report
the new york times reported in its tuesday editions that the white house, whose brady commission task force already has made such recommendations, is creating a new interagency committee to develop a consolidated administration position in the next 60 to 90 days
the committee, which would be headed by treasury secretary james a. baker iii, would include top officials of the federal reserve, securities and exchange commission and commodity futures trading commission, the newspaper stated, quoting unidentified white house aides
it was hoped the new committee, details of which still are being worked out, would be able to smooth over conflicts among the various regulatory agencies over how best to prevent another market crash, the newspaper stated
since the brady commission came out with its recommendations in early january, federal regulators have been engaged in often-public sniping over what regulatory changes should be made to prevent a repeat of the oct. 19 market debacle
sec chairman david s. ruder, for example, has indicated he believed his agency should be chief regulator of stock index futures traded in the commodity markets, a position vehemently opposed by the cftc
congressional aides suggested that the white house might view such divisiveness as weakening its influence over any legislative response to the october crash
the brady commission, headed by former new jersey senator nicholas brady, essentially recommended a coordinated, intermarket system of ``circuit breakers'' to prevent wild price swings; higher margin requirements on stock index futures; unified clearing and settlement operations in the stock and futures markets; and giving the fed superagency authority over key issues affecting the stock and futures markets
the times said details of the interagency committee were contained in letters sent friday by senate banking committee chairman william proxmire to white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr., and the chairmen of the fed, sec and cftc. in those letters, proxmire referred to a conversation with baker regarding the committee
proxmire indicated he was pleased with the idea, but also stated that 90 days might be too long for congress to wait for the new group's recommendations, given that the agencies involved already had conducted their own studies of the crash and made recommendations
proxmire also stated he planned to ask the fed, sec and cftc top submit their legislative proposals in time for a march 31 hearing on the issue
r.h. macy &amp; co. has sweetened its friendly merger deal with federated department stores inc. by $200 million cash to $6.3 billion, giving it an edge over hostile competitor campeau corp
campeau indicated monday it had no immediate plans to revise its own $6.2 billion offer, but extended the bid _ which was to expire today _ through friday
in addition to sweetening its buyout offer, macy received a ``lock-up'' option to buy federated's bullock's-bullock's wilshire and i. magnin retail divisions if the merger falls through
j.p. stevens &amp; co. accepted a nearly $1 billion cash buyout bid from a private investment group, spurning offers from its own management and rival west point-pepperell inc
in active trading monday on the new york stock exchange, stevens stock jumped $5.37{ a share to close at $61.12{, or just under the offer by odyssey partners
odyssey and other private investors agreed to pay $61.50 in cash for each of stevens' 15.5 million shares outstanding, or around $953.2 million
mesa limited partnership's second foray into the gold industry fell short when the group, controlled by oilman t. boone pickens, withdrew its $1.88 billion cash offer for homestake mining co
mesa said monday it retracted its offer to acquire homestake, a leading gold producer, in a negotiated transaction for a price of $20 a share in cash
homestake previously had rejected mesa's offer
business inventories rose 0.4 percent in january, less than half the increase of the previous month, as a rebound in car sales helped to reduce a huge backlog of unsold cars, the government has reported
the commerce department said monday that inventories increased by $3 billion in january, pushing the total of unsold items on store shelves and backlots to a seasonally adjusted $705.85 billion
analysts said the slowdown in the rate of increase was an encouraging sign and indicated economic growth may not weaken in the first part of this year as much as had been feared
polaroid corp. has a stronger-than-expected case in its $5.7 billion damage lawsuit against eastman kodak co., placing the instant photography pioneer in its best position in years, some analysts say
the damage claim filed last month in federal court has sent polaroid's stock soaring on wall street, even though kodak has dismissed polaroid's claim as ``ludicrous.''
the two companies are meeting in court this week to discuss a trial date in the damage portion of the case. in 1985, kodak was found guilty of infringing on polaroid patents when it entered the instant camera business in 1976
internal documents indicate g.d. searle &amp; co. may have misled doctors and a federal regulatory agency about safety characteristics of its copper-7 contraceptive, according to an attorney representing a woman who claims that the device made her sterile
wall street reacted monday by knocking the stock of monsanto co., searle's parent, down $3.12{ a share to $83.37{
according to the documents, searle apparently hid complaints about the copper-7 from the u.s. food and drug administration
texas has lost another round in its battle to keep florida citrus out of the state, with a federal judge's refusal to block those shipments
u.s. district judge filemon vela said monday he needed more time to study the state's request for a stay of a u.s. department of agriculture decision lifting a ban on florida citrus to other producing states
texas sought the stay until its suit against u.s. secretary of agriculture richard e. lyng could be heard
the teamsters union has set a new target of march 29 for its 6,700 member flight attendants to strike northwest airlines after getting a pledge that the carrier's mechanics and baggage handlers will honor picket lines
anyone who thinks they are going to fly northwest during the easter holidays should forget it,'' william genoese, director of the teamsters' airline division, said monday
northwest officials described the union's announcement as ``continuing rhetoric'' and said they doubted the attendants would strike
a new settlement calling for more than $8 million in corrective advertising and continuing the ban on three-wheel all-terrain vehicles has been disclosed by the consumer product safety commission
the commission and justice department reached the settlement disclosed monday with five manufacturers of the off-road vehicles, which have been implicated in hundreds of deaths and thousands of injuries in recent years
u.s. district court judge gerhard a. gesell will hold a hearing on the settlement april 18 and could order it into effect immediately after that session
the internal revenue service has pledged to support a review of tax penalties assessed last year in some 27 million cases _ penalties that have been criticized as a special burden on the poor
at the opening of a public inquiry monday into the maze of 154 penalties the irs can impose, irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs expressed the agency's own concern about the penalties, many of which were enacted by congress over the past seven years in an effort to increase compliance with the tax laws
several witnesses accused the government of using penalties to raise revenues, rather than to assure compliance with the laws
the communist world gets its first mcdonald's next week, and some people here are wondering whether its american hamburgers will be as popular as the local fast-food treat, pljeskavica
the long-awaited opening of the restaurant on one of belgrade's main downtown squares will take place march 24, the yugoslav news agency tanjug reported, and it will offer big macs, fries and the other specialties familiar to mcdonald's customers in the west
stock prices showed no clear trend monday in the quietest trading of the year. the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 15.09 points to 2,050.07
the dollar was mixed against other major currencies. gold prices edged higher
bond prices finished mixed in lackluster trading
soybean futures prices soared as fears about increased soybean acreage eased. grain futures also closed higher
stock prices were little changed today in light, lackluster trading
analysts said the market drifted in a narrow range as both institutional and retail investors remained on the sidelines while awaiting fresh economic news due out later in the week
the government is scheduled to release january's merchandise trade figures on thursday, just ahead of the year's first ``triple witching hour,'' when a group of options and futures on stock indexes will expire simultaneously
while concern over the two events dampened activity in the previous trading session, analysts indicated market participants may be overestimating the impact both the trade figures and the witching hour might have
analysts noted that the market reacted quickly when trade figures were released in the previous two months. similarly, the past couple of witching hours have been rather uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 2.66 to 2,047.41
gainers outpaced losers by about a 10-to-9 margin on the new york stock exchange
big board volume totaled 133.17 million shares, against 131.89 million million in the previous session
the nyse's composite index fell 0.07 to 149.99
at the american stock exchange, the market value index was off 0.19 to 296.75
textile industry analysts say the bidding may not be over for j.p. stevens &amp; co., even though the company has accepted a nearly $1 billion cash buyout offer from an investment group
a group led by odyssey partners of new york announced monday it agreed to pay $61.50 in cash for each of stevens' 15.5 million shares outstanding, or about $953.24 million
the offer is subject to a majority of the shares being tendered and the necessary financing being obtained
analysts called odyssey's bid fair, although some said they thought the bidding could continue
in active trading on the new york stock exchange, stevens' stock jumped $5.37{ a share to close at $61.12{
over the past few weeks, stevens has fielded rival offers from atlanta-based west point-pepperell inc. and a group led by its own senior management, including chairman whitney stevens, a fifth generation member of the family that founded the company in 1813
the management group offered $55 a share in cash and securities in a leveraged buyout about two weeks ago, up from its initial offer of $43 a share. in a leveraged buyout, a company is acquired largely with borrowed money repaid with a target company's profits or the sales of assets
west point-pepperell, a major household fabrics maker with brands that include arrow, martex and lady pepperell, offered to buy stevens for $56 a share in cash, or about $867 million. the company confirmed monday it had considered raising its offer to $62.50 a share, but had not made a formal bid at the higher price
west point-pepperell refused to comment on what, if any, further action it might take
the arbitragers think there could be more bidding,'' said edward johnson, a textile analyst with johnson redbook, a division of prescott, ball &amp; turben inc. ``a deal is never done until all the stock is signed over.''
george o. zimmerman, an analyst with gruntal &amp; co., said a higher offer could torpedo the deal with odyssey. ``i think they'll have to take the highest bid,'' he said
odyssey is a private investment company. its deals have included the purchase of a controlling interest in lucky stores inc.'s eagle food stores, located in the midwest, and a leveraged buyout of research cottrell inc., a pollution control, engineering and construction company
odyssey said it would finance the deal with a $600 million loan from citibank, $570 million from the sale subordinated debt and preferred stock and $100 million in equity investment
should the deal go through, johnson predicted, odyssey likely could sell parts of stevens to pay off its debt
stevens already undertook a major restructuring about five years ago, selling off some of its finished fabrics divisions to concentrate more on home furnishings
new york-based stevens, one of the nation's biggest textile makers with 23,000 employees, produces home fashion textiles such as sheets, towels and carpets under the brand names ralph lauren, laura ashley and pierre cardin. the company also makes automotive products and industrial products
the company had an after-tax profit of $56 million on sales of $1.6 billion in the fiscal year ended oct. 31. for growth</head>
its victories in overseas markets have brought honda motor co. worldwide recognition, but the company still is waging an uphill battle to become a dominant automaker in its own backyard
in sharp contrast with honda's success abroad _ it holds about 3.5 percent of the world auto market _ the company has had trouble penetrating the japanese market dominated by the ``big two'' of toyota motor corp. and nissan motor co., which together control nearly a 50 percent share
in recent years, honda's domestic sales have been growing, often faster than the rate of japan's overall motor-vehicle market expansion
to boost growth further, the company will add new cars and models to its product line and increase the number of honda dealers and salesmen each year into the 1990s, says honda president takashi kume
by 1991, honda expects its domestic network to grow about 25 percent from now to 3,000 dealers and more than double the number of salesmen to 18,000
new products will allow honda to sell 800,000 cars and mini-vehicles a year at home by 1991 and 1 million by the mid-1990s, kume says. these projections compare with last year's sales of 546,979 units and this year's forecast of 620,000 vehicles
honda's domestic market share rose to 9.1 percent in 1987 from 7.0 percent in 1986
but in a market where overall demand for cars, trucks and buses, exceeded 6 million units for the first time last year, honda still lags far behind toyota and nissan
analysts say japanese culture and honda's own history have contributed to its domestic struggle
honda _ originally a motorcycle manufacturer _ had a late start in the auto business, entering the four-wheeled vehicle market in 1963 some 30 years after the big two. analysts say this still haunts the company: honda's sales network of 2,400 dealers and 8,200 salespeople is dwarfed, for example, by toyota's 4,000 dealers and 41,000 salespeople
takamori matsuda, vice president of prudential-bache securities (japan) ltd., says japan's ``unspoken dealer loyalty'' is a major obstacle to honda's expansion in the domestic market
unlike the u.s. market, where car retailers are mostly independent (from manufacturers) and often switch makers or brands they handle, there is virtually no betrayal on the part of dealers in this country,'' matsuda said
japanese automakers generally maintain high capital participation in their dealers and thus enjoy more control over them. that condition makes a switch, say, from toyota to honda, virtually impossible, matsuda said
tetsuo sakiya, author of the book ``honda motor: the men, the management, the machines'' and professor of international relations at musashino womens college in tokyo, contends honda could have closed the gap with the big two if company founder shoichiro honda and his senior officials in the late 1960s had more foresight
honda early on had decided to rely on an air-cooled engine and missed out on the first full-fledged wave of japanese motorization in the late 1960s and the early 1970s because it did not have the ``right product,'' a car with a quieter and cleaner water-cooled engine, sakiya said
if honda hadn't chosen an air-cooled engine, its standing would've been a lot better against toyota and nissan today,'' sakiya said
honda introduced its 1300 model, a sedan powered by an air-cooled engine, in 1969 but replaced it two years later with a lightweight car, the honda life, with a much-acclaimed water-cooled cvcc engine
a more conspicuous cause of honda's weakness at home, and in overseas markets to some extent, has been its lack of a full product line and diversity in the styling and size of its cars, according to analysts. not until october 1985 did honda, a thriving maker of economical subcompacts, decide to pursue affluent consumers with the legend, a 2.7 liter-engine luxury car
because of its relatively limited lineup of models in the over 2 liter engine class, honda will not benefit as much as the big two from the boom in the market for bigger, more powerful and more expensive cars, analysts say
to expand its lineup further, honda also recently re-entered the minicar market and is scheduled to launch japanese sales of a version of the accord series assembled at its facilities in marysville, ohio. it is also widely rumored to be planning to introduce a sports car powered by a six-cylinder or eight-cylinder engine next year
honda also is believed to be planning a line of luxury models by the 1990s featuring a flagship sedan with a v-8 or v-12 engine
matsuda says to compete domestically honda also must deal with japanese upbringing that fosters more conformity and harmony among individuals, compared with the u.s. system that stresses individuality
it's easier to sell to americans who aren't afraid of making their own decisions and accepting the unknown, compared with japanese consumers who are often oversensitive to impressions they make on others through the purchase of a product,'' matsuda said. ``the upshot of this (japanese) attitude is that people are driving cars, often white, from the same familiar makers.''
but analysts think honda's potential for sustained growth at home is strong. they concur that honda is pulling ahead to emerge as the definite winner in a three-way battle for the slot of japan's third biggest automaker with mitsubishi motors corp. and mazda motor co
r.h macy &amp; co. has raised the stakes in its battle to acquire federated department stores inc., boosting its proposed payout and locking up the option to purchase two prize federated divisions regardless of who wins control of the retailing company
macy on monday sweetened its merger agreement with federated by $200 million in cash, raising the value of the offer to $6.3 billion and topping a rival, hostile $6.2 billion proposal by campeau corp
separately, a federal judge indicated he would not rule before wednesday in suits filed by macy and campeau in connection with their war over federated, but effectively extended campeau's buyout offer into next week
macy _ whose own offer expires april 4 _ had sought to delay expiration of campeau's offer by 20 days to lessen the pressure on federated shareholders to accept the hostile bid
toronto-based campeau extended its offer through friday from today's original expiration, but stated monday it had no immediate intention to revise its bid in response to the sweetened offer from macy
under terms of the amended merger agreement unanimously approved by the federated board, macy will offer $77.35 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's stock, up from $74.50 per share in its original offer
macy plans to swap shares in the merged company and issue convertible debt securities for the remaining 20 percent of federated shares
federated stock closed unchanged at $66 a share on the new york stock exchange
federated also granted macy the option to purchase its bullock's-bullock's wilshire and i. magnin retail divisions if the merger fell through. such ``lockup'' options frequently are used to discourage hostile suitors
federated said the divisions would sell for at least $800 million and $150 million, respectively, although campeau has valued those divisions at a total of about $1.25 billion
macy also granted federated's board sole discretion over whether to maintain its ``poison pill'' anti-takeover plan. under its previous agreement, cincinnati-based federated would have rescinded the plan in a merger with macy
federated recommended its shareholders tender their stock to macy, calling the new offer ``substantially more favorable to federated stockholders than macy's previous offer and the coercive campeau two-tier offer.''
campeau is offering to pay $75 cash a share for 70.5 million of federated's common shares outstanding, or 80 percent, through friday
the remaining 20 percent of federated stock would be acquired later for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger, giving the deal an aggregate value of $68 per share
shortly after campeau extended its offer, federated urged its shareholders to hold onto their stock, reversing the unusual recommendation it made sunday for stockholders to tender their shares to the hostile bidder
federated is opposed to merging with campeau, but the retailer had intended to prevent its shareholders from having to accept the lower, $44 price under the ``back end'' of campeau's two-tier bid
at monday night's hearing, u.s. district judge leonard sand indicated he would not rule before wednesday either on macy's request to force campeau to extend its tender offer past friday or on campeau's challenge to federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense
sand said he was seeking an opinion from the securities and exchange commission on macy's contention that campeau's latest tender offer, which was revised from a previous lower bid, constituted a brand-new offer. if the judge sides with macy, campeau would have to delay its offer _ and the date when it could acquire tendered shares _ to give shareholders time to consider the new bid
the judge said he would not get the sec opinion before wednesday and would not rule on either issue before then
however, sand stated both buyout offers would have to remain in effect for at least three business days after he ruled on the poison pill issue, effectively extending campeau's offer through next week
buoyed by prospects of a billion-dollar court settlement in a 12-year-old patent infringement case and by takeover speculation, polaroid corp.'s stock has soared on wall street in recent weeks
the instant photography pioneer is seeking $5.7 billion in damages from eastman kodak co., which was found guilty in 1985 of violating seven of 150 polaroid patents when it entered the instant camera business in 1976
after reviewing papers filed in u.s. district court here last month, analysts increased their estimates for a possible settlement to above $1 billion from their initial $300 million to $500 million range
after reading the documents, a number of people said that polaroid's case is stronger than we had expected,'' said eugene glazer, an analyst with dean witter reynolds inc
the companies are to meet friday with judge rya zobel and may discuss setting a trial date on the damages issue
analysts said the possibility of a large award has attracted investors and also invited speculation that a corporate raider might bid for the company in hopes of realizing a windfall on a big settlement
polaroid, based in cambridge, was trading in the low $20s a share until the damage request was disclosed feb. 19. since then polaroid has climbed, topping $36 a share at one point. polaroid rose 25 cents to $34 a share monday in new york stock exchange trading
purchasing patterns have been in small blocks, however, and no individual buyer has notified the securities and exchange commission that it holds as much as 5 percent of the stock
polaroid won't comment on stock activity, takeover rumors or a settlement
we have indicated from the very beginning 12 years ago that we were always open to an out-of-court settlement,'' spokesman harry johnson said. ``talking about such matters in the media has a chilling effect on that possibility.''
in court documents, polaroid argues it is entitled to $3.2 billion in lost camera and film sales. the company is seeking $2.5 billion more for lost opportunities to develop and market new products
kodak, which was ordered out if its $200 million a year instant camera business in january 1986, has dismissed the claim as ``ludicrous and ridiculously inflated.'' the rochester, n.y.-based photo giant argues polaroid is entitled to a reasonable royalty, not lost profits
if zobel finds kodak guilty of willfully infringing on polaroid's patents, pre-tax damages can be tripled under federal law, raising the potential maximum award to $11 billion
no one expects the settlement to be that large, but a $1 billion award _ equal to about $10 a share _ would allow polaroid to diversify into fields such as information retrieval or conventional photography
along with the polaroid brand name, the possibility that the company could run better under new management is keeping takeover interest high, analysts said
it has the characteristics of the type of company that could be run to generate greater cash flow,'' glazer said
polaroid founder edwin h. land invented instant photography in 1947 and first marketed it in 1948. polaroid held a monopoly for almost 30 years until kodak entered the field
polaroid camera sales peaked at 7.5 million units in 1978 before sinking to 3.4 million in 1984. sales jumped to 4.4 million in 1986 after the company introduced the spectra camera, with quality closer to that of 35 millimeter prints, but fell by 16 percent last year
polaroid had entered the 1970s with high expectations due to technology for its sx-70 camera, which produced fast, dry color prints. but polaroid never was able to bring the cost of film down enough, which hurt instant photography sales
analysts said polaroid could get a boost next month with the introduction of the spectra 600, priced at $40 to $60, and the image, which promises better quality for $60 to $80
the dollar gained against most major currencies in early european trading today
gold prices were mixed
dealers said the dollar was trading quietly in a narrow range as market participants awaited thursday's report of the u.s. merchandise trade deficit for january
the british pound, which soared 10 cents against the dollar in a month, slipped back ahead of the presentation to parliament this afternoon of the conservative government's annual spring budget
dealers in europe said they were waiting to see whether the budget delivered expected tax cuts and led to lower interest rates. an interest rate cut would rein in the pound
in tokyo, where trading ends before it begins in europe, the dollar rose 0.02 yen to a closing 127.25. later in london, the dollar was quoted at 127.10 yen
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late monday's prices, included: 1.6660 west german marks, up from 1.6645; 1.3760 swiss francs, up from 1.3693; 5.6585 french francs, up from 5.6375; 1.8717 dutch guilders, up from 1.8645; 1,232.70 italian lire, up from 1,227.87; 1.2570 canadian dollars, down from 1.2577
in london, the british pound was quoted at $1.8510, compared with $1.8575 monday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $440.80 a troy ounce, compared with late monday's $441.00. at mid-morning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $442.15
in zurich, the bid price was $442.25, up from $441.50 late monday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell $1.54 to close at a bid $443.27
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.21 a troy ounce, down from monday's $6.22
stock prices rebounded today, while the dollar remained nearly unchanged against the japanese yen as traders in tokyo awaited figures on the u.s. trade deficit for january
the dollar dipped at one point to 126.80 yen, but closed at 127.25 yen, up 0.02 yen from monday's close. its high for the day was 127.30 yen
on the previous two trading days, the dollar lost a total of 0.97 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which dropped by 110.22 points on monday, continued to fall during today's morning session, but rebounded and closed the day at 25,475.67 points, up 42.16 points, or 0.16 percent, from monday's close. volume was estimated at 1.7 billion shares in the first section
trading was active, but there weren't any real factors worth commenting on,'' said an analyst with a major brokerage. ``the market is gradually progressing toward its precrash levels and we are seeing a general consolidation,'' said the analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity
traders said steels and heavy industrials led the afternoon surge
an exchange dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said the tokyo market ``seems to remain relatively calm'' until the release on thursday of u.s. trade figures for january
at a meeting of the house of councillor's budget committee today, finance minister kiichi miyazawa predicted: ``the dollar will appreciate against the yen in the future, rather than stabilize.''
stock prices moved higher tuesday morning on optimism about chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson's budget statement for fiscal 1989, due later in the day
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was up 19.2 points, or 1 percent, at 1,838.7 at midday
volume was a moderate 241.3 million shares at midday, up from 176.3 million shares at the same time a day earlier
prices advanced gradually through the morning because of optimism about the contents of lawson's budget statement, dealers said
in addition to tax rate cuts, investors were expecting lawson to outline financial targets which might provide a further boost for the pound, dealers said. that might force the government to cut british base lending rates in order to stabilize the currency, they added
but some analysts discounted the idea because of concern that an interest rate cut would boost inflation
the idea of a base rate cut seems to be gaining credibility in the market,'' said kevin gardiner, an economist at warburg securities. ``but we still don't think it's very likely.'' shaky</head>
firestone tire &amp; rubber co. says the pirelli group's unsolicited $1.8 billion takeover offer will likely force it to abandon a previous agreement to sell most of its tire operations to bridgestone corp. of japan
but firestone said its board of directors has authorized management to explore alternatives to the pirelli bid that possibly could include a new deal with bridgestone
firestone said monday that its board met to consider pirelli's $58-a-share tender offer but took no action
the company said that in light of pirelli's offer it was unlikely to consummate the joint venture agreement it announced with the japanese tiremaker on feb. 16. under that agreement, bridgestone would pay about $1.25 billion to buy 75 percent of firestone's tire operations
pirelli's offer is contingent on firestone dropping its plans to enter the joint venture with bridgestone
firestone said that in seeking alternatives to the pirelli offer, its advisers had begun discussions with bridgestone. the board indicated it would meet again this week to complete its review of pirelli's offer
the board also reiterated its stance that shareholders should not tender their shares until it issued its recommendation. firestone had stated previously the board would make its recommendation by friday
firestone stock dipped 87{ cents to $61.62{ a share in active trading monday on the new york stock exchange
earlier, a federal court in cleveland heard arguments over pirelli's lawsuit attempting to declare ohio's anti-takeover law unconstitutional
pirelli is seeking a temporary restraining order to keep the ohio control share acquisition act from affecting its bid for firestone. the act requires a hostile bidder to wait up to 50 days for shareholders to vote before he can acquire tendered shares
a lawsuit challenging the law was filed last week by veere inc., a holding company owned by pirelli that is incorporated in delaware
dennis orr, an attorney for veere, said the law is a burden on interstate commerce and could hurt shareholders by giving firestone time to defeat pirelli's tender offer, launched a week ago
firestone attorney patrick f. mccartan countered orr's argument by saying, ``control is one of the most valuable assets a shareholder can possess. it is a collective asset and should be (given up) in a collective manner.''
u.s. district judge alice batchelder did not issue a ruling on the temporary restraining order monday
prudential-bache securities inc. lost $164 million, more than previously estimated
prudential insurance co. of america, the securities firm's parent, said monday its own profit from operations, before dividends and federal income tax, rose to $2.65 billion from $2.55 billion. prudential did not announce a net income figure
prudential, the nation's largest insurer, did not detail the reasons for the loss at prudential-bache except to say it included a charge of $47 million from the closing of an international trade unit
prudential-bache told its employees in january it had taken an unspecified charge related to litigation involving the alleged attempt by the hunt brothers of texas to corner the silver market in early 1980
the securities subsidiary also said it had taken substantial charges hiring investment bankers and had losses in the october stock market crash and its aftermath
atari corp. of sunnyvale has charged micron technology inc. of boise, idaho, with illegally exploiting a shortage of computer memory chips
the computer and video company on monday filed suit in u.s. district court, seeking an order to make the idaho semiconductor manufacturer pay the california company an unspecified amount of damages. the suit charges breach of contract, bad faith and violation of federal antitrust law
there was no immediate response from micron technology
micron technology is one of only two u.s.-based companies that make the most common kind of computer memory chip, known as dynamic random access memory chips, or d-rams. the other is texas instruments inc. of dallas
the shortage of the chips has been caused by strong sales of personal computers, the changeover to a new generation of chips, and a 1986 accord between the united states and japan aimed at ending japanese ``dumping'' of the chips at unfairly low prices
south korea plans to sharply cut its tariffs on imports during the next five years as part of its efforts to boost foreign sales here, government officials said tuesday
officials at the ministry of finance said a plan under study calls for the country's average import tariffs of 16.9 percent to be cut by half by 1993
details of the plan would be completed by june, the officials said
the plan, they added, is aimed at stimulating imports, thereby cutting south korea's growing current account surplus, which reached $10 billion last year. the imbalance has led to complaints from trading partners
the stock market was little changed today in early, quiet trading
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 0.16 point to 2,050.23 in the first half hour of trading
losers outnumbered gainers by about 9 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 678 up, 380 down and 499 unchanged just before 10 a.m
volume on the big board came to 19,050,000 million shares
analysts said the market continued to fluctuate in a narrow range absent of any major news. ``there is a theme here that the economy is okay,'' said larry wachtel, first vice president at prudential-bache securities co
he predicted continued but restrained gains ahead of the government's report thursday on the nation's trade balance for january
this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
firestone rose | to 62\. the company said it doesn't expect to complete the sale of its tire operations to bridgestone because of an unsolicited tender offer from pirelli of italy
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks was unchanged at 150.06. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 0.35 at 297.29
on monday the dow jones industrial average gained 15.09 to 2,050.07
takeover news and speculation and a late flurry of buying in blue chips provided the highlights of an otherwise uninspired session
but declining issues slightly outnumbered advances on the new york stock exchange, with 737 up, 794 down and 445 unchanged
big board volume came to 131.89 million shares, down from 200.02 million in the previous session, and the lightest total since a 111.58 million-share day dec. 29. picks up 3rd graf pvs, analysts said ....</note>
the deficit in the broadest measure of u.s. foreign trade surged 13.7 percent last year to a record $160.7 billion, the government reported today
the commerce department said the current account deficit grew from the previous record of $141.4 billion in 1986 even though the deficit for the final three months of the year narrowed slightly
the current account covers not only the flow of merchandise across the u.s. border but also the flow of services, primarily investment earnings between countries
while the united states has run deficits in merchandise trade for 16 of the past 17 years, the current account was in surplus as recently as 1981 as americans' earnings on overseas investments were enough to offset the merchandise deficits
on monday the commerce department reported a 0.4 percent rise in january business inventories, less than half the december increase, reflecting a rebound in car sales that reduced backlogs of unsold vehicles
analysts said the slower growth suggested the economy may not weaken or lapse into recession in the first half of this year, as had been widely feared following the stock market crash in october
higher business inventories and sluggish consumer spending are considered a negative trend because they eventually collide to cause production cutbacks and layoffs
the news was ignored by wall street, where stocks showed no clear trend in the quietest trading this year. the dow jones industrial average gained 15.09 points to 2,050.07, in a session influenced largely by takeover news and speculation
volume on the new york stock exchange totaled 131.89 million shares, the lightest since a 111.58 million-share day on dec. 29
prices barely budged in the bond market, a sensitive barometer of interest rates and the economy. the treasury's closely watched 30-year bond declined [ point, or about $1.25 for every $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to price, edged up to 8.51 percent from 8.50 percent late friday
traders were reluctant to buy or sell aggressively, largely because of uncertainty about the january trade deficit numbers to be released by the commerce department on thursday
the markets have been fixated on the trade deficit for months because the economy's unprecedented reliance on imports is considered one of the most visible symbols of economic weakness and declining competitiveness
but the deficit narrowed in november and december, suggesting the protracted decline of the dollar over the past two years was helping u.s. manufacturers reclaim foreign and domestic markets from overseas competition
coleco industries inc., which is expected to miss an april 1 interest payment on its debentures, says that unless it can restructure its finances it may have to seek bankruptcy court protection
the toymaker announced monday it lost $98.8 million in the final quarter of 1987 and $105.4 million for the whole year
and chairman arnold c. greenberg said coleco has a $19 million interest payment due on debentures april 1, but will not make that payment
coleco and other major toy manufacturers were hit hard by declining sales last year. the losses announced by coleco monday follow deficits of $110.6 in fourth-quarter 1986 and $111.2 million for all of that year
the toymaker reported sales of $69 million in the last quarter of 1987, compared with $73.7 million for the same period a year earlier. its 1987 sales totaled $504.5 million, up slightly from $500.7 million in 1986
coleco said it planned to announce a restructuring plan by the end of this week. however, if all parties to the restructuring do not agree to the plan, ``the company could find itself in reorganization,'' said morton e. handel, coleco's executive vice president for corporate development
the company's short-term bank debt increased from $90.7 million in 1986 to $142.1 million in 1987. overall, coleco paid $59.6 million in interest during 1987, compared with $42.7 million in 1986
nearly $40 million of the 1987 interest was due to the $300 million in subordinated debentures coleco has outstanding. handel said the company will propose to replace those debentures with a combination of common stock, new debentures and debentures convertible into stock
if the owners of the debentures accept the proposed exchange, it would reduce some of coleco's interest expenses and convert some debt into positive ownership interest in the company
the company needs to get out from underneath its significant debt load to obtain profitibility. the company needs to take steps to ensure its survival,'' said gary jacobson, an analyst with kidder peabody &amp; co. in new york city
coleco has laid off more than 300 workers and taken other steps to cut costs
ford motor co. is recalling about 28,000 1987 and 1988 ford crown victoria and mercury grand marquis station wagons for inspection of seat belts that may have improperly installed retractors
ford also is recalling 9,300 1988-model lincoln continental cars for installation of spring seats on the rear torsion springs
seat belts in the station wagons' optional rear-facing auxiliary seats will be inspected and replaced, if necessary, ford said in a news release monday. the belts might fit too loosely or retract slowly if retractors were found to be installed on the wrong side of the seats, the statement said
the spring seats on the continentals are meant to prevent the spring from touching the rear tire if the spring breaks while in service, it said
of the 9,300 continentals being recalled, about 5,000 will be inspected to see whether inboard attachments of the driver's and right front seat belt assemblies were properly secured, the statement said. belts not properly secured to the anchor attachment could loosen or pull free in a collision, it said
inspections and necessary modifications will be made by ford or lincoln-mercury dealers at no cost to owners, the statement said. there were no reports of accidents or injuries involving any of the components involved with the recalls, the company said. pacific</head> bgng: the railroads; also moving on general news wires</note>
the interstate commerce commission today postponed a decision on whether to approve a $110 million merger that would make the regional missouri-kansas-texas railroad co. a part of the giant union pacific corp
icc chairman heather j. gradison canceled a scheduled vote, saying that commissioner j.j. simmons iii had failed to give his fellow commission members adequate time to review his proposed conditions for the merger
under agency rules, commissioners must distribute any amendments the day before a planned vote. simmons did not outline his proposals at today's brief session and, under commission rules, amendments are not made public until they are discussed at a meeting
no new meeting to consider the merger was scheduled immediately, and al brown, an icc spokesman, said it was unlikely that another vote will be set before next week
the railroads contend that consolidating operations would provide improved service at lower costs and ensure reliable long-term transportation, especially for midwestern grain shippers relying on the 3,100-mile mkt system known as the ``katy.''
other railroads have questioned whether the proposed merger will reduce competition, because the katy's lines generally parallel some union pacific routes from kansas and missouri to southern texas and the gulf coast. the union pacific is a 21,500-mile network formed by a rail merger six years ago
to address those concerns, union pacific has offered competing railroads the rights to use some trackage on proposed merger routes
without the merger, the icc has been told, the financially ailing katy could face problems surviving against bigger competitors. operating income for the katy declined from $37 million in 1981 to $5 million in 1986
the union pacific, the nation's third largest railroad system in terms of track mileage, serves about 20 states with routes from los angeles, san francisco and seattle in the west to chicago and new orleans. the company was formed in 1982 with the merger of the union pacific, missouri pacific and western pacific railroads
the katy serves six states, with mostly north-south routes running from omaha to the gulf coast in texas. a separate east-west route extends between kansas city and st. louis
union pacific, which filed an application in november 1986 seeking government approval of the katy acquisition, says the merger would produce operating savings of $61 million a year. company officials say grain shippers would benefit through a shorter, more direct single-line route to export markets in texas gulf ports
however, the merger would eliminate about 1,100 katy jobs because of closings of rail yards and repair shops. union pacific also plans to abandon 405 miles of track, mostly operated by katy, if the merger is approved
union pacific has taken steps to ease objections to the merger. for example, the company has agreed to pay $1 million to the southeast kansas community of parson in exchange for not opposing the merger. the city would lose about 300 katy jobs, with an estimated $8 million payroll, under the merger
united artists communications inc., an entertainment conglomerate with cable television systems and the nation's no. 1 theater chain, has announced the creation of new york-based corsair pictures
the subsidiary firm will develop films that cost between $3 million and $10 million, an amount considered modest by hollywood standards
stewart d. blair, president and chief executive officer of united artists, announced monday that corsair picture's first production would be ``the miss firecracker contest,'' a comedy written by pulitzer prize-winning playwright beth henley. actress holly hunter, who was nominated for an oscar for her role as a newscast producer in ``broadcast news,'' has been signed to star in the film
blair said the venture was a ``low-key experiment.''
we think there is a window for modestly priced, high-demographic films,'' blair said
we're looking for class. not art films, but not slash and gash movies either. we're not into teen exploitation films.''
frank perry, who was nominated for an oscar as best director for the movie ``david and lisa'' has been named to head corsair. perry had directed for pyramid films, also a subsidiary of united artists. corsair replaces pyramid films
blair expects to produce three or four films a year, he said
frank (perry) has done 17 movies and he's only been over budget once, and that was only be two percent,'' he said
most of the firm's movies will be for theater distribution, followed by sale to pay television or the video market. finally they will be sold to cable, he said
united artists owns 2,000 movie screens, making it the largest chain in the country
certainly having that number of screens gives you a leg up,'' blair said. ``but a movie has to be released across the board to the most screens for it to generally make sense.''
the stock market was unchanged in the early going today as reluctance by traders to take positions ahead of the government's upcoming release of trade data continued to dampen activity
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was unchanged at 2,050.07 at 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 6 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 673 up, 568 down and 525 unchanged in the first 90 minutes of trading
volume on the big board came to 46,070,000 million shares
analysts said the market fluctuated in a narrow range in the absence of any major news
there is a mood in the street of reluctance to make commitments'' prior to the release of january merchandise trade figures on thursday, said lew smith, a technical analyst at bear stearns &amp; co. that sentiment that also dominated activity in the previous session
the last two (market) responses to the trade numbers took place in a half hour'' of trading, said larry wachtel, first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc
while analysts noted that the market may be overplaying the impact the figure is likely to have on wall street, this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
on the actives list, airline issues were up amid reports that a number of carriers plan to tighten restrictions on discount fares. allegis rose 1| to 79{, amr rose 1| to 42|, and southwest airlines was up ] to 17\
federated department stores fell ] to 65| as macy and campeau continue to battle for control of the retial giant. grolier was up [ to 24{. paris-based hachette filed suit in federal court challenging grolier's poison pill
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 0.10 to 149.96. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 0.08 at 296.86
grain and soybean futures prices were mixed in a very narrow range this morning on the chicago board of trade
traders said there was no fresh news overnight to influence the market and little follow-through from monday's strong performance
prices were higher across the board on monday mainly because of a private forcast that farmers will be planting fewer acres of soybeans this season than had previously been thought
the estimate pegged soybean acreage at 57.5 million acres, only slightly higher than the 57.4 million acres planted last year
on the opening, wheat was unchanged to { cent lower with the contract for delivery in july at $3.07 a bushel; corn was unchanged to \ cent higher with march at $1.98{ a bushel; oats were unchanged to { cent higher with march at $1.90\ a bushel; and soybeans were { cent lower to } cent higher with march at $6.14\ a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly weaker on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .30 cent lower to .15 cent higher with the april contract at 73.70 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .05 cent lower to .33 cent higher with march at 82.85 cents a pound; live hogs were .20 cent lower to .10 cent higher with april at 45.15 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .17 cent to .42 cent lower with march 53.40 cents a pound
on monday, livestock and meat futures were higher across the board
imagine spraying ketchup on a hamburger or spritzing mustard on a hotdog with an aerosol-like can
a hoboken-based company wants just such containers to become commonplace in kitchens across america
enviro-spray systems inc. also hopes its packaging technology, already popular in europe, will help transform the 8-year-old research and development company into a profitable manufacturing and marketing firm
the company, which went public last year, hopes to have lines of sprayable ketchup, tomato sauces and mustard in u.s. stores by june
mayonnaise, chocolate and apple sauce are waiting in the wings, said company president gordon l. banks
it's the beginning of something very, very important,'' he said in a recent interview
the patented spray process was introduced successfully in europe, where it is used to dispense a popular form of shave gel as well as condiments, hand cleaners and pharmaceuticals
for its push into the united states, enviro-spray will focus on food products, said pat black, assistant to the president. and for the first time, the company will get involved in selling the products as well as the process
the ketchup, mustard and tomato sauce to be marketed here is made by the french concern ccrf under the claude vetillard label, ms. black said
essentially, the cans resemble aerosol sprayers but do not mix other substances with the product to be dispensed. inside the can is a pouch with sodium bicarbonate and citric acid, which is activated by a button on the can
when the can is activated, the two chemicals react inside the pouch, creating pressure that forces the product out
and presto, a thin stripe of ketchup is applied to your waiting hot dog
the ``growpak'' pouches are tamper proof and the food needs no refrigeration, has a longer shelf life and is more convenient to dispense, banks said
since no propellants are needed to make the cans work, no fluorocarbons, identified as harmful to the protective ozone layer in the atmosphere, are introduced into the environment
banks said he hopes such advantages will convince consumers and restaurants to buy growpak products and help make the company profitable
enviro-spray had a net loss of $448,000 on sales of $455,000 in the second quarter ended dec. 31. that compared with a $1 million loss on sales of $191,000 in the same period a year earlier
ms. black attributed the losses to the heavy start-up costs associated with the development of the equipment that manufactures the pouches. banks sees the company entering the black by 1989
when people get their hands on these cans, they really love (them,)'' he said
whether they will be willing to spend two to three times more for them _ $2.50 to $3 for a 9-ounce can, as banks described their cost _ is another question
i doubt people would be willing to pay that price,'' said beth adams, spokeswoman for pittsburgh, pa.-based h.j. heinz co., a leading u.s. ketchup producer. ms. adams said she had never heard of the process
it just seems like a strange idea,'' she said, adding that consumers may have a difficult time accepting a food product in a type of container that usually dispenses hairspray, carpet cleaner or disinfectant
about 30 percent to 40 percent of the ketchup market is contained in plastic squirt bottles, a development of only the last decade, she said
enviro-spray also sells its system to drug, cosmetic, pet and plant care companies, banks said
last year, 10 million pouches with the system were sold in europe and 15 million are expected to be sold this year. banks hopes to sell 10 million in the united states in 1988
company officials believe their business will grow as the products in the cans catch on
the more cans of vetillard's ketchup we sell, the more pouches we sell to them,'' said ms. black
angora goats partial to the thorny brush and arid west texas terrain are clothing the world's fashionable and cornering the nation's mohair industry for ranchers of the edwards plateau
texas' 3,000 mohair producers generate more than $150 million in annual mohair and goat sales _ a figure dwarfed by cotton or wool standards but enough to give a boost to an economy battered by the oil slump
texas mohair accounts for 96 percent of u.s. production and ranks second worldwide behind south africa. the ranchers of edwards plateau, a ranching region covering 23 million acres, have withstood 50 years of swings in fashion to establish a firm foothold in the world market
brian j. may, executive director of the mohair council of america, says texas ranchers export 98 percent of their crop and take pride in their small contribution toward improving the nation's balance of trade
based in san angelo, the council has a $500,000 annual budget, four staff members and a hefty mission promoting a tiny industry around the world, may said, ``but we get after it.''
it's the best-kept secret for texas,'' may said. ``it's kind of ironic these rural ranchers are producing something shown at fashion shows in milan, london, paris and new york.''
the economic contributions of the mohair industry have gained prominence now that falling oil prices have cut into the royalties texas ranchers can earn from drilling and exploration on their land
texans will shear 17 million to 18 million pounds this year from their angora goat herds, making their crop worth about $50 million, and the sale of the animals pumps another $100 million into the state economy, may said
south africa, meanwhile, produced 28.3 million pounds in 1987, compared with u.s. production of 15.5 million pounds
that compares with a nationwide 1987 cotton crop worth an estimated $4.5 billion, according to the national cotton council in memphis, tenn. texas' share was worth about $1.5 billion, said council spokesman fred johnson
mohair comes exclusively from angora goats _ not to be mistaken with the angora fiber that comes from rabbits _ and the animals thrive in a 15-county region in texas as equidistant from the equator as south africa, may said
both (areas) are arid, and have the same brushy type of ranch land,'' he said. ``they need browse or brush, they don't do very well in tall grass. here we have a lot of cactus and rocks and mesquite trees and live-oak trees.''
being a speciality fabric, mohair is especially vulnerable to the fancy of fashion designers. prices have swung in recent years from a low of 30 cents a pound in 1971 to a high of $5.10 in 1979. the current price is about $2.40, may said
when mohair slips below $2 a pound, ranchers are eligible for federal farm subsidies, may said. the funds come from a tariff on imported wool and mohair and not taxpayers
it's a very fluctuating market because it's a luxury fiber,'' may said. ``it's been paying off really well since 1976 ... but now it's starting to slow down.''
mohair weaves into a brushy-type fabric, while the look now is smooth and sleek, may said
but the mohair council won't be daunted by the whims of fashion, and may says it plans promotions in europe, england, italy, germany and the far east. japan, taiwan and korea buy about 25 percent of texas mohair and use it in men's suits
we're going to china this spring and russia next fall to develop a new market,'' may said
the council will also spend more than a tenth of its budget _ $55,000 _ for a 30-minute fashion show at dallas apparel market this weekend
the mohair council announced in early february it had appointed its first national spokeswoman, former miss usa kim dutton of texas. the 1977 pageant winner and her husband, cody dutton, raise angora goats in boerne
in addition to promoting ranching, agriculture commissioner jim hightower wants to make sure the state gets its share of the mohair processing business. a financial marketing analyst for the commissioner, angelo piccirillo, said millions of dollars are being lost because raw mohair leaves the state to be spun and woven elsewhere
the two wool and mohair cleaning plants in texas can handle about 2 million pounds a year _ a fraction of total production, piccirillo said
the department is working with a group in el paso interested in setting up a third cleaning plant, he said, and is coordinating a study with texas tech university on the potential of processing mohair and turning it into a finished product
high prices have always made it tough for visitors to oslo, but now even well-paid norwegians are finding it hard to cope
fashion clothing shops, often used as barometers of consumer spending, rarely see customers, and newspapers are carrying going-out-of-business ads from well-known furriers. only a few years ago, they shared the bonanza of norway's oil boom
kaupang's bokhandel, a leading oslo bookstore for more than 60 years, closed its doors after christmas, one of several family-owned shops that apparently succumbed to sharply rising rents
the price explosion in this seaside capital is a sign of nationwide problems
until recently, norwegians were cushioned by high wage increases and easy credit. they emptied their savings accounts, which were taxed, took tax-deductible loans and spent freely, while the government used its north sea oil revenues to cover the public's debt from overspending
norwegians also benefit from a welfare state, which provides free hospitalization and other social services, making savings less important. education also is free, but high school books can cost 200 kroner _ about $31 _ each
they barely noticed that their capital had become one of the most expensive cities in europe, which is how it ranked in a survey of 103 countries by business international published in december
taking new york city as a standard of 100, oslo was rated 139, the highest in europe and eighth in the world
we have been living like some big oil country in the middle east,'' said egil bakke, director of the price control agency
but now the spending spree is over. the government has declared war on an inflation rate that reached 8.7 percent last year, more than twice the european average
prime minister gro harlem brundtland's labor government introduced a stiff wage regulation bill this month limiting pay hikes over the next year to one krone per hour, or about 15 cents
the bill was the most severe economic package since a 15-month-long wage-price freeze was imposed 10 years ago
mrs. brundtland heads a minority labor government against an array of non-socialist opposition parties that criticize her interventionist policies and blame her for creating the problem by letting government spending get out of hand
but everyone agrees urgent action is required, and the bill is likely to sail through with little opposition
there is a need for a breathing space to steady the situation,'' former conservative prime minister kaare willoch told the associated press
norway's problems would make most other countries envious. the country has virtually no unemployment, and despite falling oil income, it is expected to have a budget surplus of 9.3 billion kroner _ $1.45 billion _ this year
but wealth brought complacency. wages and prices rose swiftly for two years, until norway found it had priced itself out of some european markets
in 1987, a year when the normal work week was reduced from 40 to 37 1@2 hours, wage costs per unit produced rose by more than 13 percent in norway, compared with a 5 percent average in norway's trading partners, according to the finance ministry
poor management became endemic. the state-owned oil company, statoil, is now overrunning its budget for a new refinery by 100 percent. the scandal caused the resignation of company president arve johnsen, who built statoil into a world leader
even more embarrassing, the cost overruns were almost as high for the new headquarters of the central bank, norges bank
a major step toward recovery came on feb. 26, when the main trade union federation reached an agreement with employers for a 5 percent ceiling on wage increases
mrs. brundtland moved swiftly to declare a freeze on further negotiations, imposing the wage package on the rest of the economy, until a wage regulation bill could be legislated
the measures are coming late for oslo, a city of 450,000 that curls around the tip of a clear-watered, 60-mile-long fjord. traveling businessmen know it as a pleasant place to stop _ as long as the company is paying
a double room at a major international hotel costs 1,505 kroner, or $237, and a beer at the bar costs 35 kroner, or $5.50. a short cab ride can run about $11
norwegians themselves find living costs outstrip their salaries. a double-meat hamburger at a fast-food restaurant costs more than $4, and a pair of jeans is close to $80. a kilogram of pure ground beef at the supermarket costs the equivalent of $10.65 per pound
i always have to shop around and look for the daily specials,'' said housewife randi hoel, who says she patronizes as many as 10 different food stores in a week to look for bargains
like other scandinavian countries, norway has put a high tax on alcohol to discourage drinking.sales for home use are made only through the state-owned liquor monopoly, where a liter of average quality scotch whisky is a whopping 290 kroner, or $46
the federal emergency management agency has withdrawn a key objection to new hampshire's emergency evacuation plans for the $5.3 billion seabrook nuclear power plant
seabrook opponents, citing the removal of a key critic of the plans from a fema review board, charged that the agency caved in to pressure from the nuclear regulatory commission and the plant's owners. a seabrook spokesman today called that charge ``a smokescreen.'' a fema spokesman would not comment
the agency said in testimony to the nuclear regulatory commission on monday that shelters are not needed and evacuation alone offers enough protection for people that crowd beaches near the seacoast reactor on hot summer days
last summer, the agency would not approve the plans, citing 55 deficiencies observed in a february 1986 drill. a major objection was that there aren't enough airtight buildings to protect people from dangerous radiation that could be released in an accident
now the state has considered sheltering and determined that ``in most cases evacuation would be a preferred option and would provide ample time to move the beach population from the area safely, before there would be any radioactive release,'' seabrook spokesman david scanzoni said today
fema's new testimony concludes: ``the requirement for a range of protective measures has been satisfied, even though the state of new hampshire has chosen not to shelter the summer beach population except in very limited circumstances. with respect to the summer beach population, (federal standards) have been met.''
fema officials acknowledged in their testimony that they were deferring to the nrc staff's argument that evacuation offers better protection than sheltering
the nrc staff and other four other federal agencies out of eight involved in an interagency review of the plan had been trying to persuade fema to change its position, according to testimony during hearings on the new hampshire plans. the other four were the department of energy, department of transportation, environmental protection agency and the food and drug administration
seabrook is completed but unlicensed until it can gain nrc approval for evacuation plans for a 10-mile zone around it. an nrc licensing board resumes hearings next month on the new hampshire plans
massachusetts officials won't cooperate in planning for six massachusetts communities within the 10-mile zone. seabrook has submitted its own plans for massachusetts. no hearings have been set
the new fema testimony stopped short of endorsing the new hampshire plans, but it clears a major obstacle
robert backus, lawyer for the seacoast anti-pollution league, said, ``i view it as a total agency collapse.'' he noted that edward thomas, a top fema official in its northeast regional office who had written the earlier criticism of seabrook's plans, was not involved in the new testimony
i suspect that there was a fight for the soul of the agency here and the guys who are no longer the witnesses are not the guys who won the fight,'' backus said
fema has capitulated to those who want seabrook licensed regardless of the fact that minimum safety requirements cannot be met,'' said massachusetts attorney general james shannon
fema spokesman bill mcada today declined to comment on the new testimony and on charges that the agency succombed to pressure to change its opinion
scanzoni denied that seabrook officials pressured fema
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan told congress today that foreign investment in the united states ``is a plus,'' even at current record levels
it is a highly desirable international trend,'' greenspan told the house-senate joint economic committee
he said he was less worried about the fact that more and more u.s. assets are being aquired by japanese and other foreign investors than he would be if they were simply amassing u.s. dollars
despite the recent increase in foreign holdings in the united states, ``we still have a $50 billion greater balance in investment abroad,'' greenspan said
the fed chief also said that chances were ``relatively good'' for maintaining the current economic recovery, now in its sixth year and a record for peacetime expansions, ``through another year.''
but, he added, ``although the near-term prospects thus look reasonably encouraging, major uncertainties remain and we should not be complacent about the nation's economic future.''
to a considerable extent, we are still sailing in uncharterted waters,'' he said. he reiterated earlier testimony that reducing the government's $150 billion annual budget deficit should be government's no. 1 priority
he hailed recent data showing that unemployment in february had dipped to 5.7 percent, its lowest level since may 1979. he said that, while theoretically there was a point at which lower unemployment rates could trigger a new burst of wage-driven inflation, ``i don't think we're there yet.''
greenspan was asked by sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., whether he was troubled by the extent of the growing foreign investment in the united states
japan is buying america and leasing it back to us,'' d'amato said
but greenspan responded, ``i am very little concerned about the issue of foreign investment in the united states. on the contrary, integration of world economies is a desirable trend.''
we will find that foreign investment in the united states will be a plus,'' greenspan said. he said that companies in the united states that have been bought by foreign concerns have become ``good corporate citizens.''
he said it was difficult to tell the exact extent of foreign holdings in the united states. in terms of u.s. treasury securities alone, foreign investors held 16.4 percent of the total at the end of last year, greenspan said
in other testimony, greenspan called upon newly industrialized countries in asia, and particularly taiwan, to do more to bring their economic and monetary polices into equilibrium with the united states and other major trading partners
he also praised the recent stance by the government of british prime minister margaret thatcher for not favoring intervention by the bank of england in support of the pound against the german mark and other key currencies
the stock market moved modestly lower today as investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of the government's upcoming release of trade data and the year's first ``triple witching hour.''
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 4.15 points to 2,045.92 at noon on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 10 to 9 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 695 up, 619 down and 526 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 66,680,000 million shares
analysts said the market drifted in a narrow range in the absence of any major news
there is a mood in the street of reluctance to make commitments'' prior to the government's release of january merchandise trade figures on thursday, said lew smith, a technical analyst at bear stearns &amp; co. that sentiment also dominated activity in the previous session
the last two (market) responses to the trade numbers took place in a half hour'' of trading, said larry wachtel, first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc
while analysts noted that the market may be overplaying the impact the figure is likely to have on wall street, this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly triple witching hour involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
the transportation sector was the only arena to post a clear trend. airline stocks were up across the board amid reports that a number of carriers plan to tighten restrictions on discount fares. allegis rose 1] to 79|, amr rose 1] to 42], delta was up 1] to 47|, and nwa inc. was up ~ to 43}
first republicbank fell { to 1\ amid reports that it will seek a federal bailout. it is texas' largest bank holding company
traders complained that the technology sector failed to help establish a positive trend for the day. digital equipment fell 2{ to 116\ and ibm was down 1| to 113~
federated department stores fell \ to 65} as macy and campeau continue to battle for control of the retail giant
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 0.21 to 149.85. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 0.67 at 296.27. greenspan comments, deletes last graf to trim; also running on general news wires</note>
the deficit in the broadest measure of u.s. foreign trade surged to a record $160.7 billion in 1987 with the additional red ink pushing the country further into the hole as the world's largest debtor nation, the government reported today
the commerce department said that the current account deficit last year was 13.7 percent higher than the previous record of $141.4 billion set in 1986 despite the fact that the deficit for the final three months of the year narrowed slightly
the current account covers not only the flow of merchandise across the u.s. border but also the flow of services, primarily investment earnings, between countries
while the united states has run deficits in merchandise trade for 16 of the past 17 years, the current account was in surplus as recently as 1981 as americans' earnings on overseas investments were enough to offset the merchandise deficits
but since that time americans have handed over billions of dollars to foreigners in exchange for imported goods. with all of that wealth now in foreign hands, the perennial advantage the united states has had in investments has shifted and america has become the world's largest debtor country
being a net debtor means that foreigners now own more in u.s. investments than americans hold in foreign investments. america was last a net debtor in 1914. it regained that status in 1985 with a foreign debt of $111.9 billion. that debt grew to $263.6 billion at the end of 1986
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan told the house-senate joint economic committee today that foreign investment in the united states ``is a highly desirable international trend.''
he said he was less worried about the fact that that more and more u.s. assets are being acquired by japanese and other foreign investors than he would be if they were simply amassing u.s. dollars
economists said with today's new figures the total debt has probably surpassed $400 billion, although the government's official accounting will not be made until june
today's report showed that the bulk of the 1987 trade deficit came from a $159.2 billion imbalance in merchandise trade, a figure which was first reported last month. adding to that deficit were payments of $13.5 billion in foreign aid and other government transfer payments such as social security paid to retirees living overseas
that figure was reduced slightly by a surplus of $12 billion in the services category. while foreigners now own more in u.s. investments, the payments still showed a slight positive because many of the older u.s. investments are earning a higher rate of return
however, the services surplus was down from $18.6 billion in 1986 and has been dwindling steadily
economists expect the services surplus to be wiped out altogether in future years as more and more american dollars are paid to foreigners to meet interest payments on the u.s. debt
for the fourth quarter, the current account deficit shrank slightly to $39 billion, down from $43.4 billion in the third quarter. this improvement reflected a slightly smaller merchandise trade deficit and a resumption of surpluses in the services category. in the third quarter, the united states had run a deficit with the rest of the world in investment earnings for the first time in 29 years
democratic presidential candidates have been attacking the administration, charging that the country's new status as the world's biggest debtor is directly attributable to the failure of the administration to come to grips with huge federal budget deficits
the democrats argue that the federal government's need to borrow billions of dollars each year to cover the shortfall between revenues and spending attracted large sums of foreign investment to this country
while the administration agrees that deficit reduction is needed to reduce the country's dependence on foreign investment, administration officials contend that the change in the country's investment position has been over-dramatized
the annual economic report of the president said the transformation of the country to debtor status was ``no cause for alarm'' because the amount in interest payments to foreigners needed to service that debt is tiny in terms of the overall u.s. economy
the report estimated interest payments to foreigners would total less than one-half of 1 percent of the u.s. gross national product
but many private economists warn that the country's debtor status is a threat to the united states and will ultimately result in a lower standard of living as more and more money is transferred into foreign hands
the most profound and enduring legacy of the reagan period is its conversion of the united states from the largest creditor country in the world to the largest debtor,'' said c. fred bergsten, director of the institute for international economics. ``the trade deficit and its financial consequences hang like a sword of damocles over the u.s. economy.''
bergsten argues that the u.s. need to attract large sums of foreign investment to meet its debt obligations makes american economic and foreign policy ``exceedingly vulnerable to decisions made abroad for the indefinite future.''
he estimated that the u.s. debt to the rest of the world would likely approach $1 trillion before beginning to level off at the end of 1995
this rise in debt assumes modest improvements in the current account balance
general mills inc. said its earnings jumped 25.5 percent in the third quarter of its fiscal year, prompted largely by growth in its consumers foods division
earnings in the 3 months ended feb. 28 totaled $71.4 million, or 83 cents per share, compared with $56.9 million, or 64 cents per share a year ago
revenues increased 10 percent, to $1.44 billion from $1.31 billion in the same period last year, the company said in a statement
for the first three quarters, earnings totaled $228.2 million, or $2.60 per share, on sales of $4.33 billion, compared with $185.9 million, or $2.09 per share, on $3.84 billion in the 1986 period
both periods benefited from an accounting change that resulted in a $5.8 million gain in the third quarter and a $17.3 million gain for the nine-month period, the company said
chairman bruce atwater said good volume growth in consumer foods, strong performance by key restaurant concepts and significant productivity gains led to a 15 percent cumulative gain in operating profits
year-to-date results also benefited from the effective tax rate declining to 40.3 percent from 48.4 percent last year, primarily reflecting the effect of federal tax reform, he said
consumer foods achieved a 2 percent increase in domestic package food volume in the third quarter, leading to sales and operating profit gains of 7 percent and 8 percent, respectively, atwater said
restaurant results in the third quarter showed gains in sales and operating profits of 14 percent and 11 percent, respectively
these results reflect strong performance by red lobster seafood restaurants, where efforts to increase lunch business helped boost customer traffic over 5 percent above last year's comparable quarter and the successful expansion of the olive garden italian restaurants,'' atwater said
the minnesota mining and manufacturing co. has paid $7 million of an $8 million settlement to the families of three men who died in an industrial accident in 1984, lawyers for the parties said today
the remaining $1 million of the settlement was paid by the mcdowell-davis co., a milan, ill., contracting firm 3m had hired to clean out a large chemical holding tank at its plant in cordova, the lawyers said
the three men, mcdowell-davis owner carl mcdowell, 37, of milan; and his employees daniel walker, 27, of east moline; and scott syverson, 27, of davenport, iowa, were overcome by nitrogen gas when they entered the 10,000-gallon tank on april 5, 1984, according to both attorneys
the tank had held magnetic oxide, a chemical used to coat recording tapes, and was supposed to be empty, said mary minella, a chicago attorney who represented the victims' families
but chicago attorney fred schulz, who represented 3m in the case, said the men had not checked for danger before entering the tank
the workers who went in didn't do anything to check whether it was safe or not,'' schulz said. ``they just popped right in the tank and unfortunately died.''
the families received the checks on friday, one week after the settlement was entered into before u.s. district court judge nicholas j. bua, ms. minella said
quaker state corp. is trying to sell its 100 arctic circle restaurants in nine western states, including utah, a company spokesman says
i will confirm talks are going on ... but i'm just not going to get into it any further,'' said benton h. faulkner. ``it (arctic circle) just didn't fit our mainstream, marketing automotive oil and other automotive after-market products and services.''
faulkner said monday that quaker is planning to keep the minit-lube chain, which was originally affiliated with arctic circle inc. most of the minit-lube centers are in the western united states
gary roberts, an arctic circle official at the company's salt lake city headquarters, said arctic circle restaurants are in utah, california, idaho, nevada, oregon, washington, wyoming, montana and nebraska
quaker state purchased arctic circle and its 90-service-center minit-lube chain in november 1985 from j.r. edwards, son of arctic circle founder don carlos edwards, and five other partners
the number of arctic circle restaurants have remained at about 100 since 1985, said faulkner
minit-lube outlets recently numbered 261, up from 98 at the end of 1985, he added
quaker state markets consumer automotive products and produces lubricants, fuels and automotive lighting equipment. sterling</head> races when shifted into drive or reverse, sted park or reverse; also moved on general news wires</note>
nearly 150 complaints of sudden acceleration have prompted the national highway traffic safety administration to open an investigation of the honda acura legend and austin rover sterling
the agency said monday the investigation covers 62,500 1986-1988 acura legends and austin rover sterlings with automatic shifts. the austin rover sterling uses the same mechanical components as the legend
the new investigation brings to seven the number of sudden acceleration probes being conducted by nhtsa. five of the investigations involve imported vehicles
american honda, through spokesman bob butorac in gardena, calif., declined to comment specifically on the nhtsa investigation, saying it would be inappropriate ``because we simply haven't heard anything yet.''
we've checked every vehicle in which that incident (sudden acceleration) was reported, (and) never found any mechanical or electrical defect that could have caused it,'' butorac said
he declined to say what could have brought on the sudden acceleration incidents in the absence of a mechanical or electrical cause
nhtsa has received 147 complaints of sudden acceleration in the cars, resulting in 82 accidents, 11 injuries and no fatalities
the center for auto safety, a washington-based public-issues group, had petitioned nhtsa to open an engineering analysis of the alleged throttle problems
typically, acura legend owners report their cars idle normally in park, but race out of control when shifted into either drive or reverse, said the center, a private organization often at odds with the auto industry and its regulators
nhtsa has conducted three investigations into another honda model, the accord, without ordering a recall, the center said
the center said it has reports of at least 120 accord sudden acceleration accidents resulting in three deaths
honda recalled 4,500 of its 1988 civics in november because of speed fluctuation when the cars were idling, the center said
the stock market held at modestly lower levels today in dull, quiet trading
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 3.82 points to 2,046.25 at 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 9 to 8 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 746 up, 656 down and 511 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 93,580,000 million shares
analysts said trading was lackluster, with institutional investors showing little interest in the market
traders have cited thursday's release of merchandise trade figures for january and the year's first ``triple witching hour'' as reasons for staying on the sidelines, but some analysts are skeptical of the strategy
there is a mood in the street of reluctance to make commitments'' prior to the two events, a sentiment that also dampened activity in the previous session, said lew smith, a technical analyst at bear stearns &amp; co
while activity also slowed ahead of the release of the trade figures in the previous two months, smith said that ``when something becomes the thing to do, it loses its relevance.''
the market needed only half an hour to respond to the trade figures in recent months, said larry wachtel, first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc., who said investors are using the numbers as an excuse to ``sit on their rear ends.''
while analysts indicated the market may be overplaying the impact the figures are likely to have on wall street, this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly triple witching hour involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
the transportation sector was the only arena to post a clear trend. airline stocks were up across the board amid reports that a number of carriers plan to tighten restrictions on discount fares. allegis rose 1\ to 79{, amr rose 1[ to 42[, delta was up 1\ to 47{, and nwa inc. was up ~ to 43}
first republicbank fell ] to 1]. texas' largest bank holding company said it might seek a federal bailout
traders complained that the technology sector failed to help establish a positive trend for the day. digital equipment fell 2} to 116 and ibm was down 1] to 114[
auto stocks were mostly lower. chrysler was down \ to 24[, ford was down ] to 43~ and general motors fell [ to 71|. the major automakers reported mostly mixed results for the early march sales period
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 0.21 to 149.85. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 0.70 at 296.24. percentages of the state's total sales.</note>
demand for higher-priced california premium wines surged as the four-year boom in wine coolers deflated in 1987, dragging down the overall u.s. wine market, an industry observer says
some california wineries even had to go to washington state for their chardonnays because the growing demand for premium table wines coincided with a short crop, according to a year-end industry report by jon fredrikson of gomberg, fredrikson &amp; associates, the nation's leading wine business consultants. the report was released this week
the premium segment of the industry was worth $740 million in sales last year, up 21 percent from 1986. fredrikson pointed out that the premiums represented only 20 percent of all california table wine gallonage but 45 percent of table wine revenues
burdened by a weak dollar that forced importers to raise prices, sales of foreign wines plummeted 21 percent last year, on top of a 25 percent decline the year before
ironically, one of the few bright spots in the import picture was italy's riunite, scoring a 110 percent improvement on its cooler-type peach drink
at the same time, california's jug wines _ a $4 billion-plus segment with more than 80 percent of california wine sales _ continued downward for the fifth straight year as the u.s. trend toward better wines continued to rise
fredrikson, who a couple of years ago could see no halt to the cooler phenomenon, described last year as a ``meltdown.''
from a few gallons in 1981, shipments of the fizzy blends of white wine, watgger and fruit juices rose to 8 million gallons in 1983, 34 million in 1984, 88 million in 1985, and 120 million in 1986, but then added only 2 million more last year
but for all their fiscal flatness, coolers accounted for more than 21 percent of the 423.8 million gallons california vintners sold last year
the ``cooler wars,'' as fredrikson put it, saw the lead change from the originator, california cooler, to gallo's bartles &amp; jaymes, and now to seagrams with 31 percent of the market
there were two major growth areas in the champagne category, despite a 6 percent overall dip in sales
after its 48 percent surge in 1986, guild's cook's champagne posted a 17 percent improvement last year with 1.3 million cases. korbel continued the market leader with another record year, up 16 percent on shipments of more than 1.3 million cases
the showing also reflected the increasing popularity of the expensive ``methode champenoise'' way of making champagne _ fermentation in the individual bottles rather than bulk in stainless steel vats
the top five california wine companies start with gallo, the world's largest wine producer with 39.9 percent of california's total wine sales, followed by heublein, 10.2 percent; vintners international, 9.1 percent; california cooler, 5 percent, and guild, 4 percent
prices were mostly up last year in the heavily consumed chablis category. the top average price paid for the popular 1.5-liter case was $14.27, while the favorite bar item _ the 18-liter box _ went for $15.25 each. at $1.50 to $2.50 a glass, the bar makes up to 1,400 percent profit on each box. picks up 9th graf pvs ``despite buoyant... '' edits thereafter to tighten; also moving on general news wires.</note>
treasury chief nigel lawson announced britain's first budget surplus in nearly 20 years today and was shouted down by opposition legislators in one of the unruliest annual budget presentations in parliamentary history
the deputy speaker twice suspended the proceedings during lawson's speech, and opposition socialist laborites chanted ``shame, shame'' as he announced huge tax cuts for the rich
lawson said he was slashing the top tax bracket from 60 percent to 40 percent
a scottish legislator, alec salmond, was expelled after calling the budget an ``obscenity,'' with tax cuts instead of extra spending on health and welfare services. lawson's speech was halted while legislators voted overwhelmingly to expel salmond
lawson reduced the basic rate of tax from 27 percent to 25 percent, and cut britain's six tax brackets to just two _ 25 percent and 40 percent. the 40 percent top tax rate _ down from a 60 percent top bracket _ will be payable on income over 19,300 pounds ($35,700) a year
the measures were the most sweeping changes since prime minister margaret thatcher came to power on a platform of cutting taxes, encouraging private enterprise and curbing inflation and state spending
lawson announced last autumn the size of the $290 billion budget for the fiscal year ending in 1989. today, armed with the battered leather budget box, the chancellor disclosed how the government will raise the money
lawson, declaring conservative government has transformed the british economy, announced a surplus of 3 billion pounds ($5.5 billion) in the budget
tax breaks for the rich, poll tax (a new property tax) for the poor and nothing in it for the health service _ it's an absolute and utter obscenity,''' shouted salmond, of the scottish national party
his expulsion went ahead after a vote that delayed lawson's speech for 12 minutes. the two other scottish nationalists in the 650-member commons walked out in sympathy
as the session resumed, laborites murmured restively as lawson continued to list tax cuts. the opposition broke into a new uproar, amid shouts of ``rich man's budget.'' conservative legislators, opposite the laborites from the facing green leather benches, yelled ``quiet'' and ``sit down.''
the proceedings then were suspended a second time
parliamentary officials hustled four uniformed nurses out of the public gallery after they shouted slogans in defense of state-funded health care. ``the national health service is not safe in your hands. thanks a lot thatcher,'' one shouted
despite buoyant revenues and economic growth, today's budget was clouded by a split between mrs. thatcher and lawson on how to handle the soaring british pound
even with eve-of-budget hesitancy in currency markets, the pound finished at $1.85 on monday, up 8 cents in a week, and at 3.08 west german marks, well above the 3-mark level central to lawson's strategy of keeping a rein on sterling. a high pound hurts british exports
mrs. thatcher last week ruled out such intervention as immediate pound sales by the bank of england and lower interest rates to depress sterling on the grounds that the moves would fuel inflation
a budget focusing on tax reform rather than huge giveaways would likely be another boost for the pound
the budget surplus is due partly to higher-than-anticipated revenues from increased wages and company profits. in line with a string of trim, low deficit budgets since mrs. thatcher won power in 1979, lawson originally predicted a $7.4 billion deficit in 1988-89, and revised that to $1.85 billion last autumn
grain and soybean futures prices were mixed tuesday on the chicago board of trade
it was a sluggish session with little price movement in either direction
this is the reflection of the indecisiveness of the market today in these slow conditions,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader with dean witter reynolds inc. ``there was no news overnight to move prices either way
prices were under pressure most of the day,'' he said. ``there was a little buying near the close and that lifted prices a little, but there was no big feature today
on the close, wheat was \ cent to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.95{ a bushel; corn was { cent lower to { cent higher with march at $1.98 a bushel; oats were 1{ cents to 3\ cents lower with march at $1.88{ a bushel; and soybeans were 1\ cents lower to { cent higher with march at $6.13{ a bushel
a device that can jolt a fibrillating heart back to normal over the telephone is scheduled for a demonstration in new york on wednesday, three months after it won government approval
the mdphone system is aimed at heart patients who are at risk of cardiac fibrillation, in which the heart twitches uselessly because its electrical system has gone haywire
about 450,000 americans die of heart attacks annually before ever reaching a hospital, and immediate defibrillation could revive some of the victims, says the maker of the mdphone system, medphone corp. of paramus, n.j
the system consists of a $7,000 home unit and a $30,000 base station installed at a nearby hospital. when a patient goes into defibrillation, someone else at home is supposed to open the mdphone case and put a pair of chest pads on the victim
the rest of the work is handled over the phone by the hospital, including monitoring of the heart and, if necessary, triggering of the defibrillator
medphone is still negotiating to make its first sales of the device, which was cleared for marketing last december by the food and drug administration. the company says it is in active talks with a number of hospitals
medphone said hospitals could charge patients $250 to $300 per month, which would cover the lease or rental of the equipment and the round-the-clock response service. it says hospitals could charge additional fees for interpretation of electrocardiograms and, if necessary, defibrillation
the main competition for the mdphone system would be implantable defibrillators, which are about the size of a pack of cigarettes, cost roughly $14,000 and have been on the market for about 2{ years
the stock market drifted modestly lower in late trading today amid very light activity
the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 11.28 to 2,038.79 at 3 p.m. on wall street
losers were about even with gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 707 up, 725 down and 510 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 110,260,000 million shares with an hour to go
analysts said trading was lackluster, with institutional investors showing little interest in the market
the key thing people are watching is volume,'' said ron doran, head of institutional trading at first albany corp. ``right now volume is telling us nobody really cares.''
traders have cited thursday's release of merchandise trade figures for january and the year's first ``triple witching hour'' as reasons for staying on the sidelines, but some analysts are skeptical of the strategy
there is a mood in the street of reluctance to make commitments'' prior to the two events, a sentiment that also dampened activity in the previous session, said lew smith, a technical analyst at bear stearns &amp; co
while activity also slowed ahead of the release of the trade figures in the previous two months, smith said that ``when something becomes the thing to do, it loses its relevance.''
the market needed only half an hour to respond to the trade figures in recent months, said larry wachtel, first vice president at prudential-bache securities inc., who said investors are using the numbers as an excuse to ``sit on their rear ends.''
while analysts indicated the market may be overplaying the impact the figures are likely to have on wall street, this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly triple witching hour involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
the transportation sector managed to post a clear, positive trend. airline stocks were up across the board amid reports that a number of carriers plan to tighten restrictions on discount fares. allegis rose 1] to 79|, amr rose 1 to 42, delta was up } to 47, and nwa inc. was up { to 43]
first republicbank fell | to 1[. texas' largest bank holding company said it might seek a federal bailout
traders complained that the technology sector failed to help establish a positive trend for the day. ibm was down 1~ to 113|, which worked to drag the dow jones industrial average down. digital equipment fell 2~ to 115~
auto stocks were mostly lower. chrysler was down ] to 24, ford was down ] to 43~ and general motors fell ] to 71]. the major automakers reported mostly mixed results for the early march sales period
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 0.64 to 149.42. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 0.70 at 296.24
general dynamics corp. announced tuesday it had established a commercial satellite-launch subsidiary in san diego
general dynamics commercial launch services inc. will provide worldwide marketing, business development, mission analysis and mission management services needed for launching u.s. and foreign satellites, said herbert f. rogers, general dynamics president
we made a very strong commitment to the satellite-launching business last summer when we decided to produce 18 atlas@centaurs (launch vehicles) for the commercial marketplace,'' rogers said. ``the establishment of general dynamics commercial launch services further reinforces this commitment.''
jack isabel, a general dynamics spokesman, said the company's main competitors in commercial-satellite launching would be mcdonnell douglas corp., martin marietta corp. and arianespace, the commercial arm of the european space agency
he said china and japan also had entered the market
dennis r. dunbar, formerly director of commercial launch services at the company's space systems division, has been named vice president and managing director of the new wholly owned subsidary. performance</head>
a new york investment partnership has filed a class action lawsuit against the chicago board options exchange, alleging it was responsible for millions of dollars of losses during the october market crash
the lawsuit, filed friday in u.s. district court in chicago, also names the options clearing corp., which processes all securities options trades in the nation
the investment partnership, m&amp;m, sued on behalf of the more than 1,000 customers it said traded in excess of $40 million worth of a november series of stock options on the standard &amp; poor's 100 stock index
the investors contend the exchange violated its rules by not halting trade in stock index options in a more timely fashion
it said the exchange operated a ``fraud and deceit upon the plaintiffs'' by failing to maintain a fair and equitable market
exchange spokesman warren moulds said it ``won't comment on pending litigation.''
george hender, executive vice president of the clearing corporation, said he couldn't comment because he had not seen the lawsuit
the lawsuit contends that on the morning of oct. 20, the day after the crash, m&amp;m put in an order to buy november put options
a put option gives the buyer the right to sell stock index contracts at a set price before the expiration date
the system in use at the exchange requires that opening trades be rotated among the various contracts, and that free trading begins only when the rotation is completed, the lawsuit said
the average length of the opening rotation is 12 to 15 minutes, it said, but in the hectic aftermath of black monday, opening rotation took 2 hours and 30 minutes
by the time m&amp;m's contracts were executed, prices ``were arbitrarily high and grossly inflated,'' the lawsuit contends
once they placed that order, they couldn't withdraw it,'' said attorney leigh r. lasky, who represents m&amp;m. ``they were locked in.''
the lawsuit contends that for the investors to have broken even, the dow jones industrial average would have had to plunge an additional 50 percent by nov. 20, the expiration date of the options
m&amp;m invested $23,400 and lost 90 percent of it, lasky said tuesday. the class of investors, which had put up more than $40 million, probably lost close to 90 percent, too, he said
the lawsuit asks that the investors be reimbursed
stock prices were little changed today in light, lackluster trading
analysts said the market drifted in a narrow range as both institutional and retail investors remained on the sidelines while awaiting fresh economic news due out later in the week
the government is scheduled to release january's merchandise trade figures on thursday, just ahead of the year's first ``triple witching hour,'' when a group of options and futures on stock indexes will expire simultaneously
while concern over the two events dampened activity in the previous trading session, analysts indicated market participants may be overestimating the impact both the trade figures and the witching hour might have
analysts noted that the market reacted quickly when trade figures were released in the previous two months. similarly, the past couple of witching hours have been rather uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 2.66 to 2,047.41
gainers outpaced losers by about a 10-to-9 margin on the new york stock exchange
big board volume totaled 133.17 million shares, against 131.89 million million in the previous session
the nyse's composite index fell 0.07 to 149.99
at the american stock exchange, the market value index was off 0.19 to 296.75
first republicbank corp., buffeted by bad loans and wary customers, announced tuesday it will turn to federal regulators for help in restructuring and rebuilding its ailing financial reserves
bank analysts said the move could bode a buyout or merger for dallas-based first republicbank, the largest bank holding company in the southwest and the 13th-largest in the nation
the announcement came as houston-based first city bancorporation of texas inc. struggled against a tuesday deadline for debt holders to submit their securities in a rescue plan that represents the second-largest bank bailout in u.s. history
the two texas banks have been plagued by the state's economic downturn sparked by the sharp fall in oil prices in recent years and its ensuing fallout on texas' lifeblood industies of oil and real estate
first republicbank officials said they are holding preliminary discussions with the federal deposit insurance corp. to restructure and recapitalize the company
the decision to approach the fdic is, in our judgment, important to providing a stable environment for first republicbank's customers,'' said gerald w. fronterhouse, the company's chairman and chief executive officer
naturally, we had hoped to work our way out of the current difficulties without assistance from the fdic,'' he said. ``however, we are now announcing this changed course of action to help clear away any concerns our customers may have.''
first republicbank spokesman joseph c. bowles said the loss of about $600 million in deposits over a five-day period last month prompted the need to seek federal help
certainly two or three weeks ago we didn't believe this would be necessary,'' he said
first republicbank officials tried last month to combat rumors that the bak was considering merging with another financial institution, taking the unusual step of buying full-page newspaper ads to assure customers their deposits were safe
bowles said he didn't believe the latest development would lead more depositors to withdraw their money because ``we expect our customers will understand that their money is protected.''
the bank is discussing whether to pursue open-bank assistance from the fdic. generally, that aid comes only if the fdic determines that keeping a bank open would be less costly to the government than letting the bank fail
an fdic bailout of that kind would require regulators to determine that the bank would fail without help
but frank anderson, an independent bank consultant from dallas, said, ``most people feel like there will be a buyer.''
sandy flannigan, an analyst and vice president of painewebber inc., said the decision by first republicbank to seek federal aid will renew confidence in texas banking
it should lend further stability to the banking system in the state,'' she said. ``there has been a great deal of negative press, and the fact that they are seeking some kind of fdic assistance should create some additional confidence in the system.''
anderson said that if it takes an infusion of federal money to get the bank on its feet, ``that's the way it's going to have to be.' `unnecessary'</head>
eli lilly &amp; co. rejected on tuesday a demand by british lawmakers that the pharmaceutical giant set up a trust fund for victims of a discontinued anti-arthritis medication
the demand was made monday by 100 british lawmakers who signed a letter to richard d. wood, lilly chairman and chief executive officer
hundreds of former users of the anti-arthritis drug oraflex, sold in britain under the name opren, sued the indianapolis-based lilly in the mid-1980s, claiming the drug caused severe side effects, including liver and kidney disorders. the drug also was linked to several deaths
lilly withdrew the drug from the market in 1982
most of the u.s. lawsuits have been settled and, earlier this year, the company reached out-of-court settlements with 1,320 british claimants
last month, consumer activist ralph nader called for an international boycott of lilly to protest the british settlements, which he said averaged $3,000
it's just inconceivable in this day and age that after 5{ years of litigation lilly could settle for so little money,'' nader said in february
the british lawmakers asked lilly to set up the trust fund to bring the british compensation in line with the settlements in the united states
the company has never divulged the amount of the settlements reached in the u.s. cases, but one georgia man won a $6 million judgment against the company
suggestions that one u.s. verdict against lilly is the standard of settlement of all other u.s. cases are false and misleading,'' the company said tuesday in a prepared release
for third parties now to call for a trust fund for opren claimants over and above the recently negotiated settlement is contrary to the spirit of the entire process,'' the company said
the concept of a trust fund is unnecessary. the settlement, which has been endorsed by 98 percent of the claimants, is appropriate.''
richard a. bailey, managing director of lilly's united kingdom affiliate, said last month that 98 percent of the claimants have accepted settlement offers, and that the amount of the opren settlement was proposed by the claimants' lawyers, and not by the company
ed west, a spokesman for lilly, said tuesday the company had not received a copy of the lawmakers' letter
unisys corp., at&amp;t and ncr corp. unveiled computers tuesday and ibm said it was making a version of the popular unix operating system available on its largest mainframes
the announcement by international business machines corp. was another acknowledgment of the growing popularity of unix, a kind of internal traffic cop for computers that was invented by american telephone &amp; telegraph co
ibm's version of unix is called aix and is now available on computers ranging from the top of its personal computer line all the way up to its mainframes. each computer also has its own operating system
unisys announced additions to its 1100 family of mainframe computers. it said the 2200-400 family was a group of mid-range mainframes offering a four-fold improvement in the amount of performance for the price along with 70 percent less space, power and cooling needs
the unisys computers, including some data storage and other extras, will range in price from $178,000 to $953,000 and will be available between the end of this year and the second half of 1989
ncr introduced the system 10000, which it called a family of mid-range, multi-user computers ranging in price from $31,000 to $227,000. all will be available this year. the computers are intended to have terminals hooked up to them
at&amp;t announced a new personal computer, the 6300 workgroup system, that runs microsoft corp.'s dos operating system. it said the computer ranges in price from $1,400 to $2,100 and is available now. at&amp;t also sells more powerful personal computers ranging in price up to $10,400
business executives testified tuesday in favor of proposed revisions in u.s. trademark law that would allow them to apply for trademark registration before new products are marketed, as foreign companies are allowed to do
debra fields, president of mrs. fields inc. of park city, utah, which owns mrs. fields cookies, praised the bill for proposed elimination of an ``expensive and time-consuming'' requirement that a trademark be used in interstate commerce before an application for registration can be filed
the new law will eliminate expensive business risks which small businesses can least afford to take,'' she said
she noted that small businesses risk losing thousands of dollars in wasted effort by designing and labeling a trademark for token marketing of an experimental new product in another state, only to discover that the trademark already was registered by another company
the bill would allow u.s. citizens to apply for registration of their trademarks before product plans have been completed
it's disturbing that u.s. law currently gives foreign trademark owners an advantage that u.s. businesses do not have,'' deconcini said
the statutory revisions also were endorsed by ronald r. kranzow, vice president of frito-lay inc. of plano, texas; c. deforrest trexler, deputy general counsel of mack trucks inc. of allentown, pa., and herbert a. hedden, assistant director of the international franchise association
the corporate witnesses also supported the bill's provisions for removing old trademarks that already are being used, and for prohibiting ``dilution'' of famous trademarks by non-competing manufacturers
as an example of dilution, trexler cited an instance when a manufacturer of men's undershorts tried to used the mack trucks bulldog trademark on its products. such practices are forbidden by 23 states but not under federal law
deconcini said u.s. corporations and business organizations, including the chamber of commerce of the united states, pepsico inc., amoco corp. and hasbro inc., also had expressed support for the first major revisions in trademark law since 1946 to remove ``cumbersome and uneconomical filing procedures.''
times mirror co. said it has agreed with a partnership of united artists communications inc. and tele-communications inc. to swap cable televison systems in several states
neither times mirror nor the partnership put a value on the deal tuesday, but analysts estimated it would be worth about $740 million, based on an average price of $2,000 per subscriber
the companies had announced tentative plans for the exchange in early october, but the details weren't worked out until now, times mirror said
times mirror will turn over to the partnership cable systems serving about 185,000 customers in the arizona communities of phoenix, tempe, chandler, mesa, paradise valley, fountain hills, nogales, bullhead city, casa grande and lake havasu
in exchange, times mirror will receive systems with a similar number of subscribers in taunton and north attleboro, mass.; brookhaven, n.y.; decatur, ill.; zanesville, ohio; reno and carson city, nev.; and south lake tahoe, calif
times mirror also agreed that it will acquire the rock island, ill., cable system of tele-communications for an undisclosed price. that also was part of the october tentative agreement
the systems being received by the partnership are in areas of projected high growth, while the systems being received by times mirror largely are in areas whose subscribership is expected to remain relatively stable but whose cash flow exceeds the industry average
tele-communications and united artists, both based in denver, are the nation's largest and third-largest cable tv operators, with 5.5 million and 2.3 million subscribers, respectively
times mirror, based in los angeles, is a media conglomerate whose flagship is the los angeles times newspaper. it has about 870,000 cable subscribers. correct typo. pick up 7th graf pvs, tax rates ...; also ran on general news wires</note>
the conservative government unveiled on tuesday a sweeping reform of the british tax system, slashing rates for higher income groups in a move that provoked an uproar from the parliamentary opposition
prime minister margaret thatcher's government also announced a $5.55 billion budget surplus, the country's first in almost 20 years
shame, shame!'' and ``rich man's budget!'' opposition members shouted as chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson presented the annual spring budget statement to parliament
a scottish legislator, alec salmond, was expelled after he called the budget an ``obscenity'' with tax cuts instead of extra spending on health and welfare services
the budget served notice that in her third consecutive term as prime minister, mrs. thatcher's faith in her 9-year-old capitalist revolution is undimmed, and that the socialist opposition can expect few concessions
lawson said the government would abolish four income tax brackets, leaving just two, of 25 percent and 40 percent, in the fiscal year beginning april 1
tax rates currently range from 27 percent to 60 percent
lawson's statement was repeatedly disrupted by opposition lawmakers, especially when he announced a huge tax cut to 40 percent for top earners
tax breaks for the rich, poll tax (a new property tax) for the poor and nothing in it for the health service _ it's an absolute and utter obscenity!'' shouted salmond, of the scottish national party
a few minutes later, the deputy speaker of the house of commons was forced to suspend proceedings as shouting continued. four uniformed nurses were ousted from the public gallery for yelling at lawson
custom dictates a respectful hearing of budget statements, but labor party leader neil kinnock described lawson's budget as a ``tragedy.''
this is puny, marginal and negligible for the average people in our society,'' he said
he claimed the surplus came from britain's north sea oil sales, taxes on a ``massive expansion'' of household credit debt, and ``the once-and-for-all sell-off of national assets'' _ a reference to the sale of state-owned industries to the private sector
but lawson said: ``this major reform will leave us with one of the simplest systems of income tax in the world.''
the proposed tax changes are part of mrs. thatcher's long-term overhaul of the tax system and resemble recent reforms in the united states and canada
mrs. thatcher's goals have been to reduce and simplify taxes and transfer the tax burden from income to spending
financial markets were buoyed by the statement with the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index closing up 20.4 points at 1,839.9
the pound moved hiher, but its advance was checkedby reported intervention by the bank of england, dealers said
the spring budget day is when the government announces how it will raise its revenue. the government last autumn announced its planned expenditures of $290 billion for the fiscal year ending march 31, 1989
the budget proposals must be approved by parliament, where the tories' 102-seat majority in the 650-seat house of commons guarantees their passage
lawson told the house that the public service borrowing requirement, the most commonly used measure of britain's budget deficit, would be in surplus of $5.55 billion in the year ending march 31, when the government spent $273 billion
it was only the second surplus since the early 1950s. the last, in 1968-69, was about $1.1 billion
the government most recently had forecast a deficit for the current year of $1.85 billion, down from an original forecast of $7.4 billion
lawson also said he plans for a similar surplus in the new fiscal year
having achieved it, i intend to stick to it,'' he said
the focus of the statement was on tax reform, however, with lawson saying he planned ultimately to lower the 25-percent tax rate to 20 percent
under the new system, the higher 40 percent rate will apply to income above $35,705. currently the 27-percent rate applies to income up to $33,115, and the top rate of 60 percent is on income above $76,220
in her first budget, in june 1979, mrs. thatcher cut the top rate from 83 percent to 60 percent. the lowest rate stood at 33 percent in 1979
the dollar gained against most major currencies tuesday in reaction to weakness in the british pound. gold prices also rose
republic national bank of new york said gold was bid at $446 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from $441.90 an ounce late monday
the british pound rose sharply during a budget announcement by chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, who announced britain's first budget surplus in nearly 20 years and a sweeping tax reform
later, though, the pound fell back as investors cashed in on paper profits and word that the bank of england was selling sterling to stem its rise
as sterling fell, the dollar benefited, said frank conte, vice president for foreign exchange in the new york office of barclays bank plc
gold and silver strengthened in a speculative run-up. traders said the peg for gold's rise was word of increased tension between the united states and panama
in late london trading, the british pound was quoted at $1.8570, down from $1.8575 monday. later, in new york, the pound was quoted at $1.8455, down from $1.8540
in tokyo, where trading ends before it begins in europe, the dollar rose 0.02 yen to a closing 127.25. later in london, the dollar was quoted at 127.10 yen. at the end of the trading day in new york, the dollar rose to 127.38 yen from 126.78 late monday
other dollar rates late tuesday in new york, compared with late monday, included: 1.6699 west german marks, up from 1.6629; 1.3805 swiss francs, up from 1.3718; 1.2539 canadian dollars, down from 1.2572; 5.6660 french francs, up from 5.6395; and 1,237.00 italian lire, up from 1,231.25
other dollar rates late tuesday in europe, compared with late monday, included: 1.6650 west german marks, up from 1.6645; 1.3760 swiss francs, up from 1.3693; 5.6605 french francs, up from 5.6375; 1.8705 dutch guilders, up from 1.8645; 1,232.40 italian lire, up from 1,227.87; and 1.2564 canadian dollars, down from 1.2577
gold rose in london to a late bid price of $443.50 a troy ounce, compared with late monday's $441.00. in zurich, the late bid price was $442.50, up from $441.50 late monday. on the commodity exchange in new york, gold bullion for current delivery was bid at $446.30, up from $441.90 late monday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell $1.54 to close at a bid of $443.27 an ounce
silver was quoted in london tuesday at a bid price of $6.25 a troy ounce, up from monday's $6.22. on new york's comex, silver bullion for current delivery was bid at $6.365 an ounce, up from $6.24 late monday. 1987</head>
led by a generous jump in purchases of ford motor co. vehicles, sales of domestic cars and light trucks rose 6.3 percent in early march from a year ago, automakers reported tuesday
industry-leader general motors corp., however, did not share the strong sales increases enjoyed by no. 2 ford and incentive-heavy chrysler corp
i'm surprised how strong sales were considering that some consumers had moved their (march) purchases into february in expectation of sales incentives expiring,'' said industry analyst ron glantz of montgomery securities inc. in san francisco
ford's combined domestic car and light truck sales were the highest for early march since 1979, ford said
ford's domestic car sales jumped 21.4 percent to 68,859 in early march from 50,407 a year ago. ford held 32.5 percent of the domestic car market, up from 27.7 percent a year ago
ford's light truck sales rose 18.1 percent to 46,073 in early march from 34,685 a year ago. ford's share of that market improved to 39.5 percent from 37.4 percent a year ago
despite its incentives, gm's domestic car sales fell 13 percent from early march a year ago and its light truck sales dropped 1.5 percent, gm reported
glantz and other analysts blamed the end-of-february expiration date of most of gm's incentive programs for its strong february showing and ensuing weakness in early march
gm later extended the buyer lures into the spring, but only after many consumers had hurried to take advantage of the discounts before they ended. at the same time, ford sweetened its incentives in early march, helping its sales
the eight companies that build cars and trucks in the united states sold 328,437 in the nine selling days from march 1-10, up from 274,626 in eight days a year ago
sales have improved in each of the seven sales period so far in 1988 compared with the first quarter of 1987, when showrooms were empty because buyers made their pre-tax reform purchases at the end of 1986
the percentage that sales fell or increased is a comparison of average daily sales during the period, not of the straight numbers of vehicles sold in early march this year and last year
automakers sold 211,772 domestic cars in early march, up 3.5 percent from 181,820 a year ago, and 116,665 light trucks, up 11.7 percent from 92,806 a year ago
despite the addition of new mid-size models, gm's domestic car sales fell to 95,372 from 97,487 a year ago. gm's light truck sales fell slightly to 42,489, or 4,721 a day, from 38,327, or 4,790 a day, in early march 1987
gm's share of the domestic car market fell nearly 9 percentage points in early march to 45 percent from 53.6 percent a year ago. gm lost nearly 5 points of share in the light truck market at 36.4 percent, down from 41.3 percent ago year ago
sales of chrysler domestic cars rose 18.3 percent to 34,667 from 26,046 a year ago. sales of chrysler domestic light trucks jumped 24.1 percent to 25,287 from 18,108 a year ago
the no. 3 automaker held 16.4 percent of the domestic car market, up from 14.3 percent a year ago, and 21.7 percent of the light truck market, up from 19.5 percent a year ago
together, the big three held 93.9 percent of the domestic car market, down from 95.7 percent a year ago, and 97.6 percent of the light truck market, down from 98.2 percent in early march 1987
among the remaining companies, leader honda motor co. reported a 71.9 percent jump in sales of cars built at its marysville, ohio, factory. toyota motor corp. domestic car sales rose 97.3 percent
nissan motor corp. domestic car sales fell 19.7 percent from a year ago but its domestic truck sales rose 48.5 percent. volkswagen of america's domestic car sales dropped 18.6 percent
stock prices showed little enthusiasm in either direction tuesday as the market drifted in a quiet, lackluster session
analysts said investors bided time while awaiting economic news due later in the week
the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 2.66 points to 2,047.41
but advancing issues slightly outnumbered decliners on the new york stock exchange, with 789 up, 718 down and 477 unchanged
big board volume was 133.17 million shares, up slightly from 131.89 million shares in the previous session, which marked the lightest total since dec. 29
analysts said market watchers were taking note of the light volume. ``right now it's telling us nobody cares,'' said ronald b. doran, head of institutional trading at first albany corp
he said there was a ``boycott'' by both institutional and retail investors who are ``waiting for some flow of economic news to get cranked up.''
the government is scheduled to release january's merchandise trade figures on thursday, just ahead of the year's first ``triple witching hour,'' when a group of options and futures on stock indexes will expire simultaneously
while concern over the two events dampened activity in the previous trading session, analysts indicated market participants may be overestimating the impact both the trade figures and the witching hour might have
analysts noted that the market reacted quickly when trade figures were released in the previous two months. similarly, the past couple of witching hours have been rather uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
the transportation sector managed to post a clear, positive trend. airline stocks rose across the board amid reports that a number of carriers plan to tighten restrictions on discount fares. allegis rose 1\ to 79{, amr rose ~ to 41~, delta was up 1[ to 47], and nwa inc. was up | to 43{
first republicbank fell \ to 1{. texas' largest bank holding company said it might seek a federal bailout
traders complained that the technology sector failed to help establish a positive trend for the day. ibm fell 1{ to 114 and digital equipment fell 2{ to 116\
auto stocks were off slightly. chrysler was down [ to 24\, ford was down \ to 44 and general motors was unchanged. the major automakers reported mixed results for the early march sales period
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market decreased $834 million, or 0.03 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 157.59 million shares
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 0.07 to 149.99
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 0.66 to 308.55, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down 0.24 to 266.13
at the american stock exchange, the market value index fell 0.19 to 296.75. the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market closed at 376.55, off 0.12
precious metals futures moved higher tuesday, with gold prices approaching recent highs
while there was little on the world financial or political scene to account for the strength, the move put gold in a position to break out of its trading range, analysts said
on other markets, pork belly futures took a nosedive, grains and soybeans were mixed and crude oil was a little higher
the price action of gold was very good, but it came out of left field,'' said craig sloane, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. ``there wasn't any real news; no action in the other markets that would warrant it.''
however, he noted that the gold contract for delivery in april reached a high of $448.30 an ounce at the new york commodity exchange
this is very close to the highs that were made during a recent consolidation phase were it traded between $440 and $450,'' he said. prices had dropped into the mid $420s last month
sloane said prices are not likely to break beyond $450 on wednesday, one day ahead of the release of the january balance of trade data
but whenever it gets this close to the top of the range, you have to treat it with some respect,'' he said
metals have made a nice recovery from the lows of a few weeks ago,'' said sloane. ``they're well positioned to make a nice move. if we do get favorable trade data, prices have almost no where to go but to break out.''
gold settled $4.40 to $5.10 higher with the contract for delivery in april at $447.50 a troy ounce; and silver was 12.5 cents higher with march at $6.365 a troy ounce
pork belly futures retreated sharply at the chicago mercantile exchange under data indicating there may be burdensome supplies in the summer
bellies collapsed late in the day following a report of a big movement into storage,'' said philip stanley, an anlayst in chicago with thomson mckinnon securities inc
he said 3.7 million pounds of pork bellies were stored during the week ended march 12
this was at the top end of expectations,'' said stanley
prices could rebound if the market comes to believe there's going to be a need for a lot of bellies, he said, but right now it's concerned about the ramifications for an oversupply later this summer
cattle futures were weakened by profit taking, said stanley
live cattle settled .18 cent lower to .10 cent higher with the april contract at 73.82 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .13 cent lower to .32 cent higher with march at 82.72 cents a pound; live hogs were unchanged to .40 cent lower with april at 45.20 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .95 cent to 1.32 cents lower with march at 52.62 cents a pound
grain and soybean futures prices were mixed on the chicago board of trade
it was a sluggish session with little price movement in either direction
this is the reflection of the indecisiveness of the market today in these slow conditions,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader with dean witter reynolds inc. ``there was no news overnight to move prices either way
wheat was \ cent lower to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in march settling at $2.95 a bushel; corn was \ cent lower to } cent higher with march at $1.98 a bushel; oats were 1{ cents to 3\ cents lower with march at $1.88{ a bushel; and soybeans were 1 cent lower to { cent higher with march at $6.13} a bushel
crude oil futures moved a little higher, but the market remained confused and cautious, said peter beutel, an analyst in new york with elders futures inc
people are waiting for opec to say `we've got a problem,' and deal with it, or for prices to simply go lower,'' he said
at the new york mercantile exchange, west texas intermediate crude oil was 9 cents higher with the april contract at $15.68 a barrel; heating oil was .06 cent lower to .13 cent higher with april at 43.47 cents a gallon; and unleaded gasoline was .05 cent lower to .02 cent higher with april at 44.38 cents a gallon
desert partners l.p. has begun a soliciting proxies from shareholders for the election of directorships of usg corp., which recently spurned an unsolicited $1.9 billion buyout offer from the investor group
desert partners, the company's largest shareholder with 9.8 percent of the stock, is fielding a rival slate for the six seats at stake in the upcoming election. usg has 15 directors
earlier this month, usg rejected desert partners' $42-a-share buyout offer and said it was considering defense strategies that might include the sale of a major block of usg stock to a third party to block an unfriendly takeover
the proxy battle by desert partners, which is headed by texas oilmen jack e. brown and cyril wagner jr., will climax may 11 at usg's annual meeting in its headquarters city of chicago
usg's stock closed at $35.87{ a share, down 25 cents in new york stock exchange trading
desert partners said in its proxy statement that even if it wins all six seats, it still would not control the building materials company
however, a vote in favor of the election of the desert partners nominees should indicate your support for the offer,'' the proxy statement read
shareholders will receive two proxy statements, one from the company and the other from desert partners.  
